If you will, and turn with me to a very familiar passage, Isaiah chapter 6. Last night I talked about the uh immensity. of missions, the the mission, uh how the fields are already white on to harvest And then we talked about the insufficiency of the laborers where there just doesn't seem to be the numbers to reach the multitudes that we need to have And certainly, even as that death clock is saying, people are passing out into eternity every second. And somebody ought to stand in the gap for them. And tonight, the Lord's led me to this passage, and I want to just preach on what I believe one of the problems of missions is. And so if you have your found your place, if you will, out of respect to the word, please just join me in standing as I read. I'll have prayer, then you may be seated. Verse number one of chapter six. It says, In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting upon the throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple Above it stood the seraphims. Each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face, and with twain, he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. And one cried unto another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full. of his glory. And the post of the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. Then said I Woe is me, for I am undone because I am the man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of Horst. Then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off of the altar. And he laid it upon my mouth and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips, and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged. Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? Then said I, here am I, send me. And he said, Go and tell this people. Let me tell you tonight, I think the problem with missions is exactly what the problem was. At the beginning of this passage of Scripture, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Our Father, once again, we're so thankful to be here tonight We're so thankful that we have this place that we can gather, that we can fellowship, that we can worship, that we can praise you for your goodness, and Lord, then to be challenged and charged and reminded. Of the great burden that you have of wanting to see people get saved. And Lord, I pray, oh God, tonight, I know that I have nothing new. I have nothing new to say But Lord, I pray that you would use us just to remind us, to help us, to get a glimpse of what you want for us tonight And Lord, we'll be careful to thank you and to praise you for all of your goodness and grace. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen. Thank you. You may be seated. I want us to look at this passage of Scripture and see some things that I believe are so important if we're going to Really understand why we're lacking tonight. Last night I talked about the population of the world and it's exploding constantly. uh China 1. India 1. 2 billion people. And yet uh totally out of all of the fundamental independent bat m uh m Baptist mission boards that there are There's only a little over 2,600 missionaries that are in every area of the world trying to reach them I want you to understand the problem is that we've not seen the Lord as we truly have. Look at this passage of Scripture with me. Notice Isaiah here and What he recognized at the first in verse 1. He said, In the year that your king Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne. high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. I want you to understand, I think the problem today is this. We haven't really seen the Lord as we really ought to see him We know about him. We understand who he is, but until I get to the place where I really put him in the proper place in my life, I will never fully understand my responsibility, my privilege, my position in serving him. He saw him high and lifted up, rightful place in his life. So many people today put God down here, and they dictate to God. They say, Lord, I'll go to church when I feel like it. I'll do what I want, and then if nothing else works, I'll follow your lead. That's putting God below us and putting us above God Some put God on the same plane. In other words, oh I'm going to serve you God, but I've I've got to do this first. I've got to put my time in first. I've got to do what I want first. But I want to do what you want me to do But you've got to give me privilege to do it. No, the place that he ought to be is here. One on other. Take your Bible, hold your place here, and turn over to the book of Revelation. Revelation chapter 4. Revelation chapter 4. And I want us to read, follow along as I read just the first two verses. Of course, we know John. We know that the first chapters talk about the six uh churches, uh the seven churches, excuse me, that in uh uh uh in in the church history and we find letters to the churches and we find of course the last one is the Laodicedon church age and in that church age of course is I believe the one that we're in right now This is the one just prior to the Lord's return. And then notice what happens in verse number four. He says, and after this, that's after this Laodecedon church age He said, And behold, a door was opened in heaven, and the first voice which I heard was as it were as a trumpet talking with me, which said, Come up hither And I will show thee things which must be hereafter. I believe that is a picture of the rapture. I believe that is exactly what's going to happen after The Laodicene church age, I believe that the end of this church age, we're going to be raptured. Look at verse 2 And immediately I was in the Spirit, and beheld a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne. One sat on the throne. Now, I want to realize there has to be one on the throne of my life. It has to be the Lord. It has to be the Lord Jesus Christ. Not Jim Moore. I would have loved to finish 20 years in the military. I would have loved to retire. I'd love to have the health benefit and had the retainer check. Boy, I could have said to the Lord, in fact, when I was called I began to get counsel, and one of the missionary families that we counseled with said, no, stay in, retire, because then you can Get out, you'll have that retainer, retirement fund coming in, and if God calls you to missions or whatever, if part of your support's already been raised. Boy, I wanted to hear that. That sounded so good But that's not what God wanted. You see, he had to be on the throne of my life. He had to be the one that I had to follow after. It's his him. You know, Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 9 says But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he, by the grace of God should taste death for every man. He is lifted up. He's the one that we ought to honor. And so first of all we notice the right recognition here of Isaiah. Then secondly, notice what the result of that was. His realization. Look at verse number five. He said, Then said I, Woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips, and dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. When we truly see the Lord as he truly is in his rightful place, then that is when we will see ourselves as we really are. When I see him and all of his holy, holy, holiness, then I will see me as I really am. When I understand who he is, the Bible says I've been bought with a price. I'm not my own. Amen. The purpose of my life is to glorify him is to bring honor to him. That is the purpose of my life and your life, if you're saved tonight, is to bring honor and glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. God is always aware of everything. He's aware of the problems that was within the nation that Isaiah was in. He's aware of the problems of our nation. He's aware of the problems of this world. There's nothing that has ever caught God by surprise He knows the wickedness of this world. He knew what was happening in Noah's day. And the Bible says, as it was in Noah's day, it's going to be in the day when he shall come. And I want you to understand, we're real close to that day. This is the days of wickedness and the things of Noah. And so he's aware of it. And so now Isaiah sees it. Isaiah sees the need, not only in his own life, but look at this, he says this. He says, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. He dwells, he understands not only his own need and situation, but he now sees the needs around him. When I see God as he really is, and I put him in the rightful place in my life, then my eyes will be opened. To the needs around me, to the burden of people, 151,000 people dying, slipping out into eternity. And lost, undone, spending an eternity somewhere. Paul and Silas in Acts chapter 16 In that jail cell, after they'd been beaten. They were taken to the innermost piece part of that jail. Their hands and feet in stocks in those days, they would bend them over, tie them down, just like this. In that position beaten on their backs, bloody, hurting, aching. What did they do? They began to sing praises and pray. And I don't think they just did it. Hey, let's just pray and sing, shall we? Because the Bible says everybody heard them. They were witnessing. You know while they could do that? There was a time when they saw the Lord high and lifted up and realized the need. When that jailer, after the stocks and the bond, the prison was opened, God shook that place. That revival broke out. And that jailer coming in drew his sword and was about to take his life because it would have lost it anyway. When he lost a prisoner, they would take his life. And Paul says, do thyself no harm. Listen to this. We are all here. I don't know about you, but if I would have been in jail and those bars opened up and the doors opened up. and I was still in my lost condition and all the rest, I'd be running for the hills. But not one of them left. We're all here. And that jailer saw something. And he said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? There was a testimony that took place in that jail. Saw the need. Saw the burden Because they saw God high and lifted up on that road to Damascus. John chapter 4 and verse 35. Jesus is saying, say ye not ye that there are four months, and then cometh the harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes. Look on the fields, for they are white All ready to harvest. Notice this. He says this. Lift up your eyes. See where I am. But then look on the fields. Look around us. You probably have a co-worker or you work that's going to slip out into eternity Maybe lost. Maybe a neighbor. A classmate. Looked onto the fields. The realization, I see the need because I've seen him. Now I see the need. I see what God wants. Then notice the restoration. This is so exciting. In verse number six and seven, he says, then one of the seraphims Uh uh then flew one of the seraphims uh onto me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off of the altar. And he laid it upon it my mouth, and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips, and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin is purged. Hey, I l I live in this nation but I've become uh uh contaminated by it. I I've become accustomed to it. You know, the problem is today uh I can remember as a boy Growing up. I don't know if you uh probably us older folks remember the variety shows that used to be on. They used to have the chorus line that would come out, the girls and They had long skirts that would go to their ankles and and I can remember my mother sitting and we'd be watching that little dance number they did and and one of those girls would turn quickly and that dress would fly up to her knee and my mom would say, Oh, isn't that horrible Now we go to the beach and you see people that are might as well be naked. And we've gotten so accustomed to it. And Isaiah had become so accustomed, but now his eyes were opened up. He had become just accepting some things. Now he realizes it and now he gets this thing right in his life. And oh what a joy it is. You know, when I got saved, when I we came back from Iceland I spent three years in Iceland stationed there, and when we were there, we began to go to the chapel program, got really involved in the chapel. Boy, we thought we were really good, we were decent, we were religious. We came back to the uh states and And we started going to an independent fundamental Baptist church. And the only reason we went there is because we liked what they were teaching in Sunday school. And the way that we decided to join was that we took a vote Isn't that real spiritual? And we joined the church, and the pastor even thought we were saved because he had me leading the music and teaching the teenagers. One day, sitting about where my wife is right now, and the preacher was preaching, God said, Jim Moore, if you die right now, you're gonna go to hell. Boy, right after the service I got with my pastor and I said, Preacher, I need to get saved. Now listen, I had the look. I had the talk. I had everything. He looked at me and he said, Jim, you don't need to get saved. I said, preacher, I'm going to get saved whether you do it or not. I got down on that couch in his office and trusted Christ as my Savior. Got it settled. Because it wasn't what I was doing that was going to get me to heaven. It was the Lord Jesus Christ. But I'm so glad that that day as I called onto him and confessed it, the Bible says, If I confess my sins, he's faithful and just to forgive me. upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Here Isaiah was restored, got his life right, saw the burden now, saw the need, and now got it right with God, and was ready to do what God wants. Oh what a joy it is. Let me tell you, take your Bibles. And turn with me. I could quote the verse, but I'd like you to see it in Romans chapter 12. This has become my my life verse. Romans chapter 12, verse number 1, Paul's saying, I beseech, I beg, I'm pleading He says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. See, God's never going to ask you to do something that's not reasonable. To go to South Africa is reasonable. To go to Utah and to work with people and Mormons is reasonable service. The pastor, Mount Link, Independent Baptist Church is reasonable service. To be faithful to the church in church services is reasonable service. But it comes to a time when we have to recognize him. Not me. And I have to be willing to yield and to give my life to him. Take your Bibles and turn to the 2nd Corinthians real fast. 2 Corinthians chapter 8. I haven't gotten to this passage this week. I hope to do so. This is one we consider as we talk about faith promise or grace giving. Paul in the verse number one, uh starting in verse number one, he's talking about uh uh the giving of the church uh in Macedonia, the poorest churches, the ones that were being persecuted had nothing else. But notice in verse number two it says, out of the abundance of their joy, they had joy of serving God. But it comes down to verse number five. Now notice this. What did they do? They gave a gift. They gave beyond their power. They gave beyond what they could or thought they could But verse number five, how did they do it? It says, and this they did not as we hoped, but first gave their own selves to the Lord. The only way I'm really going to be effective in my Christian life in serving God in this matter of serving and being a part of missions. Whether some are called to go, but some are called to give so that others can go. And that's what this conference is all about. is what part can I have in getting the vision of reaching those people that are perishing? How can I do it? I've got to have the right vision of who God is than to trust him and to make sure my life is right so that I can yield myself over to it. Look at verse number eight. Here we find Isaiah's resurrec uh r uh resignation. Verse number eight and back in Isaiah. I'm sorry. Isaiah chapter 6. He says, also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? Then said I, here am I, send me. After he had seen the true vision of who God really is and where his rightful place ought to be After he had his conscience awakened to the burden and the need around him, now he could hear the voice of God. And God said, Whom can I send to my people to give them my word? In his yielded position, moved by the burden that God had laid on his heart for his people, Isaiah resigned himself. And said, Here am I. Here am I. Send me. Boy, that's what we need to have today. We need to have Christians, young people. By the way, let me just say something. Some people believe that there's a certain age that you can serve God. I want you to understand, I'm 74 years old. And I've just now refired to a new position. I'm gonna start I didn't retire. I just re-fired. And I'm gonna serve God. You see, God doesn't put an age on it. I know there are some mission boards that say once you reach a certain age you have to come off the field or to go to do something else. I'm glad that our mission board says as long as you're able physically and you want to keep serving, you just keep serving. Amen. Otherwise, I'd probably had to retire from there too already. I'm glad. I'm ready to do something. Why? Because the fact is, God still can use. You know, I came to the realization some time ago, if God can use a donkey. He can use me. Amen. God can use a if he can use a donkey To speak and to protect. I want you to understand, He can use any one of us. There is no nothing that we cannot do. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me He's my God. He's my God. In this yielded position, as Isaiah saw him And then realized his own situation, how he had accepted and yielded, and maybe began to just become desensitized. Now, with an awakened sense of the sinfulness, he resigns himself to say, Lord, here am I. There's a burden, there's a need. Somebody's got to go. Somebody's got to take the word. We talked earlier about Kazakhstan. One missionary in the country, one preparing maybe to go To go back. Eight million people, eighteen million people were two independent fundamental missionaries. That's a daunting task. Somebody ought to say, Here am I. Send me, I'll go. To Kazakhstan. We've got a missionary that just went to Germany. And uh uh there Emotionally did they don't know they had to find a house, they're trying to learn language, they're trying to get accustomed to the custom changes and everything else. It's a daunting task. Somebody's got to go and encourage them Somebody's got to help them. Somewhere. Somebody's got to say, here am I. Here am I. I'm willing to go. I'm willing to do. I'm glad these folks are going to where God's called them. But there's a lot of places that need it. Jesus said in Mark chapter 1 verse 17, and Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men. Someone once said this, and I really want you to listen to this, would you please? Someone said this: there is nothing which is more insulting to the holy name of God. Than to profess him with your lips and to deny him with your life. Profess him with our lips, but yet say, This is mine. Oh how I love Jesus, as long as he doesn't call me To profess him with my lips that I love him, yet to deny him with my life in serving him. And then lastly, look at his the response of Of Isaiah in verse number nine, the response of God. He says, Go and tell this people. Go and tell this people. Isaiah saw him in his rightful place, recognized his own condition in light of who that was, got it right. Confessed it, admitted to it, resigned himself to his desires, his things. And now said, here am I. And God says, okay, now go. Go. Go. And tell us people. The Great Commission is such a wonderful thing. We hear about it all the time. That's what we're here for. The Great Commission We find the scope of the Great Commission in Matthew chapter or Mark chapter 16, verse 15, where it says, go ye into all the world. And preach the gospel to every creature. That's the scope. It is to be in every area of the world. God wants a missionaries and the Word of God in every area of the world And to have at least one old great missionary said this no one has the right to hear the gospel message twice. Until everybody's heard it once. Isn't that true? Everybody ought to have an opportunity to hear the gospel. That's the scope. The strategy of it is found in Matthew chapter 28, verse 19 and 20, which is we always call it the Great Commission, that is to go And first of all, teach or win them to Christ, then to baptize them, and then to make disciples out of them. That is the strategy The subject, of course, is found in uh in the Luke chapter 24, verse 46 and 47, which is, of course, the gospel message, the death, the burial, and the resurrection of the Lord. And then the spirit of the Great Commission is found in Acts chapter 1, verse 8, that we are to go. And we're to be witnesses. And the Spirit of God is what directs us. The responsibility of all of us is to have a part in missions. Each and every one of us. I'm glad that God has called your pastor to pastor this church. I'm glad that God called me to the ministry so many years ago. I'm thankful. I love the ministry. I love pastoring I love my church, but I am now excited about being able to be in missions and to serve God in that way. I think everybody ought to say, Lord, I can do something for the cause Of winning souls. So what are you doing? Have you seen him in his rightful place? Is he in his rightful place in your life? I lifted up. Have you seen yourself truly in light of who He is? Have you had an ear open to hear what God would have you to do personally, whether it is giving? Having a part in sending, supporting those that are willing to go? Has God touched your heart and say, I'd like you to go? I'd like you to surrender your life. I believe every Christian ought to come to the place in their Christian life. Where they pull back and they just raise the white flag and say, I surrender all. A lot of times we sing, I surrender all. But that surrendering usually is to still what I'd like to do. what I'd like to be. Have you seen him as he really is? Have you resigned yourself to his will? And are you willing to say, Lord, here am I? If you'll call me, if you want me, I'm willing to do whatever you want me to do. Father, help us tonight. Lord, I pray, God, that you would work in our hearts tonight. Speak to us. Help us, Lord, to say, Lord, here am I. Lord, we really need to get a glimpse of who you are. Lord, we've been bought with a price. We're not our own. The whole purpose of our life is to bring glory and honor to you. And so, Lord, I pray that tonight you'd speak to some hearts. Maybe some just need to be willing, make themselves available. I learned a long time ago that you don't need our ability, you just want our availability. Just to be available to whatever. So Lord help us tonight to see you, then to surrender our lives and will to you. Lord, we thank you. If there's someone here tonight, Lord, that has never trusted you as Savior, doesn't know for sure that heaven's their home. Lord, tonight, speak to that heart. Holy Spirit, please help them to make sure that they're prepared for eternity. I'm glad they're here tonight. But sitting in this service, just to sit here, will not get them into heaven. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed, and I wonder tonight, let me ask just a couple of questions. I wonder how many of us would say by the uplifted hand Preacher, I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that I'm saved and that I'm going to heaven. No doubt about it. Here's my hand as a testimony to it. God bless you. Thank you. You may put him down. Not of you that just raised your hand. I wonder how many of us would say, you know, preacher, tonight I really just need to put God in his proper place in my life I need to make sure that he's number one. He's on the throne. And I need to yield everything that I am to him. Laura, I wonder, preacher, if you'd just pray for me that I'd be willing to do that and to die to self every day. Here's my hand. I'm willing to do that, preacher. God bless you. God bless you. Thank you. And I wonder tonight if there's someone who would say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I don't know if I die right now, I'm going to heaven. And I am concerned about that. And I'd like you to be my friend and just pray for me that I could get it settled. I'm not going to come and bring you down an aisle. I'm not going to call your name. I don't know it anyway, probably. But I'd like to be your friend and just pray for you by need. I wonder if there's one that just slip your hand up and say, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. Would you please remember to pray for me? Just slip it up high enough for me to see it, but right back down. Anyone at all? Anyone at all Father, I thank you tonight for your goodness and your grace. Thank you for your love. Thank you for these dear folks and their patience. Lord, to help us. Help us to be willing. To be as you'd have us to be, and we praise you for all that you are in Jesus' name, right sir.