Read all of the psalm here tonight, but we'll read the first part of it and then we'll transition to some other passages. Title of the message tonight is Remembering God's Benefits. Remembering God's benefits. And so it's, you know, it's the end of the year. I think it's a good time to do that, especially as we get ready to plow forward into 2022. I thought that was interesting what Pastor Leatherman said. 22. I it just incredible to to even say that date. But uh here we are. Okay, one of the most glorious and overriding truths of the entire Bible is that God is full of love and mercy towards mankind. I think that's oh most of you here tonight that's obvious. You know that. You've known that for a long time But in all honesty, this is not something that man expects from the Creator without the knowledge of the Bible, without the knowledge of God. Man tends tends to recognize our guilt before him, an unregenerate man tends to harbor suspicions that God is against him. Because of his sins, even though it might not be acknowledged very often. That's a deep held thing in the heart by a lot by unregenerate people. And so they do all kinds of things and to try to find an appeasement for God or gods and that kind of thing are a way of works. Have you ever wondered why the natural instinct of a person is to try to work towards S heaven nirvana the divine why isn't the natural instinct faith And it's because of this uh truth that is so uh unrecognized about God that the scripture But the truth of Scripture from Genesis to Revelation is that God is not against man. And in fact as as for mankind as he possibly could be. So when Moses was developing his understanding of Jehovah, he asked the sea God. This is in Exodus 34 verse 6. And sometimes we read about Moses and we think Moses just knew everything about God like that and he started into his ministry. But it's clear that he didn't. As you see him go along. And so as he's trying to understand who God is, and he asks if he can see him. And so this is the Lord's response. This is Exodus 34, verse 6, he said The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long suffering And abundant in goodness and truth. So he's trying to establish to Moses, this is who I am. And this is gracious, long-suffering, abundant and goodness. Goodness translates the word kessid, which many of you are probably familiar with. steadfast love It's covenantal love. Kesset here is goodness. And in truth, it refers to God's faithfulness. This is who Jehovah is. He's trying to communicate this to Moses. Why didn't Moses know that instinctively? Didn't. And just as we don't without the Word of God telling us. uh these things. He's faithful. That's what truth means here in that verse. These qualities of God is were so apparent to the scriptural writers that John simply said, God is Love. What makes God's love so special, even though many times maybe we haven't really thought about it, is because of how totally undeserving we are of it. It's something we just never get over because we know we don't love like that and we know we should. Psalm 103 is where I had you turn, and we'll start here with verse 1. Follow along with me if you would. We'll read the first two verses. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. So tonight the message is remembering God's Benefits. And this is a critical truth to meditate upon. I want you to get this. You can, I can, we can, and we are commanded to bless the Lord. You ever really thought about what that even means I can and am commanded to bless him. How often we tend to get imbalanced a little bit in our worship? And our walk with God. And we we want God to always be blessing us. And we even recognize a lot of those blessings sometime. But how often Do we sit back and think, how can I bless the Lord? How can I bless God today or this afternoon or this week or in 2022? What can I do or what ought I to do to be blessing Him And I know it's amazing to think about that you can bless God. What an opportunity that really is. One of the greatest ways that we can bless him is right here in this passage. And that is to remember his benefits. Right there it is in verse number two. And forget not all his benefits. Remember them. What are the benefits listed here? I'm going to look at some of these, but the first one he mentions in verse three Who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases. So I want to look at that. Forgiveth all Thine iniquities. God forgives all our sins. The psalmist belabors this point. It seems he just can't really get away from it. Look in verse 10. He hath not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. See, he just can't get away from how incredible that is out of Jehovah. Verse 12. As far as the east is from the West, so far hath He removed our transgressions from us. And then it says, secondly, God heals our diseases. And I know this is a little bit troubling to understand, but I want you to think of it this way. Everything you've ever been healed of, God has been the one behind it. Everything you've ever been healed of. Instead of chalking it up to coincidence or something like that, or we don't even know, we can if we attribute it to the Lord, that's part of blessing him and remembering his benefits. And third There and verse 4. Who redeemeth thy life from destruction? He redeemed us from certain death. And fourth To crown us you with loving kindness and tender mercies. There's your word cast it again, by the way, loving kindness and tender mercies. He crowns us with steadfast love and mercy, not just gives it to us. Want you to see that the psalmist made this very clear crown sus with it. You ever watched a coronation ceremony or something like that? Some place where somebody, whether it was a queen or a king, was crowned. They put the crown on the head, right? The the glory. The splendor, the greatness, the encouragement of that person, whoever it was who bestowed that crown upon. That is a very, very precious moment in time in life for a person who just gets coronated. I've never been coronated. But here he says he crowns, he not just gives it, he crowns the believer. With what? Loving kindness and tender mercies. What a picture of richness. God placing a crown of steadfast love upon the believer. Now the glorious truth of Christianity is that this makes no sense to us. My meaning is If you have a really if you have a right view of yourself, a biblical view of yourself as as a sinner As someone who's got a heart is deceitfully wicked above all things who can know it. And in our very best day, what did Jesus say were unprofitable servants who've done only that which you've asked been asked to do, and yet you get a crown put on your head by God. It just doesn't make any sense. And that ought to then lead to the knee-jerk response, I'm going to strive to bless the name of the one who's done that for me. And that's what the Psalm Joy is all about. So another benefit I want to look at. Now we're going to break away from Psalm 103. We're going to look at four more benefits tonight. Remembering God's benefits. Lamentations chapter 3. If you could turn over there Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, or maybe if you call it 2 Jeremiah, maybe that'll help you find it a little bit easier. I somehow I know I'm a heretic. I changed the names of some of these books in the Bible to help me find them. So 2 Jeremiah, and then if you ever go to Acts, just Acts is 2 Luke, really. That's the way you keep it. They just inserted John in between 1 and 2 Luke. Anyway It's about as funny as I can get, Pastor. That's about all I got. So I need to I need to take lessons from you. That's for sure. Lamentations, chapter three. Maybe I'll turn over there I don't have it memorized. I tried to do the m the memory verse out there. Pastor wrote me into it. And then I said, well I'm going to study it during the service. And he said, you can't do that because you've got to preach. So I'm going to try it again. See if I can get it. Alright, Lamentation chapter. These are going to be familiar verses to you, but they're good verses. Lamentations 323. That we are not consumed because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. I want to look at your mercies. So another benefit I want to look at tonight is God's unfailing compassion. So if you're taking notes, that'd be number one. God's unfailing compassion. Mercy. Mercy just simply means withholding that which we deserve. We deserve something. Penalty of our sins, death and hell forever, separation from God. And He doesn't give that unto us. That's what mercy is. All right. Through repentance we can and do obtain the mercy of God. But we're further encouraged about something else From this verse. It says, His compassions fail not. That means they're unfailing. They're unfailing. What does that mean? This means that God's compassion does not diminish He doesn't cease to be compassionate because of fatigue. He doesn't get tired and then stop. He doesn't get stressed out and kind of tail off for a while and take a break. There isn't some other weakness that leads to the Lord's compassion being left off for a little while and then he returns unto it. That's what unfailing means. So as the reader comes here, they should be able to walk away with recognize God's compassions are unfailing. He's not going to get tired. He's not going to get irritable. Now, why does that mean so much? Because we tend to lose it More often than we should. We lose it with our children. We lose it with our spouse. We lose it sometimes with our friends. We lose it with our church members from time to time. But God never loses it. It's what it's saying here. It's unfailing. He never loses it. And we know how easy it is to lose it. And we know how easy it is to just uh just slack off and and just take a day off or a week off or whatever it might be. God's acts of compassion are not few and far between, but they are a daily reality. They're not sporadic. And they're not, well, every now and then they're there. It's new every morning. New means, by the way, new means fresh in this in this verse. It means fresh versus something that's stale or stagnant Just like fresh vegetables, fresh fruit, versus eating fruit and vegetables that have been laying around in your in your refrigerator for a week or two. Fresh Lucy Maud Montgomery would write, Tomorrow is always fresh with no mistakes in it. And there's no doubt in my mind that she built that off Lamentations 322 and 23. Every day, according to this passage, what he's trying to get us to think about is every day is a new day with your God, with the God, the one true God. And this gotta be the Christian's outlook upon life. And especially moving into the new year. Every day is a new day with God Maybe maybe you didn't walk with him today as you walk. Maybe there's some failing today or or last week or whenever He's trying to get us to see that every day is a fresh day, a new day to serve the Lord. And great is thy faithfulness. God is faithful. It's a state of being with him. This is why Paul would write in 1 Timothy 2. 13, said, if we believe not, I want you to hang on these words for a minute. If we believe not, Yet he abides faithful, he cannot deny himself. We believe not, he abideth faithful, he cannot deny himself. The literal meaning behind cannot is that he is unable to. He's incapable of denying himself. And this is the precious truth here, that if you are saved, if you've been born again, you are in him. And so he cannot deny himself he's unable to. God's incapable of being unfaithful. What a thought that is. He's incapable of being unfaithful. Number two, so I have another one of the Lord's benefits worthy of remembrance. If you could come to Psalm 23, probably the most well-known psalm uh in the book of Psalms, Psalm 23 So number one tonight, God's unfailing compassion. We're remembering his benefits. Number two From Psalm twenty-three. We do not have to live in fear of the future. I'm still working on getting my point short, but I just can't do it. I just can't do it. I've got to say all these words to get it specific. So not alliterate it. You can alliterate it yourself, I'm sure you'll find a way. We do not have to live in fear of the future. Psalm twenty three, verse one, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures, he leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul, he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I roll fear, no evil, for thou art with me, thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me, and that's where I want to stop. I want to look here at verse 4 Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. We do not have to live in fear of the future. Now this is the great shepherd psalm And the great thing about this is this is written by a shepherd, David, about the great shepherd. These are people who knew something about shepherding. Domesticated sheep are not capable of leading themselves. They need to be led by a shepherd to find food, water, protection. They don't possess the natural instincts or ability to do these things themselves. So t we don't recognize this as much today because most places where we see sheep today they have a fence You don't see a shepherd out there. Well, that's because they're fenced in. They usually can't get out. But in Bible times, of course, they didn't have fences. They would roam, and the shepherd would guide them and work with them and move them from pasture, he'd move them to water, and then he'd bring them into the sheepfold at night and watch them, try to protect them from predators. But they roamed far and wide. By the way, they still do this today over there in a great In a great way in Israel. As the sheep of the shepherd, we never really walk through the valley of death, but we walk through the valley of the Shadow of death. And this is this is an important distinction. Walk to the valley of the shadow of death. Most of you are aware the shadow really doesn't have any power over you. You'll see it. It might scare you a little bit, put a little fear in you, but a shadow can't do anything. That's what's being brought out here. There's times when the Christian will walk through the valley of the shadow of death, but they don't walk through the valley of death. Dr. Donald Barnhouse gives us his insight on this, and uh this was very helpful to me, and I think it will be helpful for you. He had he had great difficulty working through the grief of the passing of his wife Dr. Barnhouse's wife died and passed into glory. But the hardest part for him, and he said this, and I thought this really touched me in a great way. And the hardest part in losing his wife was explaining it to his daughter. And I think a lot of people could identify with that. You're an adult, you've walked with the Lord for a long time. As hard as it would be for you to lose a spouse, you trust in the promises of God, you trust in the passages of Scripture, and you recognize that according to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, your loved one is in heaven, you'll see them again When you patiently wait for that. But children are maybe not as mature, of course, and they would tend to ask, Daddy, why did God take mommy away? And he struggled in explaining this to her. And one day they were standing on a busy street corner and a very large truck sped by the corner and briefly for a moment blocked out the sun As it sped around that corner. They were waiting to go across on the crosswalk, and his daughter was just, I mean, shocked. She jumped back a little bit. She was afraid by the the truck, but also the the sunlight is glowing like that for a moment and coming back And Dr. Barnhouse said he picked her up and held her and she was quickly well again and comforted and she was fine. And he said, this glorious truth just washed over him. He asked his daughter this question right there. He said, would you have rather been hit by the truck? Or the shadow of the truck? The obvious answer, she said, well, well the shadow of the truck, of course. He went on to explain, when your mother died, she was only hit by the shadow of the truck because Christ was hit by the truck. Mrs. Barnhouse only went through the valley of the shadow of death. And he said it like this, he said, so we fear no evil for her. That's what verse 4 says. Now, of course, this is written for believers. Unbeliever can't claim these promises in Psalm 23, no matter how many times that are used at funerals to try to do that. For the believer death is but a shadow, and a shadow carries no real evil with it. And every one of us, every one of us battles with the flesh to maintain this perspective at all times. We do. There's no doubt about that. But it's a good battle. To maintain that perspective about death. Oh death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? That's what Paul was writing about. Another benefit tonight, number three, turn with me if you would to 2 Corinthians chapter 12. Remembering God's benefits, number three tonight, 2 Corinthians chapter 12, divine strength when we need it most. Number three, divine strength when we need it most. Second Corinthians twelve and verse nine. This is Paul. Paul is beseeching the Lord about some difficulties. And he said unto me, the Lord said this unto him. My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Verse 10. And therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, and necessities and persecutions and distresses for Christ's sake, for when I am weak. Then am I strong. Paul surely did not look at life the way our modern culture does. That's what made you so great. Can you imagine anyone getting up on TV and proclaiming how much better weakness is than strength? Nobody watched that stuff. How much better we're made when we're humbled rather than when we're exalted. The entire tenor of these verses is counter to secular philosophy. Paul had many painful experiences, probably much greater, that any of us will ever come close to. He had a particular serious difficulty, which he referred to here as the his thorn in the flesh. He prayed to the Lord three times to remove it. God said no. And Paul had enough discernment To recognize I'm not going to pray about this anymore. And he had enough discernment to Try to figure out what God was doing with it. And he got a good answer. Instead of remove it, God wanted Paul to experience something that he could not experience without the Thorn. This is hard for us This is absolutely true. Something he could not experience without the thorn, whatever it was, and that is that his grace is sufficient for him in this matter. My grace is sufficient for the four. Four introduces an explanation. It explains the statement just made. Four. Or by way of explanation, my strength is made perfect in weakness. God's power is perfected in our weakest moments. And that's why I said divine strength when we need it most. That's a promise to the believer. This kind of grace, therefore, since it's not perfected until the moment of weakness, will not be experienced until you and I need it. This is what's so great about this. Not until you and I need it. And I can sum it up this way. One pastor wrote this, and I thought this was fantastic. He wrote, You may wonder how you're going to do when you face death. If you're a Christian, I can tell you how you will do. You'll do fine. I've seen it a thousand times, this man says. At the moment when you need it, His grace will be enough for you because you will not receive that grace, however, until that moment. Because there's a lot of concern people no doubt about how they'll handle it. How they'll handle it with others. This encouraging note by this case, you'll do fine. But don't expect to be able to get that understanding and that feeling before you need it. My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect. And weakness, how rarely, if I'm just speaking for me tonight, how rarely I think that way. That's the Christian mindset. And you have to develop it. Number four tonight, the last benefit I want to remind us of is in First John. First John chapter four. Let's go over there. 1 John chapter 4. The last benefit I want to remind us tonight is satisfaction with the Christian life. This is a benefit from God that we really ought to bless them for is that there is satisfaction in the Christian life Satisfaction with the Christian life. First John chapter 4, verse 9 And this was manifest the love of God toward us. Because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. Herein is love, not that we loved God But that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. There's a very important statement here in verse 10. Not that we loved God, But that he loved us. We do not know what real love is by loving God. We know and experience real love by understanding God's love for us. And that is that he sacrificed, this is our understanding, he sacrificed the most precious thing to him for me. I know this is really this is a good thing for us to meditate upon. Whatever the most precious thing is in your life, it's probably going to be an individual or individuals. What it means sacrifice them for uh other people who you don't know. And let's be honest, who don't like you very much. Not the nice way I can say that. By understanding God's love for us. You notice this big long word here in verse 10. To be the Propitiation for our sins. I think this is a simple way to understand propitiation as a means satisfaction. Appreciation means satisfaction. So let's just read it that way. Satisfaction for our sins. Who had to be satisfied? Christ's blood is the satisfaction for our sins. Who had to be satisfied? God the Father had to be satisfied because we had sinned against him. Jesus certainly didn't sin against us. As he's so often falsely accused of doing. What do you mean by that, Pastor? Blaming God when things don't go well. Questioning God when things don't go well. Trying to say things like this about God. Well, God would never do that. That's falsely accusing. Obsent, really. I know that's not usually the way it's couched, but that's what's being really said inside. Sin is an act of rebellion against God, and thus we all stand guilty before Him so judiciously, and that's what's being brought here by propitiation. Judiciously we all are guilty, condemned, and thus our debt has to be satisfied some way. And so by Christ's sinless life and glorious death, against the most formidable of obstacles, he satisfied the Father's righteous demands for sin. So he satisfied the Father. Now this is the this doctrine of propitiation or substitutionary atonement, which you're familiar with. That's not necessarily the satisfaction I'm driving at here tonight. It just kind of sets a stage for it As we come to the end of another year, a time to reflect on 2021, a time to prepare for 2022, how satisfied are you with Christ? That's the thought. How satisfied am I with Christ? Think about it this way. Is God the Father perfectly satisfied with him? Yeah. Right? He's the propitiation for our sins. He satisfied the Father. Did he satisfy him like ninety-five percent or 75% satisfied? No, 100%. Okay. So God the Father is perfectly satisfied with the Son. The Son is perfectly satisfied with the Father. So why aren't we perfectly satisfied with our God? What's more satisfying to your life than Christ and all his benefits? That's what I want to meditate here tonight. What's more satisfying to your life than Christ and all his benefits? Is there anything that could be more satisfying than Christ if you were able to obtain it? Say you could you don't obtain it now, but if you could obtain it. It would be more satisfying to you than Christ. And I don't want the textbook answer. I know what the textbook answer is. Where you and I look for satisfaction and joy, wherever that is. Wherever those places are that we look for joy and satisfaction, that will shape our entire lives. That will shape how we raise our families. That'll shape our relationship with our spouse. That'll shape if if you know if you're a younger person, that's going to shape uh what you how you view the will of God for you. Coming out of your parents' home, coming out of school, whatever that is. Whatever you think and are hoping and are looking for joy and satisfaction, that is what we are going to naturally gravitate towards If I look for joy and satisfaction outside of biblical Christianity, outside of New Testament Christianity, if I do that, I'm going to find biblical Christianity unsatisfying. That's what I'm trying to get across here tonight. If if really my heart and my mind is tied up in finding joy and satisfaction outside of God's plan, God's general will for Christians, I'm going to find the Christian life unsatisfied. And I wouldn't be surprised at all. It's not really something that brings a lot of joy to my heart, and I wouldn't be surprised at all if I don't do much blessing of the Lord, because it's not really that big a deal. Sadly, this is the condition of so many in America who name the name of Christ. I would dare to say, even in independent Baptist churches, what is satisfying and brings joy to their life is somewhere outside Christian walk. And thus worship, serving the Lord becomes very mechanical We may be able to discipline ourselves into some sort of a routine of activity, but we don't really think it's very satisfying. Sometimes we go ahead and do it because we think, well, this is what Christians are supposed to do, and if I don't do this, somebody's gonna look negatively upon me, I'm gonna look bad in front of the Christian circle that I'm in, the Christian family that I'm in, or whatever it might be. Yeah, I'll go through. I'll I'll get these ducks in a row, I'll line them up, we'll do this, we'll check this box off, we'll check this box off. But what really is bringing joy and satisfaction in life is something outside of that. Man, if I could really just do it as much as I wanted to, or or if I could really just accomplish it, that's really where my heart is. And it'll be reflected and in our worship. It'll be reflected in whether we possess the joy of the Lord or not, whether on a regular basis we're real or or not in our Christianity. And that's why I wanted to focus on this here tonight. The great benefit of remembering God's benefits is that's what Christianity really does satisfy. And there's a great problem with the Christian trying to find joy and satisfaction outside of the Christian walk, and that's this. You won't find anything else satisfying. And this is the real I call it the lose-lose situation. You're going to lose out on walking with the Lord closely and enjoying the abundant life he wants you to have And you're not going to find any joined satisfaction in pursuing anything else. So Solomon described it as vanity of vanities, all is vanity and vexation of spirit. Another way that you can think about that is a chasing after the wind Something you can't ever catch. So when the believer finally recognizes the truth of life that walking faithfully and consistently and contentedly with the Lord Jesus, that this is the abundant life, it becomes a win-win. I win because I'm doing what I'm supposed to be, what I ought to be doing, what God created me to do, and I'm enjoying it also. And I don't have to fake it. They have the joy of the Lord in their life. Some important benefits tonight, worthy of our remembrance, worthy of our praise, worthy of blessing the Lord. Number one, God's unfailing compassion. Number two, we don't have to live in fear of the future. There is no valley of death for you or those in Christ. There's only the valley of the shadow of death Number three, divine strength when we need it most. I know a lot of us wor wonder, we meditate, how am I going to respond when this happens My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Divine strength, when we need it most number four, satisfaction with the Christian life. You and I were created, we were saved, we were generated. To find satisfaction and only in one person and only in one way of life, and that's his Christian life, as laid out in the New Testament. Bless the Lord, O my soul. And forget not all his benefits. For Heavenly Father tonight, it's been good to be here in the house of the Lord. It's been good to be here with these faithful people on this Wednesday night. Coming out because they want to worship you. They want to be in the place where your name and your word is lifted up and exalted, and they want to be with one another. I want to be with other believers. They find great joy and encouragement in being with the people of God. And that doesn't mean that they're hunkering in the bunker and they isolate themselves from everyone and they just separate themselves from unbelievers totally and they never do anything but hang out with church people. I'm not talking about that Talking about a desire to be together with their church, with you being the head, walking in step with your will that you've revealed unto them in their life. And that's very encouraging to me. I pray tonight that We would strive to remember your benefits, not forget them. And this is one of the great ways that we can bless your name. You've done more for us than we could even ever try to articulate. Can't even know enough words can say it is being revealed in the unspeakable gift. It's beyond the ability to communicate with words You've blessed the believer in great ways, even in the midst of difficulty. Paul here tonight would easily say that even in this infirmity he was blessed because his strength was made perfect in that weakness But you have been very good to me up until this time here, and I trust based upon your promises you'll continue to. When every believer here tonight can say the same thing, you've been good to them. Maybe they've endured some difficulties this past year. You did not cease to be good in those times. Your compassions were unfailing. And you cannot deny yourself you're unable to be faithful unto those who've placed their faith and trust in you. May we be faithful to one another. And seek to be faithful to you, our great God and King. And forget not all thy benefits. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.