If you would take your Bibles. It's good to be in God's house, isn't it? I like to sing and laugh. I like to be challenged. And uh strange as it is, aren't aren't Christians some strange people? We we like to be convicted I mean I don't guess like is the word, but when we're convicted, it's a good thing, right? And I I learned this years ago as pastor, you uh You preach your heart out and you preach against sin and man, and people go out and they say, Oh, it was great. You know And so we want to be right with the Lord. And so I like singing and laughing, and I like the Lord to challenge my my Christian walk also Ecclesiastes chapter 9. I'm going to begin reading in verse 4, and we've been looking at this passage here a little bit the last few times we've been in it. I'm going to read down through verse 10 tonight, and we're going to kind of pick up where we left off last time. It's been a week or two ago, two or three weeks ago. But verse 4 Ecclesiastes chapter 9, the Bible says, For hit For to him that is joined to all the living there is hope. And remember we said, as long as there's life, there's hope. And that was encouraging. Then the uh for a living dog is better than a dead lion, and we talked about that. And then we started this, we began this next passage, for the living know that they shall die Now that is the context for the following passages. Living people, we know we're going to die. Then he goes on and says this: but the dead know not anything. Neither have they any more reward, for the memory of them is forgotten. Also their love and their hatred and their envy is now perished. Neither have they any more portion forever in anything that is done. Then he qualifies it. What? Under the sun. And under the sun that's true. Now we as believers know that there's more than just what's under the sun. How many folks are glad that death doesn't end it for the believer? We we live above the sun. We have life and we do have uh what what they forget here, we have love and uh we have enjoyment uh there in heaven. Then he goes on, and this is a continuation of this thought that the living know that they shall die. Verse 7: Go thy way, eat thy bread with joy. Drink thy wine with a merry heart, for God now accepteth thy works. Now, while you're alive, this is when we can do our works. Let thy garments be always white, and let thy head lack no ointment Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest, all the days of thy life of thy vanity which he hath given thee under the sun. All the days of thy vanity that is in uh that uh for that is the portion in this life and in thy labor which thou takest under the sun. Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might, for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom in the grave, whither thou goest. So you notice there the last part of verse 10, he brings us back to that subject of the grave, of death. And so the living know is the title. Let's pray. And I want to get caught up to where we left off last time. Father, I ask now you'd bless as we end the day. Lord, it's not a subject we would choose to dwell on, but nevertheless, it's reality and it's addressed in your word. So I pray you challenge us and help us. To live the lives you saved us and intend for us to live. Fill me with your Holy Spirit is my prayer. I yield my will, present my body anew. I ask this every time I speak your word, Lord, that you would speak through me. And uh be our teacher, be the preacher tonight, and I'll just be the conduit through which you work. So help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. First thing we looked at the other last time we were here was the reality of death And uh that is obvious. Tonight I want to get to, just quickly, and I want to get right to it, is our response to death. Now Solomon is addressing this subject from the perspective of under the sun. But nevertheless, he still is a tremendously wise man. And I think he gives some suggestions here in responding to death as a living person that knows I'm going to die. How do I respond to that? I've pastored for a good l pretty good little while now, and I've seen people respond to death in a number of ways. in various ways. Um when I worked uh several years as the chaplain for hospice, uh I saw people knowing that they're going to die. It's one thing to know you're going to die It's another thing to know that I'm going to die within a few weeks. Right? You agree with that? And I witnessed firsthand as I tried to minister to people and be a witness and share Christ with people who knew they only had weeks or months to live And to observe how people responded to that. Often, particularly for the unsaved, it was fear and dread. I mean absolutely terrified by it and I can completely understand that. And my roles and really all of ours as Christians, but mine in that position was to try and share them with Christ, share Christ with them So that they could have the assurance and have the hope beyond the grave. However, I saw others who faced death very peaceful, very quiet, very confident I was thinking um uh today as as I was going over this, I was thinking today of uh Brother Paul Sines. And he went to be a little over a year ago, something like that, a year and a half or so Is it two years? Man, that's hard to believe. But uh Paul knowing and facing it and just confident in his salvation, and I thought, what a testimony. of a Christian faith when he approaches the inevitable and crosses the Jordan. And he had a tremendous testimony to me and I know to his family. You know who else I thought of? Anybody remember old Chuck Coddington I'll tell you what a blessing that guy was. And I was able to be with him a good bit, leading up until finally went home to be with the Lord. And I'm telling you, that guy His son, is it Preston? Is that his son's name? Preston, he pulled me aside before the funeral, and he said this to me, he said, Pastor Leatherman, my daddy showed me how a Christian dies. And I thought, what a beautiful way to express exactly what Chuck did. He was confident, he was at peace, he knew Jesus was his Savior, and everything was going to be okay. There's a response to debt with peace and confidence and assurance. Here we have Solomon, as we said, is viewing death and knowing it's coming from under the sun. And he gives us some helpful advice. Number one, I notice this. Number one, do not deny it He's telling us do not deny that fact. And that's what this whole passage is. Don't deny the fact that someday I'm going to cross that river. Someday I'm going to have to go through that door of death, every one of us. Now, I know what some of y'all are thinking, some of y'all are very, very spiritual, and you're thinking, oh yeah, not if the rapture comes. Well, amen. I agree with that. That's true. But it's a possibility the rapture won't come in my lifetime. And if it doesn't, then we have to go through that door of death. And we cannot deny that. Now I'm not suggesting, and I don't believe Solomon is suggesting, that we have to dwell on that every day. Oh, I'm gonna die someday. He's not suggesting that, but what he is saying is listen understand that's a fact. Don't deny it. You say, who would deny it? I've seen people deny that Um I d I remember a funeral in particular. I don't remember who the individual was that the funeral was for, but I do remember this. It was down at the old um uh burdock funeral home when it was burdock And there was a fellow, they had a viewing, and he was part of the family, and he refused to go and view the body. I'm not going in there, I don't do that. And he stood outside, in fact, he wouldn't even go into the parlor And he made a big deal about the fact that he never views dead bodies and he never goes into a room where a dead body is. And he made a big deal about that You know what I think he was trying to do? He's trying to deny the reality of death. And somehow, if I don't look at it, if I don't face it, if I'm not around it, somehow I'll escape it, somehow it won't affect me. Listen, that's a terrible way to view debt to somehow try and deny it. My wife and I were talking this afternoon. We were in Colorado and I was helping uh Mark Manning was so had started a church here and we had moved out. He started just shortly before we moved out. We were helping get it going. I was working with Bible Time and Um and uh so Mark and I, uh Brother Mark and I were out knocking on doors there in Boulder, Colorado. If you know anything about Boulder, Colorado, Colorado, it is the weirdest people in the whole world live in Boulder, Colorado. I'm telling you, they are weirdos In fact, when we moved there, the newspaper had a big headline, one of the first weeks we air, it said, Boulder, Colorado, New Age Capital of the World. And boy, that was the truth. And we knocked on doors. You never know what was going to come to the door. One day we knocked on the door and a lady came and we got talking to her a little bit. She actually invited him. We sat down and were kind of going through the gospel with her. She was a pharmacist And while we were talking, a fellow comes down the steps there. So he had like a townhouse. He came down the steps and he introduced himself, a real Swedish thing, I think he was from Norway or somewhere. And he introduced himself. And so we began witnessing to him. He says, I'm not going to die. We said, you're got to be kidding us. And he goes, no, I'm not going to die. I said, well, how are you going to pull that one off? And he says, I believe in cryonics. Anybody ever hear of cryonics? Cryonics is where just before you die, right at the moment that they quickly freeze you. And then sometime in the future they're going to find cures for your sicknesses and disease. They'll fall you out, put you in a microwave for 30 seconds, and um They'll thaw you out and give you the medicine and bingo you're going to live. And he and he was serious as a heart attack. He said uh he said um he says our I said we talked about a little bit he said our ultimate goal is to live forever. And he used this term. Our ultimate goal is eternal life. We said, well, that's interesting. Jesus told us how we can have eternal life. And we started going through the gospel. As soon as we got the Word of God, he just dismissed it. He just dismissed it. And we said, you have going to have one problem. We said, what you're doing is never, ever, ever going to work because you're one problem, you're overlooking. He said, what's that? Sin. Until you deal with sin, until you remove sin from the equation, you're never going to escape death. Because the wages of sin is. Yeah. You know what he was doing? He's trying to deny. Yeah, just trying to deny. We can avoid it. We can get bypassed it. We can get by without it. The ironic thing was his grandfather died and he froze him. Seriously, and I have the newspaper already going and showed it to you, I got on my phone. He froze his grandfather. Now the problem was they say you have to froze him at 360 degrees below Fahrenheit. The coldest he could get was sixty below Fahrenheit. So but anyway he froze them and kept them in a shed uh in the town he lived in and to this day that guy's still there. We just read an article and they made a joke out of it. They call it what's it called The day, the festival of the dead guy. And they made a joke out of it. And you know what that whole thing is? And I said all that to say this. That whole thing is trying to deny death. Just try and diminish it, make a joke out of it. And Solomon is telling us, listen, don't deny it. Uh we can't as we can't uh escape the reality of death. To try and deny the death is to uh uh is a tragic response. It's a tragic mistake Think about this. Somebody denies it. I'm not going to, I'm not going to die. I'm going to escape death. I'm just going to make a joke about it. Then finally death knocks at their door. And they're totally what? Unprepared. Totally unprepared. So we cannot, Solomon is telling us we cannot and must not deny it. We must not deny it. Number two, he tells us this: don't dismiss it. Again, verse 5 in the first part. For the living know that they shall die. Preparing for death is the most important issue in life. Right or wrong? Listen, that's the most important issue I have. The one thing I cannot escape, and the one thing that's gonna that's gonna finalize where my eternal destiny is, death. Once I go through that door, I have no I can have no options anymore. Once I is appointed unto man, once the death, and then the judgment, so it's settled. So preparing for death is the most important issue in life. Curtis Hudson, I heard him say this many, many years ago. He said, you can be successful in business You can be successful in your family. You can be successful in some hobby. But if you fail in the matter of the salvation of your soul, you have failed in life. And so some people have the idea of just dismissing the idea. I think there's a lot of people in hell tonight, I hate to say there's a lot of people in hell tonight who simply dismiss the importance of death And it came knocking at your door. Can I give you a biblical illustration? Turn with me if you would to Luke chapter 16. Would you turn over there real quick with me? I'm sorry, Luke chapter 12. And Jesus gave a tragic illustration of a fellow that just dismissed the inevitable. Luke chapter 12. And I want to begin reading in verse 16. This is Jesus speaking. And he says this: and he spake a parable unto them, saying, the ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully He was very successful in his farming, the crop farmer. And he thought within himself, saying, What should I do? Because I have no room where to bestow my fruits. And he said, This will I do, I will pull down my barns and will build greater And there will I bestow all my fruits and all my goods, and I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years, take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry And he completely dismissed the concept of the fact that the matter someday he's going to die and look at the next statement. But God said unto him, Thou what, fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. This night thy soul shall be required of thee. And the very thing he's completely dismissed that he pushed out of his mind was a thing that knocked on his door that night And so how do we respond to the attack, the reality of death? One is don't deny it. Number two, we should not try and dismiss it from our mind. I'm just not going to think about it. I mentioned this f number of times over the years, but my wife when she was working downtown, there was a lady came by. They were celebrating her hundredth birthday. How many people heard me tell this before Um, it was her hundredth birthday and they got talking and Kathy said she's I guess she sat there and um uh Kathy uh began talking to her and asked her about her salvation. She said, can I show you from the Bible how to be saved? A hundred-year-old lady said, sure. And Kathy took her Bible and went through the plan of salvation with her. And the lady bowed her head and trusted Christ as Savior at a hundred years old. Every time I think of that and tell that story, this is what I think. Whew. Huh? And Kathy got talking to her about if she ever heard this or ever thought about this before, and she made an interesting statement. She does anytime the thought of death came to my mind, I just pushed it aside. I didn't want to face it. I just dismissed it. Wow. Whew. So we should never deny the reality of it. It is a reality of life. We should not dismiss it. And thirdly, this is what I want to leave: is we need to deal with it. If death is re- is inevitable, and it is, then we must be deal with it. We don't have to be morbid. But this is what I'm trying to say, and I think this is what Solomon's teaching us back here in Ecclesiastes, is uh we need to live life I hope you'll get this. We need to live our lives with the understanding this life is not going to last forever here under the sun. It's not going to last forever. Would you agree with me? We live in a world that's living as if they're going to live forever. Just squandering. and playing games with life and debt. Some of these extreme things, you know, jumping out of stuff and jumping off of bridges with a rubber band. Somebody asked me if I ever bind you know New River Gorge is New River Bridge is not too far and every year they jump off that thing. Somebody said, Are you going to go down and jump off that bridge? I said, I'm too expendable. God doesn't need me that bad for me to mess around with that. Uh my son uh for a while there was riding rodeo. And right, that's the stupidest thing in the world. Why in the world would you get on a bronchian boy? He got on there, he loved it. Kathy loved it. I hate it. I couldn't watch it. She's there, oh this is amazing. I'm there. No, I don't want to watch She's messed up. But um oh that was a mistake. But you're not gonna see me getting on no ball. Too expendable And so we need to l I think what Solomon is trying to emphasize for you and I is we need to live our lives with the understanding we're not going to live forever. And he tells us, and I want to give you a few things here, if you'll go back to Ecclesiastes and I'll try and wind this uh up here a little bit, but uh he gives us um Some ways to deal with it. Now I'm injecting one because Solomon is looking from under the sun as if there's nothing more to life than what's under the sun, nothing beyond it. But we know there's more than that And so I'm injecting one way to deal with the inevitability of death. Number one, I put this down, is establish our salvation. That's the starting point. When somebody says to me, oh, so-and-so has so long to live, you know what the first thought is that comes to my mind? I wonder if they're saved. That's the starting point in facing the reality of death. Establish my salvation. Jesus made it clear to Nicodemus. I love that that record of Nicodemus coming to Jesus and Nicodemus is trying to flatter the Lord. And I think Nicodemus was sincere, but he's Giving Jesus all these accolades, thou art a man from God, no man can do what you do. And Jesus just cuts to the chase and he just, Nicodemus, you need to be born again. And he was emphasizing the importance and the priority of our salvation. If we can live the most amazing life, But if we don't have salvation when it's over, we are lost for all eternity. And that's what makes our soul winning so vitally important. And so establish our salvation. Establish our salvation. I thought it was interesting. Jesus sent the disciples out. He had 70 of them at the time. He sent them out two by two to preach And man, they had power over devils and people got saved, and he came back, and they were all excited, and they were rejoicing in all these amazing things they saw. And Jesus made an interesting statement to him. He says, Don't rejoice, and I'm putting this in my own words. He said, Don't rejoice in that the spirits are subject to you, but rather rejoice in that your names are written in heaven. And I think he's re-emphasizing the priority importance of establishing our salvation. Now it's a Sunday night on August. Probably most folks that come out to church on a Sunday night in August uh would here in our church at least would profess to know Christ as Savior. If not, man alive, don't play with that. Get that settled. But I am saying it for this. There's a whole slew of people out there that desperately need what you and I have in this matter of salvation. And we've got to be about that. So how do we deal with that? Number one, establish our salvation. Then coming back to Ecclesiastes, Solomon gives some pretty good suggestions, I think, as far as living here under the sun He says this, imagine every meal is a festival. Come with me if you will. You say, where in the world do you get that? Come back to Ecclesiastes chapter 9. And look at verse 7. Now he's talking about every living know they're going to die. That grave is coming. I say, number one, make sure you're saved. And then he says this: go thy way, eat thy bread with what? Joy, and drink thy wine with mer with a merry heart, for God now accepteth thy works. And I think it's interesting, he says, Eat thy bread with joy. Listen, you know you're going to die. Someday you're going to be you're going to go to the grave, so you know, number one, make sure you're saved, but when you're saved, listen, make every meal like it's a festival, because it could be your last one, right? Uh how many people here on a diet? Anybody here on a diet? How many people are going to go on a diet tomorrow? Ah, there's a bunch right there. Now I'm all for that and don't misunderstand. I understand we ought to take care. We ought to be careful how we eat and all that, right? I mean the Bible preaches against gluttony. But did you know the night that the Titanic sank, there was probably some folks that didn't eat dessert because they were on a diet? Think about it. They could have eaten that, right? It really wouldn't have mattered. How many people remember the Atkins diet? Atkins, I did it. I lost 15 pounds. As soon as I went off, it came right back. Do you know he died on his doorsteps? Uh I think it was a heart attack or something, died right there on his doorsteps. I'm not trying to mock her or make fun of anything, but I am saying this. You know, we know death is coming. And it's interesting he says there, eat thy bread with joy. That doesn't sound like a big feast. Some bread. You know what my dad? My dad's been always very frugal, always very careful with his money, and he just very regimen, he eats things. Um my dad, you know what he calls hot dogs? He calls them tube steak. Tube steak. And he eats a hot dog, it's like eating a New York strip. Oh, this is great. He calls McDonald's the Baptist Steakhouse And listen, whether you're eating bread or you're eating flamignon, you ought to approach that and say, hey, life isn't forever. I'm only going to be here a while. I'm going to enjoy what's on my plate, and I'm just going to make it like if it's a feast. I think that's good advice. You know who I thought of, studying this? I thought of Evan Evan eats a meal, he says, Oh, this is the best I've ever had in my whole life. Am I right or wrong? Oh, this is the greatest meal ever. Because if tomorrow at lunch you say, oh the bills are high and the funds are low and all we can eat is beanie weenies, pretend it's a New York strip and say, oh, this is great And Solomon's saying, listen, make every meal a feast. Enjoy it. Then in verse 8, he says, Enter every day like it's a party. I like this. Look at verse 8. He says, now he's talking that the context is, we know we're going to die. Verse 10, we're going to end up in the grave. I know that. And under the sun, he says, let thy garments be always white. And let thy head lack no ointment. Now, I don't know. This is the way I take this. I think he's saying, in the morning when you get up, dress to kill. Man, put the cologne on, get the ointment, slick the hip Shine the chrome. And just get up that could be your last day And just look your best and be your best. And again, you know who I thought of? I thought of different people in the church when I was studying this. You know who I thought of on that? Was Ruby Slawball. I heard her teaching the ladies one time, I don't remember it was this was years ago, and she told the ladies, she said, every day you get up, she goes, regardless of what you're doing that day, put your lipstick on. Fix your hair Dress nice and dress and just be your best for that day. And I think that's good advice. I'd rather go to my grave looking good than looking like a bum. You say, what does it matter? I don't know, but we don't we only have so many days here. And uh Solomon is saying, now again, this is under the sun, but he's saying, enter each day like it's a party. Start each day like it's the biggest day of your life. He said, Yeah, I guess I gotta go up and go to work. Well pretend work is a gut. How many people are starting to get the impression I'm not real fond of winters? You're around me very much. Every year goes by. It's like, uh. And I started this thing the other year. I started doing it. Sometimes I'll just go back on the s sit on the back deck and I'll sit there And I'll imagine that the trees behind our house, there's a bunch of trees back there, that just beyond them is the Caribbean Sea And I'll sit there and I'll imagine waves just and there's some palm trees over here in the middle of winter, and then I wake up and reality hits. But he's saying, listen, enjoy the day. Be your best. Whatever the meal is. Man, just enjoy it. Man, this boiled cabbage is great. And then put this down and he says, Establish your marriage as a perpetual honeymoon. Look at verse nine. He's talking about people that know they're going to die. Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest, all the days of the life of thy vanity. And the vanity there means you're going to die. And he's talking under the sun, of course, which he has given thee under the sun, all the days of thy vanity. For that is thy portion in this life, and in thy labor which thou takest under the sun. Solomon had hundreds. Let me take it back. Solomon had thousands at a thousand honeys. How many honeymoons did he have? And here he is, late in life, and he's been through all of that, and that sin and everything that drew him away. And I just picture Solomon here writing under the inspiration of God, and his heart and mind goes back to that first wife that God gave him. And I wonder if Solomon isn't thinking, man, I wish I'd have just made that what it ought to have been. I wish I'd have just treated that like a perpetual honeymoon And I tell you, it's a challenge to all of us. Why don't we just say, hey, you know, it's just going to be a honeymoon. You say the honeymoon's over. Well, resurrect it. And just treat it like a honeymoon. I thought of my again, I think of people and I'm saying this, I thought of my grandparents. And I think of Harry and Ruth back there. But my grandparents and Kathy will verify this, um, a lot of times what I say has to be verified. But um I'm telling you, his name was Sam and her name was Ada. And I'm telling you, anytime they were with arm's reach of each other, those hands were locked. And they were absolutely in love to the day that Grandpa Leatherman went on to heaven, then a while later, she went on to heaven. And that impressed me even before I was saved. It was just an ongoing honeymoon. And they'd sit there and uh grandpa let them and he'd hardly ever say anything. He was real quiet, just a godly man, very quiet. And uh Grandma she was and she was the reverse. Not too bad, but but they'd be sitting there and inevitably you'd see their eyes Beep, beep, they lock in. And those two were in love. And Solomon says, listen, you're not going to live forever. You're gonna die. Just make your marriage, just make your home like an ongoing honeymoon, an ongoing honeymoon. And then last of all, verse 10. He says, whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might. There's no work or device nor knowledge or wisdom in the grave where thou goest. Again, he's under the sun. But I think he's telling us this. Listen, you know you're not going to live forever. Make the best of every day. And he's saying this. I put this down. Be enthusiastic about the job at hand. You say, I hate my job. Well, pretend you love it. And just apply yourself to it. You know what I found out? If I have something I dislike doing, If I just get after that and give my whole self to it, one of two things happen. Either I finish it up real quick, or before long I start enjoying it. And I find fulfillment in it. I've said this often. Sometime when I have a day off, and occasionally, you know, in the winter or whatever, I just sit around and won't do much. It drives my wife nuts. I mean people here, if you're not busy, you get grouchy. Everybody here know what I'm talking about? I gotta do something man. She goes, you need to go do something. And she's saying that in honeymoon love But he says, do it all you might, you're not going to live forever. Whatever you got, whatever the job is at hand, man, just get after that thing. And do it with all you have. How different our lives would be. If we incorporated some of this advice that Solomon's given us, it's under the sun. But if we lived every day, like, man, this is the biggest day of my life, and every meal, this is a feast. And my marriage is a perpetual honeymoon, and my job I'm going to do with all my might. Now I know that's idealistic maybe, but I think it's good advice. And years ago I heard, I don't know if it was FBN, it was a long time ago, but I heard the testimony of a Christian, a believer in China. And this was back when China was really coming down on Christianity and communism was in its heyday And this believer, I believe he was a pastor of an underground church, and they caught him and they beat him and they put him in one of their political prisons. And everything he did, the testimony of this Christian man, and we have no idea what his name was, but everything he did, no matter what they gave him to do, he would do it with a joyful attitude, and he would do it with all his might Cleaning the prisons or whatever it was, whatever responsibilities. He'd just sing and get after it. And man, it drove those atheistic prison guards nuts. And they just come down on him and they do terrible things to him. And finally they decided they got one job that that it'll break this guy. And they had the suing system, the septic from all the prisons And it would run out into this big lake. And they made this Christian, this believer, go out in there and he had to stir that sewage up to his waist. And he would have to stir it just like, you know, the sewage treatment plants they spent. He'd have to go out there and and do whatever. And the other cr the other prisoners testified that when he was out there, he would start singing. And they said the one song he would sing, I come to the garden alone, while the dew is still on the roses, the joy I See, bone my ear. And he walks with me and he talks with me. I thought, man, what an attitude. What an attitude. Out in that situation. And he's happy and rejoicing in the Lord And I think Solomon's telling us, listen, life here isn't forever. Don't waste it being mad. Don't waste it griping and complaining because all I have is bread. Don't waste it fighting and fussing. Rejoice in the Lord. Always. And again I say rejoice. Does that make sense? I think it's some good advice from Solomon, let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us, Lord. And I know this speaks to my heart We have a tendency to think of things as if we're going to live forever here. We have a tendency to think of things as if they're never going to end. And I pray the daily blessings you give us that we would rejoice in them. Our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I can preacher, I could have a little better attitude towards life than what I do while I'm here under the sun. God could give me a little better attitude towards this, and maybe I could have the joy of the Lord over. Any more like that? Preacher, I could. I could And maybe God would speak to your heart. Now, if you're not saved, if you have any doubts at all, I plead with you. Don't play with that. Get that settled. Father, bless our imitation now, I ask in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I don't know