And I'll tell you right up front, this is not a Christmas message this morning, though we're in the Christmas season. It's not a Christmas message, but it is a Bible message. And that's what's important, that we're faithful to the Word of God. And I felt a number of weeks ago that this was the message that the Lord, I felt like the Lord was directing for today. We've been preaching a semi-informal series on the second coming and prophetic events And uh unless the Lord changes my mind, I think this is our last in our little series here that's kind of just been impromptu. But uh you never know. My mic turned on here. Revelation chapter 20. Is everybody there? I'd like for us to read uh two verses together in unison Revelation 20. I'd like for us to read verse 11 and then drop down to verse number 15. If you've got your Bibles there, verse 11 and then verse 15, we'll read these together in unison. Alright, everybody got it? All together on verse number eleven, all together. And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it From whose face the earth and heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them. Now if you would drop down to verse 15. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. I'll speak this morning on the great white throne judgment. The great white throne judgment. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, we bow this morning with very, very grateful hearts, as was expressed earlier. Lord, you've been good to us. I thank you for these Christmas hymns and what they mean to me personally and to all of us as Christians as we celebrate the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, his entrance into our world And I pray that you would stir our hearts now as we consider this future event that you very clearly laid out in your word. I pray, Lord, that every person under the sound of my voice, if they're not already prepared to face eternity, that before this message is done, they would make that decision to settle this matter of where they spend eternity Lord, if by chance some would have fooled themselves into thinking that everything's okay when it's not I ask, Lord, that you would open eyes and see that and deal with that. And those of us that know you as Savior and this matter is settled, pray you'd stir our hearts anew to care about others. I know I need a revival in my own heart Of witnessing and soul winning personally. And so I pray that you'd use this message and stir us and help us. I present my body to you, Lord, anew in this hour I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Spirit and you speak through me. In Jesus' name, amen. To many people, the book of Revelation is a difficult book to understand. It's viewed by a lot of people as a strange, mysterious book that has bizarre creatures described in it. There's worldwide catastrophes mentioned throughout the book and horrific carnage with uh huge percentages of the world's population uh dying through uh catastrophic and horrific uh means. Hollywood has a heyday with the Book of Revelation. A lot of unbelievers in cults like the Book of Revelation. They like to read into it mysterious doctrines and strange teachings. But for the Bible-believing Christian, the person that's been saved and understands the Word of God, the book of Revelation, the message of the book of Revelation is crystal clear. Jesus Christ is coming back again. The book of Revelation lays out a lot of the events that take place preceding his second advent to earth and the following events following that. And so we have, as I mentioned at the beginning, we've been had a little impromptu series on the second coming prophetic events. And I know for most of us that prophetic timeline I like to go over. I know for most of us it's uh uh very familiar. You could stand up here and do it yourself. For others, you're just beginning to get a grasp of what the future holds for this world as it's laid out in the Bible. And I don't know, for some folks it may be brand new You may have no idea what the Bible teaches about the future. So I do want to take a moment and I'll try to help visualize here a little bit what the Bible says is going to happen in the future Particularly as it relates to a Christian. Of course, two thousand years ago or so, the Lord Jesus Christ was crucified. We all understand that. He was born of a manger. We celebrate Christmas. 33 plus years around there. He lived a perfect life. He gave himself as our sacrifice for our sins, suffered the judgment of God on the cross, buried, rose again forty days later, he ascended to heaven We're in what's called the church age, what I refer to as the church age, the dispensation of the church. The next event on God's prophetic timeline is what? The rapture of the church. The trump of God shall sound, the archangel shall shout, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, those of us that know the Lord Jesus Christ are going to be caught up, raptured out of here, the dead in Christ Gonna rise first, we'll meet the Lord, so shall we ever be with the Lord in the air. That is gonna be unannounced event. It is it is what uh Bible uh scholars refer to as an eminent event. It is going to happen at any moment. There's no prophecy that needs to take place. I had several people say uh mentioned this week. They say, Oh, America is moving our embassy to Jerusalem. The Lord is surely coming back. Listen, I'm glad we moved the embassy to Jerusalem. That should have been done a long time ago But that is not a prerequisite for the rapture of the church. The Lord could have come back a hundred years ago. Whether we got an embassy in Jerusalem or not, is not a prerequisite to the rapture of the church. There is nothing that needs to take place For the rapture of the church to happen. It could happen at any moment. It's eminent. So that's the next event. Immediately or at some point following, I believe shortly after the rapture, is going to begin what is referred to as the Great Tribulation Period The time of Jacob's trouble, the 70th week of Daniel, are terms that the Bible uses to describe a seven-year period where God's wrath is poured out upon this earth. God is dealing primarily with the nation of Israel, but the whole earth is involved in God's judgment on this old wicked planet. That is where much of the book of Revelation describes events, the different woes and the vials of wrath that are poured out on earth And that takes place for seven years. At the end of that seven year period is what we uh many of us are familiar with the Battle of Armageddon. The nations of the earth come against Israel and their hatred for God prompts them to come against the people of God. And Christ then comes in what we refer to as the second advent. He visibly returns to earth with the saints. He uh destroys the nations of the earth, he uh judges the nations of the earth, and he establishes a 1,000-year reign, millennial reign. Where he literally actually rules from Jerusalem on the throne of David. He rules the earth. There'll be nations throughout the nerd throughout the earth. There'll be many, many different nations and And whatnot, but they'll all be subservient to the Lord Jesus Christ as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. That goes on for a thousand years. At the end of that thousand years, there's a little uprising And uh Satan tries to make one last attempt, it appears, to overthrow Christ. Of course, it's utter failure. And uh Satan and the beast and all them are cast in the lake of fire The end of that 1,000-year reign is the event that we just read about a few moments ago. The Bible calls it the great white throne judgment. It's at the end of the millennium, it's at the end of the time of this heaven and this earth. By the way, let me back up. During the tribulation period, there are some events going to take place with believers While the seven-year tribulation is taking place, we're going to have the judgment seat of Christ. We preached on that. There's going to be the Married Supper of the Lamb. We preached on that. That's taking place with believers while this earth is dealing with God's judgment and God's wrath. But the end of all of this, this present heaven and earth melt away, Peter tells us. There's a new heaven, new earth, the great white throne judgment of God. There is nothing, as I've studied scriptural on this for many, many years, there is nothing pleasant about the great white throne judgment of God It is a horrific event. It is for I don't know about you, but for me it's difficult to read. The great white throne judgment. It is the final judgment of God upon the unsaved On unsaved mankind. Those who have died in their sins. Those who have neglected and rejected and disregarded The Lord Jesus Christ and the instructions of Scripture and have died in their sins, are faced with this one final judgment. Jesus referred to the great white throne judgment in John chapter 5 and verse 29. He referred to it there as the resurrection unto damation. The lost died in their sins are resurrected, brought up out of hell for a brief period of time, to stand before the God and Creator. Of this universe, and are held accountable for their disregard and the rejection of their God, their creator, their Savior As I said, there's nothing pleasant about the great white throne judgment. I'd like for us to look at just the title itself to give us a little bit of idea of what this judgment is like, what the atmosphere is like, what the event. Entails. It's called the great white throne judgment. You notice there in verse number 11. I got looking up the word great. I said, what does God have in mind when he uses that word great? Well, it means what you think it would mean. One aspect of the word great means to be immense. Immensity. It's referring to the size of something. Sometimes the Bible will talk about a great sea An immense sea. Something that is very, very large. And so with that in mind, we think of the judgment, the great white throne judgment of God, great The immensity of this event. This is a, this is, this is a, I want to use say it to put it this way, I don't know if this is actually what I mean, but it's a universal In its immensity, all of unsaved mankind, before the God that spoke all of this into existence, standing before that God It's great in its immensity. The scope of this thing is beyond comprehension. The word great also has the idea of being great in importance or authority. The Bible will speak of a man as being a great man, a great king. The idea behind that is the fact that this man has tremendous authority. This man has tremendous importance And what I want to suggest to you the great white throne judgment is perhaps one of the most important events that mankind needs to consider. That there is a day coming When the unsat must answer to the God that created them. So the great white throne, think about this, standing before The perfectly holy creator of the universe, and being held accountable for how I live my life And why I disregarded all that God had to say for me before God. It is a great white throne. And then the word white The word itself simply means to be brilliant, to be a brilliant brilliant splendor. And I don't know whether that is a reference to the visible splendor and glory of God that comes off of this throne. Or perhaps it may have to do with the purity and the righteousness of God's judgment. Absolutely flawless, perfect, pure judgment. You have to understand when we are judged by God, we are held to a perfectly pure accountability. And God is holy, holy, holy. And we are held to that standard of purity. We are held to that standard of holiness mankind is. So it's a great throne. It is a white throne. And it is a throne. It is a throne. What is a throne? As we understand in history and in scripture, a throne is the seat of final authority. If there is a kingdom, the one that sits on the throne is the one that has the final say. The one that sits on the throne is the one that has the ultimate authority in that kingdom. And this is a throne of the highest authority in existence. The throne of the highest authority in the universe And the unsaved will stand before this throne, a great white throne I've been in courtrooms many, many times over the years. Indianapolis, in Maryland, back in Pennsylvania. It's none of your business why. I've been in many, many courtrooms over the years. But I and I tell you There is a bit of an intimidation factor in a courtroom, right or wrong. It can be very intimidating, especially if you're guilty. Right? There is a bit of intimidation in a courtroom. There is an air, an atmosphere of tremendous authority, tremendous accountability. Ideally, in our mind, in our system, ideally in a courtroom, the truth will come out. That's the ideal. However, I want to suggest to you, there never has been, nor will there ever be a courtroom that comes anything close To the courtroom of the great white throne, judgment of God. There will be a judge, but there will be no jury. There will be a prosecutor, but there will be no defense. There will be a judgment made But there will be no appeals, not at the great white throne, judgment of God. This is final. This is true. This is the great white throne, judgment of God. The final and perfect judgment by the highest authority in existence, by a perfectly righteous authority The final judgment of the unsaved. I want to quickly, just a few observations about this great white throne judgment. Number one, I want to notice first of all the subjects That are at this judgment, the people that are facing this judgment, the people that are standing before this throne. Look with me if you would at verse number 12, Revelation 20. And the first part of verse number 12. The Bible says, I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. He says the dead. The dead. Who is he referring to when he refers to the dead? The dead here is referring to people who are spiritually dead. This is folks that are spiritually dead. At this point of time, all of mankind is physically dead except for those who have been saved, who have been born again. The dead have all been been uh uh the unsaved all dead. Now the resurrected, and it is the unsaved dead. It is those who have not been born again. They are spiritually dead. They had died in their sins. If you would keep your place here. Turn with me to the book of Ephesians. And we have a little bit of description, I believe, of what he is what he is referring to here as the dead. Ephesians chapter 2 And the Bible mentions those who are spiritually dead. Ephesians chapter 2. Look with me if you would at verse number 1. Give everybody a chance to find it there. I want you to see this in your Bibles. Ephesians chapter 2, and look with me at verse number 1. What I've said so far, as you're finding your place, what I've said so far, would you agree with me? This is a very sober event From what we know to be true up to this point, this is an incredibly sober event. This is something that every man, woman, and child must take very, very seriously. This coming great white throne judgment And so notice the subjects at this judgment are the dead, and we understand that to be the spiritually dead. Verse number one of Ephesians chapter two. And you have he quickened. Now you might want to take note or in your margins somewhere, that word quickened simply means to make a lie. You have he quickened. These are people who were dead, and God made them alive spiritually. And so this would be referring to what? Saved people. These are folks that have trusted Jesus Christ genuinely, sincerely. Trusted Jesus Christ saved. They've been born again. They've been born from above. They're spiritually alive. They've been born spiritually. They have eternal life. So you had he quickened. Now look what he says. Who were what? Dead in trespasses and sins. Did he raise them physically from the dead? No They were spiritually dead. They trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. And they were born spiritually. They came alive spiritually. It's what Jesus referred to when he talked to Nicodemus. He said, Nicodemus, ye must be what? Born again. You must be born spiritually. You must be born of the Spirit. You were dead in trespass and sin. So the dead that are raised and stand before the great white throne judgment are folks who died in their trespasses and sins, died physically in their trespasses and sins. Where in time past, he's talking to believers, you were this way, you were one of these dead folk. In time past, you walked according to the course of this world according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. Then if you would, let's read verse 3, among whom also we all had our conversation in time past. This is what they were. In the lust of your flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others He's describing what they were before they were saved, when they were spiritually dead. Come down, if you would, to verse number 12. At that time ye were without Christ. This is the spiritually dead, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenants of promise. Look at this last phrase. Having no hope. And without God in the world. Dark picture. The Bible's description of a person who has never been saved. The Bible's estimation of a person who has never been saved is that they are spiritually dead. It is possible to be religious And to be spiritually dead. It is possible to sing songs, great hymns of the faith. It is possible to memorize verses. It is possible to be an incredibly religious person and convince everybody. That I'm something I'm not. And be spiritually dead. Dead Now I would never, I would never ever want to try and convince a saved person that they're lost. I feel I would be sinning against God to get it make a saved person think they're lost. But on the other hand, I would never ever want a lost person to think that they're saved. That would be tragic. The Bible says that we should examine ourselves that we're in the faith. The Bible says we should judge ourselves that we be not judged. It's very, very important. I'm trying to emphasize this. It's very, very important for all of us to know that we know that we know Based on the Word of God, that we have been saved, that we are alive spiritually, that we have eternal life, and that we've not just fooled ourselves into thinking I'm something I'm not The subjects of this judgment are those who are spiritually dead. Church members, perhaps? Yes. Religious? Yes. But never born again, never saved. Never genuinely trusted Christ as Savior I thought it was interesting in studying that passage in Ephesians where he mentions describing the what the Ephesians were before they were saved, when they were dead in their sins And he mentions three characteristics of them I thought was interesting. He said that they are spiritually dead, live according to this world. One characteristic of an unsaved person is they're very, very comfortable in this world. They share the values of this world, they share the priorities of this world, they share the perspectives of this world. They're very, very comfortable in this world. And he says to Ephesians, you were that way. You were of the world. No difference, no distinction between you and the world. It's interesting, he says another characteristic of uh of the uh of the spiritually dead, the unsaved, they live according to Satan. Did you pick that up there, verse two or so? They're exactly what Satan wants them to be. Listen, if you're in the here in this service, you're into the sound of my voice, and you're not saved, and you know you're not saved You are exactly what Satan wants you to be. You say, oh, I know, I'm not, I know, someday I'm gonna have to get saved. That thinking is the exact type of thinking that Satan wants you to keep. I know it's important. I know what the Bible says. I know what the preacher always says. But that is exactly what Satan wants. And the spiritually dead are exactly what Satan wants them to be. So they live according to the world. They live according to the devil. And he says there also that they live according to the flesh. Did you catch that? The flesh. The flesh. Now listen, when a person gets saved, when a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, we immediately inherit three horrible enemies, very intense, powerful enemies. One of them is the world. The other is the devil. And the third is the flesh. And of those three, the one that has hurt me the most has been my flesh. But an unsaved person doesn't have a battle with the flesh. The spiritual dead does not battle with the flesh. The spiritual dead lives. In the flesh. Well, it's all about. It's all about me. It's all about mine. What I want, the way I think Christ has no role in it. The flesh living according to the flesh. So the subjects at this judgment are folks that, no doubt, many of them there were very moral people. Many of them there, perhaps attending church faithfully. Many of them there. No doubt there were derelicts and uh and uh that end of the spectrum But they're spiritually dead. They're unsaved. They died in their sins. And then notice, come back there with me if you would. He makes another statement about the dead. Verse 12, and I saw the dead, and then he expands on that a little bit, and he makes a statement. I wonder why he would have to include those next few words. I saw the dead both what Small and great. You know what that tells me there's no exceptions If a person dies in their sins unsaved. Person's never been born again. Persons never trusted Christ's Savior. They die in their sins. It doesn't matter whether they're small and insignificant in the world's eyes, in man's eyes, or if they're some great person in the world's eyes. They don't escape this judgment. There's no exceptions here. No one is too big to be judged by God. We had a several years ago there was a financial disruption in our country and they were talking about companies that were too big to fail. My personal opinion is, one of my favorite Greek words, that's a bunch of baloney. Listen, I'm here to tell you, there's not one man or woman that is so important That they are exempt from this judgment. Don't ever think, listen, don't ever think If you're unsaved, don't ever think that somehow you're going to be an exemption from being held accountable. There are no exceptions. Maybe somebody has the idea, well, I'm too insignificant. God wouldn't pay any attention to me. I'm just a little nobody. I just, I'm telling you, in God's eyes, you're incredibly important. In fact, important enough that if you reject his Savior, you reject eternal life. God will hold you accountable. Nobody is too small to be held accountable to God. So the subjects before this judgment, there are no saved people here. There are no people who have been genuinely born again. They're not at the great white throne judgment. This is the unsaved. These are people who are spiritually dead Died in their sins unforgiven, they're resurrected, they're brought back from hell, their bodies are resurrected, and they stand before God, both the small and insignificant as far as this world is concerned, and the great are held accountable before God at the great right throne judgment. The only issue at this judgment, as far as the subjects are concerned, the people there, the only issue Is their spiritual condition. Have they been saved or are they lost? That's the only issue. The only issue. So we notice the subjects of this judgment. Number two, I want us to notice the substance of this judgment Again, notice with me, verse number 12. He said, I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. There's the accountability factor. Now look at this. And the books were opened. And another book was opened, which is the book of what? Life. And the dead, the spiritually dead, those that died in their sins, unsaved, the dead. Were judged out of those things which were written in the books. Look at this last statement, according to their works God has a library, and God is the ultimate record keeper Is there anybody here? Maybe your responsibility in an office or a business somewhere is to keep records. Anybody here? Response, a couple of hands went up. Record keeper. You're supposed to keep track. Generally it's the finances Every penny, every everything needs to be kept track of. And that's incredibly important in our world. It's incredibly important in our personal lives that we keep records. But I'm telling you, God is the ultimate record keeper. I was reading recently in the text that we use for our Bible Institute this past semester. And John Phillips, who I had the privilege of getting to know, I sat with him in a sword conference a number of years ago before he passed away. In this, our textbook, he wrote how that God has instilled into even into creation This concept of keeping records. My brother, my former brother-in-law was a forester His responsibility down in West Virginia where we go for our uh men's getaway, Burgu, West Virginia, there's a huge forest there, tens of thous thousands of acres. His responsibility is to go through and decide which trees were to be harvested and which were left to grow longer. And an expert forester, I am told, Can cut a tree down and he can read the rings of that tree with tremendous accuracy And there's tremendous amount of information. There is a tremendous amount of records kept in the core of that trade. He can tell just by looking at it for a moment how old that tree is. How many people ever did that? Cut a tree down, count the rings. He can tell how old that tree is. Now I can't prove this, but I understand and I'm told that if he's knowledgeable enough, he can look at those rings and he can tell you what the weather was like 10, 50, 20, 30, 100 years ago, depending on the age of the tree. He can look at those rings, say that was a good growing season. There must have been plenty of rain that year. I can tell you the soil, the pH in the soil, that one year wasn't what it ought to be. That tree struggled that year. Oh, here's a year where the insects were bad and there was damage done to the tree that year And in a tree, there's a tremendous amount of record being kept. Now think about that. If a tree What about the God that spoke that tree into existence? The subjects here are the unsaved, and the substance of this judgment, the basis of this judgment Is the records that God has and is and will be keeping of all of mankind You say, oh, come on. You know, Jesus said that we have to give an account for every word that we speak. Don't tell me the God that can speak the intrinsic design of DNA. is not able to keep record of each one of his individual creations that were created in his image The books were opened. And there was a record kept, and the men and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. Our works, our deeds, even our words and thought are kept. As I was studying this and pondering this a little bit, I got thinking: God created you and I for a reason. The biggest lie, one of, if not the biggest lie ever perpetrated on mankind, is that we come from chaos and that there's no reason, no purpose for our existence. That is the biggest lie of the devil, and the world has bought it hook, line, and sinker. God has created us in his image for a very important reason. Your life matters. You are created by God for a purpose. And God, being the ultimate record keeper, pays attention to whether that purpose Is being fulfilled or not. Satan does not have a specific will for your life or my life Satan, oh Satan wants us all to be drug addicts and heroin and meth crac crac uh meth things. Oh, Satan wants us all to be a drug addict. I don't think Satan cares whether you're a drug addict or not. Just as long as you don't do what God's created you to do. Just as long as you're doing your own thing. Just as long as you're not paying any attention, giving attention to what God's will for your life is, who happened to be our Creator for a specific purpose. And God pays attention to our lives. Because He's given us a reason. If you hire someone for a specific purpose, wouldn't you pay attention to whether they're doing that job or not? And God has created us for his family purpose. And he pays attention. And he says that the unsaved that stand before this judgment, he's going to open up the books and he's going to get the record that he's been keeping of their lives. They're going to be held accountable. The book of life is the basis of this judgment. Now, for sake of time, you could study this. It's a fascinating study. But this book, as we're told here, contains the works of the lost. Apparently, an unsaved person that dies in their sins dies unsaved. All their works, all their behavior, all their deeds, all their actions are recorded, and at the great white throne judgment, that book of works is opened up and God examines how they lived their life, whether they fulfilled his purpose or not, which they obviously did not, or they would not be here. So this library contains books that are a record of mankind's works. Now, why would that be a factor? If they're unsaved, if they're dead, spiritually dead, why would it matter how how they live their life? Now I may be stepping out on limb here a little bit. This may be a bit of conjecture uh uh s uh uh assumption on my part but to me that implies there may be degrees of judgment I don't know. There's passages in the Gospels that seem to imply that. But nevertheless, God pays attention. Hey, unsaved person, God pays attention every time you take his name in vain. It doesn't just go by the wayside. Hey, every lie, every lie that is told, that is an absolute affront To the God that created us, who says, I am the way, the truth. God is truth. And for his creation, created in his image, to lie. Absolutely flies in the face of a holy God who is true In its purest form, God opens the books. Lie, lie, lie. Don't tell me God's not paying attention to how you and I talk. All mankind. Don't tell me God's not paying attention to what we do and how we treat others. God, who is a God of love, pays attention when we act in hatred. God, who is the most forgiving being in existence, pays attention when we withhold forgiveness and get bitter. For the unsaved to die in their sins, stand before God, and those books are opened And judgment is made based upon the works that are recorded there. So there's a book of works, and there is also a book of life in verse number 15. And the Book of Life, if I understand it correctly, and I believe I do, the Book of Life contains the names of all folks who are saved. The moment I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, my name is in the book of life. In fact, there are some Bible scholars that suggest, and there may be something to this. That that book actually be contains the names of all m mankind that ever lived, and as they die in the sins, the names are removed. I don't know. I can't defend that thought, but it's intriguing. But nevertheless, there is a book in heaven that contains the names Of all those who have trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, been saved, born again, have eternal life. The Bible says God at that judgment opens the book and he looks for the names, and if the name is not there, did you see that in verse 15? Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast in the lake of fire. So the substance of this judgment, the basis of this judgment, are whether our name is in the book of life, and then it's the works that we performed as we lived here. Let me make a statement here before we move on. I need to move on to next thought quickly. Let me make this statement. Judgment is always deals with our works. But salvation is always based on faith. Nobody is saved by good works. Nobody avoids this judgment because I was good enough. I had enough good works. Nobody avoids this judgment that way. There's only one way to avoid this judgment, and that is by grace through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. However, our works are a factor in this judgment for the unsaved. Works are a factor. So the subjects, unsaved, dead. The substance, the basis, are what God has written in the books here. If I am depending upon my works to gain eternal life, I will only face judgment. Number three, let me give you quickly the sentence of this judgment. The sentence of this judgment. Verse 14 and 15: death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. As I looked at this, there's really no decision being made here. Did you notice that? There's no decision being made here. That decision was made here on earth by the individual. This is simply a matter of carrying out the sentence. This would be in our vernacular maybe similar to a sentence hearing. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You have the trial, you're found guilty, then later they have a sentence hearing. What's your sentence going to be? So there's really not a decision being made here on anyone's part, really. It's simply the carrying out Of the decision. And I kind of see it this way, all right? You wanted to live your life without God, then you'll spend eternity. without God or anything related to them. It's pretty much, in a sense, getting what they wanted. No God. No blessings of God. None of the collateral benefits and blessings of God's presence. None of that. Darkness, emptiness. All eternity. All eternity Matthew chapter 7 in the Sermon on the Mound, the Lord Jesus Christ referenced this sentencing when he said, Depart from me. I never knew you. Never knew you. Depart from me. Depart from me. It's eternal separation from God, his presence, and everything he provides And all the collateral results of that, the fire and the torments, the outer darkness The hardest thing that I have in studying the Bible, the hardest thing for me in studying the Bible. Is this matter of eternal judgment of God, the eternal retribution of God? It's true It's real. And we ignore it to our peril Sentencing is horrific. It is beyond our ability to comprehend the horror of what existence without the presence of God is like. Even the atheist on this planet is experiencing and enjoying some of the blessings Of the presence of God. Opportunity to be saved. Air to breathe. I keep saying collateral, but the fringe benefits of the presence of God, even an unbeliever is able to enjoy them. But at the great white throne, no more. No more. No more. No more opportunities. No more blessings. No more presence. Of God. No more, no more enjoyment, no more pleasure, no more nothing. Lost. They're cast in the lake of fire. Then I notice the supreme judge at this judgment. You could do a whole series on this. According to John chapter 5, verse 22, seated on that great white throne is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. God the Father has committed all judgment to the Son. Think about that. The one who suffered the very judgment, he is Pronouncing upon the unsaved dead, the one that suffered that judgment already for them, that they rejected, is now pronouncing that judgment upon them. To stand before the one that loved me enough, stand before that one who loved me enough to die and suffer that very judgment for me, and having rejected him and having pushed him aside, ignored him, denied him. And hear him say, Part from me. This didn't have to be this way You didn't have to be here. I paid this for you. You ignored it. Maybe they laughed at it. And now here it is. The Supreme Judge is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who made it possible for all to avoid this. is the one that pronounces the judgment. Then last of all, I notice the certainty of this judgment. Say, preacher, is this real? I'm telling you, it's real. It is certain It seems like all of mankind recognizes and holds to some form or some concept of accountability. Every society that has ever existed has held to some form of judgment Every society, all of mankind, and every even the most remote primitive societies had some sort of concept of accountability It may be distorted, it may be demented, it may be perverted in a lot of ways, but nevertheless, that concept is grained in the very nature of mankind. That there is right and wrong. That there is and must be some sort of accountability. There is and must be some sort of justice. Even the most radical hardcore liberal, even the most radical, hardcore anarchist. Still believes in their heart and soul that there is some sort of justice must be carried out. And I believe that is ingrained into our very nature as a created, being created in the image of God. And God has instilled that in us. And we inherently know and understand that we will be held accountable. I had a man just in the last two months. He's a very elderly man. By his own words, I don't have long to live. It's been antagonistic to me many years. And came to me, he said, preacher, hold me his age. He says I don't I don't believe I have a long time to live. And I just want to make sure before I go to my Maker that you forgive me for the way I've been, that everything's right and good between us. I've witnessed to him and I don't he claims that he's saved, I don't know. Do you know what that tells me? Down inside his heart and nature, somewhere down inside him, he knew. He knew It's going to be accountability. It's going to be a day of accounting someday. And the most hardened thug, the N thirteen gang members that slaughter people, I'm telling you down inside their hearts and souls, they know there's a day of accountability. You can be the hard punk you want to be. You can use the filthy language of this world all you want to, but I'm telling you, down inside your heart and soul, you know there's a day coming. Know it! Because it's certain. I read, and I can't document this. I tried doing a little research. I believe it's true because of the source I got it from, but I can't document it. Apparently early in our country there was a fellow by the name of Ethan Allen. You may be familiar with him. It's not the furniture guy. All right. Now the record I have, and again I can't document this, so I'm just telling you what I believe this is true. Ethan Allen, as I read and understood, was a hardened atheist. He'd have no time for God, no time for Christianity, no time for the Bible, no time for any of that. His approach was: I'm going to live life, I'm going to enjoy it, I'm going to go nuts. By some strange occurrences, I guess, he married a Christian gal. I don't know if she was Christian when they got married, if she got saved later, I don't know the specifics. But nevertheless, his wife was a devout Christian. She went to church Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night She read her Bible, she prayed, she tried the best she could to be pure and modest and honest and true to her Lord in every aspect of her life. And it drove Ethan Allen nuts. Lo and behold, she gave birth to a little girl. The mother was determined to raise that girl for the Lord. She had her in church, she read her the Bible, got her to memorize scripture. She did everything she could to direct that little girl in the will of God, in the fear and admonition of the Lord. And it drove Ethan Allen nuts. When the girl was about 14, according to the count I read, when she was about fourteen or so, he said, Alright, now's my turn. And he started taking his little girl to the nightclubs and whatever they were back then, to the taverns, the saloons. He taught her how to dance all her teenage years. Introduced her to immodest, impure men. Introduced her to liquor. Her mother's heart was broken. Her mother prayed and prayed and prayed. And once you know it, in her late teen years. The little girl developed some disease, and I can't tell you what it was, pneumonia or something. I think it was pneumonia. Of course back then they didn't have the medicines and the cures for it His teenage daughter was dying. Doctor came in and said, there's nothing we can do. And he went in to see his daughter. Her mother was sitting beside her weeping with an open Bible, praying for her daughter. He walked in and the little girl said, Daddy, I trust you. I trust you, Daddy. Am I gonna live? Ethan Allen said to his teenage daughter, You're not gonna live, sweetheart. Doctor just told me you're not going to live. She said, Daddy, I trust you. What you tell me, I will believe. Should I die your way? Or should I die Mama's way? He said, sweetheart. You better die mama's way. Because daddy's way has nothing to offer you in the time of death. As he hugged her, she passed away. The account I read said that they never knew whether she died mama's way or daddy's way. Won't know, I guess, till the judgment, to the great white throne judgment. You're under the sound of my voice You better die mama's way. You better know that you've been saved. Listen, you can ignore the Bible. You can twist it around to justify your perverse lifestyle. You can ignore your filthy language. You can ignore your pushing God out of your life. You can think you've got your act together. But I'm telling you, without Christ, without you've got a horrific future ahead of you. And that is certain. And I believe down inside your heart and soul, you know that what I'm saying is true. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Not much of a Christmas message, Lord. But as we said, it is a Bible message. I pray and ask that you would help every young person. Every middle-aged, every senior citizen take this very, very seriously. I pray, dear Lord, that if there's anybody who has any doubt, any question about their salvation, that would be settled today Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I am. I've trusted Christ. I have a biblical basis for it. And maybe you could even say there's evidence in my life that Christ has saved me. Not that I'm anything, but Christ has done this. But you'd say, preacher, my Christian life, how I'm living that life. Does not accurately represent what a Christian really should be. And you'd say, preacher, I would hate to think that the way I'm living my life would hinder somebody else from coming to Christ. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I would take seriously how I live my Christian life, not to be saved or to stay saved, but because I am saved. And I would be a testimony to this whole world. What God does in the life of a believer. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I know there's areas in my life that need attention. There's decisions that need to be made. There's action needs to be taken. God bless you, hands all around. Listen, we have a tremendous responsibility as Christians to be a witness to this whole world. I wonder if there's some here who say, preacher, I know someone that's unsaved. I'm so burdened for them. I can't even imagine. Just the thought of them going out in eternity tears my heart out. You'd say, preacher, pray for me that they'd be saved and then I can be a witness to them. Is there any like that, preacher? There's somebody heavy on my heart. I want them to be saved. Say, pray with me. God bless you. Prayer is so important, so powerful, but we've got to be a witness. Do there any this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved? Just flat out. I'm going to be honest. I can't honestly say that I know my sins are forgiven, that when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell, that I'm not going to be at this Great white thread. You say, preacher, pray for me. I've got to get this settled. I can't play. I've got to get this settled. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I need to know that this is settled, that this is right. About it any at all. Now, Father, I ask you'd stir us. I hope that you could use this somehow in our lives. To help us grow in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Let's stand together. Jennifer's