Preacher was visiting the folks uh um in the neighborhood and church folks and different things. He shows up at one house and he's visiting with uh the family there a little bit and the little boy comes running in. The little boy's got a dead rat in his hand and the thing is beat up and bloody and everything comes running in, the preacher's there, the husband and wife are there, and uh he says, Look, mama, and uh mama uh just about fell over, so this boy comes running in with a dead rat, the preacher's right there And uh he saw right away that she was just flabbergasted by this and he said, Don't worry, mama, we beat it and beat it and beat it and beat it till it's dead. And um then he looked over and saw the preacher and he realized, you know, maybe I oughta change my tone here a little bit and he says, Don't worry, Mama. Uh we beat it and beat it till the Lord called it home. And um so he changed the tune. It's just how you phrase it a little bit is um how it goes. That sounds like something some of our kids might do, I'm thinking of But uh notice uh Hebrews chapter 8. I I don't know about this message tonight. Uh I've been thinking this past week uh about an instance that took place uh some time ago. There we go, a little stronger D Um and uh it's just been on my mind and I thought about how to develop this thought a little bit and I don't know if maybe I might come back and and apply the thought I'm giving tonight in some more specific areas, but I I trust the Lord will help us. It's just a simple little thought that maybe will make us think about our lives and what the Lord's doing. Look at verse number one, Hebrews chapter eight Says, now the things which we have spoken, this is the sum. We have such a high priest who is set on the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens, a minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle Which the Lord pitched and not man. For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices, wherefore it is of necessity that this man have somewhat to uh also to offer. Speaking of the Lord Jesus For if he if he were on earth, he should not be a priest, seeing that uh there are priests that offer gifts according to the law. Now look at verse 5. This is what I'm trying to get to. Who serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things. As Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle. Now look what God tell says to Moses. See, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern showed to thee in the mount. He's telling Moses, he's saying, listen, I want you to follow my policy concerning building this tabernacle. I have a policy as far as tabernacle is concerned. He doesn't say to Moses, hey, I want a tabernacle, you come up with something, see what you come up with, it'll be fine. God says, no, no, no. It's a very specific way it's to be done. Very specific dimensions that are to be followed. Very specific materials are to be used. I have a policy Concerning this tabernacle. So I want to talk about God's policy for life tonight a little bit. Father, I ask you to bless our study. God, uh I just pray that maybe you'd take this simple thought, and Lord, as I look over it, it just seems awfully simple to me. But I pray that maybe sometimes these simple thoughts are the most profound. And help us the most. So fill me with your spirit, I plead, Lord. Speak through us. Lord, I I know as pastor, Lord, I desire with all my heart that our church follow your policy concerning a church. And that my home and my life and our ministries, our decisions would all be according to your policy, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. So I mentioned this morning, there was a number of years ago I was out over in Terra Altas just knocking on doors. Probably been four or five years and Just had a afternoon I took and went over there knocking on doors going through the community. Came across a young man, he's probably early mid twenties He's there by himself, kind of a rough situation, rough home. And uh introduced myself. We got talking a little bit. He invited me in on the porch and we sat on the porch there and uh talked a little bit, invited him to church and kind of went through the the little uh format we follow and we're teaching and soul winning And I asked him, and and uh said his name, I said, uh do you know for sure that when you die your sins are you when you go to heaven, not to hell And he says, No, I don't uh I don't know about that at all. I'm not sure. And so I was able to take my Bible and went through the plan of salvation with him very clearly. He was right on board with me. He seemed very earnest About his spiritual condition. And I invited him to call on the Lord with me right then and there. Trust Christ as a Savior. He said he'd be glad to do that. And he prayed with me And he made a profession of faith, of accepting Jesus Christ as personal Savior. And as I said, I left there and I felt like he was very earnest about that. I felt like uh he was sincere and he meant business with God And uh so I left. I did some follow-up visits and I felt like I kind of made a little friendship with the fellow there a little bit. He never I couldn't get him out the church, but I b followed up and made some visits as I said. Anyway It kind of fell by the wayside and I lost touch with him. Six, seven months later, maybe eight months later, he called me up one day. I was in the office. He called up, said Pastor Latherman. I said, Yeah, he said, told me who he was, asked if I remember him. I said, sure, I remember him. I've got your name written in the back of my Bible. And um he goes, I was wondering if you'd be able to marry my girlfriend and I We want to get married. Wonder if you'd be able to marry my girlfriend and I. And so um we got talking. I said, well, let me ask you a few questions. I went through, and there was there was issues on several levels that I could not perform this wedding. Uh not the least of which was she I think she was still married at the time to somebody else And so he went through the thing and I said, listen, you know, I'm I'm glad you're one thing to be right and all that. I talked to him real and tried to explain, listen, you know, I I just I can't help you in this area and different things. I said there's some stuff you gotta get in place and I made this statement. I said, you know that you know, I've got a policy on marriages. And uh I said, I just can't do this with all these things the way they are And boy, he got mad. And he said, well, God doesn't have any policies. And I said, well, the fact of the matter is, God does. have some policies on marriage and the home and and different things. And he hung up on me and that was my last contact with him and he doesn't live there anymore. I tried following up But that got me thinking. And I don't know why. In the last several weeks, that's just been on my mind. God does have policies. on way things should be done and how things are to be done. And what is a policy? What do we mean by God having a policy? I didn't look it up in various dictionaries To be able to express a definition of the word. And I thought this was a helpful definition. A policy is a definite and prescribed course of action A definite and prescribed course of action. Daniel Webster's dictionary from 1828 is personally I think the best dictionary ever made. He says this. He said it's the manner by which actions are governed. If a company has a policy, it's how they uh it's putting into place principles that prescribe how things are to be done, how things are to be carried out. Any successful business in the world has policies for various areas of that. Greg works in the prison system. They have a policy The prisoners are locked up is one of their policies, right? And uh that's a good thing. Um and so uh policies, a definite and prescribed course of action. Now, does God have policies? Does God have definite and prescribed course of action for you and I? Good night. You could do a series for several years on the policies of God. God does have a policy. Here, God's policy for building the tabernacle for Moses was make it exactly as it's shown you on Mount Sinai. Don't just make whatever Moses come up with something. See No no no Uh he had a very prescribed, a definite and prescribed course of action for building that tabernacle. You know what I've found to be true, and it's confirmed in Scripture. I've found that when I operate by God's policies, I get God's blessings. And when I operate, when I ignore God's policies, when I disregard God's policies for my life or some area, I get bad results. Follow the policy, good results. Disregard, ignore, alter the policy, bad results And uh so God has policies. God put into place a policy for mankind in the Garden of Eden Take your Bibles with me if you would and turn to Genesis chapter 2, all the way back, and we might as well use our Bibles. We got them. And so go back to Genesis chapter 2. Good to see the young people down here with their Bibles. Good for you. Genesis chapter 2 and notice verse number 15. Y'all got Bibles? There you go. Very good. Look at Genesis chapter 2. God created man, and he has him in the garden here. And God, great from the get-go, lays out and says, All right, this is my policy for you living on my planet. This is my policy for you being here. I created you, I put you here, giving you all this stuff. This is how this is the prescribed course of action. It's really very simple. Look at verse 15 And the Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. So God puts man, he creates man, he puts him in a garden, he gives them some simple instructions. First of all, he tells them to dress the ground. Now I thought that's interesting. Verse number 15, he says, to dress it. Took the garden, he's to dress the garden. What does that mean? I looked up the word dress, how it's used in the Bible. It's translated many times to serve Is the idea behind the word. In other words, to till that ground up. To serve the ground. To work the ground up. Question, is this before or after the fall? This is before the fall. Somebody says, ah, working hard, that's a cause, that's the curse. That's a woman's fault. She ate that fruit. Now I've got to work hard. No, no. Hard work was given by God, part of God's policy before sin ever entered the world. God told Adam, listen, you work hard. By the way, that policy is still in place. God expects his people to work. I mean talking about on the job. And working hard. Some people have to work hard with their brain, some work hard with their muscles. But God's policy is to work hard. He says, I want you to till that ground and work that ground, serve that ground. Then he tells them to keep it. Now, what in the world does he mean keep it? The word keep has the idea of guarding, paying close attention to it, protecting it. Now I got thinking about this. Think with me a little bit here. This is before the fall. What is he guarding that, what is he keeping that garden from? What is he protecting that garden from? Is it possible that God created the earth initially to need man's involvement in keeping that thing running at optimum level? Did God create the world to need man's involvement in it? You say, oh, God wouldn't create something that would have a need. Oh yeah? What did he say about Adam? When he created Adam, he says it's good. Everything God solely made it was good. But what did Adam? Adam, did Adam have a need Sure, God said it's not good that man should be alone. Man was created by God to need that wife. He's incomplete. He needs her And so is it possible, and I'm just speculating here a little bit, is it possible that this world was created dependent upon man working it and keeping it and tilling it? Was there such a thing as weeds that need to be controlled and maybe plants growing outside of the area you would want it to be? Is it sin? For a garden not to be, for weeds to grow in a garden, is that sin? Is that part of the curse? I don't know. But I know God gave man very specific instructions here to keep that, protect it, take care of it, and to work it, to till it, and dig it up. And so um uh here's his policy. He gives it to him. And then he gives him another policy. Look on down here, and the man commanded the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat. Well, that's a good policy. You can eat out there. Now it's interesting. Uh uh, he says the tree of the garden, uh tree fruit, I think that I'm just again speculating here, but I would imagine that would include other plants, tomatoes and that type of stuff And so here's man. It gives them a here's my policy. You work hard. You take care of what I've given you. You work it, until it. Be responsible here. Then you can freely enjoy All these plants, all this thing, you can enjoy all that, it's free. And then he has another policy here, but there's one tree you do not eat of. And that look what he says there. But, verse 17, of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it. Then he gives the results, for in the day thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. So God gives a policy to mankind here. Work hard, till the ground, keep it, take care of it, enjoy all the things I've created. There's one thing you stay away from. You don't eat that. You eat that, there's going to be terrible consequences. So God, that was God's very simple policy. And here's the point I'm trying to make As long as Adam, later Eve, as long as they operate within that policy, they do it the way God prescribed, everything's fine. Can I tell you a little something that maybe is out there a little bit, but my imagination can be Can you humor me a little bit? Everybody just act look like you're really interested in what I'm about to tell you and make me feel better. I got thinking I'm just kinda a little bit here night. I got thinking, all these planets And all these solar systems. And there's thousands and millions of galaxies with millions and millions of solar systems, with millions and billions of planets. And as far as we can tell by our searching and scanning the universe, they're all barren. They're all just rocks and dust and gas and dirt. Say, preacher, don't you believe there's aliens? Uh no I I don't see that happening at all. I don't see it at all. But I got thinking, why would God Create this massive place. I mean just incomprehensibly huge with billions and innumerable planets and solar systems, and then take one little planet And put man on there and that thing is just teening with life. I mean just just infested with life. And everything else is barren and dead Can I tell you my guess my thinking? I wonder if God's original intention, as far as we comprehend it Was with Adam and Eve not to having not sinned, they of course would reproduce. They were created to reproduce. So Adam and Eve never die. Their offspring never die. Their offspring's offspring never die. Their entire life, they're just reproducing and reproducing. and reproducing and their children are reproducing and reproducing and reproducing un and ending. And their children it would you agree with me? It wouldn't take long. This planet would be crowded Now think about man. All right, this might be a little silly enough, but think about man. In our fallen state, we're able to send rockets to the moon. In our falling condition, we're sending probes on Mars. We got a little thing running around up on Mars right now as I speak, cruising around on that planet. We've sent probes out of our solar system We've got satellites that that orbit not the Earth, orbit the Sun. Completely out of Earth orbit, orbiting the Sun. It's amazing what we've done in our fallen condition. Here's my thinking. What would man have done had he not fallen? I'm wondering I'm thinking God intended that man as he reproduced and filled the planet, he would invent technology and develop these things, and ultimately billions and billions down to years of un un no death Just everlasting light that we would have filled this entire universe with people of God and travel all these other planets and all of that. And I wonder if these planets and these all this other place was intended initially created for man to just uh reproduce into the innumerable numbers and fill this whole universe. But man sinned And if you study the Bible, man did not follow God's policy. And curse came not just on this planet, but on the entire universe. And God's judgment, read the Bible, heavens and the earth. And I wonder if it made them inhabitable and limited us. We can't do that. And eventually God's going to uh destroy the he this heaven and earth. and create a new heaven, new earth for man to inhabit. Um how many folks think you're nuts, preacher? Raise your hand. Uh two people. Very good. But you felt that before I said that. But it's something to think about. But here's my point I'm trying to make God put a policy in place for mankind. God had a plan. God, I would imagine, had envisioned what it could and how it was intended to be. But man refused to follow that policy. And refusing to submit to God's policy was dire results. And I'm suggesting to you the entire universe was affected. By one man and one woman's refusal to follow God's policy. And it brought the curse on all of creation. All of creation. Not just one little corner of the universe. The whole universe is under the judgment of God. So what I'm trying to say is this: right from the get-go. God's setting a precedent. It is important that you follow my instructions. It is important that you operate by my policy Because the consequences are terrible. The consequences are terrible. So God put in place a policy for mankind there in the garden. Man violated that policy. and paid a heavy price. Um, I put this down. God put has put in place a policy for man's acceptance by God Man sinned, brought sin into the world. Man is now separated from God. And so God, over a period of time, he's revealing himself and he's putting the process into place. But God shows a God calls Moses up on the Mount Sinai. Turn to Exodus chapter 20 real quickly with me And God puts into place a policy for man to be accepted by God. Exodus chapter 20. I believe this is one of the great significant events in the history of mankind. Exodus chapter 20. And uh look with me at verse number one. Here's God's policy for acceptance for man's sinful man's acceptance by God. Verse two. Verse 1, God spake all these words, saying, I am the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Look at this: thou shalt have no other gods before me. It's part of his policy. You're gonna be accepted by me? You don't have any other gods before me. Uh, verse 4: Thou shalt not make into thee any graven image. Here's my policy. You want me to accept you? Don't make any graven image. Look at verse 7. Thou shalt not make take unto thee the name of the Lord thy God, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. You want to be accepted by me? Don't take my name in vain. Is it just me or does it seem like God is being name is being blasphemed more and more and more all the time? You can't hardly go fill your guest tank up. Without hearing God's filthy language and God's name mixed right in it. He says, you want to be accepted by my here's my policy. Don't take my name in vain. Look at verse number 8. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. You want to be accepted by me? Remember the Sabbath day. And of course, Jesus addressed that later on. Verse 12. Honor thy father and thy mother. That's God's policy. Hey kids, it wasn't your parents' idea for you to obey your parents. It's God's idea. To honor your parents. You want to be, God says, you want to be accepted by me? You honor your parents. Look at verse 13. Thou shalt not kill. He says, that's my policy to be accepted by me. Thou shalt not commit adultery. It's my policy. If you want to be accepted by me, thou shalt not steal. God says, you want to be accepted by me as a sinful being, you come before me, don't steal. It's his policy. Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy. Don't lie. Thou shalt not covet. Don't covet. And he gives the list, your neighbor's house, wife, oxen, all those things. So God puts into place, man, God creates man, puts in the garden, here's my policy, man violates it. Nor is policy. Torrendous results. So now you have sinful man. And God calls Moses up, all right, here's my policy for sinful man. Here's the standard of it to be uh that must be followed to be accepted by me. Now here's where a problem comes in. Nobody can follow that policy perfectly. Right? But here's the thing, in that policy, what we know as the Ten Commandments, in that policy, God's purpose for giving it wasn't for man to become acceptable to God. God knew he wouldn't by following this policy That policy's purpose is to show us that we need a Savior. Take your Bibles. Let's turn here and I'm about done, believe it or not. Come over to Galatians chapter 3. This policy in Exodus, the Ten Commandments was not given to make us righteous, but to reveal to us we are not righteous. It's kind of a unique way. I don't think too many businesses put a policy into place that show the people that they can't keep that policy. But that's what God did here. Look at Galatians chapter 3. And verse number four, or twenty-four, I'm sorry, Glatians three, verse twenty-four. Oops, I'm sorry, I'm in Galatians 4. Let me go to Galatians 3, verse 24. Wherefore the law, it's what we just read, Galatians 20, the law was our what? schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ that we might be justified by what? Faith. God says, all right, you sin? You brought judgment on sin. You brought uh separation from me. Alright, here's my standard to be accepted. Here's the Ten Commandments uh and include and other aspects of it, but the Ten Commandments to be accepted. But I know you can't keep that. The reason I'm giving you this policy is to show you that you can't keep it. You're not righteous. And that you need a Savior And so uh we realize that we need a savor. It's a schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. And so God had a policy there. Now as I developed this, I thought, good night. God has a policy all down through here. God is a policy for salvation. People don't just get saved however they want to get saved. We get saved God's way. I recognize I've violated God's law. I understand it's not works that I do. I understand I'm only saved through the Lord Jesus Christ. We get accused. Listen, if we follow God's policy in salvation, this world is going to accuse us of being narrow-minded. They're going to accuse us of being intolerant. But the fact of the matter is, it's not us that are intolerant, it's God's policy. There's only one way to be saved, and that is through the Lord Jesus Christ. Only sinners can be saved. Only sinners that put their faith in Jesus Christ can be saved. And that is God's policy. Now, what happens when we start messing with God's policy? What happens if we say, well, you know what, that's the policy, but I don't think I really need to personally accept Jesus as my Savior. I don't think that's that big a deal. I don't think that's that important. What happens to that person? They die and go to hell. Die and go to hell. Somebody says, well, I know it's important to be saved, but I'm gonna go I'm gonna I'm gonna trust in my baptism. I'll be baptized, that'll save me Hey, let me throw a word of caution out. There's some guys on TV that are very popular, have a reality show. And they're portrayed as great Christians. They pray all the time and all of that. And that's fine. I'm nothing against any of that. Wish they'd get a haircut. Do you know what those guys' gospel is? I can document this. Their gospel is baptismal regeneration. They teach you have to be baptized to be saved, and that is not God's policy. And we gotta be careful. We start holding up folks on TV as models of Christian examples. We start doing that. I think we need revival. That's the motto of what a Christian is. Now I don't misunderstand. I appreciate the good morals and all that. That's fine. God knows. That's rare. But we got to stick to the policy. God has a policy for marriage. Really, that was originally this message. I was going to preach on God's policy for marriage. And we see what happens when man starts playing with God's policy for marriage. God has a policy for the church. Listen, I, nor the deacons, nor anyone else has any right or authority to come and say, we're going to run this church the way we want to run it. I don't have that authority. God has a policy in place how the church is to operate. Amen or not? God has a policy in a Christian's relationship with the world. God says love not the world. God says don't be conform to this world. God says don't follow this world. Don't adopt this world's values and pleasures and all of that, we're to be distinct. We're to be separate. Listen, you say, well, God doesn't want us to have any fun. You get right with God, you have a heap of fun We don't have any right to come and change us bodies. There's horrendous consequences. Um God has a policy for salvation, as I mentioned, Christian living. God has a policy for our finances. God has a policy. for our friendships, uh, for forgiveness, for missions. And when we follow his policies, we have his blessings. And when we disregard or alter his policies, we lose his blessings. Over the years, I've been pastor 21 years here, here with you guys. I've been in the ministry since 85 to in a full-time capacity. You know what I've noticed? I've noticed when we follow God's policies, when we do it God's way, there's peace, there's joy, there's contentment, there's purity. There's goodness there. But when we ignore, disregard God's policies, God's way of operating, there's frustration. Worldliness comes in. There's emptiness there. There's restlessness. There's discontentment. But when we follow God's policies, it's worked. Jesus prayed. He said, Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Listen to what he said. Thy will be done. On what? Earth, as it is where? In heaven. You know what he's saying? He's saying, Lord, I want your policies carried out on earth just in the same way they're carried out in heaven. In heaven, in the presence of God, the angels and those are there, is God's will fulfilled? Yeah, to the T. They do exactly. And Christ said, I want that on earth too. I want dads and husbands to carry out your will, follow your policies on earth, just like the fellows do up in heaven. I want the women, the mothers, the adult women, I want them to fulfill and carry out your policies on earth just like the ladies up in heaven do. I want the young people and the singles and the other folks. I want them to fulfill and carry out the policies I've given to them there on earth, just like young people and folks up in heaven do. Thy will be done, thy policy carried out on earth as it is in heaven. God's policies will be carried out one day on earth, just like in heaven I don't know about you, but I long for that day. It's going to be a new heaven, new earth. Sin's going to be removed Think of I was thinking about this this afternoon. I went over and took a little nap and got up and I was reading over my notes again and working on these awards and stuff, and I got thinking, what a day that's going to be When I no longer have a sinful nature at all, every thought, every desire Every intent of my heart will be in complete submission to Christ. It'll be pure and holy and good. No more battles going on within my heart and soul. Come on now. Anybody know what I'm talking about? No more struggling with temptation, no more dealing with the flesh and the world and the devil, and God's policies fulfilled in my life. perfectly without any struggle or any effort, just done. Wow. I'm looking forward to that more than I'm looking forward to having a head of hair again. I kinda getting I'm actually starting to like this, uh Greg. How about it? Looks pretty good, don't it? But uh I felt bad for Tom. Tom has such a beautiful head of hair, and he's got that thing chopped off for work. Poor guy. I wonder if I could borrow some of it. But anyway. But won't that be a day? Won't that be a day when God's policies are does this thing make any sense? This has been on my heart all week long, God's policies. I don't know about you, but tonight I want to ask God to help me trust him. And when he says this is the way it's to be done, I'm just going to say, all right, Lord, I know my flesh wants to violate that. I know the world I'm being pulled and all these. But God, I'm just going to trust you and I'm going to obey you. I'm going to follow your policy just by faith, regardless of how I may feel. And Lord, I just want to do it your way. I just want to do it your way. As a husband, as a Christian in all these ways. I want God to do that for me tonight. Help me. Follow his policy. Father, bless us, Lord. I hope this message made sense. I pray you'd use it to stir our hearts. That in our homes, in our lives, our ministries, your policies would be followed, and we wouldn't disregard them. We wouldn't excuse them or rationalize them away. Well we just say, all right, Lord, that's the way you you say it should be, that's the way I'll do it. I'm going to trust you. I love you, Lord. I'm going to obey you. I'm going to anticipate your blessings and the results of trusting your policy. How many tonight would say, Preacher, you know there's some areas in my life that are That really aren't in line with God's policy. And we didn't get specific, we listed a few, but tonight God's Holy Spirit has spoken to your heart and said, Preacher, I want every area of my life to be in line. God spoke to my heart There's some areas I need to get in line. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Sure, there's a few hands around. And maybe tonight, like me, you would say, I just want to kneel before the Lord and say, God help me To trust you and follow your instructions, follow your policies, that I can have your blessings. I pray that for me as pastor of the church, lead this church according as God's instructed. My home, my personal life, my witnessing, all of that, just as God's instructed. Father, bless us now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's