Alright, Exodus chapter 2, and uh I want to begin reading in verse 23. I was really tempted to read way into chapter three uh all the way through, but I'm gonna stop at verse four. Exodus two 23 through chapter 3, verse 4. If you would follow along. Verse 23 of chapter 2. And it came to pass in the process of time That the king of Egypt died, and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried And their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage. And God heard their groanings, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect unto them. Now into chapter 3. Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law. and the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and came unto the mountain of God, even to Horeb. The angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush, and he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, here am I. I want to begin. We're not going to get through this message, just the first point really tonight, but I want to Begin our study uh in the life of Moses on the call of Moses, Moses call by God. Let's pray, and uh we'll look at this here a little bit. Father, I ask you bless now or study of the life of Moses and the Word of God, I ask that your Holy Spirit would take the thoughts that we have, the passages of Scripture we're going to look at I pray you'd apply it to all of our lives. And Lord, help us to be stronger in our faith, more like Christ. Pray you'd use these lessons and principles here to uh challenge us to um uh be all that you'd intend for us to be. So let's myself to you. I present my body anew and pray that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit, guide my thinking. And I just pray, Lord, tonight that you would please speak through me and be the teacher and preacher tonight through my body. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think all of us, if you'd stop and think about back through your life a little bit, all of us have what we call what sometimes are called turning points in our lives. An event or a decision we made, or maybe something another person did that affected our life and maybe changed the course of our life in a significant way. How many people right now you're thinking about, you can think of a turning point in your life, something that happened that affected the course of your life Uh for some it's a decision we make. Might be marriage, it might be going off to Bible college, I know we or or to uh education of any sort Some decision we made, and as a result of that, it was a turning point in our life, and we went off one way. If we had decided differently, we'd have gone off a different way. Our life would be completely different And so decisions we make are often, can be, in many ways, a turning point in our life. And it may not even be something as profound as a marriage or education vocation. Could be something at the moment didn't seem that significant, but nevertheless the consequences, one thing led to another, and lo and behold ended up going a different way. I know uh there's been times I'm thinking out in Colorado when we were lived out there a little bit was out knocking on doors and one time we went and I knocked on the wrong door And these people came, I was asking for someone, they said, no, I got the wrong door. And I got was able to talk to them a little bit and was able to lead them to the Lord. So a little decision that I made to knock on the wrong door. I didn't deliberately decide that But it had an effect on their life and and uh redirected their life. Uh sometimes maybe it's an event that happened to us, an accident. And that results in the loss of a limb or something like that, an accident. Um I was thinking of Fanny Crosby She had some problems with her eyes as a small child and the doctor of the way I understand it, the history books tell us, uh the doctor prescribes incorrectly something for her eyes, and as a result of it she went blind. And changed the course of her life and had a profound impact on Christianity. I'm telling you, some of the greatest hymns, in my opinion, that we sing were penned by blind Fanny Crosby And a decision a doctor made altered the course of her life. Sometimes it's because of another person's actions. Again, in uh Fanny Crosby's life. So uh the there's turning points in life. So I got looking at the life of Moses and I see three major significant turning points in the life of Moses. There are other what I'm going to call sub-turning points that aren't quite as profound, didn't have quite the impact on the course of his life as these three. The first one, of course, being his parents placing him uh in uh in the in in the Nile When his parents placed him in the Nile. Let me back up a little bit. I got ahead of myself here. Why is it important to recognize these turning points in our life? We look back, I can I see three or four that stand out in my mind. Why is it important? I think when we um uh look through scripture uh we see that in these turning points we uh we when we recognize them and look at them We can learn lessons from it. Um anybody here make a decision and uh a bad decision, you made a mistake, you did something you ought not to. And you look back and say, I don't enjoy it, I wouldn't do it again, but I learned some good lessons from it. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Sure. There's some things I would never want to go through again and never want to do again, but I learned lessons from it And so we look at these turning points. We learn lessons. Sometimes we look back at these turning points in our life and we see God's hand. We see that God was leading us. We made a decision here. Something happened there. It redirected us, and we see how God used that turning point to redirect my life and help me learn to trust him a little bit more. Sometimes we see God's hand and it humbles us. We thought we were in control when really God was working things out And then sometimes our turning point, we look at it, and maybe it was something that was negative, but God turned it and helped us grow. And we're able to help others. I'd like for you, if you would, keep your place here, but come with me to 2 Corinthians. I really believe that this passage can be very, very helpful for us whenever we're going through a difficult time. 2 Corinthians chapter number 1. And uh I'll start out in verse number three, 2 Corinthians 1, verse 3. Now I'm going somewhere with this, and so bear with me here a little bit. 2 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 3. It says, blessed be God. Now notice the wording here very carefully. It's Paul writing his second letter to the church at Corinth. They've been through it. They've made some terrible mistakes and consequences. Now notice what Paul says. He says, Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. The Father of mercies. Now look at this. And the God of all what? Comfort. Now watch that word here. Look at verse 4. Who what comforteth us. So the God of all comfort, He comforteth us in all our tribulation. So we go through a bad thing, we hit something, hits our life, turns things upside down. We trust God. We look to Him. God comforts us. He helps us. He strengthens us to go through it. He leads us through it. Guides us through it. Now look what he says here. Who comforteth Comforteth us in all our tribulation. Now watch, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble. by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. Now do you catch what he's saying there? I come to a point in my life and my world's turned upside down. Maybe some tragedy or some sin has entered in and it's affected me. My life will never be the same And I go through that trial, I go through that heartache, maybe the death of a loved one, maybe the breakup of a marriage, maybe my parents. I don't know what it may be. I can look back on my life and see some events like this. And as a believer, we look to the Lord and we lean hard on him. If we sin, we confess it, we repent, forsake it. And we make things right with God. And God in his comfort, the God of all comfort, he helps us through that. He strengthens us. He instructs us what to do He encourages us from Scripture and sends believers by. They help us. And we come through that valley. We come out of that store. And we're not the same as we were when we went into it. And it's a turning point for us. But God helped us, God comforted us. And lo and behold. Down the road somewhere somewhere, not too long, maybe sometimes, maybe it's down the road aways, we come across somebody that's going through the exact same thing we're going through And I believe God helps us through these trials, and He allows some of these difficulties and these heartaches and even our own failures. And he helps us if we'll trust him and we'll follow his instructions and do what he says through that. He brings us out, and then we are in a position that we are able To help somebody else going through something similar or like it with what God did for us, we're able to do for Him. I don't know about you, but that's a tremendous encouragement When we go through heartaches. And what I tell folks when whenever somebody comes in the office or going through something, and I encourage them to trust the Lord, wait on God. And one thing I try to always point out, I show them this passage And I try to always point out, listen, God in his sovereignty has allowed you to go through this. Even though it may not necessarily be his will But nevertheless, he allowed it, and he can bring you out of this, and he can use you to help somebody else go through that same thing. And I look back to my own life and what I went through before I got saved and some of those stuff and I see what God did for me and I see how God helped me. And then I can sit down with somebody that's gone through maybe something similar. And uh you know it's one thing. Do you ever hear somebody say this, somebody's going through a hard time, and they say, I know, I know how you feel. Did you ever hear that I know what you're going through. Now you may or may not, and I don't know how much comfort is in knowing that somebody else knows what I'm going through. But I tell you, if somebody can sit down with me and say, I went through what you're going through, let me show you how God helped me. Let me help you the way God helped me. And I think there's far more strength and comfort and benefit in that in simply saying, brother, I feel for you. You follow what I'm saying? And so I can give some answers. I can give some solid solutions maybe sometimes because I know what God did for me. Now I'm able to help you. And so these turning points are vital in our life. God allows them, and we can't forget them. I don't think we should just, well, put it behind me and go on. No, I want to learn from that. I want to learn some lessons. See, maybe I can help somebody else. So now let me get to where I was saying there, come back here to our text. Moses, I believe, had three very distinct Turning points in his life. Of course, the first one being, let's get you group involvement here, what would you think was the first event in the life of Moses that altered the course of his life? Uh killed the Egyptian? I think there's one before that. When his parents placed him in the river. They made a decision. Now we're told in Hebrews chapter 11 that it was by faith they were trusting God. Obviously, they felt the leadership of the Lord to do this. They had peace from God. to take their son, put him in a little basket, a waterproof basket, and put him in the Nile River with crocodiles and everything else. And they trusted God Now what direction would Moses' life had gone if they had not made that decision? Probably would have been killed. Probably would have been infantic. The Egyptian authorities would have found him, no doubt, and executed him. But his parents made a decision That we're going to trust God and we're going to put him in there and altered the course of his life. It was an act of faith, trusting God. And then the second one, I think, is what Catherine said when he killed the Egyptian This was an act of self-confidence on Moses' part. We noted in Acts chapter 7, verse 25, that he supposed That God would use him to rise up this insur insurrection and overthrow the Egyptian government. I mean, he's one of the top dogs in the government. He's going to lead these Egyptians to overthrow them. And it was he was flat out wrong. He was leaning on his own strength. He was leaning on his own understanding. What Moses did when he killed the Egyptian was the exact opposite of Proverbs chapter 3, verse 5 and 6. What in the world does Proverbs 3, 5 and 6 say? It says, trust in the Lord with all your heart and what? Lean not unto your own understanding. Don't lean on the own strength. Of your reasoning and trying to figure things out and coming up with solutions. Moses saw the situation of his Hebrew brothers, and he was identifying with them now. And he came up with this idea, hey, I'm a high-level Egyptian grandson of the Pharaoh. I can lead them out of here. We can overthrow. And he was flat out wrong. And it completely changed the course of his life. And he ends up out in the um uh Midian desert And then there's a third one. I think it's the third and last significant one, and that's what we're going to start looking at now, is the burning bush. The burning bush. And that was an act of submission to God. We'll see that. He submits to God. He struggles a little bit, but he submits to God and changes the course of his life. Changes the course of his life. So one is an act of faith. Parents trusted God and uh did what they could and uh put them in there. God honored their faith. He ends up in the household of Pharaoh. The second one was an act of self-confidence, and it was total failure on his part, but nevertheless, God used that to redirect him, change the course of his life And then the burning bush. We're going to see where he submits to God and then completely changes the course of his life. There's three things I want to, three thoughts I want us to look at here concerning the call of Moses. We're going to look at one here in the little bit of time we have left, but the first thing we're going to notice is the preparation of his call. The preparation of Moses for this call that God is going to present him with. Then we're going to notice the purpose of the call. We're going to get that from verses Chapter 2, verse 23 through 25, why God called him, what prompted it, the purpose of it. And then finally, eventually in a few weeks, we'll probably look at the particulars of the call And how that thing actually played out and how God went about getting Moses from the desert to the halls of Pharaoh's palace once again, and how that call took place. So tonight I want us to look at the preparation of Moses for the call. Now it's going to be a little repetitious of some things we said, but I think it's important to understand how this builds up to the call of God. For 40 years, Moses has been living in a Midian desert. I'm calling that time in the desert God's leadership school. God is teaching Moses in the desert there some leadership principles from God's perspective. When he was down in Egypt, he received leadership training from the world. Egyptian principles, Egyptian uh policies and values, how the way they saw what leadership was And I want to hear say this: God's perspective on leadership and the world's perspective on leadership are two very different perspectives. What God considers to be a good leader and what the world considers to be a good leader are two very different things And so he went to the university in Egypt, and he learned that, according to the world, leadership requires power. You've got to be a powerful person. You have to have a powerful personality. You've got to learn how to do power handshakes. Did you ever see our president shake somebody's hand? And he's communicating. When he does that, he is giving a message out. I'm in charge here. And when he met with the leader of Russia, he took it, I don't know if you saw the pictures or if you paid attention, but when they shook hands He grabbed his hand and pulled him into him. And that's all that's all a power move. And so the world, uh uh uh uh Moses was taught by the world that you've got to have power. You've got to be in control. You're the boss. You you call the shots. You need to focus on yourself. It's about you gaining position and gaining power and having leadership and controlling things. If you're going to be a good leader You've got to be in control. Productivity. You've got to produce, or you're not a very good leader. Now, some of those things may have their place a little bit, but that's not God's leadership principles that I see from Scripture. I think God and what Moses is learning here in the desert, he's learning that leadership, as far as God's concerned, begins with humility. Humble myself before the Lord. Twice the Bible says in the New Testament, God resisteth the proud. But giveth what? Grace unto the humble. If I'm going to be a leader in the eyes of God, if I'm going to lead God's people the way God instructs me to, God expects me to the way I need to, it has to begin with humility because I need the grace of God. So in the wilderness, in this Midian desert, Moses is going to learn humility. He did not have it up to this point. You look at his dealings with the Egyptian and killing the Egyptian and then his interaction. It is all Moses. It is his position. It is his power. There's no humility there whatsoever. And so he's learning humility. One of the best lessons that you and I can learn, I think, in the Christian life is to learn to be humble. Put aside pride. Get that pride out. Now here's the thing: you cannot learn humility in the university. It can't be taught through books. It cannot be taught from lectures. It can't even be taught from preaching. Humility has to be learned on my knees before God. Sometimes it takes trials, sometimes it takes heartache, sometimes it often it takes failure Before I learn to be humble myself before God. So Moses is learning humility here in the desert. He's learning faith. Would you agree with me? A leader of God's people needs to be a person of faith. Trusting God? Without faith, it's impossible to what? Please God. Whether it's a father in the home, a mother, whether it's a Sunday school teacher, a bus captain, whatever the position may be If I am going to please God, I have got to learn to trust God. I've got to learn to put aside my own reasoning, my own understanding, and trust what God says. You say, but preacher, what God says doesn't make sense. What God says that would never work. What God says, no, no, no. It's called what? Faith. I trust them. I trust them. And so Moses is learning faith. We're going to see all this in the coming passages. Learn to be an example. Obedience, be an example of obedience to the Lord. Would you agree with me? A leader of God's people needs to be obedient to God. Here's our problem. We expect those under us to obey our instructions, but yet many times we neglect to obey God's instructions. And that's called what? If I want others to do what I say, but I don't do what my Lord says, what's that called? Hypocrisy. And it's true in the home. It's true. This is the way it's expressed sometimes. Do as I say, not as I Do. Now that may work in the prison, that may work in the world's uh hierarchy, but I'm telling you, it doesn't work in God's kingdom I need to be an example. Paul said, Follow me as I follow Christ. And so he's learning humility, he's learning to have faith in God, to trust God, what he says, follow God's instructions. He's learning to be obedient to his Lord. I think he's learning servanthood. Leadership. It's called servant leadership. And that's what the Bible instructs us. I tell you, you're taking care of sheep. You're serving. You're serving. He's working under his father-in-law. And then others focused. Others focused. Leadership in the world is it's about me, my position, my attainment, my achievement. But in God's kingdom, it's about helping others, blessing others, meeting the needs of others, God using me to reach others So Moses is in the school of hard knocks. We've seen this over and over in the life of people in the Bible. The school of hard knocks. He's in a foreign land, probably speaking a different language than Egyptian, or able to communicate. The Midians were merchants, so they generally could speak various languages He's eating different food than he did in the palace in Egypt. I mean, he is in a strange, different culture. Everything has been changed in his life. He's learning. God's teaching him. His lifestyle has been completely altered. He's not living anyway the way he did before. Now he's a shepherd of all things. An Egyptian that is a shepherd. That's an oxymoron. Now he's a husband. Would you agree with me, men? Getting married affects you. I want to say it humbles you So now he's married. For 40 years, get this. For 40 years, he was a single, powerful, wealthy man in Egypt. Now he's a husband. He's got two boys. By the time the call takes place, they could be in their thirties. They're adults probably by the time he actually has the call, 40 years he's out in this wilderness. But now he's a shepherd before he was a grandson of Pharaoh Now he's a husband. Before he was a swinging single in Egypt. Wealthy. Got what he wanted. Everybody loved him. And now he's unknown. He's got two boys. Would you agree with me? Having children changes your life. I thought having children, having our two boys, changed our lives more than even getting married did. I mean you can't just go somewhere. Now you got twenty-five bags you got to carry with you everywhere you go So his life has been completely altered. I've found, and I've probably true in my life, maybe some, but I've seen it in others quite pronounced. Is that sometimes folks are living pretty foot loose and fancy-free, and then the kids show up And suddenly things sober up a little bit. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Man, now I'm responsible for the lives of these children I found that getting married and ha becoming a parent realigns the values in people's minds sometimes, often. It uh realigns their priorities, things that before when I was living it up, now I've got responsibilities I never had before. I have some responsibilities that are absolutely overwhelming Family and children. I remember when our uh my our two boys were born. I remember when Sam, they were C-section, there was some issues there. And uh the doctor, they were, uh it was come time they took Kathy back, and the doctor said, You want to come back and watch? They're doing a C-section. I said, huh? I said, uh yeah, come back here. Watch us cut your wife's belly open and pull the baby out. They didn't say it that way, but I I said, uh, uh, I got a little cold. I don't know if I should be back there And they said, no, it's fine, come on. Okay. I love my wife, but I wasn't thrilled. I worked in the operating room for four years, OR, and I've seen Legs amputated, I've seen appendix taken out, I've seen everything. Didn't bother me a bit. But when it's me or my wife, also And so we sat there and they said, here, you sit right here, you can watch. I said, no, I scooted the chair, and I'm looking at her face. I didn't want to see that. He pulled that little baby out of there and wiped him off and he's crying and handed little Samuel to me and I held it, and I'm telling you, I just started bawling. I said, oh God help me, oh God help me, oh God help me. I'm telling you, becoming a parent will sober you, it changes your values, it changes your priorities. Suddenly I'm responsible for the life. Of a little child. I tell you, this world ought to realize how important raising children are. And so Moses now, his whole life is transformed. He's in the school of hard knocks. God is preparing him for this call that's coming up here. And it took 40 years to prepare Moses. His first 40 years, as I said, he was a single man, he was in a powerful position, he had tremendous wealth, he was popular. But I think he saw something in the lives of those Hebrews that all his wealth and all his position and power, all his popularity, none of that could do for him They had something he didn't have. And he wanted to identify with them. You know what I think he saw? I think he saw a group of people that had a relationship with the true and living God that he did not have. And so he identifies with him and God sends him out into the school of hard knocks. For the last forty years. He's been living in relative poverty. He's a shepherd, the lowest of the low. He's unknown. He went from wealth to poverty. He went from popularity to being unknown. He went from crowds to loneliness out in the wilderness. He went from the single life, now he has a family. I put it this way, it took 40 years in Midian, in a Midian desert, for God to fine-tune Moses for God's ultimate purpose for his life. There are no shortcuts with God. There's no shortcuts. There are no shortcuts to spiritual maturity. Moses was not prepared spiritually to take on the responsibility that God's about to call him to. And it took a long time to get him from where he was to be the man he needed to be. If God was going to use him the way God intended to use him, there are no shortcuts. There are no little pill you can take, and all of a sudden I'm spiritually mature I'm this godly man with confidence and the power of God on my life. There's no little pill you can take. And uh sometimes you'll hear a message or sometimes there'll be a book Easy steps to spiritual maturity. I'm here to tell you there are no easy steps to spiritual maturity It's very hard and it takes a long time. And we've got to learn early on in our Christian lives to be faithful to the Lord. And until I learn that principle of faithfulness, I will never be able to be spiritually mature and used of God in any significant way. Moses is learning, and it takes a long time. No shortcuts with God, no shortcuts to spiritual maturity My wife and I, I got my wife a couple years ago an Instapot. Does anybody know what an Instapot is? She's trying to figure that thing out. And I just was uh yesterday I was doing some stuff around the house and I saw it sitting there on the shelf. And today I saw her, I said, hey, we need you need to use this Instapot. And she goes, I can't figure that thing out. She goes, it always burns. Everything I put in there, it burns it. I think there's something wrong with it So I said, well why don't you bring it over? There's a bunch of ladies in the church that are raving about how many ladies here use encipots. One. We're going to bring it to you, Trish. And uh, God doesn't have any instapots for his Christians. You put them in, mash a couple buttons, come back in 20 minutes, and lo and behold, you're a mature Christian. God doesn't to be a mature Christian requires a slow, long roast. You put it in for four hours. God doesn't have any microwaves for spiritual maturity. Did you ever roast a pig? You do it overnight. We did in Indiana every year we'd have a big pig roast and you'd have to go all night long, twenty-four hours roasting that thing. God's method of developing spiritual maturity requires time. There's no shortcuts. Forty years He's in it. It takes time over and over and over. We're told in the Bible, wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. You say, preacher, but uh I'm messing up. Wait on the Lord. Stay faith. But preacher, it's not going the way I thought. Wait on the Lord. Nothing went the way Moses thought That he learned to trust God and stay faithful in the wilderness. Take your Bible, if you would. I want you to see this: Psalms chapter 27. Middle of your Bible. This is a verse that ought to be at least underscored in your Bible. It ought to be committed to memory on our heart and mind. Maybe for many of you it may already be. But Psalms chapter 27, and look with me at the last verse of this very short chapter, verse 14. Notice what it says. What's the very first word of Psalms 27, 14? Wait! Wait on the Lord. Be of good courage. Now look at this. And he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. That idea waiting isn't sitting back and drinking iced tea and twiddling my thumbs. Well, I'm just waiting on the Lord. The idea is there, you trust God and just stay faithful. And you just keep doing what he says, you just keep waiting on him, following him, doing what he says, trusting him. You just wait on him, and he will strengthen your heart I got studying as I like to do that word strengthen. And I got looking up, but the idea is behind it And the idea of strengthen means, anybody want to take a guess? What does it mean to strengthen? To make strong. That's the obvious definition. But there's a whole lot more to it. It's used various ways. It also has the idea of making secure. It has the idea to confirm something at a very strong confidence in this. It's the idea to strengthen, confirm your heart. It has the idea of establishing My heart is established. David put it this way in another passage. My heart, oh God, is fixed. It's established, it's confirmed, it's strong, it's not moving, it's not wavering, it's not trembling. He says, wait on the Lord and you'll be strong. Wait on the Lord. Has the idea to make steadfast Waiting on God is necessary for spiritual maturity, for spiritual leadership. I've got to learn to wait on God. Say, what do you mean by that? I think we need to learn to wait on God in our personal private closet. Anybody know what I mean when I talk about our closet time? Somebody help me out. What am I talking about? Your prayer time, devotional time. I tell you, I've got to establish, and I know I harp this a lot, but it's so vitally important. I've got to establish a daily time where I get alone with God with an open Bible and pour my heart out to God every single day. That's part of strengthening. That's part of waiting on God, just coming to God every day. God, this is my needs. God, these are my problems. God, this is where I messed up. God, this is what I'm asking you for. And then reading, and God speaks to my heart and instructs me and helps me. It's developing, it's part of the process of maturity. Getting alone with God, being at an altar and putting myself in that altar, God, responding to when God speaks to my heart. Learn to be comfortable in prayer. I don't know how many times I had husbands or fathers tell me, sometimes, often it's when they first get married, sometimes it's years later. And they'll say this, well, I'm just not comfortable praying with my family Well, that may be the case, but you need to get over that. You need to learn to be comfortable with being uncomfortable. I was talking to my son, he had a big speech he was doing, my youngest son, and he's asked he texted me and said, Pray for me, I got this big speech I'm doing And I said, uh, he said, I'm really nervous. And I said, well, I can understand that. I've been that way. And he made this statement. He says, I've learned to get used to being nervous. Well sometimes we have to learn to get used to being uncomfortable. It's part of development, it's part of maturity. That's what's happening to Moses out here in this wilderness. Learn To be comfortable being alone with God. Be still before God. Learn to be still before God. Just give them some time and just be still before Him. Let Him speak to your heart and pray. Something's happening in the life of Moses because in a little bit, and I'm jumping way ahead of myself, but in a little bit, at the end of these 40 years, he's going to see a burning bush, and he's going to hear the voice of God. Come out of that burning bush, and he's not going to run in fear, and he's not going to pass out. He's going to recognize that voice immediately. And he's going to respond appropriately. Where did he learn that? Where did he learn that this is God speaking? How would he know that? I'll tell you how. I think for 40 years he's been interacting with God. He's been learning of the Lord. God's been working in his heart He's been spending time with God. And now God reveals himself in this profound way. And he immediately recognizes it. He says, Here am I. Here am I. So time will develop maturity. Trials. They say the strongest trees are those that live in harsh environments up north Strong hardwood trees, they have the cold of winter and the harsh winds, and they grow strong in deep roots. And the strongest Christians are those who had to go through harsh times. James chapter 1 says, he says in verse 2, he says, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have its perfect work, that you may be perfect. That means complete, mature, and entire, lacking nothing. You know what he's saying? Trials, when you go through a hard time, when God sends a trial your way, a need or a heartache or whatever He says, you don't have to think that's joy, but in that trial, count a joy, oh, God's teaching me. God's helping me get stronger. Romans chapter number 5, verse 8, 3 through 5 says very similar, and I'm running out of time. We learn in our weaknesses to trust God. We learn God's strength in our weaknesses. In our trials and difficulties, we learn what faith in God can do. That little song says, if I never had a problem, I'd never know that God could solve them We develop humility and compassion. I like this statement, and I'm going to have to end with this. We'll pick up next time. But we go through trials, remember, they are not God's punishment for our failure. Jesus was punished for our failures. Now they may be the consequence of a sin, it may be the consequence of a foolish decision I made But it is not a punishment for my failure and my sin. Jesus took all the punishment for me What happens is it is the process of God developing me into what I ought to be You say, preacher, I mess up and sin. God can use that to make me a more mature, stronger Christian. Yeah. If we'll trust them, confess it, forsake it, let them take me and mold me and make me. And so Moses is in the school of hard knocks. God's revealing himself to Moses. And when Moses met God at the burning bush, he knew immediately who God was. And he knew immediately how to respond. Here am I, here am I. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to take these thoughts now, and I pray you'd help us have a right perspective on what you allow in our lives. And Lord, help us learn to wait on you and spend time alone with you. And God, understand that you're working and molding in us and you want to use us to Help others and reach others and be a blessing to others. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, this matter of spending time on a regular daily basis, just developing that Practice, that habit, that ritual. You'd say, preacher, pray with me. I need to work on that and establish that every day, spending some time with the Lord. Is any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. And it's something we've got to get in place. I'll encourage you. Ask God to help you. Maybe there's some say, preacher, you know there's some stuff going on in my life I really don't understand. I don't know, maybe some of it uh is my own doing, but some of it I I I don't I don't know what's going on. But you say, preacher, I'm gonna trust God that he knows what he's doing And that he's using this to help me be the Christian he wants me to be. Is there any like that? Going through some stuff, and I just need to learn to trust God and let him have his way. Stay faithful to him. Just stay faithful. And let him mold me and make me and shake me like he did Moses. Maybe some here, you know somebody that's gone through it. You know somebody's having a hard time and God's helped you and maybe God could use you to help them. I'm being encouragement. Is there anyone like that? Preacher, I know someone. Maybe God could use me to help them Tell them what God did for me. Tell them how the Lord helped me. And God will use you. He will. That's the purpose. Father, I pray you bless now our invitation. Help us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen.