I appreciate your your pastor. I called when we were getting ready to come back on furlough and he told me if it worked out, that was great, and he understood if we weren't able to make it up here. My wife is my witness that I told her I want to find a way to come to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. It was a blessing to be here with you all and we're glad that we're able to come through while we're on furlough and introduce you to we've more than double well we doubled the family since the last time we're here. We went from four to eight. And so it's a great blessing to be here with you. And thinking about Easter Sunday, once again, I appreciate Pastor Leatherman's willingness to allow us to be here on an Easter Sunday. That's difficult for a missionary to get a meeting on an Easter Sunday. But as he mentioned, and the truth is, if there was no resurrection, there'd be no cause for missions. And so we're going to look at that this morning. I've entitled our challenge or our study this morning, The Resurrection. An empty tail or an empty tomb? A resurrection, an empty tail, T-A-L-E, or an empty tomb. And we're going to look here, starting out 1 Corinthians 15 and verse 12. The question is posed or dealt with in this passage. Now, if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead How say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? Let's pray and then we'll jump into this passage this morning. Dear Lord, I thank you so much that you not only sent your Son, Jesus Christ, to live and to die on this earth and die on the cross for our sins, but that he rose again. I thank you, Lord, that we have a risen Savior, that he lives, and that we can serve him, and we can share the message of his saving grace, of his saving power, of his power to raise us from the dead someday if we pass away or to take us straight to heaven if he returns before that point. Pray this morning that you would encourage our hearts through this passage. If there's someone here this morning who's not committed their lives to Jesus Christ, who's not accepted That Jesus Christ died for their sins and rose again to pay for them, I pray, Lord, that you would work in that heart. They would accept you today. It's in Christ's name I pray. Amen. We deal often in Brazil as you do here in the States with what people call old wives' tales. They get passed down from generation to generation and maybe they start out with a truth and somehow they get kind of twisted and And people do all kinds of strange things because of some old wives tale that got passed down through the family. And yet In America and in Brazil, we have many people who believe that the story of an empty tomb is an old wives' tale. They believe that that's just the same as as Cinderella or Santa Claus or any number of other fictitious stories that we have passed down in and amongst our culture. And so as we think about the resurrection, what do you believe about the resurrection this morning? Do you believe it's just an empty tale? Or do you believe that it there is truly an empty tomb? A friend of mine, a pastor down in Virginia, he went to the Holy Land and he told me the best thing to see when you go on a tour of the Holy Land is nothing. Nothing. You know why? To walk into a tomb where someone was buried and to see that he's not there anymore. That's the best thing there is about the Holy Land. Nothing. An empty tomb. And I want to probably many things if you know Christ today. are very familiar with you with this passage, but I want to encourage your heart in what you have in Christ and in the resurrection, and hopefully share a few things that may help you as you are talking with people even today Who question the resurrection of Christ. Here in this passage, we're going to read 1 Corinthians 15. I read verse 12. We'll start there again and we'll read through verse 19. It says, Now if Christ be preached, that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there's no resurrection of the dead? But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen. And if Christ be not risen, Then our preaching is vain. And your faith is also vain. Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God Because we have testified of God that he raised up Christ, whom he raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not. For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised. And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. Yeah are yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perish. If in this life only we hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. Here we see looking first at the empty tail. If there is no such thing as a risen Savior this morning, Then the Apostle Paul challenges us that preaching is empty. It's vain. It's worthless. We see that twice here in verse 14. He says, if the Christ is not risen, our preaching is vain, and then he repeats it in verse 17, our preaching, our faith there there is vain. There's no need for churches, there's no need for pastors, there's no need for missionaries. We're wasting time, you're wasting time going out and passing out tracts and trying to get people to come to Christ if he's dead. I asked somebody yesterday in a drive-through a restaurant we were coming up yesterday at lunchtime. I asked her why Jesus rose from the dead. And she said so he could be alive Well, that's true, but but why? Why? We're going to get to that in just a minute, but it's something worthwhile thinking of. Not only if there is an empty tale, if this story of Christ's resurrection is not real There's also our faith which is vain. We are placing our faith in something that is worthless, that is of no value if Jesus Christ is not alive this morning. We're trusting in a vapor. We're trusting in nothing. Have you ever sat where there wasn't a seat? The other day my kids were at a park and it had one of those built-in parks table uh picnic tables with the four benches But on the very corners so that you can get in, there are no seats, right? So I turn around to sit down, and I didn't sit on the bench, because there wasn't one. You know what happens when you don't sit on the has anybody ever done that? You just, yes. I've done it more than once, unfortunately. That's what our faith is doing if Jesus isn't alive this morning. We're just bound to collapse. And at the end, it's all over. Someone told me recently, you know, when you die, you die. That's it. They don't believe that this story is true. They believe merely that Christ's resurrection is an empty tale and not that there truly was or is an empty tomb. The next thing we see here in verse number fifteen, there is people who are misrepresenting God Himself If this is an empty tail. Do you notice I never caught this until I read it studying for this challenge this morning? Verse 15 he says, we are found false witnesses of God They're not false witnesses of themselves because they are telling other people in the name of God that Jesus has risen from the dead. They are committed and believing that God did this. And he says if there's no resurrection from the dead, we're misrepresenting God. You're misrepresenting God if you're telling people that he's alive and he never rose again. And you think with me Paul and Peter and John and Matthew and Luke and Mark and Titus and Timothy and Silas and Barnabas and James and the list could go on and on and on. And they all presented the same thing. They all believed that Jesus had risen from the dead, and they preached it to others. And that message has come down to us, and we preach the same message. But if this is just an empty tale, we're misrepresenting God. My dad always called the JWs the Jehovah's False Witnesses. And yet, this is what Paul is saying. He said, I'm a false witness of God if what I'm saying about Jesus, if he didn't really raise, if this is just some empty tale, some old wife's tale. But perhaps the worst thing of all, if this story is just some empty tale, is what is told us at the end of verse 17. If Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. Ye are yet in your sins. If Jesus has not risen from the dead, if he is not alive sitting at the right hand of the Father today Then our sin debt is not paid. And we stand condemned before God with no hope of a home in heaven. With no hope of a restored relationship with God who created us. And we might as well throw away the whole Bible. Because if that's not true, then what else is? And you know what? People follow this line of reasoning all around us. They start out with, no, that's just some old wives' tale. That's just like some other fairy tale that I heard as a kid. It's not real. And they start, and by the end, you know, throw it all away. And I understand how a person can write off the entire Bible if they don't believe in the resurrection. It only makes sense if you're going to not accept the resurrection that you wouldn't accept anything else. You can't, you I mean, that's just the logical conclusion. But the worst thing about the resurrection Not being true, if that were the case, is you still stand with your sins unpaid for, and God is still going to judge you. And that's when we come to the resurrection. And Paul just closes it with verse 19. He says, of all men were the most miserable. We're just pitiful. There's nothing for us if this is just some empty tales. This is just some made-up story. We are most miserable. The resurrection is an empty tale. We might as well pack up, head out, and live it up. Because we only got until we pass away. Focus on ourselves, disregard everything else that God has said, and just do whatever we want to. And that is exactly what people who do not accept the resurrection of Christ as a literal, factual, historical event, that's exactly what they're doing. And they need to hear that Jesus Christ rose literally from the dead bodily and that he is alive. Because if that is true, then We have something to preach. You know, when I I was saved actually as an eighteen year old, I was already enrolled in Bible college. I grew up on the mission field. My parents have been missionaries for going on thirty years, and so I knew all the verses, but I was afraid of what people would say if a missionary's kid went forward. I was afraid of that. And so it wasn't until I actually was enrolled in Bible college, I was back in the States Away from my family. The Lord just started working on my heart. You know, you know all the facts up here, but you've never personally accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior. And the pastor, our pastor of our sinning church, Pastor Bryce Hager, Fellowship Baptist in Taylor, South Carolina, he took me to this passage, 1 Corinthians 15. Verse 3 and 4. And I want you to look at it with me. 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4. And it's the summary of the gospel. And we find that the resurrection is a key component of what the gospel is. You see, verse 3, it says, For I deliver unto you first. Of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scripture, and that He was buried, and that He rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. He died, he was buried, and he rose again. If there is no resurrection, there's no gospel, there's no good news. The the w the resurrection here is also linked to the fact that it was prophesied in Scripture. God promised there would be a Messiah who would come, who would be born of a virgin, who would live a perfect life without sin. would die the perfect death in our place. And Paul is preaching this to them. And then, so you think about what Paul is preaching and you go back to verse 12 where we started out, and people are questioning whether people can rise, raise from the dead or not. They're questioning the gospel. Do you know anybody that questions the gospel? I know a handful in Brazil. I know a lot of people question the gospel. And I think if they could get their hands or their hearts to and look at this truth of the empty tomb and trust that God did that. And we're going to look at a few facts here about that. God would transform their lives. But it starts with an empty tomb. The gospel starts at the empty tomb. That's when it was complete, when he died and when he rose again. Let me give you a few facts. There's a young man out there, an apologist, Ben Shetler, the Y Conference. He gives six historical facts. These are non-disputable facts. Whether you believe in God or not about Jesus Christ. Let me just pass them along to you. The first thing, there is no disputing the fact that Jesus was a real man. Nobody disputes that. Okay? Even atheists have to acknowledge the fact that Jesus was a real man. Second of all, Jesus was crucified. There is no disputing the fact that Jesus Christ was crucified. Secular as well as scripture support the fact of a literal crucifixion of a human figure by the name of Jesus. Thirdly, Jesus' body was prepared for burial and it was placed in a tomb. That's a fact. The fourth thing: the Romans were sent to guard the tomb. Okay? That's a fact. There were guards there. There's proof of the fact there was guards guarding that tomb. Fifthly, the tomb was found empty. There is an empty tomb. That is a fact And so then we have to, you know, if you're going to say that's a fairy tale, well you've got to deal with that empty tomb over there. And that's what I said in my pastor friend that's been over there. You know, the greatest thing was when he walked in and saw nothing. You know, most of us when we go sightseeing, we go to see something. He went to go see nothing. The sixth thing, many people testified to seeing Jesus as a person after his death. That is undisputable. So then we have left with us the choice. 500 at one time, all these disciples, Paul, all of them were hallucinating. They were all making this up. Or they were telling the truth. But then when we come to the resurrection, we think about it this morning, basically, we look at the facts, the issue then becomes how we interpret the facts. Now I have six children and when I'm driving I have at least four of them that have arm range that can reach each other. Now the twins are too little to reach each other. But as happens on occasion, something will go on in the back and something will fly around and somebody will start crying. And would you believe There are usually four different interpretations of the facts in the van. And we drive a fifteen passenger van, we've outgrown the minivans. by one. And so they're all back there and I'm driving along and I'm trying to watch the traffic and I got this rear view mirror there and and she looks back there. But everybody is interpreting their facts based on themselves. You know, what benefits themselves usually. Very rarely do they interpret the facts in a way that looks bad on them. You know, and when I stop and I look at at the facts of s of of the empty tomb, I have I'm faced with a choice of how I'm going to interpret them. How are you interpreting the empty tomb? Like I said, it's a fact. It's non-disputable that there is an empty tomb. Over in the Holy Land over in Israel. The question this morning then becomes is how you interpret. What do you believe? Do you believe Oh, it's empty, but that's just somebody took that empty tomb and ran with it and came up with this story. Or do you believe what the scripture says? Turn with me to Isaiah 53, Isaiah 53 this morning. Several passages point us to the fact that Christ would die, would rise again. This is just one I wanted to bring to your attention, and then we want to look at what does the empty tune mean to us this morning? We've already seen what the empty tail means, the the vein and the Basically hopelessness that we come to without an empty tomb, without Christ risen. But Isaiah 53, and we are familiar with the passages, verse 6 talks about all we like sheep have gone astray, we've turned everyone to his own way And the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. But I want to draw your attention to verse number ten. Verse number ten it says, Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pre pleasure of the Lord shall prosper. in his hand. He shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. Here we have challenging the Israelite people that someone is going to come, is going to die, but then is going to prolong his life. Through death, through dying, is going to satisfy the payment for our sins and bring pleasure to God Almighty. And the empty tomb is just sealing the deal, if you will. Sealing the deal that God could and did fulfill every single prophecy, not only in the birth and the life of Christ. But in his very death and ultimately in his resurrection. And people have to come to these facts and they must make a decision. You can't be a a a no-vote. Either you believe that Jesus Christ rose again and you believe everything that goes along with that. The fact that He is the only way to pay for your sins, that only through His death, burial, and resurrection you can have eternal life. Or you write it all off and it's an empty tale. And I would challenge if there's anyone here this morning Who doesn't accept the resurrection, you don't really believe in in that being a truthful story, I would challenge you, what hope do you have? What what hope do you have? You still have your sins to deal with and God does not allow sin. About the best alternative you can come up with is be an atheist and just believe that there is nothing after death But then there's all these, there's all of the scriptures and more that challenge us even about that So think with me, the empty tomb, what does that mean to you? First of all, back in Luke, Luke 24, we see that Jesus spoke truth. The empty tune proves the fact that Jesus spoke the truth. How so You notice when he rose from the dead and he appears to the women there on the resurrection Sunday, we see in Luke twenty-four, verse seven and eight. The response of the disciples to the news that the tomb is empty. Luke 24, 7 and 8 saying, the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified, and the third day rise again. And they remembered his words. What words do they remember? He had told them that the temple had to be torn down and in three days it would be rebuilt. He had told them that he had to die and that he would rise again from the dead. And it only clicked, if you will, when the women came back and told him. Oh yeah, he did You see, the empty tomb proves that Jesus spoke the truth. If he spoke the truth about his death and resurrection, which has never ever happened to this point of somebody raising themselves up from the dead. Then did he not speak the truth about our sinful condition and about what he could do for our sins if we would trust in him? The empty tomb also speaks of the fact that Jesus is alive. Remember what the angel says right here in Luke 24. Look at verse 5. And as they were afraid and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, the angels are speaking to the women, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He's alive. Jesus is alive. The empty tomb speaks and challenges us of the fact that Jesus speaks the truth and that Jesus is alive. Not only that, one of the things that is very compelling about this whole story is if you look at, and for sake of time, I'm just going to reference it. You want to write down John 20, verse 19? They're hidden in the upper room. They're scared to death. The Bible says they were full of fear. They were afraid that the Romans were going to get them next. That they were next on the list. And so they're scared to death. They're afraid. And then we go to Acts chapter 4, and that's where I want to take you. Acts chapter 4. And we see them so emboldened and so convinced of the fact that Jesus, that these people crucified, is alive. That they are just asking God to help them be bold enough to keep proclaiming this message. How do you go from scared to death locked up in a room? To in the scriptures just a few chapters later, in time a few weeks later, proclaiming the truth before the same people who killed Jesus. Caiaphas and all of them are if you go to Acts, look at Acts verse 14. For sake of time this morning. Acts chapter 4 and verse 14. They've just been locked up. They've been threatened with an inch of their life. If you ever get out there and talk about Jesus again, we're going to kill you But they can't kill them because they're afraid of the people. Too many people have believed. Let's back up to verse 13, Acts 4. 13. Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men. They marveled, and they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. Now this is my opinion this morning, and so I'm going to state it as such. But when had they been with Jesus? When had they been with Jesus? What were Caiaphas and all of these Pharisees realizing as they saw these disciples? They were realizing they had been with Jesus. When? My opinion is they realize these men had been with Jesus after we killed him, put him up on the cross, and he rose again. Because what other reason with men that were fishermen and unlearned stand up so boldly and preach Jesus Christ, buried and risen again Third day, before the very same people who had killed Jesus Christ They had been Jesus. Now, like I said, I could be wrong. Either way, we know they had been with Jesus before the resurrection. There's no question there. But I believe one of the greatest proofs for the empty tomb is these men who had nothing to gain. They weren't in it for the money. I mean, they're going up against the same people. If those people could kill Jesus, you don't think they could kill them too? Most definitely. Most definitely. The empty tomb speaks of Jesus as one who spoke the truth. The empty tomb speaks that Jesus is alive. The empty tomb shows us the impact of eyewitnesses going from fear to fearlessness as they spread the message of the truth Do people, when they look at you, they know you've been with Jesus? Are you convinced so much as these disciples were that you are spreading the good news? That Jesus is alive. This morning, as we are considering and rejoicing in the resurrection, we preach the cross and Christ crucified. But we cannot leave out the fact that he rose again. Because if there was no resurrection, there would be no salvation from sin. First Corinthians chapter one and verse eighteen. Very familiar passage Remember, if this is an empty tale, then preaching is vain, and so is our faith. And we are miserable and hopeless. But what does the Bible tell us? 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 18. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish. Foolishness. But unto us which are saved is the power of God. The power of God I am a missionary in Brazil by God's grace, sharing with them not that America or dollars can save them, but that Jesus Christ rose from the dead and he can save them from their sin. And in a place where there is so much spiritual darkness and demon possession and all of that that goes along with spirit worship. There is nothing like seeing a person getting hold of the facts and placing their faith, choosing to interpret the facts based on what God says. God's word clearly states that God's position is that the tomb is empty. The scriptures have no other position. Jesus is alive. If you will believe today that God has risen, that Jesus Christ has risen from the dead, Then I would challenge you in two ways, and we'll be done. And we're here in 1 Corinthians, back in chapter 15. Jesus is alive, and you know him as your Savior. What does God want you to do with that knowledge beyond accepting Him as Savior? What does he expect? He wants you to know in verses 56 and 57, 1 Corinthians 15, 56 and 57. The sting of death is sin, the strength of sin is the law, but thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. God wants you to know That just as sure as it is factual that there is an empty tomb and a risen Savior, your sins are forgiven in Jesus Christ And you can know that today. The second thing he wants you to know in connection with the resurrection is found in verse 58, what he expects of you and what he expects of me. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. You know what that means? Next year, if the Lord tarries, it should be another track month. And there should be another missions conference, and there should be another outreach, and there should be another witnessing opportunity being taken advantage of because it is not in vain. Remember, the empty tale leaves us with vain preaching, vain faith, vain living. But with a risen Savior and an empty tomb, there is no Vanity, there is no emptiness, and our living has purpose. And God wants us this morning to go out renewed because of the resurrection in our commitment to labor for Him because it is not in vain. Let's pray. Dear Lord, I thank you for your word. Thank you so much that you have clearly stated in your word that the resurrection really happened and that Jesus is alive. And we thank you for all the external facts that prove that. But we pray today, Lord, that you would help us to share this with others and that others might place their faith in Christ and in the risen Savior in an empty tomb. It's in Christ's name I pray. Amen.