We're uh preaching our way through the book of James, and we're at a great verse here tonight. And uh many of you memorize this for our scripture memory challenge for the year. And if not, if you haven't gotten to this one yet. I really encourage you to c take this verse, verse number twelve, commit it to memory. Let's read it together. James chapter one and verse number twelve. And uh am I on there, Dave? Let me see. I've got there we go. Thank you. Um let's read verse 12 together. Ready? Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. I want to look at that one thing that's referenced here, the crown of life Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, we're grateful for a good day. And Lord, as things wind down now this evening, we ask, Father, that one more time you'd come and speak to our hearts and challenge us. We're grateful for these great hymns that we can sing and hide in our hearts and lift our voices to you publicly and privately. And now, Lord, as we look at this important verse, I pray that uh you'd apply it to our hearts and lives as you see fit, as you know we have need. And I pray when it's all said and done and we get to to heaven in your presence, you'd be pleased and um and uh uh we would accomplish what's taught here in this passage. In Jesus' name I pray. Lord I do ask you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit as I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Um we looked at verse number twelve last week. And uh I I just come up in the meantime, I come up with a little outline of this verse here. I just want to give that to you. I'm not going to preach this outline, I want to go a different direction. But I noted in verse number twelve first thing, and we talked about this last week, as I said, we had the blessing of enduring temptation. Remember what he said? He says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. You know what I've found There's no blessing in quitting on God. There's no blessing on backing off in my Christian life I've been with a lot of folks over the years, particularly since being pastor here at Mountain Lake, almost 21 years now. I've been by the bedside of a lot of folks that went off into eternity And I have yet to have somebody say to me on their deathbed, Pastor, I'm really glad I quit on God. Never had that. Never had anybody say to me, boy, you know, I'm really glad I backed off on my walk with the Lord. I'm really glad I slacked off on my Christian service. Nobody ever says that. You know what I've heard people say on their deathbed as they're about to go out in eternity, go before the Lord? You know what I hear people say to me many times, Preacher, I wish that I'd have lived for God more than what I did. Wish that I'd have been more faithful. I wish that I'd have been more committed. The Bible says, blessed is the man that endureth temptation. There's a real blessing. of God on those that just stay faithful, that just stay at it, in their place, doing their thing, uh thick and thin, when it's sunshine and when it's raining just stand right at it. So The first thing I notice in this verse is the blessing of enduring temptation. Then the next thing I notice is the benefit of enduring temptation. He says, Blessed is that man that endure temptation, for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life And that's a great benefit. And we're going to look at that here in just a moment. Then the third thing I see is the last part. He says, which the Lord hath promised to them that what? Love him. Love him. The word love there has the idea of unconditional love. God, I love you whether things are going good or bad. Lord, I love you with all my heart, whether the bills are paid or whether the debts are high. Lord, I love you in health and in sickness. God, I love you. I like what 1 Corinthians chapter 13 verse 7 says. It uses the term charity, which is a form of great love. And it says this: charity beareth all things, charity believeth all things, hopeth all things, listen to this, endureth all things. When I love God, like I should, boy, I can go through a lot of tough times and stay faithful to Him when I love God. A husband and wife love each other dearly, and things get tough. And there's trying times and there's hardship, but that love for one another endures that and sticks it out and stays together. and uh they come through the other side. So the basis of enduring temptation is my love for the Lord. If I don't love God like I should, if my love for the Lord is lukewarm, if I've lost that first love And it's going to be very easy for me to step aside. It's going to be very easy for me to back off when the going gets tough and things aren't everything the way I'd like for it to be. If I don't love the Lord like I should, it's going to be very easy just to step down and say, well, I'll take myself out of the picture. And the Bible says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. For when he's tried, he'll receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to them that love him. Love him So it all begins, it all ends, and it's all based upon my love for the Lord. Now, I want to look just quickly, I know we only got a few minutes, I'm gonna look real quickly. at this crown of righteousness. He shall receive the crown I'm sorry, the crown of life, which the Lord has promised them of him. There are five crowns mentioned in the Bible that are available to Christians at the judgment seat of Christ. The first crown is mentioned in 1 Corinthians 9 verse 25. It's called the Incorruptible Crown. That's available for those that uh live for God. uh and uh and meet the requirements. Then there's the what uh is called the crown of rejoicing or sometimes you'll hear a preacher refer to it as the soul winner's crown. This is mentioned in Philippians chapter 4 and verse 1. First Thessalonians chapter 2 verse 19. This is a special crown that God has for those that have a heart for winning souls, that are gr that are active and faithful and getting the gospel to the unsaved. And Paul, as I said, references this in these two passages of scripture. Then there's a crown of righteousness in 2 Timothy 4 and verse 8 that is available to Christians. 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 4 mentions the fourth crown the crown of glory. This is primarily a crown that is for pastors, the faithful pastors that uh preach and teach the word of God and lead the flock of God. God says there's a special crown of glory for them. And then here in James chapter 1, and it's mentioned again in Revelation chapter 2 verse 10 is the crown of life The crown of life. Now, sometimes, again, you'll hear preachers reference the crown of life, and they won't refer to it the crown of life. Sometimes they'll call it this: the martyr's crown A special crown, a special recognition, a special reward for those Christians who are willing to give their lives even unto death For the Lord Jesus Christ, for the gospel's sake. And so we have this crown of life that's referenced here. I want to say a three things real quick about the crown of life. Number one, the crown of life is a reward for faithfulness. It's a reward for faithfulness. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. He's faithful. He's steadfast For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life. If you and I are faithful to God, If we are steadfast in our Christian life and our Christian service, we just stay at it. This verse tells us that God has for us a crown of righteousness, a reward for faithfulness. Now a crown is not a gift. It's not just something that's given out just freely, all you do is just receive it. That's not what this crown is. This is a reward. Salvation is a gift. Salvation is a gift. Salvation is not a reward. God doesn't say, alright, you live good enough and you do this, that, and the other, and I'll reward you with salvation. Nowhere in the Bible Do you find salvation referred to as a reward for doing something? Salvation is always referred to as a gift. The gift of God is eternal life. The gift of salvation But here we have a crown that is not a gift, but it is something we are rewarded for. To live a victorious Christian life We might not like to hear this, but the fact is live a victorious Christian life requires effort We've got to put some effort in. It requires discipline. It requires sacrifice. Nowhere in Scripture are we told that living for God is something that's easy. In fact, you don't even find the word convenient in the Bible as far as living for God, living victorious Christian life Living for God, living a Christian life that is pleasing to God requires effort, it requires discipline, it requires sacrifice, and when God sees that, that faithfulness He rewards that. Listen to words that are used as far as living for God throughout Scripture. Paul said, and others said this, I labor. Striving, enduring. Paul references suffering for the gospel's sake. Listen to me. God has called us if we're going to live for God, if we're going to be faithful, if we're going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And we're going to hear God have God's reward of these crowns. It is going to require discipline. It's going to require effort. It's going to require sometimes suffering on our part to just stay at it and stay faithful to God. The tragedy is that we live in a convenience Christianity age. And I don't see anywhere That the Bible suggests that the victorious Christian life is easy or that it's convenient. And the other thing interesting here is there's no crown promised by given offered to us for promises we make to God. I hear this all the time. Someday I'm going to do that. Someday I'm going to get involved in this. Someday God doesn't reward promises we make what we're going to do. God rewards us for action and effort and behavior that we actually carry out. There are no rewards for promises on what I'm going to do. There are no rewards for good intentions. I think every Christian here has uh you're and me and myself included We have good intentions, things we're going to do, we're intend to do someday. We're not going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ and God say, Brother Lederman, uh Jesus says, uh, Dennis, boy, you really intended to do good. And here's a reward for your good intentions. Doesn't happen, does it? Try that on the boss. Well, I meant to come in on time. I meant to get that job done. I meant to. My intention was good. Okay, well here's your paycheck. Doesn't work that way, doesn't it? Doesn't work that way in Christianity either. There's no rewards for great ideas we have as pastor. And I don't misunderstand. I appreciate it. But people come up to me often and say, boy, here's a great idea. We ought to do this and here's something we can do. And a lot of times my response is this, tell you what, I'll put you in charge of it. Oh, you want me to do it? No, I just thought somebody ought to do that. There's no rewards for ideas. No rewards for doing less. No rewards for I can't I looked through the scripture. I was calling my wife this afternoon, I was looking through it, I said, I can't find anywhere in the Bible here where God has a crown and a reward for people who quit. The quitter's crown It's not there. This is a reward for faithfulness. Effort put in, decision made, discipline made. That I'm going to stay true to God. I'm going to stay on the firing line. I'm going to stay be steadfast for the gospel. Not going to quit. Not going to step down. Take your Bible if you wouldn't keep your place here. Turn over the book of Ephesians. I have two passages I want us to go to real quickly. Ephesians chapter 6. Listen What the Bible says about living the Christian life, being a faithful Christian. Ephesians chapter 6. And I want to begin reading in verse number 10. Ephesians chapter 6 and verse number 10. Now he's not talking to pastors here. He's not talking to full-time Christian ministers or missionaries. He's talking to church members and the church at Ephesus. And look what he says in chapter 6, verse number 10. Finally, my brethren, look at this, be strong in the Lord. And in the power of his might. Look at this. Put on the whole what? Armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we look at verse 12. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers. against the rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness of uh in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. That doesn't sound like convenience to me. That doesn't sound like ease and comfort to me. That sounds like somebody in the heat of the battle. And it says, I'm not going to back down, no retreat, I'm not giving up, I'm going to be steadfast, I'm going to be faithful, I'm going to stay at it. That's what Christianity is about. You want to compare Christianity to a ship? It's more like a battleship than a cruise liner. Christianity. And God says, I'll reward faithfulness. I'll reward that which puts effort and discipline and not going to quit. I'm going to go through this hardship and be faithful to the Lord. Turn over to Timothy with me if you would, 2 Timothy Now this is a young preacher that Paul's writing to. But what he says to Timothy is true for all of us. 2 Timothy 2. And listen to the wording here. 2 Timothy chapter 2. I'm going to begin reading in verse number 1. You follow along. 2 Timothy 2, verse 1. Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. Look at this. Thou therefore endure hardness As a good soldier of Jesus Christ, no man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier If any man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned except he strive lawfully. The husband that laboreth must first be partakers of the fruits. Consider what I say And the Lord give thee understanding in all things. Remember that Jesus Christ, the seed of David, was raised from the dead according to my gospel, wherein I suffer trouble As an evil dealer, even unto bonds, but the word of God is not bound. Therefore I endure all things for the elect's sake, that they may also obtain salvation, which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. What's Paul saying? He's saying living for God and being faithful and being successful and victorious in my spiritual life requires discipline. It requires effort. It requires endurance. And God says, I'll reward that. I'll reward that. I think one of the greatest hindrances to the advancement of the gospel is this convenience Christianity. If it's not too hard, well then I'll be involved. If I have time, then I'll do what Christians are supposed to do. If it doesn't take too much time, all right, well, you know, I know Chris is supposed to do that, but if it doesn't take too much time, uh if it doesn't cost too much money Nothing else, uh, if there's nothing else going on, well then I'll be a part of it. Listen, that type of thinking and that type of living does not get rewarded by God. God says he rewards faithfulness, requires effort. I'm afraid when we're not faithful to God I'm afraid when other things take the place of the things of God, we're sacrificing more than we realize we are God wants us to be all out for Christ. We stand before Christ and those crowns, those rewards are given, those crowns are given. I'm afraid we're sacrificing a lot of reward from God from temporary pitdly things here on earth That took that away. So number one, it's a reward for faithfulness. Number two, I notice crown of of life here. It is a future recognition. This crown is not a king's crown. This is not a crown you place on the head of royalty. This is the crown of the victor. Most Bible scholars believe that Paul got this, uh, of course it's under inspiration of God, but this image comes from the Olympic Games. When a when a fellow would compete in maybe a race or whatever was going on or a wrestling match, and he would be and he would be victorious and he would overcome the obstacle and And he would be the winner or the champion. And then the uh the uh the king would take that that laurel wreath and he'd lay it down on the head, it was the victor's crown You know what I found out? They don't give out awards at the beginning of the race. They give out the reward, they give out the crown at the end of the race for the one who accomplished it. The one who uh finished out the race or the competition at the end, that God crowns us after something is accomplished. Now this is what I'm trying to say here. What I'm trying to say is this living for God here and now is a blessing. How many folks are glad you're saved? Amen. I'm glad I'm saved. And uh living here and now, living the Christian life here on planet earth is a blessing to me. There's joy there, there's peace there, the fellowship. As we had on this men's gateway, what a blessing to fellowship with God's people. I left church this morning, my heart was stirred, and I was rejoicing in God. I had a fellow tell me years ago. He said, you know, if I found out that Christianity wasn't true, that there's no heaven or hell, that all this is just a fairy tale, he said I'd go out in the world and I'd live like the devil and I'd just live it up. I thought about that. I thought, you know? I don't think I'd do that And listen, I'm not suggesting anyway, there's no doubt in my mind that the Word of God is true and all that, but just for sake of argument, even if it wasn't true, I like living for God better than living for the devil. The Christian life, there is inherent joy and blessing in living for God here and now that you can't get in the world. So there are wonderful blessings for living for God here and now, but primarily From a scriptural point of view, the Christian life is lived primarily in anticipation of the future. I like the song. This world is not my home. I'm just what? Passing through. Now there's blessings while we're passing through. We know the Lord. Boy, what a joy. What a blessing there are there. But our focus is not here and now. Our focus is the day we get to be with the Lord. As we sang about tonight. And that's what this is all about. This crown of life is a future recognition. It's down the pike. It's when we get to into glory. We live above and beyond the here and now as Christians. The unsaved out there What are they living for? They're living for now. We were b somebody referenced we're up four-wheel and just beautiful. Uh those mountains and everything was just gorgeous. And we had this the couple comes up on a four-wheeler and he's got his beer can, she's got her beer can. And they're just horsing around and and they come up, we talked to them a little bit, and they just went on their way. We were driving down that hill going by there and we saw some beer cans that I guess they had thrown out. You know what I thought? I thought, man, what are they living for? Here and now. They die and go to hell. What is that? What is that? Listen, let's not get fooled by the devil to get us living for the temporary and uh the uh the present and the temporary pleasures and all that. Let's keep in mind eternity is in view. I uh I used to use this illustration a lot, but when I was youth past Indianapolis, we would uh take the kids once a year, we'd go down to King's Island in Cincinnati. Huge amusement park and then it got so worldly towards the end we I couldn't hardly take them there. But anyway we go down there. It was about a two, two and a half hour drive. We had this big old RV that was transformed into a bus. And it had about 18 king seats. You know the big things all those kids would sit in that and I'd be run down and break down everybody about every five miles we'd break down. We'd take the kids down. There's one kid in our youth group, uh Steve, and uh I love Steve. He was in a wreck as a kid, real bad, and he got this insurance settlement. That kid was loaded And he had this um what is it, a trust that they give once a month he gets so much money up until a certain age and then it was just about And I mean this kid's sixteen years old and he's making more money than half the adults in the church every month. And he he was scarred up pretty good. I mean it he paid for it. This kid was loaded And it never failed. We'd load up in Indianapolis, we'd uh five o'clock in the morning, whatever, we're going down there, and we'd be down the road and you know with a bunch of kids and especially with a bunch of girls in there, and get about two exits. We need to stop. So he'd pull off and they'd all go pile in. Steve would go in there, he'd come out with six packs and coats and potato chips and twinkies and all kinds of stuff. By the time we get to the next stop, he'd have all that devoured. And then about five, ten miles down the road, we need to stop. Alright, and I keep driving until they're plaster, we gotta stop So I'd pull in Steve would go, by the time we get to the part he'd spent all his money. And he'd come up and he said, Pastor Dennis, uh can I borrow some money for you? I spent all my money. I said, You're not going you got more money than everybody. He says I know but I blew it all. So I'd lend it to him and he'd pay me back. We laugh at that, but that's the way a lot of Christians are living. We're blowing all we're we're spending everything on the trip. When we get to heaven, we have nothing to show for God offer the Lord. We have nothing. We've blown it all here on earth. Listen, the crown of life, this reward, is a future event. It's something we anticipate, we're looking forward to We must never make the mistake of living for this world now for present or temporal pleasures. That's what the devil wants to do to our young people. To get them just so involved in sin and wickedness and ungodliness so that they're hurt and their testimonies are damaged and they make decisions that will limit their ability to live for eternity later on. Because he knows that this world's not our home. We're just passing through. And if he can knock us out at the knees halfway through, then he's got us. So number one, it's a reward for faithfulness. Number two, it's a future recognition. And number three, and last of all, it's a fantastic respect. This is what I mean by that. And I mention this sometimes. Just the fact that Jesus Christ saved me from sin in hell is an amazing thing. That he would suffer hell for my sins. Just freely do that for me. And all I have to do is just accept what he's done. And he forgives me for all that. He gives me a home in heaven. He gives me all these blessings here and now. And then he turns around and he says, if you live for me, if you'll be faithful to me, I'll reward you. What in the world? You know, if somebody, if you're burning, if you're in a car wreck and you're burning and you know you're going to burn alive. And somebody crawls through those flames and they are scarred up and burned up and they give their life basically to get you out of there. Your attitude and my attitude would be, man, what can I do for you? What can I do for you to express my appreciation? You saved my life from a horrible death. You took planes yourself. You scarred yourself. I I I owe you everything. What can I do for you? What money can I give you? What can I do for you the rest of my life I'd be in debt to that person for what they've done for me. Imagine that person turn around and say, hey, well, if you do this for me, I'll give you $1,000. Well, that you're crazy. You saved my life. But this is fantastic. That God would save me from sin and hell and suffer all of that for me. Then He simply says, if you live for me, I'll give you a reward. Just be faithful. I know it's tough times, and there's temptations and there's hardships and there's misunderstandings, and sometimes you want to quit. But if you'll just be faithful, I'll give you the crown of life. And it's like, what in the world, God? I owe you. You don't have to give me anything. I owe you. But that's our God. That's our God. He rewards us for being faithful. I want us to look at two more verses and then we quit. Come to Hebrews. We're right here, chapter 6. I love this verse. I love this verse. Hebrews chapter six Sometimes when folks I try to express my gratitude to people and I don't always l live up to what I want to, but try to express my gratitude to people for different things they do, and a lot of times I'll put this verse at the end of the letter. Verse ten, Hebrews 6, for God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love. Which ye have showed toward his name, in that ye have ministered unto the saints and do minister. What's that verse saying? That verse is saying that God notices When we're faithful to him, when we serve him, when we live for him, he takes note of that. He's not going to forget, he's not going to take it for granted. Get this: God does not take our faithfulness for granted. That's an amazing thing. We like to preachers, you know, us hard-line, hard-nosed preachers, we like to say, God sees your sin, you can't hide anything from God, and we can't. But there's another side to that. God sees our faithfulness. And God sees when we stick it out. And people say unkind things about us, but we stay faithful to God. And people do hurtful things to us because of the gospel, and we stay faithful to the gospel. God takes note of that and he rewards it. Now if you're like me, I'm thinking, good grief. Being faithful to death is the least I can do for the Lord Jesus Christ. What in the world? To give to sin, to live for him, to what in the world would you done for me, Christ? How could I with quit? How could I hold back anything? Then he says, I'll reward you. Now look at our response. Turn with me to Revelation chapter 4. This brings it all together. This explains everything. Revelation chapter 4. God says, I'll suffer hell, unbelievable, unimaginable judgment of sin. I'll take it on myself for you. I'll forgive you freely. Just accept what I've done. And I'll forgive all your sin, give you a new life. Then if you live for me, if you're faithful to me, if you don't quit, you do right and stay at it, I'll reward you for that. I think we get to heaven and we see these rewards and we see all that Christ is doing for us, it's gonna hit us. And notice how we respond. Revelation chapter 4, and look with me at verse number 10. I'm looking at chapter three. I'm sorry. Let me get chapter four and verse number ten. Look what it says. For the four the four and twenty elders Fall down before him that is sat on the throne and worship him that liveth forever and ever. Look at this We're right there before the throne. They're worshiping him. Look what they do. And cast their what? Crowns before the throne saying Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. What's happening here? These have these men have received these crowns And they get to heaven, they see the throne, and they worship God, and they see Jesus Christ as He is and all His divine glory and holiness. And look at ourselves and say, you're rewarding me, you're giving me crowns for living for you, for doing right, for being honest and being faithful, and you're giving me crowns. They cast them and say, no, you're worthy. You're worthy. You're the one that deserves all this. You're the one that made all this possible. We don't deserve any crowns, Jesus Christ. It's all because of you. We cast our crowns at his feet. I'm going to tell you this. It is not worth quitting on God. It's not worth it. He's done far too much for us. He has been far too good for us, for us not to be faithful to him. He rewards us for being steadfast, the least we can do Say, Lord, I'll live for you who died for me. I'll be faithful. I'm going to be true. I'm going to be steadfast. Let's ask the Lord to help us do that. Let's ask the Lord to help us see life from heaven's perspective and just not quit and stay at it. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us. I pray this verse. I know you challenged my heart. I pray you'd help us just to stay faithful. Help us get back on the firing line, dear Lord. Help us to get back in the trenches And to put on that armor and to stand fast. And to be faithful and to be steadfast. And God, we want you to be glorified when it's all said and done. We want you to Be able to give you the glory for what you've done through us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I don't want to quit on God I don't want to quit on living and living for the Lord. I want to be steadfast. I want to be in my place when it's hard, when it's easy, when it's good, when it's bad. I just want to be right there, be faithful, Lord. How many like that by the uplifted hands? Let's tell the Lord that tonight. Let's just say, God, here it is. I'm putting it on the altar. Renewing my commitment to you to be fed faithful and steadfast. Maybe someone's got away from that Maybe some of us are struggling in this. How about tonight? Say, I want God to be glorified in my life. Is there someone in your night say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? Listen, you don't want to go to hell. God doesn't want you to go to hell. I'm gonna even say, preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Is there any little like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. How about it? Young or old I want to know that I'm sins are forgiven, I go to heaven when I die. Any at all? Father, bless our invitation time now, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's