Is uh one of the great chapters in the Bible. It is a challenge to me, particularly the last two verses where it says, He that goeth forth and weepeth Bearing precious seed shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. What a challenge to soul winning To go out and share the gospel, spread the seeds of the Word of God, and claim God's promise that they will have an effect and souls will be saved and lives will be changed. We've seen that happen over the years And we thank God for it. So this chapter has been a great challenge to me. It's been a great blessing to me. We read verse number three. The Lord hath done great things for us whereof we are glad. Uh that's a blessing to me. God has done great things for us. Now I do want to, before we get going here, I kind of got a little ahead of myself there, but I do want to mention uh did anybody notice the Pope is in Country. Anybody notice that? Good grief. You can't, that's all you ever hear. And um I just want to say there is one holy father. There's only one holy father, and it ain't the Pope. It's God the Father is the only Holy Father. And I saw in the news um where people were s were just ecstatic, waiting in line for hours. To see the Pope. He's being referred to as Jesus. Hey, I got news for you. You don't have to wait in line to have access to God the Father. You don't have to go to New York. You and I can go to God directly through the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Pope is not Jesus. Jesus is Jesus. And he's the Son of God. So it it uhybody else feels away, it just kind of grieves my heart to see so many people Bowing down, worshiping man, when we have access to God Almighty. And and uh so uh I just wanted to get that off my chest. Fifty years ago, a little over fifty years ago, a fellow by the name of Ed Wilt and his wife were led of God to come to Oakland, Maryland They came here for the express purpose to start a Baptist church in Oakland, Maryland. There was a small group of believers that was meeting together. And they felt the Lord leading and directing that they should start the church. They extended the call to Ed Wilt to come in here. And he showed up and he began, under the leadership of God He began the first Baptist Church of Oakland, as it was known back in those days. The church began with struggles. I had the tremendous privilege to speak with Brother Will many many times on the phone at length. He came here shortly after we were here. He came up. He was living in Georgia at the time. He came up. We spent a weekend together, actually three, four days Um and uh he drove us around town, showed us where the church first started meeting, where he lived, different events. And he told me how First Baptist Church of Oakland started with some real struggles. It didn't just blossom and take off. It was real struggles. It was a real spiritual battle. For this church to get a foothold and get a foundation and begin to grow. The church started with some opposition. He told me that he was only here a brief period of time. Brother El Brother Wilt told me this directly. He was only here a brief period of time and some of the Very folks that invited him to come, extended him the call to come and pastor it. Some of those very same folk showed up and said, Brother Will, it's time for you to pack your bags, we'll help you leave. But Ed Wilt did not leave. And Brother Ed Wilt stayed faithful to God. And he preached the gospel with all his heart. And he loved people. He gave his heart and soul to the Lord and to the First Baptist Church of Oakland. His influence lingers on here in our community and even outside the walls of this church. I was on the other side of town and this has been a number of years ago and I was just going door to door down through a neighborhood knocking on doors and introducing myself and inviting people to church and just talking. I really enjoyed doing that And a lady began talking, and I told her, she goes, um, Pastor Ed Will was the first pastor that church wasn't. I said, yes, he was. And we talked a little bit. She goes, this is what I always remember about Ed Will She said, my son, and she pointed out to the dry the road there where we were standing on her porch, she said, my son was hit by a car. He was riding bike, a car hit my son. Brother Ed Wilt was there and he saw what happened. He pulled over, jumped out, took care of him, he said she loaded up my boy in his car and rushed him to the hospital. And he said, she said he spent the day with us in the hospital Till we were sure that our boy was okay and everything was fine. She says, I'll never forget how good Ed Wilt was to us. What a great man. Some years ago, my wife and I, there was a couple that had trusted Christ and they became burdened for other family members and they And uh the fellow said, My grandmother, he says, I don't believe she stayed. Would you go visit my grandmother? So Kathy and I, Saturday afternoon, we went uh loaded up and we ran out to visit his grandmother. And We were talking, sitting in her living room, and I began, we've made some small talk, and I began to address her spiritual condition about whether she would go to heaven or hell, where she'd spend eternity. And she goes, just a moment And she got up and she ran back into the back the hallway. She was there just a brief moment and she came back out. She had a yellow-faded gospel track. She said, many, many years ago, a preacher by the name of Ed Wilt gave me this gospel track. And I looked at it and it was, oh, it's Ford Porter's, God's Simple Plan of Salvation, been around forever. And she goes, Ed Wilk gave this to me. She goes, I keep it by my bed on the dresser all these many, many years. And that's something. was able to take the Bible and she uh trusted Christ as Savior there in her living room. To Ed Wilt's account many, many years later. What I'm saying is this, he was faithful. He was faithful to God. He loved people dearly He gave his heart and soul to what God had called him to do. And God bless. And the church began to grow in downtown at the old uh there by the train tracks, that old building there. They began to see souls saved and lives were being changed. In fact they grew to the point where they had to have Sunday school out in a Sunday school bus And he had somebody teach there in the winter cold sitting in that bus teaching the Word of God. Eventually they grew to the point where they're able to buy some property right out here in Mountain Lake and they built what's now our Fellowship Hall And they changed the name to the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And God has blessed all these many years. Souls saved and lives have been changed. God has been good to us. And we're glad. And we're glad. 2015 is here now. Years swiftly gone by. And Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church still stands. I rejoice. I thank God. God sure has been good to us. This church is still preaching the same Bible it preached when Ed Wilt showed up. Same word of God. We haven't changed. New versions come and go. We just stick with the old King James Bible. Haven't changed. We're still preaching the same gospel. Same gospel that Ed Wilt would share with folks, that they would believe and be saved. Here we are 50 plus years later, and every week somebody from the church is going out and sharing that same gospel message. Still preaching the same Bible, still sharing the same gospel, still exalting the same Savior. Jesus hasn't changed. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. And he's the head of the church, and he's the one for whom we love and we've dedicated our lives to. The purpose and vision of the church has not changed. One thing I enjoyed speaking with Ed Wilters many years ago was his heart for missions, his desire to get missionaries out into all the world and for God to use this church, this body of believers to have a part in reaching people around the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I want to assure you today, the heart and vision of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is getting the gospel into all the world. All the world. Missions. Uh preaching uh reaching the world with the gospel. All Mountain Lake has been through some awfully low valleys. Been through some awfully high mountains. But God's been good to us through all of it. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has been through some dark storms. There were some days I'll be honest with you, there was a period of time there early just before we showed up. There's a period of time and the folks that were here will tell you didn't know whether those doors were going to stay open or not. Didn't know whether there was any future for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church or not. But I'm here to tell you, God's been good to us. And God had a plan, and God still is working in and through our church and other churches like us. God's been good to us, and we're glad. We're glad. Been some dark storms, been some old. I tell you, there's some dark times, but I tell you, there's been some exciting times also over the years. Seeing souls saved, great crowds, live changed. I believe we've seen some of the greatest preachers in our land come through this behind this pulpit and preach some great, great messages over the years. God's been good to us. And we're glad. We're glad. For 22 years now, Kathy and I, and I hope you'll indulge me this morning, but for 22 years now, Kathy and I have had the privilege to be a part of this great church. God's done some great things for Kathy and I. And it has been the absolute privilege and joy of our lives. To be a part of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We thank God for it. I just want to share, again, it's not the usual type of message I like to preach, but just felt uh this going this direction. But I just want to share some things I've learned over these twenty-two years that I think have uh God's impressed on my heart and I believe will be a help to all of us if we can get a hold of these I think we can see God do some even greater things in our midst than through us. I'll encourage you to maybe jot some of these down. Some things I've learned in 22 years at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Number one I've learned the importance of prayer. The importance of prayer. You can turn with me if you want. If not, I'll just read it. Philippians chapter number four. And I want to read verse 6 and 7, and let me just read it to you for sake of time. We'll try and get through these pointedly. Philippians chapter 4 and verse 6, listen to what the Bible says. Be careful for nothing. But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God, and the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds. through Christ Jesus. I've learned how desperately I need God. I need God to give wisdom. In not just the ministry, but in my family and in my personal life and in my life as a Christian, I need God to give me wisdom. Learned how desperately I need God to provide for us. Need God to give us power, to send revival. And God does these things in response to prayer. In response to prayer, I believe one of the greatest needs in our churches, and I want to address the Sunday school workers and children's church workers and choir members and bus workers. I'll tell you what, I believe the greatest need In the ministries of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Churches is Christians who will earnestly pray for God's power and God's blessing and God to use us for His glory. Praying And I've learned the importance of prayer. Without prayer, we fail. Without prayer, we are powerless. Prayer. Um, I've learned the importance of prayer. God saves souls in response to prayer. Um, I uh you know, I I feel like I do this too often maybe, but I I don't mean to put my daddy on the spot. My daddy's here, but I'll tell you, I'm a Christian today, humanly speaking, because of the faithful prayers of that man sitting right over there. For eight years plus, he prayed, God save my son, God save my son, God save my son. I owe an eternal debt to the prayers of my daddy. Now what about you? Who is it you know and you love and you care about? Do you pray for them? Do you pray earnestly for them? Do you pray continually for them? I thank God that God answers prayer. God answers prayer. God saves souls in response to prayer. If you have a, if young people, if you have a mom or dad that's not saved, They don't know Jesus Christ as Savior. The number one thing you ought to be doing is every day praying, God, open my mother's heart to the gospel. God open my daddy's heart to the gospel. God, please save their soul. God, please convict them of their need of Christ. Praying for God to save our loved ones. Parents with children. I tell you what, it's hard for me to respect a daddy that doesn't pray for his kids. It's hard for me to respect a parent that doesn't pray for their children, pray for the salvation of their souls, pray for God's working and leading in their life. I found out prayer is awfully important. In the Christian life. God saves souls in re- in response to prayer. God sends revival in response to prayer. Our churches and our country need revival. That's obvious. And revival begins. It begins With the prayers of God's people. Our homes need revival. This is one thing I harp on, and I believe with all my heart. We need revival of family altars in our homes. Mom and dad and the kids getting together, reading the Bible and praying together like they did in days of old when God's presence was upon our country. And God's power was on our country. And God's protection was on our country when families would come together and pray We need that. We need that. Revival will come to our churches. Listen, never underestimate the power of a husband and wife on their knees before God, praying for God to do a work. It's a powerful thing. The importance of prayer. God saves souls in response to prayer. God sends revival in response to prayer. prayer. I'm grateful for a handful of believers back in 1993 that refused to give up on Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and they prayed and prayed and prayed that God would do a work here and God answered their prayers. God's been good to us. And we're glad. We're glad. He answers prayer. God uh saves souls in response to prayer. God sends revival in response to prayer. God meets needs in response to prayer. I look at this crowd this morning. A lot of you I don't know maybe a whole lot about you, but I know one thing about every one of us. We all have needs. Right or wrong? We all have needs. Some of us are in desperate need of some things. I'm telling you, there's a God in heaven that answers prayer, and you don't have to go to the white, you don't have to go to Washington to see him. He's available. At the breath at the at the at the word of our mouth. Lord help me. God help me God provides for our needs in response to prayer. You say, Preacher, you don't know how great my need is. Oh, you don't know how great our God is. You don't have any need any greater than God Almighty. He created everything there is with just the word of his mouth, and he can meet your need and my need. We just don't pray. You have not because you Ask not. Let's ask God. How many folks this morning would say, Preacher, I have a need in my life? How many testify that I have a need in my life? Are you asking God to meet that need Maybe in a few moments, the invitation, maybe kneel and older and say, God, this is my need. I'm asking you to meet it. I'm asking you, God, to please do this for me. I'm telling you, I learned in 22 years of pastoring That God answers prayer. Prayer is vitally important in the Christian life. It's in response to prayer that God gives victory over sin. You know what I'm looking at this morning? I'm looking at a crowd of sinners. You know what you're looking at? You're looking at an individual that's a sinner. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There's none righteous, no, not one. And we struggle. Even after we're saved, we struggle with sin. We were teaching in Sunday school. Did you know that even Christians face temptation? How many people knew that? How many people are shocked and amazed? You don't have to be saved very long, and that old sinful nature is still there, isn't it? Christians face temptation. Christians, hey, get this. Christians Give in to temptation. Christians said. I'm not going to ask how many of y'all have ever sinned since you've been saved. Half of you wouldn't raise your hand. You'd be sinning more. I heard a preacher say he was uh flying he it was a preacher from Texas. He was flying somewhere and uh they got witness to the guy beside him and the guy says, Well, I'm Pentecost. He says, um He says, uh, you Baptists, you don't believe in backsliding, do you? He goes, Oh yeah, we believe in backsliding. He says, we practice it. You know you know what the victory over sin is for the Christian? Prayer. Prayer. I don't know how many people. I'm telling you folks all across this auditorium can stand up and testify. I struggled with this sin. This sinful habit controlled me. This sin had controlled me. I prayed and I sought the Lord with all my heart and God gave me victory over that sin. Listen, I'm talking to folks this morning, you're struggling with some sins. I'm telling you, there's a God in heaven that answers prayer, and you seek him with all your heart in prayer. God can give you victory over that sin. I don't care if it's a whiskey bottle, I don't care if it's a tobacco stick, I don't care what it is. God is more powerful than any sin the devil can come up with, and when we come to God and look to Him for victory God is able to give us victory. I've learned the importance of prayer. I found when a Christian prays with all their heart, God sends victory. Souls are saved when a Christian prays for souls to be saved. God blesses ministries and God puts his hands on ministries when Christians pray for God's power and blessing. I've learned the importance of prayer. One of the greatest needs, I believe, in our homes and our churches are praying Christians I've said this often over the years. The Wednesday night prayer meeting is the most important service this church has all week because if it wasn't the prayers of God's people on Wednesday, we would not see the blessings of God's people on Sunday. God's been good to us in answering prayer. We can testify all day long of prayers that God has answered. Second thing I've learned in these twenty-two years, I've learned not just the importance of prayer, but I've learned the importance of praise The importance of praise, Philippians 4-4, rejoice in the Lord alway, and again I say rejoice Learning to be grateful. I tell you what's killing our country is we are just not grateful. I tell you what's killing our homes is we're not thankful for what God has done for us. And we demand more and we w we're dissatisfied with everything when we ought to just stop and say, God, you've been better to me than I ever deserved. And give God some praise. I've learned that's important. Gratitude or lack thereof sets the whole tone of our life You know, you don't have to be around a person very long to detect whether that person is a grateful person or not. You don't have to be around somebody long. It sets the whole tone of their atmosphere and their attitude If a person is ungrateful, if they're angry and self-centered and they're absorbed with what they want and ungrateful for what God has done, it comes through The Bible says that praise is comely. It makes a person attractive. I tell you what will make a person more attractive than makeup or hairdo's or anything else is an attitude of gratitude. Now I'm not against fixing yourself up. I like what Dr. Lee Robertson said. If he says if the barn needs paint, paint it. You know? So But I tell you this, you can put all the pain on you want. If there's not gratitude in your heart, that's an ugly person. An unthankful person is an ugly person. And gratitude, being grateful, it attracts people, it changes our whole outlook on life when we're thankful and we praise God. One of the greatest characteristics of a mature Christian is an attitude of gratitude. A thankful Christian is a healthy Christian. A thankful Christian is a happy Christian A thankful Christian is an attractive Christian. You know, nobody wants to be around a person that gripes and complains. Uh no young girl goes meets a fella and comes back and mother says uh she says, I meet this guy. He says, uh, really, what's he like? Oh, he hates everything. Really? He don't like anything, he's unhappy, he's miserable, nothing's good enough. I want to spend the rest of my life with him. Nobody says that. But you get a person that's happy and grateful and praising God and rejoicing and thankful, that's the person you want to be around. Am I right or wrong? A grateful person is attractive. I want to be around people who praise and are happy and rejoicing. And by the way, that's the kind of church people want to come to. For the people are happy and praising God. God's been good to us. Rejoice in what he's doing in my life. I rejoice in how he's meeting me. I rejoice in the trials he puts me through because he's making me stronger in my faith. The importance of praise. The importance of praise. God's blessings are priceless. We cannot take them for granted. God's goodness. Listen, the greatest thing that God has ever done for mankind is giving his only begotten Son. That whosoever believes in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Listen, God has been so good to us in dying for our sins and giving us eternal life. How dare we not be grateful? How selfish must we be to say that's not good enough? I need to have more. I need to be treated better. I deserve better than this. No, we don't Jesus Christ suffered hell in our place. So we can have eternity in heaven. We have everything to praise Him for. S many of you also had the privilege to travel around different parts of the world on mission trips and see some things I never dreamed. I'm telling you the poorest person in this church right now is living better than ninety percent of the people in the world. We got everything to be grateful for. We have every reason to praise God. Say, oh, but preacher, you don't know. Our TV's has little squeaky lines on it. Throw the thing out for Pete's sake. I learned the importance of prayer. Oh God, give us church members, the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church that pray. I mean pray. Pray together as a family. Pray together as brothers and sisters in Christ. Pray for God's power and God's blessing. The importance of praise. God's been good to us. We must be grateful. I put a third thing down. I'll try and go through this list quickly. Number three, I put this down. I learned the important, I learned the power of the gospel Romans 1:16 says that Paul said, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. That simple little gospel message. How that Christ died for us according to the scriptures, that he was buried and he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. That simple little message, how that can totally transform a life Save a soul from hell. We must never be ashamed to share the gospel. God pity Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. God pity this preacher. If we ever get to the point where we are ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that is the message that we have for this world. That is the reason we go out into the streets and the neighborhoods on a weekly basis, yesterday morning, working through the neighborhoods, sharing the gospel with people. It is the power of God unto salvation. Listen, when a person dies, they either go to heaven or hell. There's only one way to heaven, it is through the gospel of Jesus Christ believing that Jesus died for me, was buried, and rose again, and receiving him as my own personal Savior. It's a powerful message. I've seen people down in uh down in New Zealand with Brother Lewis Howe last year. I stayed in the home. Kathy and I stayed in my home a fellow. He was telling us He grew up in Australia, I believe, or he lived in Australia, and they would didn't have a car, and they didn't they just hitchhike and smoke pot and do drugs and just travel around, had no purpose, just a life filled with sin And he said, one day somebody shared the gospel of Jesus Christ with me. And Barry said, I accepted Jesus as my Savior, and he changed my life And now he's a faithful, strong family, raised his kids, active in the church there where Lewis How is. I don't care if it's down in New Zealand, if it's in Kazakhstan, Mongolia, or Terra Alta If a person believes in the Lord Jesus Christ, God will save their soul from hell and give them eternal life and change their life. The power of the gospel. I've seen it too many times in the 22 years I've seen it too many times. Somebody get a hold of it and God changed their life. God absolutely give them purpose and direction in their life and assurance that they have a home in heaven. I'm telling you, that gospel message, that little gospel tract that we have back there, and we give those little gospel tracts out, that is gospel dynamite right there. Somebody read that thing and save their soul. Remember the story of the Chinese gal up in my uh up in Morgantown? I love that. Little gospel track on her door. Today she's over in China, Christian, living for God, as far as we know, baptized, living for God. Just a little gospel track left on her door. One amazing, amazing thing. My prayers is if this church ever quits preaching the gospel, my prayers this roof caves in down on it Just shut the thing down. If we ever do anything other than preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Number one, I learned the importance of prayer. We've got to pray. Let me ask you about your prayer life. Do you pray? Do you have a regular, systematic time of prayer? Husband and wife, do you pray together? When's the last time your wife heard you pray, man? When's the last time your kids heard you all pray? When's the last time you got the family together, maybe of night before you go to bed, sing a little hymn, read a verse or two from Psalms? All right, kids, let's pray. Bobby, you start and we'll pray around here And God bless our home. Keep it safe. Help us live for you. Keep the devil out. Help our kids to have faith and grow. I'm telling you, it's a powerful thing. It's important. The importance of praise. Just being thankful. The importance, the power of the gospel. I put this down. Number four, the importance of discipline and hard work. I know heard someone just say that preacher is cussing up there. Hard work. Hard work. I've found out that lazy Christians are defeated Christians Christian life does a victorious Christian life does not just happen. I've got to be disciplined, I've got to work at it. The Bible says that we are to love the Lord thy God. Jesus said in Luke, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. In other words, he says you've got to give yourself to loving God. You have to decide I'm going to love God, discipline myself, and work hard at being a good Christian. Work hard at being a good Christian. Paul speaks about his prayer life and he makes statements like this. I would strive in prayer. We labored in prayer. Laboring for the Lord. If any man desires the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. Living for God requires discipline. An undisciplined Christian is a defeated Christian. I must discipline myself and work hard at living for God, work hard at being a witness, work hard at building that ministry, work hard at reaching others with the gospel, work hard at having victory over sin Victorious Christian life does not just happen. It requires discipline and diligence. God has been good to us. He deserves our very best. He deserves our very best. He suffered hell in our place. He saved us from eternity and the flaming fires of hell. Surely I can give him my best. Take my one of the songs that stirs my heart, take my life and let it be consecrated, Lord, to thee. Take my moments and my days. Let them flow in ceaseless praise. God, I want to give you all my strength. I want to give you everything I have to live for you and serve you. Diligently working hard. I put this down, number five, the importance of the Bible. The importance of the Bible Uh every now and then I'll get thinking, maybe I'm overemphasizing this matter, reading your Bible every day, and then I think about it, I think, no, I'm probably not emphasizing it enough. Every Christian needs to meditate on the Word of God. Listen to Joshua chapter 1 and verse 8. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. There is no blessings of God. There is no victory in my Christian life. There is no blessing on the ministry that God has called me to without the Word of God. We've got to read that Bible. We've got to meditate in God's word. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the sea of the scornful But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. I'm telling you, God blesses those who meditate in his word. He leads them and directs them He gives victory. Meditating in the Bible will bring peace to my heart. And people found we live in a messed up world. You know what our problem is? We let the messed up world mess up our hearts and souls. And it doesn't have to be that way. Great peace have they which love thy law. Great peace have they which love thy law. I was reading in Psalms where David says, I'm paraphrasing here for sake of time, but David says, he says, I saw the wicked. And they're parting and they're laughing and they're having a big time. And uh everything seems to be going right with the wicked, and they live in the biggest houses, and they drive the fanciest cars, and they have the loudest music, and Oh, everything seems to be going great for the wicked. He says, but then I came, I'm paraphrasing here, he says, then I came to the Word of God, and I saw that the end of the wicked was misery. And God showed me from his word that it's right and best to live for God. Though the world may be living it up right now when it's all said and done, the child of God is the one that comes out on top every time. It's the Bible that gives us that peace. Hey, you can go on and party. You can go on living in fornication, carrying on, drinking and carrying. Go on. Yeah, it's fine. You're having a big time. But I'm telling you, there's payday someday. Amen or not? There's payday someday. And God says, shows us from His Word how we can have the blessings of God and the peace of God. In our hearts. The importance of God's word, reading it every day. Meditating on God's word on a daily basis brings peace to my heart. It gives me victory over sin. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not Sin against thee. I'm telling you, the greatest, one of the greatest offenses against sin is getting this book in my heart and soul and mind. It'll bring victory over sin. The Bible gives wisdom. This book is the wisdom of God in print. The wisdom of God in print. Saying, preacher, I don't know how to live my life right here. You have the greatest wisdom ever given to man right in the pages of this book right here. And we meditate on this, and God will give us wisdom. God will give us wisdom. The Christian that neglects his Bible is a Christian who's hurting spiritually. The Bible, the importance of the Bible. Let me quickly give you a couple more. Everybody doing okay? Everybody happy? Amen. For the most part. Very good. Let me give you a sixth one: the importance of compassion. Importance of compassion. I had people, I have had people over the years say something like this to me, Preacher, I love God. I just can't stand people. Or sometimes they'll say, I love the ministry, it's the people I can't stand. That just greats me. The ministry is people. It is people. We don't want Sunday school teachers that don't love the kids they're teaching. Amen? We don't want choir members singing that don't love the people they're singing to. We don't want a preacher that doesn't love the people he's preaching to. Listen, in fact, 1 John tells us it's impossible to say I love God and hate people. If you don't love people, you don't love God. That's what the Bible says. The importance of compassion. Compassion. It's impossible to love God and not love people. I found that as a person grows in their faith, as a person matures in their faith, their love for others gets greater and greater and greater And I notice that as a Christian backslides or gets away from the Lord and gets out of fellowship with God, their love for the people of God, their love for others diminishes and diminishes and diminishes. And I've learned that it is important that we love people. If you're here this morning and say, Preacher, I just don't have much of a love in my heart for people. I tell you there's a place called an old-fashioned altar, and we can kneel there and say, God, I want you to shed your love abroad in my heart. And God, fill me with your love and power and give me a love for others. I'm telling you, God will do it. God will do it. Every Sunday school teacher ought to ask God to give them a love for people. Every soul winner, every church member. God, give me a love for people, a love for people. God's been good to us, and we must love the people who He loves and dies for. Let me give you a last one. Number seven, I've learned the absolute importance of missions As pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, I've learned that the purpose of this church, we exist to get the gospel into all the world. Our great commission as a church is to take the gospel into all the world Every country, our responsibility as a church is to take the gospel to every corner of this earth. God has been good to us. We must obey His instructions. We must follow His leadership. Every Christian involved in reaching the world with the gospel. God's been good to us. God's been good to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. You say, preacher, why has he been so good to this church? I tell you this, it's not because we're so wonderful. I've worked with you all for a while You say, Yeah, preacher, we ought to put up with you too. I know it. You think I'm that bad, talk to my wife. She can tell you even more. God's not been good to us because we're wonderful. God's been good to us because He's wonderful. Psalmist says, the Lord's been good to us whereof we are glad. You know why God's so good to us? Because God is good. It's what he is. It's what he does. He's a good God. I tell you, my heart is so grieved over this Islam taking over this planet. And the God of Islam, nobody describes the God of Islam as a good God. The God of Islam is a harsh, murderous. False God, but the true and living God is a good God. A good God that loves the world. And has given his own son, so that not one person has to perish in hell forever, but that they can all be saved. And dwell with him in heaven. Our God's good to us because our God is good. He is worth living for. He is worthy of us investing our lives in him. Listen, I lived for the devil 19 years of my life, and since that time I've sought to live for God since he saved me. I'm here to tell you. God is better than the devil. Thousand times over. Thousand times over. Go ahead and live for this world Go ahead and live for your flesh. Go ahead and live for the devil. I'm here to tell you, there's a God in heaven that loves you, and he has a plan for your life. That far exceeds anything this world can ever offer. God has been good to us, and we are glad. We are glad. Since God's so good, we can trust him. We can trust him. He's good. You'll hear this sometimes. You'll say, oh, she's a good person. You can trust her. Did ever hear something like that? Oh, that guy, he's a good guy. You can trust him. In fact, I had a call, a reference on a person, and I said, yeah, she's a good gal. You can trust her. She'll do you right. She's a good gal I'm here to tell you as your pastor, God's a good God. You can trust him. You can trust him. You can trust him to save your soul. Save your soul. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, that when you die you go to heaven and not to hell, I'm here to tell you God can save you from hell. Jesus Christ can save you from hell. He's a good God. You can trust him. He'll do it if you trust him. The greatest thing God ever did for mankind was giving his son to die on that cross. and rise again so that we can be saved from sin in hell. And if we'll trust him as our Savior, He'll forgive us, He'll save us. He never fails. He never fails. You say, preacher, when I was out visiting And uh uh I asked the fellow, I said, do you know for sure if you died right now you'd go to heaven? Before I never had anybody answer me this before. Before Uh, could go any further. I said, Do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? He looked at me and says, Do you know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven? My first thought was, you're not supposed to ask me that. I'm asking you that. That's my job But without hesitation, I said, sir, yes, sir, I know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. He goes, how do you know? I said, well it's not because I'm good enough. God knows that's not true. I am not good enough. I said it's because of May 7, 1979. Did I ever tell you about that? I think the first time I preached here in 1993, my first message was on May 7, 1979. And I told him how I accepted the Lord as my Savior. And I said, I'm going to heaven, not because I'm good enough, but because God is faithful. And God promised that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I know on that night at 10:30 I called on the name of the Lord. I know I did with all my heart. I called on Jesus to be my Savior. And if I die and go to hell, that means God lied to me because he promised whoever called in him should be saved. I'm here to tell you, God's a good God. He don't lie. When he promises something, we can go to the bank with it. And so if you're here this morning, you don't know for sure that your sins are going on your way to heaven. I urge you with all my heart. Oh my heart, I urge you, you accept Jesus as Savior. He'll forgive you and save you, give you a whole new life. Because God is good, we can trust Him for our soul's salvation. Because God is good, we can dedicate our lives fully to Him. God's good, I can trust Him with not just with my soul salvation, but I can trust Him with my life And how he'll lead me and direct me in my life. God will use the Christian who dedicates their life to Christ. God will bless that Christian who says, no longer I live, but I want to live for Christ. I dedicate myself, my life to Christ. God's been too good to us to not trust him. I like what Charles Spurgeon said. He says, God is too good to be unkind, and he's too wise to make a mistake. And whatever he allows in our life, we can rejoice in it. I was reading this week about a cathedral that was built many, many years ago in a Swiss village, and it's said to be the most Beautiful cathedral in all that region of the world. And one of the attractive features of this cathedral was this amazing pipe organ that was built. And when it was played, you could hear it all through the valleys of Switzerland there for miles, they said. And for years people would come from all parts of Europe to hear this organ played. It was so beautiful. And they said one day as they were playing, it went silent. And they worked on it and worked on they could not get that organ planned. They brought in musicians from around Europe and they could not repair the organ. They brought in technicians and experts in from around and they worked on they could not find out why it wasn't working and what the problem was. After I guess an extended period of time of just silence from the organ. One day an older man showed up And he said, could I look at that organ and see what's wrong? And they said, well everybody else in the world has it. It's been setting empty. You might as well. You can't hurt it. And he went in. They said for a couple, three, four, five days, he worked on that organ, quiet, by himself, away. And they said one afternoon, all of a sudden, the music came from that organ again. And they said for all around that region in the valleys that was filled with the music of the organ, they said that farmers stopped in the fields and dropped their tools and came in and Housewives left their homes and people from all over came and filled the cathedral up as that old man sat there and played that organ once again and filled the area with the music As he stopped, the people gathered round. They said, what did you do? Nobody could fix it. He says, what you don't know is I'm the one that built this organ many, many years ago. I made it, and now I've restored it. And I'm here to tell you, God's good. He made you. And if we will trust him, he can restore us. And he can make things right. And he can fix that which is wrong, and he can correct that which is incorrect, and he can strengthen that which is weak, and he can make straight that which is crooked. God can make right that which is wrong. He's a good God. And we have every reason in the world to be glad. Amen. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, to trust you, help us, Lord, on a daily basis to pray. To meditate on your word, to praise you and be grateful. Lord, help us to share the gospel. Lord, I pray you'd help us be involved in missions and care and love for others. Help us to work hard in our Christian service. Work hard. I pray above everything else that you would just help us to rejoice in you and love you with all our heart, because you've sure been good to us, God, and we're glad.