Move those boxing gloves over. And uh I think we ought to just go ahead and put the nail in the coffin for Calvary Baptist right away today and just put them away and um take care of them. But like Dr. Barron said this week, they are sneaky, sneaky, sneaky. Here you go. I got one up here, fellas. Ephesians chapter two, if you go ahead back there. Ephesians chapter 2 And uh any others out there anybody else still is there anybody that needs one of the forms? Anybody that didn't get one that needs Okay, very good. Appreciate everyone involved and your hard work in getting these gospel tracts. Don't you know we have a lot of fun with this and we horse around and joke around and tease them But the reality is this is the word of God going out into people's hands in their homes. And that's a powerful, powerful thing. And um Brother Lewis Howe down in New Zealand is doing this. They've got I think I think he's up to about eight or nine thousand distributed down there. And he's already had visitors in the church as a result of their track month giving out gospel tracts. So uh we horse around, we have a lot of fun, but I don't want us to miss how important this really is and how how significant this can be in people's lives. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9 is a very familiar passage of scripture for most of us if you've been uh around church or a Bible believing church or you've known the Lord for any length of time. You're pretty familiar with this. I'd like for us to read these two verses together, eight and nine, out loud. You might be able to quote them from memory. And uh I'm sure many of you can. But would you read them with me? Just verse eight and nine. Read it together with me. Ready? For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast There's one two-word phrase in that verse eight that I want us to focus on this morning. We're going to go to various other passages of scripture, but notice it says through faith. For by grace are you saved through faith, through the channel of faith Grace is the gospel. Salvation is the result. But it is through faith that the gospel applies to me. That salvation Is applied to my account through faith is what brings it down into my heart and life. Faith. And so this morning I want to speak on the faith that saves. The faith that saves. Pray with me, and we'll share some thoughts here this morning. Father in heaven, I do ask that you would bless this study of your word on this subject of faith. Lord, we can't read very far in the Bible and not come to the conclusion that this is vitally important in our Christian life, in the salvation of souls, in the work of the ministry, in the raising of our families, in every aspect. This matter of faith. Lord, uh we read your word and we feel inferior. We feel like we have much to to grow in this matter. A lot of understanding we need to develop. And so with that in mind, I ask that you would teach us this hour on this matter of faith. Help us, Lord, to be able to exercise it As you intend for us to, as it's designed for. I pray, Lord, you'd help us to um uh be able to share the faith with others And see others come to Christ. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew this hour. With all my heart, dear Lord, I ask you to fill me and be our teacher. Apply it to our lives, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. There's no doubt about it. The most important issue in life is my salvation from sin and hell. Everything else is secondary. Most important thing in life is that I know Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, that I know that my sins are forgiven. And that when I die, I go to heaven. I say this often, and Jesus said it in various wording than what I'm using. But the worst thing that can possibly happen to a person. Would be for that person to, to use Jesus' terms, die in their sins. That's the worst thing to happen. What do we mean by that? For a person to die with their sins unforgiven With having an open account in heaven with the Lord concerning my sins. That results in God's judgment upon me for all eternity. in uh hell ultimately the lake of fire. So whether I'm successful in business life, whether I'm successful and popular, whether I uh you know I I fulfill all my earthly dreams But if I don't have this matter of my salvation settled, I'm lost for all eternity. And all that is not. So it's important that I get my sins forgiven. And that's the question. How do you do that? How does a person who has violated God's law, how does a person who has broken the commands of God, and we all have, Right? We all have. There's none that doeth good, no, not one. For all sinned and come short of the glory of God. None of us are righteous. We've broken God's laws. We're guilty. How do I get God to forgive me? For breaking his law, for taking his name in vain, for saying untruth. How am I saved from the judgment of God? How do I escape the our holy God's judgment on my sin? Well, 1 Corinthians 15, first four verses, tells us that God has some good news. God has some beautiful music twinkling down from heaven. But God has some good news for us. Was that you, Jody? No. Oh, it's Jan I I could tell both their faces were just red as could be. And I never want to miss an opportunity to barrest somebody when I have the opportunity. But having said that, in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, in the first four verses, the Bible says that God has some good news for us. The term good news is expressed in the Bible in the one-word gospel. And in 1 Corinthians 15, verses 1, 2, 3, and 4, he says, Hey! Here's the gospel. Here's some good news. This is what I've done for you, God speaking. My own Son, Jesus Christ, came to earth and he died for your sins. He died in your place as your substitute for your sins. He was buried, and the third day he rose again, just as the Bible says, according to Good news. You say, man, I've broken God's law. I'm a sinner. I'm under God's judgment. If I die like this, I go to hell for all eternity. How do I get forgiven? How do I escape this destiny I'm doomed to because of my sin? God says, good news. Good news. Christ died for you. He paid for those sins. He suffered hell in your place. He already was, he's your substitutionary sacrifice. He paid for your sins. He died for them. It's all been taken care of. Praise the Lord. Now the Bible says that Jesus died for everyone. There are some elements in Christianity that got this twisted idea that Jesus didn't die for everybody, that he only died for the people who would accept him as Savior. And those that didn't, he didn't bother dying for them. And they've got their logical reasons for that. And it may be logical, I don't know, but I know it's not scriptural. The Bible clearly teaches Jesus died for everybody, whether they accept what he did for them or not. Now, this is what I'm trying to get to, the point I'm trying to get to. Though Jesus died for everybody, Not everybody is going to heaven. Everybody's sins has been paid for Uh everybody, uh let me put it this way, everyone and anyone can be saved. From hell can have their sins forgiven, but not everybody does. Um it's like this We're all sinners, all of us. No exceptions. We've all broken God's law. The whole world over, from every part of the planet, wherever a person is, there's sin. Jesus Christ died for all of those sins. For the whole world. He paid the price. Nobody has to go to hell. He's buried, he rose again. He's the right hand of God. He can save anyone. Now here's the problem. Here's the question that I want to address this morning. How do I get that gospel How do I get that substitutionary death, burial, and resurrection of Christ? How do I get that applied to my account? He did it for everybody, but That's God's part, but man's part is to get that applied to my account. How do I do that? Alright, I read my Bible. Good news. Gospel. Jesus died for my sins. According to Scriptures, he was buried and rose again. He did all that for me, so I don't have to. go to hell. Praise the Lord. Now how do I get that? How do I uh the Bible says the gift of God is eternal life. How do I get that gift? Where do I go? What do I got to do? That's where Ephesians 8:9 comes in, and many, many other passages. For by grace, that's the gospel, God doing all of this for me. For by grace are you saved? What's the next two words? Through faith. Faith is what takes what Christ did for me And applies it to my account. Faith. Faith. So would you agree with me? If that if that's true, and it is, would you agree with me? Faith is pretty important. If that's what applies this salvation to my account, then uh that's important. I need to understand what faith is Faith. This passage we read here, Ephesians 2. 8. 9. How many folks would say, Preacher, I'm out before this morning, I was familiar with that passage? How many folks would say that? Yeah, I was familiar with Ephesians 2. 8. 9. Sure. The term faith. You've been around Christianity much at all, you're going to church much at all, you've heard that word faith bandied around a lot. It's in our songs, verses, we talk about it. Faith, faith, faith, faith, faith. But I'm afraid a lot of people really don't understand what faith is and how we exercise it. Um, in Luke chapter seven and verse forty-seven to fifty, there was a sinful woman, very sinful woman. And uh Jesus said to her, Jesus made this statement to her, and I was studying, and this statement caught my attention. He said, Thy faith hath saved thee Now she was a very simple woman. She was forgiven. She was expressing her gratitude to God for her forgiveness. And Jesus was explaining to her, understanding, and primarily to the Pharisees around her who were criticizing him, but he says it was faith. That applied the grace of God to her account. Her faith saved her. Again, in chapter 18 of Luke, there's a man there, and he says, Thy faith hath saved thee. So faith is extremely important. To recap what I just said, the gospel Jesus died for us, our sins, according to Scripture, was buried, and rose again. That gospel is what God has done for us. Faith is what we need to do with the gospel. Put our faith in it. It's our part in our salvation It's our responsibility to exercise faith in the gospel. We cannot overestimate the importance of faith. Having faith in God. Now, let's consider this matter of faith. Number one, I want us to consider the simplicity of saving faith. The simplicity of saving faith. Now, the title of my message this morning is The Faith That Saves. The first point of my message is the simplicity of saving faith. Now, before we go any farther, I want to make a statement that's going to contradict my title and my first point. There is no such thing as saving faith. There's no such thing as saving faith any more than there's such a thing as damning faith You follow what I'm saying? Faith is faith is faith. It's not complicated It is not that I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but let me make the statement here. It is not the type of faith that I have that determines my salvation. It is the object of my faith. That determines my salvation. So there really, technically speaking, there is no such thing as saving faith or damning faith. Faith is faith It is what I place my faith in or upon that determines whether my sins are forgiven or not. That determines whether the gospel is applied to my account or not. Are you with me? Everybody follow what I'm saying? So the simplicity of it, the word itself, in used in the general sense, simply means to have confidence in something, to trust in something. It has the idea of being convinced that something is true. To put my confidence in it. It is more. Now, this is what throws some people. The Bible will use the term believe interchangeably often with the term faith. And trust, and we'll use those three words: believe, trust, have faith. We'll use them interchangeably. They're synonyms in a lot of ways. And so some people see that word believe. And all that it registers with them is simply is simply accepting something to be true. Accepting the facts of something, having the knowledge of and saying that's true. For instance, uh somebody says, Oh yeah, I believe That Jesus died on the cross, was buried, and rose again. I believe that actually happened. I believe that's a correct account, an accurate account that Jesus Christ died, was buried, and rose again. Simply acknowledging the truth of that statement is not trusting in that statement. Follow what I'm saying? So when the Bible uses the term faith or it uses the term belief, it's more than just a mental awareness of a truth. It has the idea of reliance upon that truth, depending upon that truth, putting my confidence in that truth. I've used this illustration many times, but I think it uh it helps it very clearly illustrates what I'm trying to say Uh several weeks ago we had a team went down to Puerto Rico. We went over to uh BWI Airport and uh we got there very early in the morning checked all her stuff in and um we had three teenage girls it was a chaos constantly the whole time. No the three teenage girls were great except Rihanna. She was very confused. But um other than that it went really great. Rihanna was really confused. But uh we got there and we got our tickets and we're there at the gate and we got our boarding thing and we sit there and This this didn't actually happen this way, but I'll pretend it did for uh illustration. I gather a gang around and say, All right gang, we're gonna get in that plane, we're gonna fly to San Juan, Puerto Rico. It's gonna be warm out and sunshine and iguanas and all kinds of stuff. It's gonna be great. Oh yeah, we can't wait. And we say, now, before we get on an airplane, y'all believe that that airplane can fly us down there Oh yeah, we believe it can fly us down there. Absolutely. We've seen pictures of airplanes flying. We've heard people that have flown down there and flown back. No doubt that thing can fly us down there and back Do you believe that pilot can uh fly that airplane correctly and uh land at the right airport and go down there and and get us back? Oh yeah, we we saw him the one guy walked in, I wasn't real sure, but um Yeah, we believe that. Yes, it can. We're sure we know that. We've seen pictures. We've heard stories. We see people getting off the airplane. We're true. Alright, now you've got to trust that airplane to get you there. You can stand there at the gate for months and believe that airplane can fly you to wherever. But until you actually put your trust in it, have faith in it, and get on, you ain't going nowhere. Right? So faith is not really complicated, it's very simple. It's more than sim it's more than acknowledging something to be true. It is making a decision to trust that truth as it applies to me. Alright? Let's look at the gospel. Somebody says, in fact, millions of people say. Oh yeah I believe Jesus died on the cross for man's sins, was buried, and rose again. And by the way, the gospel is simply a historical fact. That's all it is. Read 1 Corinthians 15, verses, first four verses. It's just a historical record of something that took place. Christ died for our sins, according to Scriptures. As the Bible tells us, he was buried, he rose again. That is an account of a historical event. And so millions and millions of people believe that that historic event took place, that Jesus died, was buried, and rose again But they have never put their faith in that event as it applies to them You follow me? It's like this. Oh, yeah, I believe that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. I believe that's true. That's mental acknowledgement. Faith says this. I believe that God so loved me that he gave his only begotten Son who died for me. And I'm putting my trust in him, I'm believing in him, putting my confidence in him, that I may not perish, that I will have everlasting life You see the difference? It's basically getting on the plane, trusting it. Jesus is the Savior. That means he does the saving. I've asked this many times. You've heard this many times. What does a farmer do? He farms. A baker bakes. A carpenter carpens. What does a Savior do? He saves. And so to have faith in the gospel, faith in the good news of Jesus Christ. I am trusting him to save me from hell and from judgment. So there's a simplicity to faith. Now, there are not different types of faith It's just putting my confidence in something. So he says, well, preacher, I heard a preacher preach on saving faith. Oh, I know I put my faith in Christ. I've trust Him as a Savior, but I don't know if I put saving faith in Christ. There is no such thing as that. There's no damning faith. It's the object of my faith. For instance, let's come back to our airport analogy. We're standing there in the gate and get on the airplane. If you get on this airplane, it will fly you to San Juan. Yay, that's what we want. And so everybody gets in except Rihanna. She goes, I believe that airplane can get me to San Juan, but I also think that little buggy pulling the c uh baggage around down there can get me. So she goes and puts her trust in the buggy to get her to San Juan. The little guy driving. What are you doing here? Uh you gonna take me to San Juan? Sure, lady, whatever Question. Her faith in that little buggy to get her to San Juan. Is she going to get to San Juan? No. It's not a different type of faith, it's different objects of her faith. Most of us normal people trust the airplane to fly us to San Juan. Rihanna's a little different. She trusts the little buggy to get her San Juan. And I can pick on her because she's not here. You follow what I'm saying? So there's not different kinds of faith, there's different objects of faith We get out every week and uh we'll mention this in a moment, but we're gonna uh begin a new another uh sun uh soul winning training class on the Sunday school hour, uh starting next week, nine forty-five. Uh we're gonna teach how to Share the gospel with people and introduce them to Lord Jesus, encourage them to trust Christ. Very practical. I think it'll be very, very helpful for everyone. But We get out and uh we meet people out in community or whatever. Yesterday we were down in Cumberland and uh sometimes we meet people, we ask them, Do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven? Sometimes folks will say, Oh yeah, I believe I'd go to heaven. Our next question is this. How do you know? What gives you that assurance? You know what I'm asking them? What is your faith in? What are you trusting in to get you to heaven? You know what some people tell me? Some people tell me: well, I'm a church member. I joined the church when I was 12 years old, and I believe that my sins are forgiven. I'm safe from hell. I'm going to heaven because I am a church member. Now that person has faith, right? They're trusting in something, they're putting their confidence, they're depending on their church membership to get them to heaven. Now, when we look at the Bible, it becomes very clear church membership does not get people to heaven. This church can't get anyone to heaven any more than that luggage buggy can get someone to San Juan, Puerto Rico. Follow what I'm saying? Their faith is for real. It's genuine, legit, bona fide faith, but it's in the wrong thing. And it won't get them to heaven. They'll wake up in hell. As tragic as that is. So there's not different kinds of faith. Don't sit there and say, boy, I wonder if I have the right faith. I wonder if I have the right kind of faith. I wonder if I have the right kind of faith. That's not the question. You're asking the wrong question. It's not what kind of faith, but the question is: what is my faith in? What is the object of my faith Uh sometimes we get out and knock on doors and talk to people and uh we'll ask them, you know for sure, have you ever thought about heaven and hell? Oh yeah, I think about it. Um uh let me ask you this question. Do you know for sure if you if you tragically something awful happened and you died today, do you know for sure your sins are forgiven, you won't go to heaven? Some people say, yeah, I believe I would. I think My sins are forgiven. I go to heaven, we'll ask them, Well, how do you know? What are you trusting in? And they'll say, Well, I take the sacraments at my church every week. Of course the Catholic Church and uh various others, I think the Episcopal Church has sacraments of some sort, and uh you go through and take the Eucharist, the Mass, and you Confess your sins and do penance. You have this whole list of things. I think the Catholic Church has seven sacraments that need to be done in order for you. And I think God would accept me and forgive me because I'm trusting in my faith is in the sacraments. Do they have a wrong kind of faith? No. The faith they have in the sacraments is the exact same faith I have in the gospel. But they got it in the wrong object. You don't study very far in the Bible. Good night. You open up just about any page. You find out in the Bible, sacraments, religious rituals never gets anyone to heaven. It's not gonna happen. You can walk to San Juan before you'll get to heaven trusting in sacraments. Huh? It's not the wrong kind of faith, it's the wrong object of the faith. Trusting in something, depending on something. Rihanna's sitting down in that little buggage, uh uh luggage uh buggy Mm-hmm. Riding around she'd still be riding around that airport. I believe this will get me to San Juan. This will get me to San Juan. Ain't gonna happen. She's trusting that buggy just as much as we were trusting the airplane We made it the same one. She didn't. You follow what I'm saying? We get out, folks. Do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? Oh yeah, I think I would. How do you know? What are you trusting in? I've been baptized. I've done these good works. I pay my bills. I'm a good citizen. I had a lady tell me one time, of course I'm saved. I'm an American. Sometimes I get this answer. They say, Well, this is the way I think it is Me and a lady down in Chattanooga, my good friend Randy Miller and I were witnessing to this uh young woman. You know for sure if you die now you go to heaven. Oh yeah I know. How do you know? What are you trusting in? God would never send anyone to hell. What's she trusting in? What's her faith in? Her own understanding. Her own imagination. Well, I think it's this way And therefore, my faith is in what I think. I'm trusting in that. Sure, I'm going to go to heaven because I don't think God would ever send anyone to hell. Same faith that I have in the gospel, she's put in her own understanding. The tragic thing is you study scripture and you find out her faith is in the wrong thing. That's the same idea. If I go down to uh WEPCO, the savings and union. I walk in there and say, I'd like to withdraw f $250,000. And they say, okay, Mr. Letheman, what's your number? I give him my number and say Do you have that money in there? Yeah, I believe I don't believe you uh you guys would withhold that money from me. I believe it's actually in there. And I can believe that with all my heart. Am I coming out of that bank with $250,000? Not if you sold my account, you know I wasn't. That is just as ridiculous for me to think I can come out of that bank with all that money as for somebody to just think something up about God and think that's the way it's going to be. And then be foolish enough to put their trust in that and depend in that. So the simplicity of faith, it's not a type of faith, there's not different kinds of faith. Uh there's not this. There is simply faith, trusting in something, depending on something. The difference is the object, what I'm depending on to produce what I'm looking for. Now, there what is one important ingredient? If I'm going to have faith That is going to take the gospel of the good news of salvation available and apply it to my account. Turn with me, if you would, to Romans, or not Romans, John chapter 20, the Gospel of John, fourth book of the New Testament. Second last book. Chapter. Fourth book, second last chapter. John chapter twenty Look with me at the last two verses of the fourth book of the New Testament, second last chapter. John chapter 20, verse number 30. Alright? You see it? And many other songs. Now this is John writing under the inspiration of God And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. What's he say? He's saying Jesus did a lot of other stuff that's not recorded in the Bible. Jesus did a whole bunch of other things that we don't know about that wasn't recorded there. In fact, look what he says. But these are written. That ye might what? Have faith, belief, put your trust in, have confidence in. That Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. Question, is that a historical fact that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God? Absolutely. He's everything He claimed to be, everything the Bible declared him to be I want you to believe that. Well, look what happens when you believe that. That believing you might have what? Life through his name. What's he saying here? He's saying, I have written down, you have been given the Bible, the Word of God, so that you can know the truth, the facts about Jesus Christ and the gospel. So that you can put your faith, your confidence into those facts, which will give you eternal life. Live forever with God in heaven You follow what's happening? So there's another, there's an ingredient here in this matter of having faith for salvation that is more than just uh act of trusting something. And that's this. I must have something to believe it. See what I'm saying? These things have I written. I've given you this information about Jesus Christ so you can trust in it. So that you can have eternal life. I cannot put my faith in something I know nothing about. Does that make sense? Aren't you glad you came to church today? Uh I cannot put my uh I can't trust an airplane to fly me to San Juan if I don't even know airplanes exist. Hey, are you gonna you think that airplane can fly you to San Juan? What's an airplane? I'm from West Virginia. Um Oh man Sorry. That was bad. Uh, I'm from Kentucky. Oh, what's an airplane? You know, this thing's flying here. Never heard of it. I don't know. How can I trust it? I'm gonna ride this little buggy and get me there. You follow what I'm saying? How can a person in Kazakhstan that's never heard the gospel, how can they put their faith in the gospel? They can't. They don't know it exists. Or they have some twisted information about it. So there must be information for someone to put their faith in if they're going to get to heaven There must be correct. I cannot rely upon something I'm unaware of. I cannot have confidence in something I don't understand. That's why it is so important that we take the gospel. This good news that Jesus died for people's sins, was buried, and rose again. That we take that information and we teach all nations. And we go to Japan and we go to Mongolia and we go to South Africa and we go around the whole world and we give them that information. Jesus already died for your sins He was buried, he rose again. Take to your faith, trust in that, depend on that. He will take you to heaven someday He will forgive your sins. Put your trust in that truth, in that person that did that, and he will save you from hell. That's all it is. It's very simple. But there must be that information. There must be that knowledge that I can put that trust in. So my first point, the lengthiest point of my message is the simplicity of faith. It's just a simple thing as trusting. I was watching when you came in this morning. Many of you, I didn't see all, but many of you, I was watching when you came in this morning. You came down, many of you laid your Bible and maybe a coat or sweater or whatever on the pew. And you know what you did? You flocked down on that pew. You just sat on it. I didn't see anybody come and get the pew and And look underneath, put your weight on it. You know what? In your mind you had information, that pew will hold me up. You've seen others do it, you've experienced it before, and you simply put your trust that that pew was going to hold you up when you flop down on it. Right? That's the same thing as trusting Jesus. I believe with all my heart that Jesus Christ died for Dennis Letterman's sin. He suffered hell for my in my place for him completely. He is buried, he rose again. And I know that if I trust in Jesus, my faith, my confidence, my trust is in you to forgive my sins and take me to heaven someday. And I know That when I die, I'm going to heaven because Jesus can be trusted. He will do what the Bible says he will do. For whosoever shall call upon the Lord, shall put their trust in the Lord, shall be saved. Not might be, not can be, not hopefully will be, no, will be saved. If we're trusting in him. Now, we flew to San Juan, just elaborating on this illustration, we flew to San Juan. Is it feasible that that plane might not have made it to San Juan? Sure. That plane's man-made. The hydraulic valve could have popped and the wings fallen off, and uh the pilot could have died. I like what Curtis Hudson said. He used to not fly unless he absolutely had to. And they said, Why he said, Why would you not fly? He said, because Jesus promised, Lo, I am with you always And then they said to him, they said, Yeah, but when it's your time, your time's up when w no matter whether you're up in a plane or down. He goes, Yeah, but what happens if it's the pilot's time to be up? It's feasible that that plane might not get us down, and we might be hijacked halfway down and end up in Iran. So there's a lot of variables when you're putting your trust in man, fallible man. But when I'm putting my trust in Jesus Christ for the salvation of my soul to save me from going to hell, take me to heaven, there's no variables. He never fails. Nobody has ever put their faith in Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of their sins and the salvation of their soul from hell. That has gone to hell. Everyone that has ever put their faith in Jesus Christ has ended up in heaven without fail. Because Jesus never fails. It is faith. The simplicity of faith, the subject of faith, the primary subject of saving faith, to use that term, is eternal life Now, the Bible speaks of faith in a general sense in that really all areas of our life are to be lived by faith The Bible says we are to live by faith, not by sight. That's talking about more than just the salvation of my soul from hell. It's talking about living my life here on earth. And the Bible gives us many warnings, many promises, all kinds of instructions as to how we are to live our lives. And I can do one of two things. Now follow me. Well, first of all, I hear the message that I'm a sinner, I'm under the judgment of God, if I die in that condition, I go to hell for all eternity. But Jesus Christ died and suffered hell for me in my place and rose again. And if I will trust him to forgive me from sin, of my sin, and save me from hell, he will do that, and I can know I'm going to heaven. That's salvation. Once I'm saved, I have people say this to me sometimes, well, I would get saved, but I just can't live it. Anybody ever hear that? Yeah, I trust Christ, but I just can't live the Christian life. You know what my response is all the time? Join the club, buddy. I never met anybody that can. You say, well, then how do you live the Christian life? By faith. Here's the thing: the Christian life is a supernatural life. It's what God does in me. Um so God says, listen, don't go to those kinds of places. As a Christian, you're saved. You trusted Christ, you accepted the gospel, Jesus saved you on your way to heaven. And he says, now listen, as a Christian, don't go to that kind of place. I can either trust him. Say, you know, I believe he knows best. I'm gonna put my trust in that what he says that I shouldn't do that, and I'm gonna put my confidence, I'm gonna trust in that he's right and I shouldn't do that. Or I can say I don't see anything wrong with that. Uh I try to be like Bill Barons. It's influence. Um or I can just say, you know, I'm gonna lean on my own understanding I don't see anything wrong with that. I'm gonna go ahead and do that. It's faith. Both of them are faith. I'm either trusting that what God says is best or what I think is best. And the consequences are according. God says, I want you to do this. Well, I'll trust him and do that. That's I don't want you you shouldn't do that. I trust them and I won't do that. Or I trust myself and I do it and it doesn't work out So the subject of faith depends on the situation. Am I what's the subject of my faith about getting my sins forgiven and heaven? Well, I'm trusting Christ to take away my sins and save me from hell. Uh what about my financial needs and the my uh provisions and food and clothing and all of that, and I'm trying hard, I don't know if I can have all that provided. Well, I'll trust that God will provide that for me. Same thing, but different subjects. Am I making any sense at all? Are you following what I'm saying? It is possible It is possible to have faith in Jesus Christ as your Savior, but not have faith in Him for your provisions. I'm talking to some Christians this morning. I have no doubt about it. You've been saved. You've trusted Christ to save you from sin and hell. When you die, you're going to heaven. But you're worried sick about some provisions. You're not trusting Christ for that. Follow what I'm saying? It's whatever subject I'm dealing with, I need to put my trust in Christ for that. A young person, oh, I'm never going to find the right person. To marry, I'll never find a right. I just need to, I'm just gonna go out and grab anyone that comes along. And God says, don't do that. God says, I know what's best for you if you will trust me. If you'll look, follow the principles, trust in God, follow his leadership and direction, I'll provide for you. Or you can take things in your own hands and just go do what you want. Now you can either trust me with that, or you can trust yourself. Does it make sense? Short So the subject, there's various things all through Scripture, but the beginning point is to receive the gospel. Put my trust in what Jesus Christ did for me. Let him come in my life, forgive my sins, save me from sin in hell. I trust him to do that. Then once I do that, then the subjects of my faith vary. And last of all, what's the significance of faith? Faith. Is it really that important? Listen, what I'm my faith is in determines where I spend eternity. You're here this morning, you say, Preacher, I never really thought about it, where I'm go when I die. I never really thought about my sins. I mean I know I'm not perfect, but I've never really thought about God and my sins. I'm telling you this morning, you better start thinking about it. You say, well, you know, when I was a kid, they baptized me as a little baby. As a member of a church, I think that'd be alright. Do you really want to put your faith in something you just think is true? Or do you want to put your faith and trust in something God states is true? The gospel. You need to put your faith in Jesus Christ. It's simply a matter of making a decision. Yes, I believe Jesus died for my sins, was buried, and rose again. There's no doubt in my mind, and I am trusting what he did to be applied to my situation. And that he will save me from sin. For me, May 7, 1979, 19-year-old boy. I put my faith in Christ. God forbid if I walk across the ro or I'm driving the bus today home, God forbid we're coming back, and we'll say it's after I drop everyone off. And um a tractor trailer plows into the side of that bus, I'm killed instantly. God forbid that happened. That's not the time to say amen, by the way. But uh God forbid that that would happen. I'm here to tell you, before God and the world, I know for sure that I would go to heaven and not to hell. Say, oh, you really think you're pretty good hot shot preacher, huh? No. I I don't think that. I know that's not true. I'm a Sinner just like anybody else. But May 7, 1979, I put my trust, my confidence in Jesus Christ to forgive me of all my sins and save me. And I believe that what he said he would do, he will do. And that's what faith Was it yesterday or Friday? Somebody help me, was the hundredth anniversary of the sinking of the Titanic. Oh today. It's like midnight. So it was real late at night for us or this mor early this morning. Two o'clock this morning, I think, is what it was. Anybody ever hear the Titanic? People call in uh water people think they're uh water uh plastic and a lot of people. Right. Raymond's going to give a session on the Titanic afterward. Thank you, Raymond. But anyway I was reading about it this week and there's been in the news and everything. And uh come to find out that there were some people Who drowned in the Titanic that did not know that there were lifeboats available. Word had gotten around, which was true, they didn't have enough lifeboats. So there are some people in their quarters, whatever, says they don't even have any lifeboats. There's no way we can be saved. And so they didn't get in the lifeboats because they didn't know that there was actually some available. In that sand. There were some people that drowned in that wreck who chose not to get in lifeboats The captain and various staff members said, no, we're going down with the ship. We're not going to get in the lifeboats. And there were some people that were given the opportunity to actually get in them. And trust the lifeboat to save them from drowning and dying. That, in my mind, is exactly the situation this world is in The only difference being there's plenty of lifeboats available. The gospel's available for everybody. But some people don't know about it. There are people who have died this morning in Kurzhstan, in Siberia, in Africa, in Baltimore. Who did not know that they could put their faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ and have their sins forgiven and go to heaven. And they died and went to hell. Because they did not know a lifeboat was available. They did not know what to put their faith in Some people know about the gospel and for whatever reason choose not to trust it. I meet people fairly regularly. Yes, I believe that. Yes, I know that's true. But no, I'll not trust it. Not now. And thank God there's a lot of people who've heard it and put their faith in it and have been saved. Now, there's a re- we have a responsibility. Those of us that are already in the lifeboat, we've got to get to the message to those that don't know about it. Hey, you can be saved. There is a good news. Here's what you need to put your trust in. Does that make sense? Faith, saving faith. There's no such thing as saving faith. It's the object of my faith. And then my responsibility once I Christ is to share that with the others. And then also this factor we just touched on is then living my life as a Christian. You say how how do you how do you live to be a good Christian life? You just trust God. Put your faith in that what he says is true. And he enables us. He's helped us. I was hopelessly addicted to drugs. Hopelessly addicted to drugs And God delivered me. Say, how'd you get out of that? I didn't get out of it. God did it. I trusted him, but my faith in him Whatever your situation may be, put your faith in Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, this is so important. I trust, Lord, that your Holy Spirit opens our hearts and our minds, our understanding. That we see how simple this is is just putting my confidence and hope in you for the salvation of my soul. For the provisions of life, for direction. Help us, Lord, to just trust you. Just trust you. Our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder how many this morning say, pray I'm saved. I've trusted Christ. There's no doubt about it. I know the time and place where I've made the decision. Put my confidence, my trust in Christ. I've got that settled. But