Turn in your Bibles there. When you find Proverbs 22, find uh chapter 27 also. And uh we're going to be reading verse number 12 of chapter 27. Proverbs 22, 3, 27, 12, two verses we're going to. I want to talk about a prudent man this morning. And um I read about a fellow who was thought to be a very prudent man. They said this about him. They said he brushed his teeth twice a day. He wore boots when it was raining out. He did his uh daily exercises, push-ups, and sit-ups. He slept with the windows open. He was very careful with his diet. He got a medical checkup twice a year He never smoked a cigarette, never drank liquor, never indulged in any kind of excess. He was planning and preparing himself to live to be a hundred years old. His wed his funeral was last Wednesday. He survived by 18 specialists, four health institutes, six gymnasiums. and numerous manufacturers of food and antiseptics, but he forgot one thing, to look out for the train at the crossing. So it's amazing how people, you and I, can be so careful in some areas and yet so negligent in other areas. It's possible to be very prudent in some aspects of life, and then be very simple in some other aspects of life. Look with me, if you would, at chapter 22, and I'd like for us to read together in unison verse number 3. Proverbs 22 and verse number 3. If you have it there, you read along with me. Here we go. Ready? A prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself, but the simple pass on and are punished. Turn over to chapter 27 with me if you would. And I'd like for us to read verse 12 together in unison. You're going to find out it's verbatim. Very same statement made here in verse number 12 of Proverbs 27. Let's read that together in unison. Here we go. Ready? A prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself, but the simple pass on and are punished. God is trying to teach us something here. He wants us to be prudent men, prudent women. And so I want to speak on that this morning. Let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us and help us be what He's uh designed us to be Father. We ask now that you would uh speak our hearts and teach us on this matter of prudence Lord, I would be the first one to admit, Lord, that I have a long way to grow in this area of my life. And so our Bibles are open before us. I trust, Lord, our hearts and minds are open before you. And that you would teach us, you would challenge us, you would exhort us, provoke us to trust you, to be wise. And that we can come to the end of our life someday and hear you say, Lord, well done. And so please fill me with your spirit. I yield my will to you and present my body anew. And pray that you would uh help us in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. How many people remember Love Canal? Anybody remember Love Canal? If you've been around for a little while. Love Canal was started out, I believe, in the 1950s by a fellow. His last name was Love. I don't have his first name But his purpose was to build an ideal community outside of Niagara Falls City. He had it all planned out, the uh houses, it was just going to be a beautiful, nice com uh community uh middle class, upper middle class. And he designed a canal that was going to come around the river there and flow through and provide transportation and different things. Well, before it was completed, the canal particularly in this whole community, before it was completed, he ran into financial trouble. And uh the whole project was abandoned. And the canal, though it had started, was never really completed. It was just a hole in the ground As it sat there, the city of Niagara Falls decided to use that as a city dump. And they would fill that in with the city trash. After a period of time, there was a chemical company there, and I don't have oh yes I do, it's the Hooker Chemical Company, purchased that area and they began dumping uh toxic chemical waste. into this abandoned canal. That went on for years, and later at some point they filled up, I guess, and they buried the whole canal here, just covered it up, backfilled it in, covered the whole thing up. At one point, the city of Niagara purchased this abandoned canal that is now filled with toxic waste. It's backfilled over. They purchased it and decided to build schools city parks and houses on and around this land that uh contained this toxic chemical waste Looks to me somebody would have thought that might not be a good idea. They purchased it for almost nothing, as I understand it. And here's the thing they never considered the consequences of building upon a toxic waste dump. Eventually because of weather and they had some unusually heavy snows and uh rains and as the years went by and they had made efforts to see to seal the toxic waste in there. They had put clay around it and different things. But over time, weather does what weather does. Weather did what weather does. And wore away at that. And it wasn't long till this waste was seeping into the water system and was showing up in uh in the water table. As a result of that There was widespread health issues. They recorded a abnormally large number of miscarriages. There were birth defects, high rate of cancer, and the list went on So finally there was such an uproar, and of course the media got in there and made it even bigger. By the time it was all said and done, it took 21 years and $400 million to correct this situation Now here's the reason I'm telling that. A little bit of foresight could have avoided all of this whole situation. All of this toxic waste, all of this wasted money, all of these health issues could have been avoided if there had simply been a little bit of foresight. Now what is true in that situation with Love Canal is true in every one of our lives. A little bit of foresight. A little bit of looking ahead and considering can avoid a lot of troubles, can avoid a lot of heartache, can avoid a lot of waste. The Bible, in the Bible, you can see where mankind can be divided up into various categories. Physically and spiritually. We think of the rich and poor, the educated and uneducated. The world likes to divide us up into categories that way. But spiritually, the Bible divides us up into into various categories. All of mankind. For instance, all of mankind is divided into either they're saved or they're lost. Right? There's no in-between. Everybody I'm talking to right now, either your sins are forgiven. Jesus Christ is your personal Savior. You have eternal life. You're on your way to heaven. Or You do not have the Lord Jesus Christ. You are under the judgment of God. You are under God's wrath. And if you die in your sins, you're separated from God for all eternity. Those are only two categories as far as salvation is concerned. There's no in-between. Years ago I heard someone say that they are sort of saved. Are you saved? Do you know for sure you're going to heaven? Well, sort of. You cannot be sort of saved. Either you is or you ain't. Right? Either you are saved or you're not saved. You don't fall into one of those two categories. Let's think about Christians for a moment. These are folks that have accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. May 7, 1979, I called on the Lord. He came in my life. He saved my soul. He changed my life. He gave me eternal life. Not better than anybody else. The Lord knows that. But God has promised that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I certainly call on the Lord that night and he saved my soul. Now, for those that know Jesus Christ as Savior, those who have accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, the Bible puts us into categories For instance, the late Corinthians, 1 Corinthians, beginning of the book, he talks about those who are spiritual and those who are carnal. Paul was writing to the church at Corinth, and he says, I could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto babes, as to those who are carnal. Now, they were certainly saved. They had eternal life. Their eternal destiny was not an issue. But their spiritual condition as a child of God Was an issue. And I'm speaking to folks here. Let me just ask you this. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen Alright, so every one of us that just testified that we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, we've been born again. Everyone else, we fall into one of two categories. Everyone I'm talking to, myself included Either we are a spiritual Christian or we are a carnal Christian. A spiritual Christian could be defined as this, somebody who is walking in the Spirit. They're living by the principles of the Word of God. They're letting the Holy Spirit teach them, instruct them, and prompt them and lead them by God's word. Uh they are doing their best to put aside the works of the flesh and uh uh the things of the world, keep the world's influence and priorities and principles out of my life and I'm seeking to live for God in the power of the Holy Spirit. That is not a sinless Christian, but it is a spiritual Christian. Do I make sense? You follow what I'm saying Then the other conversely you have the carnal Christian. They're saved, they're Christian just as much as the spiritual is, but they are operating under the influence of the flesh. The word carnal means fleshly. You eat chili con corny, chili with flesh, chili with meat And so a carnal Christian is someone who lives according to the flesh. The desires of this flesh, the understanding, the reasoning of my fleshly mind. Galatians chapter 5 gives the works of the flesh. And so every one of us, as a Christian, we fall into one of two categories. Either we are spiritual Christian or we are carnal. A spiritual Christian can uh uh neglect their walk with God and become a carnal Christian A carnal Christian can say, hey, I need to get right with God. I need to take this seriously. And in a moment of time, they can become a spiritual Christian. They turn from that sin, repent of that in their life, and live for God, they can become a spiritual Christian. I hate to say this, and you might not believe this, but over the last 39 years that I've known the Lord as Savior, I have been times one of both of those. You say, preacher, you've never been carnal. Oh yeah, let's go outside and talk about it, all right? That's carnal thinking. And so you it we fluctuate sometimes, but the ideal is to live as a spiritual Christian. So I'm trying to set the stage here is that God We sometimes bristle at the idea of putting people in categories, but reality is there are categories, saved or lost, spiritual or carnal. Now we're in Proverbs, and we notice in these two verses that we read together, there are two categories of people. Did anybody notice that? What are they? The first one is the Prudent man, and the second one is the simple man. The prudent and the simple. Now here is my challenge in the message that I believe God has prompted me to bring this morning. I want you to ask yourself, examine yourself. Would you describe yourself as a biblically prudent person or a simple person? We'll look and see exactly what the Bible says about that. The first one I would consider is the prudent man, and then we'll, Lord willing, look briefly at the simple man. But I want to look at the prudent man. Notice there it says in verse uh well I'm in chapter twenty-two. You can go with either one, they're identical. Verse 3 and 22, he says, a prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. So I got looking at that word prudent. What exactly does he mean? Sometimes we live in a world today where the word prude has negative connotations, doesn't it? Oh, she's such a prude Well what do they mean by that? Probably they mean she's doing right. Probably they mean she has principles, she has morals Now they might be a little self-righteous about it, might be thrown in there, but the idea itself is a good thing. As I got studying the word prudent in the Bible, I found it actually has two connotations. One is negative, one is positive. One of the negative connotations of a prudent person is that of being very subtle It is that of being very crafty. It has this idea to be to be wise to do evil. Can you think of anyone early in the Bible that is presented as a very crafty, a very subtle, a very wise-to-do evil being The serpent in Genesis chapter 3. That was the first one that came to mind. In fact, it says the serpent was more subtle than any other of the beasts of the field, something to that effect. That word subtle there, lo and behold, comes from the exact same word as the word prudent in our text But it is in a negative fashion. That old serpent, of course, we know is Satan. That old serpent, he knew exactly how to manipulate Eve. He knew exactly how to get her and twist her around and use his words and question in such a way that she ended up sinning against her Creator and her God And brought wrath and death, the wrath of God and sin and death upon mankind. Oh, listen, Satan is crafting We must never ever think for a moment that we can outwit Satan. Must never think for a moment. That's why we always warn folks, and young and old, we say, listen, don't play with sin. Don't try and hide it. Don't think that somehow you can handle that thing. And don't think that somehow you can outwit Satan. Don't think that somehow you can pull a fast one on Satan. I'm telling you He is subtle. He is wise to do evil. And so the word prudent itself is used in some aspects. in a negative way, but the majority of the time the word prudent is used in a positive way. It means this to be very wise, to be intelligent. I thought this was interesting. One of the aspects of the word prudent has this idea of being very cautious and very, very careful. He is prudent in dealing in that area. If you would, the Bible says, gives us several statements about the prudent man, particularly in Proverbs. If you would come back to Proverbs chapter 13, we'll just look at a few of these real quick. Proverbs chapter 13. And I just want to challenge you in your daily Bible reading, if you could somehow throughout the day, in the morning or evening, in addition to what you're doing, try and read a chapter of Proverbs every day. The Proverbs was written uh by inspiration, by Solomon, under the inspiration of God, to his son. And his tremendous, tremendous book. Chapter 13, look with me if you would at verse number 16. Every prudent man, all right, that's our subject, every prudent man dealeth with what? Knowledge. What is he saying here? A prudent man gets information. He finds out what he's talking about. He finds out what he's dealing with before he gets into it. A prudent man, uh let me read it again. A prudent man, let me get my place here, verse 16. Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge He finds out what's going on. Listen, uh it we would be very, very wise if we would make sure we have all the facts before we give our opinion. Make sure we have all the facts before we make judgment. We talked about this Wednesday night. A prudent man dealeth with knowledge, what is true, what he knows. That means, and I put this down, that means a prudent man does not assume things. You know, when I was young growing up, I don't know you, when I was young growing up, my folks taught me never assume Never assume. Make sure. Make sure. Anybody anybody ever hear that? Don't ever assume something. Be sure. My wife, we used to get a little irritated when we first got married. She never gets irritated with me anymore, but when we first got married, she did a little bit. And um uh she's not here, so pray the Lord. She didn't hear that. But uh that would have irritated her if I said that. But we used to get out and I'd say, let's make sure the doors are locked. This was back in the old-fashioned days before you had these little fancy things you can walk away and hit it and beep beep. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And so I'd say, uh, let's lock the door as we get out of the car go up. And then we'd walk away and I'd say, did you lock the door? That just steamed her. Yes, I locked the door! And um this is very therapeutic for me to share this stuff with you I said, well, I I'm not uh I I don't mean anything. I just want I don't want to assume that they're locked. I want to make sure. You follow what I'm saying? That was a terrible illustration. But um A prudent man's not going to assume stuff. I want to be sure. He deals with knowledge. I know that's the case. I know that is. Listen, when it comes to the spiritual realm, you're foolish if you simply assume you're saved. You're foolish if you simply assume that everything's alright. Listen, we need to make sure. We need to examine ourselves and be sure that we are in the faith. Please don't uh uh you know knock on doors and talk to it. Do you know for sure when you die your sins are given, you're on your way to heaven, oh I'm sure it's fine. Listen, that is a terrible approach So my spiritual, eternal destiny. And so a prudent man deals with knowledge. He doesn't assume things. Come over to chapter 14 with me and notice verse number 8. Uh fourteen verse eight. The wisdom of the prudent Is to understand his way. He makes sure he knows where he's headed A prudent man says, listen, I want to know where this is heading. I want to know where this road leads to. I want to know what this type of behavior is going to produce. I want to know what this decision, what the consequences of this decision is. He understands his way. He wants to make sure. How many of you guys have ever been driving? Here come the wives. Apparently I have some marriage issues going on here. But um Do you ever drive down the road and you're absolutely convinced you're going your right way and your wife says something, I don't think this is the right road. Have you ever been there? 99% of the time, she's right It's like, God, don't tell me. Do we need directions? No, we don't need no directions. You know what the prudent man does? He gets directions. He stops and asks. He understands his way. He makes sure he knows where he's going. Turn over to chapter 15 and verse number 5. The prudent man. A fool despiseth his father's instruction. And boy, I say amen right there. I look back in my early years at home and I look at myself, what I was then, and I say, what a fool. How many f how many how many fellows here you're grown, you look back and say, I wish I'd listened to my daddy Anybody like that? I wish I'd have listened to my daddy. You know, you go through those stages. You're about 15, 16, 17, 18 years old, and your dad's the dumbest person in the world. Right? What a knucklehead. You don't know nothing. I've no I got it all figured out. Then you hit about 2530. That's not quite as stupid as he seemed. He knew a few things. Then you get about 55, 60, and you say, boy, Dad knew what he was talking about. Dad wasn't no dummy. And I'm telling you, listen to me, young people, I'm telling you, you are a fool. If you don't listen to your dad, you're a fool. You don't listen to your parents and adults. And that's what the Bible says. But let's look on here. Then he goes on, verse 5: A fool despiseth his father's instruction, but he that regardeth reproof is what? Prudent. A prudent person, a wise person, listens to his elders. He listens to those that have already been through it Those have already lived this life, those have already dealt with the issues, you say, oh, we live in a new age. They're old-fashioned. Listen, I'm telling you what, uh mankind has not changed one bit We may have different gadgets and gizmos, and the vehicles might be different than what they were 50 years ago, but man's heart and life is still the same. And a wise person, a prudent person, listens to those who have been through it, have experienced some of these things and pays attention. He listens to his elders and get this. This is where This is where it rubs the wrong way and accepts correction. A prudent man accepts correction. How many folks like me you bristle when somebody comes to correct you? Anybody? I'm the only one. There you go. I got a problem. I tell you what, human nature doesn't like that to be corrected. Human nature doesn't like that to be rebuked. But a wise person says somebody, hey, hey, you're doing this wrong. Listen to me. A wise person listens to them. Now they may be mistaken, but if you're wise, you're going to listen to what they say I can learn from it. And so the Bible talks, you go through here, and the Bible talks about this prudent man, this prudent man, this prudent man He doesn't assume things. He makes sure. He wants to know where he's heading. Where is this going to where is this life that I'm living end up? Where where am I going to be? I've often said when I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I said to myself then, very clearly I understood, for the first time in my life, I did something good For the first time in my life, I did something right. I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. And the whole motivation behind my salvation was this: I do not want to be the man I am becoming. And I believe it was the Spirit of God moving on me, opening my eyes and understanding the direction my life was going, the kind of person my decisions and my behavior was producing. And I did not like what I saw, and I did not want to be that person. I saw that my only hope was the Lord Jesus Christ, and I'm here to testify: you trust Jesus Christ as Savior, He will change your life. He'll take that which is bad and make it good, and he'll take that which is dirty and make it clean. But a prudent man foresees that, the direction of his life, and he and he faces it and deals with it Now we come to our text. The prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. I see this prudent man has some perception. He has some perception, and by that I mean this. He is aware that there are consequences to his actions. A prudent man understands if I take this action, I understand what those consequences are going to be. He foreseeth the evil. He understands there are consequences to decisions he makes. He understands there are consequences to the behavior he engages in The prudent man foreseeth. What does it mean to foresee something? It simply means I can look ahead And I can see, I can grasp, I can understand what the consequences of this action is going to be. Years ago I was on, I was the chaplain for the local hospice program here. And I think it's a tremendous program. Um spiritually they had a lot of ecumenical type things that I was not comfortable with and when they asked me to come on, I I said I would be honored to work with the hospice, but I cannot be involved in the ecumenical type stuff. And I guess they were hard up or something. They said, Pastor Levin, you can do whatever you want, and you can not do whatever you don't want to. We just need somebody to visit folks that are dying and they don't have a pastor. I said, well, if that's the case, those strings attached, I'll be glad to do it. I'm telling you, it was a tremendous four years of my life. I learned so much. There was a fellow up outside Grantsville. And I visited with them and he gave testimony that he was saved, and I'd never met him before, and we talked, and he was dying of emphysema. That is a horrible way to die. He had been a heavy smoker his whole life. And now he was experiencing the consequences. of the decisions he made to put those cigarettes in his mouth. And you know, I saw that and I ended up doing his funeral and Uh, I saw that man die and how he died and just how horrific. I mean, I'm telling you, it was horrific. Fighting for every breath And I'll go and try and talk, and I'd talk to young people and other ones and say, listen, don't ever put that cigarette in your mouth. Don't ever do that. You need to be prudent. You need to look ahead and see me putting this smoke into my lungs, what is it going to produce down the road? When am I going to be? A prudent man foreseeth the evil. He sees what the, he understands there are consequences to actions. I don't know why I'm saying this, but to me, smoking is the stupidest thing in the world. You get nothing out of it. You don't get high You don't it doesn't you don't get drunk. There's nothing that doesn't make you feel any better. It makes you smell like an ashtray I mean, uh the uh what in the world? What benefit is there? What what do you get out of it A prudent man says, listen, if I do this, if I engage in this behavior, if I Make these decisions. If I take these actions, I need to understand there are going to be consequences. And by the way, all actions have consequences Only a simpleton, only a fool would say, Oh, I can do whatever I want and there will be no consequences. That is the definition. That is the biblical definition of a fool. And a prudent man understands there are consequences. That is a truth taught all through Scripture. Right at the beginning of mankind's existence, when God created Adam and Eve, He created the garden, He gave them everything, He gave them some responsibilities, and then He said, You can freely eat of any of the fruits of the garden. But of the tree of the knowledge of evil, thou shalt not eat thereof, for in the day thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely what? You know what he was teaching? There are consequences. You disobey me, you violate my instructions, you operate outside the perimeters of how I designed you to operate, and there will be consequences for that. Galatians chapter 6. And if you would, go ahead and turn there with me real quick. I want you to see this. Galatians chapter 6. And this is a passage every Christian ought to be very familiar with. Galatians chapter 6, and I want to begin reading in verse number 7. I have this underlined and highlighted and bracketed in my Bible because it is so significant. Galatians 6, and notice with me verse number 7. You got it? Look what it says: Be not deceived. Don't fool yourself. God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also what? Reap There are consequences to behavior. There are consequences to actions you and I take. There are consequences to The behavior that we have and the lifestyles we live and the decisions we make, they have consequences, whatever a man sows. He's going to reap that. Now here's the thing. Those consequences don't show up immediately. Those consequences sometimes are weeks, months, years down the road. But a prudent man understands that whatever actions I take, there are going to be consequences. He foreseeth the evil And he hides himself. Notice he goes on verse 8. But he that, for he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. But he that soweth to the spirit Shall the Spirit reap life everlasting? And let us not be weary and well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. We could go all through Scripture. And see this principle taught over and over and over and over. And a prudent man says, I need to be very, very careful. what decisions I make. I need to be very, very careful how I live my life. I need to be very, very careful about the behavior I engage in because there will be consequences He understands that and sees that. Israel, God told the nation of Israel, be sure your sin will find you out. What was he saying? There's consequences. Israel said, well, there ain't nothing going on now. I sinned and hey, I'm doing pretty good. Be sure your sin will find you out. Actions have consequences. And so the prudent man understands this. He is aware of the fact there are consequences to his actions. I put this one down. Secondly, I put down the prudent man is alert to what those consequences are. He foreseeth the evil. He sees what those consequences are. You say, preacher, how can I know what the end result of my behavior is going to be? How can I know what the consequences 5, 10, 15 years down the road of my actions? How can I know what they are? Well, there's several ways we can know. One of those ways is by observing other people What happened to other people that did that? How did it work out for them? Right? Turn with me back to Proverbs again with me if you would. And Proverbs teaches us this. Proverbs chapter 7. Now we're going to use our Bibles a good bit this morning, as you'll see. And so keep them handy. I want you to see these. Proverbs chapter 7. Again, Solomon is writing to his son under the inspiration of God. He says in verse 1: My son, keep my words and lay up my commandments with thee, saying, Son, listen to me, listen. Then you come down to verse number six, and look what he says. He said, For at the window of my house I looked through my casement And I beheld among the what? Simple ones. Here's a fool. Here's a young man that is very, very foolish. And Solomon says, I was watching this young man. He was on the street corner. I was up my house. I looked out, and I saw a young man that was very obviously he was simple. He was foolish. And I watched to see what would happen. How would this turn out? Look what it says. And beheld, among the simple ones, I discerned He said that I learned something. I came to a conclusion. He's learning from others. I discerned among the youth a young man void of understanding. Look at this. Passing through the street near her corner. Now the her is the strange woman of verse number five. And he went away to her house. And in the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night, behold, there met him with a woman with the attire of a harlot, and subtle of heart She's loud and stubborn. Her feet abide not in her house. And he goes on and describes this woman. She's not a harlot, but she dresses like one and she acts like one You come down to the end, and he says verse 27, her house is the way to hell, going down to the chambers of death. And Solomon says to his son, You listen to me, son. You listened to me. I observed out the casement of my window, and I saw. A young man that was a fool, and he did not keep himself pure, and he was not careful with himself, and he was not careful with his desires. And it destroyed him. And one way that we can learn what the consequences are of our behavior is observing others, is learning from others. Um uh come over to chapter twenty-four. He touches on this again, Proverbs Proverbs twenty-four. And notice with me verse thirty. Here is Solomon, Proverbs 24, verse 30. He says, I went by the field of the what? Alright, here's a lazy bum. I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man, what? Void of understanding. Here's a foolish man. And lo, it was all grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof was broken down. Look at this. Then I saw And what? Considered it well and looked upon it and received instruction And what Solomon is saying here is: I watched somebody else, I saw their behavior, I saw the decisions they made, I saw how they acted, and I saw what the consequences were, and I learned from that. I learned from that. How do we know? How do we know what the consequences of the decisions and the actions we make? One way is to observe what are the consequences for other people. How does it turn out for them? Another way we learn is to study scriptures. Is to study the scriptures. Psalms chapter 1 tells us the Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the godly, nor standeth in the way of the sinners, nor sitteth in the seed of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night, and he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, whose leaf uh shall not wither uh who who uh the leaf shall not wither and um And it's good stuff. My brain just froze up on me there. But what is it is and whatsoever he doest shall prosper. What is he saying? He's saying, listen, if I study the scriptures, I find out and do what God says and follow God's instruction, it's going to be good for me. It's going to prosper. It's going to be a good thing for me. So I study the scriptures and find out what happens if I live by God's word. What happens if I obey God's word? What happens if I follow God's instruction? He says, what shall we do? Shall prosper. You have God's blessings. You have the joy and peace of the Lord in your life. And so I can learn from others. I like in Acts chapter 17, Paul comes into a little town called Berea. And he's preaching the gospel and he's pointing them to Jesus Christ. And the Bible says that the Bereans were more noble than others because they searched the scriptures to determine that whether what Paul was saying was true or not. And what they were doing was this, they weren't going to be foolish. They weren't going to be simple. Paul, you're saying that Jesus Christ is the Savior? If we put our faith and trust in him, our sins are forgiven. We have eternal life. We have new life. We have eternity with the Lord. You're saying that? Well, we're not just going to assume that what you're saying is true. We're going to check it out by the scriptures. And the scriptures confirm that what Paul was saying was so. Listen, one way we understand what the consequences of action are is we watch and see how it affects others, but we also look and say, what does the Bible say about that? What does the Bible say the consequences were? Let me back up to the Bereans just real quickly. Listen, if anything is taught and preached from this pulpit that does not line up with scriptures, you throw what's taught out. The scriptures are our sole authority, not Brother Leatherman or any other man, the Scriptures. And so we look at that. So I wonder what happens if I don't get saved. Wonder what happens if I don't accept Jesus as my Savior. Wonder what happens if I just go on and live my life, pay no attention to God. Wonder what happens Well read Luke chapter 16 and we find a fellow there that died in his sins and he ended up where? In hell. Luke tells us of another man that was very prosperous. He built barns and tore down his barns, built bigger ones. The Lord said, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Here you have a man, you have two instances of men who neglected their spiritual well-being, neglected the message of the gospel, and they died in their sins. They ended up separated from God for all eternity. The Bible tells us, in many cases, what the consequences are. The Bereans were very careful that what Paul was teaching them was scriptural because what we believe affects how we behave. And how we behave affects our eternal destiny. So this prudent man, number one, he's aware that his actions have consequences. Number two, he's alert to what those consequences are. If I trust God and follow his instructions and live according to his words, I have God's blessing on my life. I have peace. I have contentment. I have purpose in my life. I get to the end of my life, I stand before the judgment seat of Christ, and Christ say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant Or I can say, I don't have time for God, I'm not interested in the gospel, I'm going to live for me, I'm going to do what I want, the way I want, when I want, how I want. Dying my sins, I'm separated from God for all eternity. And even as a Christian, once I get saved, I can say, Well, I'm glad Christ saved me. I'm glad He forgave me, but I'm not interested in living for him. I'm not interested in serving him. The Bible says that that's a carnal Christian, a babe. We suffer strife and discontentment and vexation. We get to the judgment seat of Christ, and the Bible says we suffer loss and we're ashamed. Consequences have actions. And a prudent man wants to understand what are those consequences, or I'm sorry, actions have consequences. And a prudent man wants to understand what are the consequences of those actions. And then let me give you this last one real quick. A prudent man takes action to avoid those negative consequences. The prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. That phrase hideth himself means to take evasive actions. Rooted man's involved in something. He made some decisions. There were bad decisions, and he's all of a sudden he realized, wait a minute, this isn't good. This isn't going to turn out good. And he takes evasive actions. He makes things right. He turns that thing around Um, I thought about Noah. I thought about Noah. Noah's living for God, he's He's experiencing the grace of God. He's training up his family to live for God. God shows up and says, listen, I'm going to destroy the world. This world is so ungodly, so wicked, I'm going to destroy it, I'm going to spare you. And Noah, I'm instructing you to build an ark. And he gave them the dimensions and all the instructions there to do that. And Noah, the Bible says, moved with fear, obeyed God. And he did exactly what God said. He listened to what God said. He obeyed the Lord. And he and his family were saved. Here's a prudent man. He sees what's going to happen. He foresees the evil, the judgment of God coming. He listens to what God tells him. He listens to what God says. He trusts God, does what God instructs him to do, and he's delivered from the judgment. I thought about the thief on the cross. Now that guy lived a foolish life up until the very end. But as he's hanging on that cross there, Jesus in the middle, one old thief on one side, the other, they're railing on him, and all of a sudden this thief comes, it comes to his mind. He realizes I am about to die and go to hell. I am about to die in my sins and suffer the eternal judgment of God. And he very prudently turns to the Lord Jesus Christ and placing his faith in Jesus Christ, Lord, remember me. And thou comest into thy kingdom. He was hiding himself. He was taking evasive action to avoid the consequences. And of course the Lord forgave him, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. The prudent man foresees the evil and he hides himself. He takes evasive actions. I thought about Joseph. Joseph's trying to do right. He's living for God. His brothers turned against him. He's in jail. He's sold as a servant. Potiphar buys him. He's a man of integrity. God's blessing his work. God's blessing his service there to Potiphar. Potiphar's wife sets her eyes on him. She begins trying to seduce him and get him to do wickedness. And what is Joseph? Joseph being a prudent man. For sees the evil. If I indulge in this, if I enjoy her advances, if I allow this to take place, what's going to happen? He says, I cannot do this wickedness Against Potiphar or my God. Joseph was a prudent man. He understood that if he engaged in that, there were going to be consequences. And he took evasive actions. He hid himself and fled out of there and left his coat. The prudent man. The prudent man. Then the Bible mentions quickly the simple man. The simple man. The prudent man foreseeth the evil and hide himself, but the simple pass on and are what? Punished. They're punished. The simple man is very foolish. He's very naive. He passeth on. The idea of passing on has this idea to be very, very careless. In other words, did you ever uh did you ever see um I think they put 'em on horses, they put blinders on the side. They can't see anything around them, and all they can see is what they allow, and they'll just walk straight on Well that's almost kind of the idea behind this word careless. This person doesn't see anything that's going on around them. They don't see what the consequences of the action are. They don't see what their sin is doing to their life. They don't see what their terrible attitude is doing to their relationships, and they just walk on and walk on and walk on in their sin. That's the simple man. They're careless, and it ends up catastrophic. The simple pass on and are punished. And are punished. I think one of Satan's greatest tools is to convince us that we are exempt from consequences. One of Satan's greatest tools is we're so foolish, is we think that somehow I can do this, I can engage in this behavior, and I'm going to be exempt from the consequences from it. And I'm telling you, nobody is exempt from the consequences. I came across a quote here the other couple weeks ago. It was something like this. It says, you can ignore God's word You can ignore God's word, but you cannot ignore the consequences of ignoring God's word And the simple just pass on and are punished. The simple little silly little illustration. But there was a pig that ate his full of acorns under a big old oak tree. After he ate himself full of the acorns, he started rooting around the tree. A crow up in the tree looked down and remarked to the pig, he said, You should not do this. If you lay bare the roots of the oak tree, the tree will wither and die. And the pig foolishly said, oh, let it die. Who cares as long as there are acorns? And we laugh at that, but I'm afraid we need to look in the mirror And see ourselves saying, well, everything's okay right now. I can just go on. Everything's okay right now. But the prudent man foresees down the road there's consequences. Both positive and negative. I'm telling you, Hebrews chapter 6 verse 10 tells us that God takes note and honors those that do right That do good. I have a tendency, and I think maybe preachers as a whole have a tendency, we like to harp on the negative consequences of sin. And those are real and true. We need to be warned. But I want to say this. There are positive consequences of living by faith and trusting God and doing right. And the wise man sees that, the prudent man. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take these thoughts this morning and challenge us to be wise. We live in such a foolish world. We see a world rushing to hell. Blindly, carelessly. Lord, I pray you'd help us to look ahead and see. And take evasive action to avoid the consequences of that which is evil. And Lord, help us to do the positive things to have your blessings. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say this morning, preacher, I'm saved, I'm in that category? I'm saved, I know I am. But you know, as you were preaching, the Holy Spirit of God touched on some areas of my life. That I know are not what they ought to be. And I really, I need to give consideration some of my actions, some of my behavior, decisions I'm making. And as a Christian, maybe you say this morning, I need to take evasive action. Turn that around. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Between you and God this morning, the Holy Spirit of God has touched the area of your life, spoken some area. Holy Spirit has done that. How about it? God bless you. Many hands up. Others The Holy Spirit of God is telling my heart. I want to ask you this morning and plea with you, be prudent. Hide yourself. Make those changes. Make those adjustments. So we can have God's blessing. Jeremy this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved. I can't honestly say I know for sure I'm going to heaven. I'm pleading with you this morning, get that settled. The consequences of that are horrific. The consequences of that are irreversible. And that salvation issue must be settled. Is there any this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. Not sure my sins are forgiven. I need that settled. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me about it. Any at all? Any at all? Father, bless our invitation. Help us to trust you. Help us to be wise. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.