Latians chapter five, verse twenty two and twenty-three, we're into our series on the fruit of the Holy Spirit. I don't know what How God might be using this in your life, but I know it's sure helping me and challenging me to walk in the Spirit and to have this fruit true in my life, to be evident in my life And notice it says there, verse 22, he gives this list. He says, but the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law The fruit of the Spirit. I want us to look this evening at the fruit of peace. The fruit of peace. And we're going to work our way through, look at each of these separately. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to bless. Father, we ask now, in the few minutes we have remaining, that you would take some of these truths, these principles from your word. And I ask, Lord, with all my heart, that your Holy Spirit, through my body, as you fill me and speak through me, that you'd apply them to our lives, particularly this matter of peace, in our hearts, in our homes. Lord, in our in our relationships. And so I yield myself to you. Pray you take and guide my words and use me tonight as we preach. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So anybody tell me who our veteran missionary to Ireland is? Anyone tell me who our veteran missionary to Ireland is? Dan Canavan, Dan and Beth Canavan. They've been over there for many years, and uh we took them on support right from the get-go while they first were called to the ministry, really. They were on deputation And uh we've had the tremendous privilege, tremendous honor to support them. I was over there a number of years ago with them for just a brief time and we a week I was able to visit with them a bit, doing a great, great job. When they came here, they had three children. They had triplets. How many people know someone that has triplets They they you do now. We got a missionary has triplets. Of course the kids are grown. We support Andrew. He's over there working in Ireland. But they had triplets Our text here, this fruit of the Spirit, we have three sets of triplets. If you remember, we pointed it out. Look at it here again with me. You have love joy and peace. And I think that is uh the Holy Spirit producing in our life compassion. Compassion for others. Compassion for Folks, maybe that um uh it's not easy of our own selves to show compassion to, but the Holy Spirit Produces in us this love, this joy, this peace. And there's a second set of triplets, long-suffering, gentleness, and goodness. This is our conduct This is how we behave. This is how we treat others. This is, again, our behavior. We're long-suffering. We're patient with people We're gentle. We treat them good. So you have the second set of triplets, our conduct, and the third set of triplets, and we pointed this out before. This is our character. This is about us, what we are He says, um long-serving, generous goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Temperance means self-discipline And so the Holy Spirit produces all of these. We already looked at the first two. We looked at love. The Holy Spirit puts in my heart, produces in my life this love, unconditional love. And then we learned it last week the joy that the Holy Spirit produced in us. Now tonight we want to look at this third one, peace. Peace. Now, I want to remind us, you're going to get tired of hearing me say this, but for me, this is the big takeaway from this study. All nine of these, every one of these virtues here are already within us. They're already there. In the person of the Holy Spirit. This is the fruit of the Holy Spirit. How many saved people are indwelt by the Holy Spirit? All of them. If you see a saved person, you see somebody that's indwelt by the Holy Spirit. And this is the fruit of the Spirit. And if the Holy Spirit's already in me, all that fruit is there. This fruit is there. This love, this joy, this peace, this patience, this long-suffering, faith, all this is already there in me The potential for it is there. Somebody says, oh boy, I wish I had more self-discipline. Well, you have it in the person of the Holy Spirit. Oh, I wish I was more long-suffering. I wish I had more meekness. Well, we do And so it's not something we got to go out there and find and incorporate into our lives. It's something already there. What we need to do is get out of the way. What I need to do is get myself off the throne of my life, hand over the controls to the Holy Spirit of God, die to self, and just let the Holy Spirit take over, and he'll produce this fruit in my life. And so anybody, anybody can be filled with the Holy Spirit. These young young people down here that are listening very carefully to me right now, uh they uh that are saved, they uh uh they have all this in their life. The Holy Spirit's in 'em. Already in 'em. And so that's uh what stirs my heart. Um and so there's no reason that any of us can't have Love, joy, and peace. Christian says, oh, I wish I had some peace in my life. I just wish I had peace in my heart. You can. We already have it. We just need to get out of the way. Let the Holy Spirit produce it. Let the Holy Spirit put it there. Now this list here, I want us to be very careful. This afternoon I was going over it and it crossed my mind. We need to be very, very careful. He doesn't give us this list to make judgment on whether somebody else is walking in the spirit and has this fruit or not. Are you with me? Well, they don't have much love. I don't see them being very patient. They're obviously not walking in the spirit. That is not the purpose this is given to us. This is given to us so that I can determine Whether who is filled with the Holy Spirit? Me. It's for self-evaluation. It's for self-critique. Whether I have these things in my life or not, whether somebody else does or not, that's between them and the Lord. It's my responsibility. So uh now the fruit of peace. I want to give you my three thoughts here real quick, and I'm trying to I want to give this quickly, but I want it to be helpful to us. Number one, I want us to consider the definition of this peace. that he's talking about. What in the world does he mean by this term peace? What's he talking about? So I got looking stuff up And lo and behold, the word peace or some form of it is used in the New Testament 92 times. In just the New Testament, 92 times. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Ninety-two times. God refers to the peace in the New Testament. Then you go back in the Old Testament 318 times throughout the Old Testament, much of it in Psalms but other places, the prophets, books of the prophets 318 times God refers to peace in various contexts. That's a total in our Bible. That is a total of 410 times. God addresses this matter of his people having peace, being at peace. Would you agree with me? That's pretty significant Four hundred and ten times God addresses this in various contexts, as I said. That tells me a couple things. That tells me two things. Number one This peace that the fruit of the that the Holy Spirit wants to bear in my life, this peace, is apparently pretty important to God. If He's addressing it 410 times. And number two, it tells me this is a major issue for God's people. If it wasn't an issue, if it was just something that was there, it wasn't a big deal, I don't think he'd have to address it 410 times How many people here uh raise kids and it some of you and and your kids maybe they have uh maybe uh your child has uh certain areas in life where they have some issues. And uh you look and you got some issues there, kid. Maybe uh let's say cleaning their room. Anyone here have kids have an issue with cleaning their room? How about cleaning themselves? Uh take a bath, please, take a shower. Uh they have issues. And if they have some issues, suppose they struggle with cleaning their rooms Now I am confident none of our young people have a problem cleaning their rooms. They make their beds, first thing, they put their dirty clothes up, and all the parents said silence And so because that's an issue with them, I have to s you have to say to them over and over and over, Aubrey, clean your room. Now you don't have a problem with that But um uh there's mom uh smiling. But you have to say it over and over and over and over. Why? Because it's an issue with them. Everybody with me Y'all are just looking at me with your teeth in your mouth there. Yeah. And so God says over and over and over, he says, peace. We need to address this peace. We need to deal with this matter of peace. Having peace. Having peace in my heart. Having peace with my brothers and sisters. Having peace with God. And so the word itself has the idea. This is an interesting, the word itself means this: to be complete. To be healthy or sound. If somebody says that church has sound doctrine, what do they mean by that? Talk to me a little bit. What do they mean by that? It's true, it's right, it's solid, it's good, it's complete. They have their doctrine, it's straight, it's right. And the word peace here means to be straight, to be where I ought to be, to be spiritually healthy. A spiritually healthy Christian is a Christian that has the peace of God. Of course, the word peace. has the idea of an absence of hostility. We think of nations being at peace. They don't have any hostility between them. Uh we think of uh peace between nations, peace with others. I was talking, um, I forget who I was with, somebody. was talking uh maybe it's Pastor Matt yesterday uh saying uh one of my best friends in high school in junior high we got into a knockdown drag out fight. I mean, it was awful. And lo and behold, we ended up being best buddies in high school. And hostilities were removed between us. And that's the idea of peace, the hostilities peace between nations, peace be with others, peace with myself. Sometimes people have a hard time having peace with themselves. And then peace with God, peace with God. An absence of hostility, an absence of unrest, an absence of agitation. Get agitated. We're not at peace. There's no peace there. I enjoy fishing, as you know, and some when I can, not very often, but I get down to Savage Reservoir. I like to fish that river down that lake down there. It's beautiful. And sometimes you go down there, I'll have the whole place, I'll go usually a Tuesday evening, I'll have the whole place to myself, and sometimes that water is just like glass And there's no wind. And the place is a place of peace. There's no agitation. There's no disturbance It's all just still and peaceful. And that's what he's talking about to produce in our lives. There's two aspects to this uh matter of peace that the Holy Spirit produces. One is peace with God. Peace with God, if you would. Now we're going to use our Bibles a little bit and I'm rushing here. If you would go over to Romans, not too far away. Just come back to Romans chapter 5. And you go, Asians, you go backwards, you hit 2 Corinthians, then 1 Corinthians, you'll run into Romans. And chapter 5, and notice with me if you would, verse number 1. We're talking about peace with God Romans 5, 1. Therefore, being justified by faith, the word justified means just as if I'd never sinned, being made completely right with God by faith. In Christ. Look at it, it says. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have what? Peace. What's the next word? With God. There's no more division between God and I. There's no more sin separating me from God. That's all been removed. Now God and I are sound. We're complete. We're one. My relationship with God. That is peace with God. Sometimes I was thinking of a fellow, it's been a number of years ago, but he said this. He says, I don't think I have long to live I want to make my peace with God. I want to make my peace with God before I die. How many people have ever heard that term? I'm going to make peace with God before I die. Need to be very, very careful about that Sometimes we think, well, if I'm going to make peace with God before I die, I've got to fix this, and I've got to do this, and I need to do all these things. Listen, I cannot do anything to make peace with God. It's all been done. I just simply by faith received what Christ did for me, and Jesus Christ gives me peace with God. Are you with me? We understand that. So the peace with God. There's a second aspect of this peace, and that is, and this is what he's talking about in Galatians: the peace of God. One, peace with God, the peace of God. Now you're in Romans, come back to Philippians, the book, the next book after Ephesians. You have Galatians, Ephesians, you'll run into Philippians. Look with me at Philippians chapter 4. Alright? Everybody hanging in there? Alright. Ephesians chapter 4. And verse, I want to begin reading verse 6. Ephesians 4, 6. Notice what it says. Be careful The word careful there means anxious, be upset, fretting, worried. The very opposite of peace, disturbed. Upset. Be careful for what? Nothing. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. Look at this. And the peace, what? Of God, which passeth all understanding. It can't be explained. I can't work it up. I can't produce this. The peace of God, which passes all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds, keep them calm, keep them at peace, keep them from being upset, keep them from being disturbed Shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. The peace with God. It's not something I can work up He says, be careful nothing by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your requests be made known unto God. In other words, he's saying that's just put it over in God's hands. You just take that whole issue, you just take that whole situation, you take your own understanding, and you just put it there on the throne of God And you put it to God. And God, the Holy Spirit, will produce this peace in my life. The peace of God. The peace that God experiences. The peace that God knows. He says through the Holy Spirit, if I let him, he'll produce that in my life. Isn't that something? The peace of God. So the definition of peace. By the way, I cannot have peace of God until I have peace with God. Right? I can't have the peace of God until I'm saved, until I'm I'm right with the Lord. It is, I cannot have the peace of God until I have peace with God. However, I can be at peace with God and not have the peace of God. In other words, I can be saved, but yet not have the fruit of the Holy Spirit in my life. You with me I can be saved. I can know Christ as Savior. Have my sins forgiven, accepted by God, but live and act and conduct myself in such a way that there's no peace in my life. You say, preacher, where do you see that in the Bible? Well I'm glad you asked. We won't take time to turn there, but if you read 2 Peter 2, verse 7 and 8 very carefully, it tells us of a fella that had peace with God, but did not have the peace of God. His name is. Lot. In 2 Peter chapter 2 and verse 7 and 8, it says that Lot was a righteous man. It says that he had a righteous soul. Lot had peace with God. He had a relationship. He was a saved man, believe it or not. You can argue that all you want. I'm here to tell you. The Bible is very, very clear. Lot was a saved man. But it goes on and says that his righteous soul was vexed. With the sins of Sodom. He was out of the will of God. He had peace with God, but he did not have the peace of God. That word vex means literally means tortured. It means tormented. It's the same word used other places, another word. Translated where talking about tormented, the rich man in hell was tormented. His heart, his soul was vexed There was no peace in his heart. There was no peace in his mind. There was no peace in his life. He had peace with God. But he had no peace of God. Most miserable person in the world, listen to me, the most miserable person in the world is a Christian, a saved man, a saved woman, out of the will of God. His heart is vexed. It's a conscience of where of my sins, and I'm out of God's will. And there is no peace. And the heart of the believer that is out of the will of God. It's not there. It's not there. Vexed, most miserable person in the world is the child of God out of the will of God. Study the book of 1 Corinthians. That church, Paul refers to them as brethren. The only people in the Bible, apart from Jews referring to each other as national in a national context, the only people referred to as brethren in the church are saved people. People that had peace with God. But you read through there very, very carefully. They did not have the peace of God. They were fussing with each other. They were mad. They wouldn't talk to this person. I like them. I don't like them. And uh there, these uh these this person's my favorite person of the whole church, I don't like that person there and that church and uh and divided And that church had no concept of what the peace of God was. They were fussing, they were drinking, they were sinning, but yet he calls them brethren. Says, brethren, they're saved. It is possible for a person to know Jesus Christ as Savior, have peace with God, and not have the peace of God in their life. I hate to say it, but I'm afraid there's a large percentage of God's people that have peace with God, but do not have the peace of God in their life. Living in sin, worldly, indulging the lusts of the flesh, living carnal lives, proud. And so this peace comes from God. Comes from God. Here's our problem. We want the peace of God without submission to the will of God. I cannot work it up. The divinity of this peace. That was the definition. The divinity, it's the peace of God. It's not something I work up, it's not something I manipulate. Some people say, oh, I'm going to do yoga We're going to meditate and we're going to get in these c weird contortions and I'm going to somehow work up this peace through yoga and through meditation. Oh I'm going to get this peace. Oh I'm telling you, that's not what he's talking about here. This is peace that comes from God. I wonder how many of us don't respond to this. I wonder how many of us. Would really, really like to have in our homes the peace of God. I'd like, preacher, I want so badly in my marriage to have the peace of God Just peace there. The turmoil is gone. The fretting and vexation is gone. Just peace with my children Peace. I'm telling you, it's not something we work up, it's something God gives us. It's the Holy Spirit, it's the peace of God, not the peace of Dennis Leatherman. It comes only from by submission to the will of God and the filling of the Holy Spirit. In John 14, 27, Jesus said, My peace I give unto you. We can have it. You say, I don't ever see peace being in my home. There is no way. It is absolutely impossible for there to be peace of God in my home. Stop lying to yourself. God is able. God is able. We just let him. I I I can't work it up, but God can. Isaiah 26, great peace have they, or Isaiah 26, peace, uh uh keep their minds stayed on thee. Let God give me peace. Let God give me peace. I'm trying to quote these very quickly. I'm telling you, there is nothing. Some people here I'm talking to, I know, there's some people I'm talking to right now You know what this peace is. You've experienced it. Maybe you're experiencing it now. The settledness in your life. I'm telling you, there is nothing greater in the world. At having the peace of God in my heart and mind. There are people in this world who would give their right arm. To have peace in their heart. To have peace in their mind. And here we have it. In the person of the Holy Spirit dwelling within us. There's not I don't think there is anything greater in the world than being filled with the Spirit of God. And that is not limited to behind the pulpit. That is every day living my life, walking in the Spirit, and being filled, knowing that God is bearing this fruit in my life. The divinity of this peace. This peace is not based on what my circumstances are or how people treat me. Preacher, if you knew what my spouse was like, you'd know why I don't have any peace No, no, no, that's not this b this peace doesn't come from your spouse. This peace doesn't come from your parents. It doesn't come from your uh um uh children, it certainly doesn't come from your sisters. Good night. Um But uh doesn't matter what my circumstance are. It doesn't it's not dependent on how people treat me. This peace is based upon the presence of the Holy Spirit in me As long as the Spirit of God is indwelling me, I can have this peace. And Jesus said the Holy Spirit will never leave us. So we can have this peace. It's dependent upon the unchanging character of the Holy Spirit. As long as the Holy Spirit is who he is and he always will be. I can have this peace. And then I am with this the dynamite of this peace, the dynamite of this peace. Philippians 4, 7. Oh, keep your hearts and minds. Word keep there means to mount up a guard around my heart. It means to put a garrison around my heart, to protect my heart. A lot of us want the peace of God. We want this peace at the Holy Spirit. But we're not willing We're not willing to get off the throne of my heart and let Jesus Christ get back on the throne and let him fill me and use me. What I need to do, I need to die to sell. I need to say, not my will, Lord, but thy will be done. I need to quit trying to fix everybody and everything. Just say, Lord, I give it to you. Fill me with your spirit. God will give us that peace. The Holy Spirit will. I have a fellow I read about this week. His name is Nicholas Ridley. He lived in 1555. He was a Catholic in England, training for the Catholic quote-unquote ministry. He got reading a book that a fellow from mainland Europe wrote about salvation by grace. Rather than through the Catholic Church, works-based salvation. And he got reading the Bible and he came to a couple conclusions. One, he concluded that the Bible was the authority in the world, not the Catholic Church. That was a new concept to him. And he came and studying the Bible as the Word of God, what it is, he came to this conclusion that we are not saved through the sacraments and the Catholic rituals and all of that, but we're saved by simple faith in Jesus Christ. That his blood is what cleanses us from sin, not the Catholic mechanisms. And he got so excited about that, the old boy got saved. And they said there was a supernatural presence in this man's life. They said no matter what, he had the peace of God. He'd preach, he'd get out, and he'd preach and tell people salvation by grace, the Bible's God's word. And the machinery of the Catholic Church turned on him. And he went through a series of ridiculous trials in courts They found him guilty of heresy. He was condemned to die. Another fellow at the same time, you may have heard this name, Hugh Latimer. Along with them, was condemned to die because of their heresy of believing the Bible, salvation by grace. On October 16th, 1555, They took him from his prison cell, let him out, put uh uh the way I understand it, uh like a chain uh like a metal belt, girdle, or belt around him Chain strapped him to a pole. He put dry wood all around the base of the pole where he was. In front of the whole population. They lit the wood on fire and it burned up over his body and consumed him. They say the night before, when he was in his prison cell, knowing he was going to be burned alive the next morning, public spectacle. His brother came and gave permission for his brother to come in. Oh, by the way, he could have avoided all of this if he would have just denied Christ. And he gave him opportunity to deny Christ, come back to the mother church. And he said, I'll not deny my Savior. His brother came in the night before, and he said, I'd like to just spend the night with you. I know what you're facing tomorrow. I can't imagine what you're going through. I just want to come spend the night with you. He made this statement. He goes, nope. Let me put it in our vernacular. He basically said this. I'm good. I'm okay. I am at peace with God, and I have the peace of God. And he slept like a baby I'm going to bet you I have a rough time sleeping, knowing I'm going to be burned alive the next morning. He slept like a baby. They got him that next morning, and there's accounts of him being burned there at the stake, and they said it was like the fire didn't touch him at all while his body's being consumed. He had the joy of the Lord and the peace of God as his body was consumed by fire. You know what that is? That's the fruit of the Holy Spirit. That's what the power of the Holy Spirit can do in our lives. We have that same Holy Spirit in us that He had. That same fruit that He experienced, we have We just have to let the Lord have his way. Just agree with God. Submit to God. Say yes, Lord. We get all worked up because somebody doesn't look at us right. Man, we're all uh somebody says something and we they might not even meant it. We simply misinterpret them. Oh, we get all huffed off. I'm telling you, that's not the peace of God That's not what the Holy Spirit produces. How in the world would I ever be burned alive and have peace if I can't even take somebody looking cross-eyed at me? Huh? How in the world do we have any kind of? And so maybe what we need to do is just come to an old altar, say, Lord, no more no more me. It has to be you, all of you, all of you, no more meat I want your Holy Spirit to produce this fruit in my life. And I believe He'll do it. I believe He'll do it. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I ask you to take these thoughts. Lord, I just feel like I rushed through it, but God, maybe you'd touch a heart tonight. Maybe you could change the life of one of your people. And the turmoil and the frustration and the bitterness, the irritability, and the offended getting offended. God, maybe your Holy Spirit could just help us mortify all of that, crucify all of that. And just let you have your way and fill us and the life and peace of Christ to be lived through our lives. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher? And this is between you and God. I know this might be personal, pretty personal, but you'd say, I really need the peace of God, my own heart and mind. I need the peace of God in my family. I know I'm saved, but I need God's peace. So any like that by the uplifted hand. Sometimes my heart just gets so upset, so frustrated. I wonder if there's some tonight would say, be honest enough to say, preacher, I know there's something in my life that's not what it ought to be. And I know it's grieving the Spirit. It's quenching the Holy Spirit, producing fruit in my life. And God's dealing with you, and it's on your mind right now. You know what it is. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that I can address that and deal with that and put that down so that the Holy Spirit can live. Is there any like that? Preacher, I know there's something there. I know it. I know it. I know what it is And it's quenching and grieving the Spirit. God bless you, hands all around, probably more than of us than are raising our hands. And so help us, Lord, to give it all to you in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.