Luke. I did not mean to take that long, so I will preach a short sermon. Perhaps. I might get carried away here too Amen to that. You know, church overall, Luke chapter 19, uh, church overall is too short, not too long. Not much response on that, but that that's where I stand on thank you so much. Church in America is too short. When I go to the mission field Wow. They're not ready to get out, they're ready to get in. You know what I'm saying? Luke chapter 19. Don't y'all get nervous. Okay. How many of y'all not going to be nervous? Would you say amen Nothing to be nervous about. I'm really not going to preach that long tonight. Luke chapter nineteen. And uh I will mention that we do have CDs right outside the room. I believe Christian homes ought to have Christian music in them And we got several new things out there. Plus we got that uh book that that beacon of truth printed for us, Bible Truth for New Believers. We got quartet CDs and the newest one for children is this Bible Truth kids sing hymns. We got seven scripture uh CDs now and then this one with the children singing hymns. You ought if you've got children or grandchildren, you ought to get those. Miss Linda's going to help me out there And they're any size donation while I'm here. Any size donation. Go online Wednesday, they're fifteen dollars each, which is way too much. I know that. Right? No, that sounds fair, doesn't it? Never mind. Luke 19 and verse 10 Let's read it together. Ready? Begin. For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. There's two big things that we're seeking in this very meeting. Preacher and I have chanted. There's two things. It's revival and soul winning. Revival and soul winning. Revival and soul winning. Now if I know anything, I know this. I know those two things are not the same. Revival, only Christians can have revival. You all understand that, right? Only saved people could have revival. Lost people can't have it. And revival is a gift from God, and revival cannot be imitated, though many have tried. Revival is a gift from God to God's people. Evangelism is when we're trying to win lost people to Christ. And the two big things that we're seeking in this meeting is revival and evangelism. And that's really what our church is all about anyway, is seeing people saved and then pe seeing people serve God. That's what life all boils down to And this scripture tonight, Luke chapter 19 and verse 10, very, very fundamental verse, a verse that many of us already know. Children ought to know it, everybody ought to know it. For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that. Which was lost. Lost. I've got a question for you. Why are people lost? Why are there lost people in Garrett County? Why is it that we've got lost people all over America and lost people all over the world? Why do Why do people go to hell? Why do they? Because they die in their sin rejecting Jesus. That's why people go to hell. I don't want anybody to go to hell. I would never say to somebody, I hope you go to hell, I would never say that. There's people who've said silly things like that. Foolish things. I hope you'll never say something like that. I wouldn't want my worst enemy to go to hell I don't want anybody in this world to go to hell. Neither does the Lord. Neither does the Lord. Listen, no man In America is lost because God wants him to be lost. No, people are lost because they've rejected the Lord. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. How about this verse, Second Peter three nine, that talks about God that He is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And by the way, no one is predestined to go to hell And anyone who tells you that, don't listen to them about anything because they're wrong. They're wrong. And I gotta say this God has already done everything. Listen, God has already done everything He's going to do as far as providing salvation for man. Just not going to die again on a cross. He sacrificed one time. And Jesus Christ did die for us. And he bore our sin. He's not going to do that again. Listen, God has already done everything he's going to do to provide salvation. Who's the next move? It's the sinner's move It's the sinner's move to say, Yes, Lord, I want to be saved. Hallelujah. Yes, and so when even yesterday, I heard about uh through the ministry of our church here, even yesterday somebody said, Yes, I want to be saved. Hallelujah. Glory. That's what they ought to say. Law Center ought to say yes to Jesus. See, God gave his son. God gave the Bible. God gave the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit warns people. The Holy Spirit on the inside convicts and draws and helps us. One of the most precious things in this world. One of the most precious things in this world is conviction from the Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost convincing people that they need to be saved, and convincing Christians that we need to walk right with God, one of the most precious things in this world is Holy Ghost conviction. And the Holy Spirit has been given. I mean, think about all the blockades that God Almighty has made trying to keep folks out of hell. I mean, think about it. Uh he given the Holy Spirit, the the soul winners. Oh, the blockade of soul winners that goes out trying to say, folks, you need to get saved. You need to get saved. That's what soul winners say all the time. That's what our preacher says all the time. That's what our church stands for. We're telling folks that they need to be born again. It's one of the big blockades to keep people out of hell, to keep them from being lost for eternity. Think about every gospel tract. That has ever been published. Every gospel tract that's been distributed. What's it for? What's the purpose? Trying to keep people from being lost. Son of man has come to seek and to save that which is lost. Every gospel tract that beacon prints, every one, we've got one big desire is to keep people out of hell, keep them from being lost eternally. Amen. Think about every circumstance. That comes into people's lives, that gets them to look beyond themselves and to look to God God's trying to get people's attention here in America. People better look up. There is a God in heaven And sin is condemned. And the sinner is condemned. The condemnation of God is upon every sinner who's not saved. When I went to Charlotte, I didn't go there to condemn the city. Those lost folks in Charlotte, they're condemned already by sin. They don't need me to try to condemn them. I came there to show them the love of Christ. Amen. Every Christian mama's prayer who's praying for her children to be saved. That mama's praying, offering a prayer to God as an intercessory prayer, Lord, save my children. How many of y'all have family members who are lost? Would you raise your hands? We're just going to keep praying for them, aren't we? That God will save them. We don't want them to be lost forever. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. And I'm telling you right now that God doesn't want anyone to go to hell. I hear the Savior say. Thy strength indeed is small, child of weakness, watch and pray Finding me thine all in hall. Sing with me. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. Sin had left a Prince and stain he was it white as snow. God doesn't want anyone to be lost. So why are people lost? People go to hell because they will not come to Christ. That's why they are lost. Because they will not. Come to Christ. I told the preacher at lunch today, I said the saddest words that I know of in the Bible that Jesus ever said This one he said, ye would not. Ye would not. Ye would not come to me I wish everybody'd get saved. You know, people, uh we we like to divide people up into different groups. Upper class people. Middle class people, lower class people, we make those kind of divisions. God simply divides people up this way. Sheep. Or goats. Saved or lost? Saints or ain't. It's what it comes down to. People go to hell because they won't come to Christ. Number two. I want to say this. No one goes to hell because they're too weak to live the Christian life. No one goes to hell because they're too weak to live the Christian life. I've had people tell me, well, Brother Fox, the reason that I'm not saved is I'm just too weak To live the Christian life. The reason I'm lost is I'm just too weak to live the Christian life. I can't do it. Well, I want to make a big admission on behalf of all of us Everyone in this room is depraved by sin. We're all sinners. All have sin and come short of the glory of God. And ladies and gentlemen, we're just simply not attractive to God because of all of our sin. Except he loves us anyway. The Lord loves us, and by the way, You don't become a Christian. God saves you, and then you become what you ought to be. Amen. After you get saved. The Lord saves us for what we can become. And once you get saved, God gives you the strength to live the Christian life after you get saved. It's God who gives you the strength to live the Christian life. We can't do that on ourselves. We can't do anything. But now wait a minute Am I secure in Christ once I get saved? Oh yes. Let me give you some Bible. 1 Peter 1:5. Who are kept By the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. That verse says, We're kept If you're saved tonight, you are secure in Christ. Amen. How about this verse, Jude, verse 24? Now unto him that is able to Keep you from falling. Hallelujah. Philippians 1 6, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it. Amen to that. I'm secure in Christ. Um many years ago there's a drunkard got saved. Now if you still listen, say amen. I know what time it is. I kind of blew it on that testimony. It went too long. I know all that Y'all just enjoy this, would you? Many years ago a drunkard got saved. Now drinking alcoholic beverage is condemned in the Bible. Seventy passages in the Word of God talks about the condemnation upon alcoholic beverage. A drunkard got saved. God can save a drunkard. In fact, the the only hope for a drunkard is to get saved. Amen. Well, drunkard got saved, and boy, he is happy to be saved. I mean he was happy. Now this was many years ago. Oh, he was so happy to be saved Hallelujah. Glory to God. He was happy to be saved. He went to town several days after he'd been saved. And there was that bar. Boy, was he tempted. In fact, it came real close to going in Whoo! And this was unusual. This is very unusual. There was somebody who he had a bunch of buttermilk. How many of y'all ever drunk buttermilk? You know what I'm talking about? How many of y'all like buttermilk? Yeah. Not as many hands. Right across the way there was a dairy for some reason they had too much buttermilk. It was right at the dairy was right across from the bar. And this dairy over here had all this excess buttermilk, and they put a sign up, and they had a special price, I don't know, uh 50 cents, drink all the buttermilk you can drink, or whatever it was And the old drunkard went over there and said, Give me a glass of that buttermilk. He drank a glass. Give me another one. Drank second glass. Give me another one. Drank three glasses. Give me another one. Dran Four glanches He drank so much buttermilk he couldn't he couldn't hold anything else. He couldn't go across the street and drink a thing. He was so full of buttermilk He said, Well devil, I got you that time. I'll tell you the one of the best ways, one of the best ways to fight the devil and the things of evil, one of the best remedy of overcoming the devil is to get so full of God and his blessing. that you can't hold anything else. Amen. Number one, people go to hell, they're lost and go to hell because they will not come to Christ. Number two, people are lost and go to hell. But not because they're too weak to live the Christian life. Because if you'll get saved, God will help you live the Christian life. And then lastly, no one goes to hell because they're too bad of a sinner No one is lost forever because they're too bad. No, you see, God Almighty specializes in saving bad people. That's God's specialty. He can do it. Luke 5. 32. The Lord says, I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Isaiah 118. Come now. And let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. You know, you don't make yourself better. You and I do not make ourselves better. We get saved, and God makes us better. That's how it works, friends. I mean our blessed Lord Jesus, He loves us, He cares for us, He died for us, He'll save us, He saved me. Hallelujah. That song I will sing You know that one? Get your hymn book, six twenty-nine, six twenty-nine, get it out. Six twenty-nine. Yeah, somebody over there's got it. 629. 629. Just stay with me here. Thank you. Thank you. 629. Here we are already. I was sinking deep in sin. Far from the peaceful shore Very deeply stained within, seeking to rise no more, but the master of the sea. Heard my despairing cry from the waters lifted me now safe. Am I love lifted me? Love lifted me. When nothing else could help. Love lifted me. Love lifted me. Love lifted me. When nothing else Else could have lay me. Amen. You remember Luke chapter 15? That old prodigal That old prodigal son, he got his inheritance, took off for the far country. Went over that parable, went over there to the far country and wasted his substance on riotous living. He blew it. He violated his good conscience. He separated himself from everything that was high and holy and noble. Broke his mom and daddy's heart. There's no Christian daddy who wants his boy to go to the far country. There is no mama who's in her right mind that wants her boy to go to the far country. But you know something in that parable? That daddy never stopped loving that boy. And he was happy that boy came back. God Almighty wants every backslidden Christian to come back. God wants every lost sinner to come and get saved. Jesus came to me in 1972 and he said, if you'll confess me as your Savior, I'll make you fit for heaven. And he did. He saved me. I wonder if you're saved. If you're not saved, you need to get saved tonight. And I wonder about in our sphere of influence, I wonder if we're telling the gospel enough. I was out soul winning there in Charlotte. I went to thousands of doors myself. The very first day that we launched go on the door-knocking campaign, I knocked on ten doors before I finally got somebody to answer the door. Got to the 11th door, and three men came to the door. And they ranged in age from about 25 to about 50. And I showed him the gospel door hanger. I said, we got this God bless America Crusade. Man, it's great. You ought to come to the I just went talking about it. I said, now on the back of this thing has the most famous verse in the whole Bible, John 3. 16. I said, let me read it to you. For God so loved the world. Read it to him. I said, men, that's the very verse that God saved me. I said, I got saved. I said, I was a lost boy, but I heard that verse preached and I got saved. And Maurice, one of those three, Maurice, 25 years old, said, well, I know that I'm lost. I said, Maurice, you've just taken your first step to getting saved. I said, no one on this earth has ever gotten saved until first they'd admit they're lost. That's true. Until you'll admit you're lost, you'll never get saved. I went through the gospel for about 30 minutes. He's never had anybody preach the gospel to him. I mean I just stood there and talked, and the other two listened. They did not want any part of it. But they let me keep talking to Maurice And in front of his two friends, Maurice and I got down on our knees. I don't know. God had me get down on my knees, and Maurice, he got right down beside me. I said, Lord, I'm here with Maurice, and he just told me he wants to be saved, because he told me that I said, Maurice, do you believe that Jesus died on the cross? He said, Yes, I do. I said, Maurice, do you believe he was buried? Yes, I do. Do you believe that Jesus Christ rose from the dead? Yes, I do. I said, do you believe that he died for you? Yes. Maurice, are you a sinner? Yes. Maurice, right now, do you want Jesus Christ to save you? Yes, I do. I said, did tell him. And Maurice began to pray. What happened? Maurice got saved. Jesus really did come to seek and to save that which was lost. Would y'all stand with me? If you're not saved in this room, you need to get saved tonight. You need to tonight. I could tell you some stories of people who rejected. And in just a day or two was dead. It's a tragic thing to say no to the Lord. You see, people do go to hell because of one thing: rejecting Jesus Christ as Savior. You either accept or reject. I'm going to ask our pianists in just a moment to play past me not, O gentle Savior. Hear my humble cry And then if you're in this room and you've got a burden for others that you want to come and actually pray and intercede in prayer for your neighbor, You know, Tim Cruz, my pastor friend down there and shining like Babys in Monroe, he not only saw his son get saved at the crusade, he saw his neighbor get saved. Don't you want all your neighbors to get saved? Dear Lord, please work in this invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Heads are bowed. Come on. All that want to come, come quickly. Yeah, come on, that's right. Come right now. Fast. Come on. Come on. If you're not saved, get get My attention. Is there a young person who needs to be saved? An adult in this room needs to be born again. Come get my attention. Is there anybody who needs to be saved in this room? Would you come right to me and say, I want to be saved? Come on, that's right. Come on. So somebody who needs somebody to pray with them, get somebody who knows the Lord. And pray with them. I believe we've had somebody respond to be saved. Y'all pray, would ya? Jesus really did come to seek and to save that which was lost. Brother Fox, what are you living for? Oh, to magnify Jesus Christ and lift Jesus Christ up and tell folks you need to get saved by Jesus. That's what I'm living for. It's what I'll dream about at night. One more verse as the Lord leads I'm not sure if you're a learner. Thank you, Father in heaven, for speaking to our hearts. God, thank you. for the word of God and the impact it has on our hearts and our minds. And I pray, Lord, you'd give us this burden for the lost. That we be a faithful witness. Our Christian lives would Would support as we share the gospel with our limits. Bless us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen