Life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles when we walked in lasciviousness Lusts, excess of wine, revelings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries Wherein they, those that are in the will of the Gentiles, where they think it strange, that you run not with them to the same excessive riot Speaking evil of you. Let me just stop there and ask a question. Anybody here, maybe you have some co-workers, they think it's strange that you don't go out partying with them and doing stuff. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I think, why that's weird. Why don't you do this? Why don't you do that? That's what he's talking about here. Verse 5, for who shall give an account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead? I want to talk about The will of the Gentiles. What in the world is the will of the Gentiles? Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, we come to the end of the Lord's day. Lord, this is your day. We've given our this whole day over to you, Lord, to your worship, your service, preaching and teaching the gospel, the word of God, trying to get out in the community and reach people for Christ. And Lord, as the day winds down, I just ask, Lord, that you would please meet with us tonight. Help us, Lord, to be distinctive. In our faith, in our lifestyles, as disciples of Christ, help us, dear Lord. Convict us, prod us, don't leave us to be content To live like the world, but help us. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body, Lord, just as an instrument in your hands And that you would speak through me, just like the violin in the hands of Jamie. Lord, that you would just take me and speak through me and convey your message. And give us open hearts and open minds tonight, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. There's a great conflict in the Christian life, and you don't have to be saved very long to realize The reality of this conflict in the heart and soul of Christians. And we mentioned it earlier, but the conflict, by the way, this conflict begins the moment we're saved. And it continues throughout our lives as Christians until either death takes us to heaven or the rapture takes place. This conflict within us. And the conflict, as we pointed out before, is simply this: the conflict between my will and God's will. Anybody notice that? The conflict between my will and God's will. Now we talked about God's will In previous message, we've tried to give some principles to help us determine the will of God in things that aren't clearly expressed in the Word of God. But just to touch on the will of God, just to express it, simply, God's will is simply God's word. What God says in his word, whether it's a direct statement This is the will of God for your lives, and there are statements like that in Scripture, or maybe it's just a principle That is taught in Scripture that directs us and helps us determine the will of God. So God's will is the Word of God. Now, what is my will? How would we describe or define my will? Well, my will is rooted in my old nature. Rooted in my fallen nature. That is the old will. That's the will of Dennis. It's from the old nature, that fallen nature. Sometimes we refer to it as the flesh. That old sinful heart that the Bible teaches us we have. Is anybody here aware of the fact that you and I have sinful hearts? Anybody aware of the fact that that heart has a will? That heart has a desire. And that's where the conflict comes in. Again, we preached on this. I have my will. That's rooted in my old sinful heart and the will of God. Sometimes there's things that I desire. There's things that I want, and I know it's not the will of God. And it can never be. But yet that old flesh presses for it, that old flesh wants it, even though it conflicts with the will of God Sometimes that will, oh, by the way, this old will of ours, this sinful will, this selfish will, sometimes we justify it by describing it as being stubborn. Anybody ever hear that? I'm just stubborn. It probably means you're just selfish and self-willed. And it has to be my way or the highway. I want to remind you that the prophet Samuel told the self-willed King Saul. That selfishness is as the sin of what? Witchcraft. Witchcraft. We have to be careful. About we talk about how stubborn stubbornness is as the sin of witchcraft. Stubbornness. We have to be careful when we go around and try and justify Our own will, by describing it as being stubborn, we better be very, very careful about that. We need to be careful. Um stubbornness Now you say, preacher, aren't shouldn't we be stubborn about some things? I think we ought to stand firm on some scriptural truths, but we need to be careful that our s we're not trying to justify our self-will by describing it as stubborn So the Bible refers to this my will in various ways. Sometimes the Bible will refer to this self-will of ours as the will of the flesh. 1 John or John Gospel of John 1 verse 13 refers to the will of the flesh. Again, that's our old sinful nature. The flesh is our sinful desires, the will of the flesh. Sometimes the Bible refers to this will of ours as the lust of the flesh. In fact, I would like you, if you would, turn with me to Galatians chapter number five. Galatians chapter 5 refers, talks about the lust of the flesh, or the word lust is to desire or will something. Look with me, if you would, Galatians chapter 5, and I want to begin reading in verse number 16. Paul describes this conflict between the will of God. And the will of my flesh. Verse 16, it says, This I say then, walk in the Spirit. You could describe that as the will of God. Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. That's my will. For the flesh, that self-will, lusteth against the spirit. And the spirit against the flesh. And these are, what's that next word? Contrary one to the other. I circled that word contrary. That's where the conflict is My will, lust of the flesh, God's will, the lust of the spirit. The desires and uh desires of the flesh and the desires of the spirit. What a conflict. The will of man and the will of God. So that uh these are contrary one to another, so that ye cannot do the things that ye would. But if ye led by the Spirit, ye are not under the law. Then he goes on and describes the works of the flesh And down verse 22, he describes the fruit of the Spirit, the will of man, the will of the flesh versus the will of God, the lust of the flesh versus the lust of the spirit. And now, if you would come back to our text, we have this self-will described as the will of the Gentiles the will of the Gentiles. Now the question first comes to my mind is, who are these Gentiles he's talking about? And just to give a simple explanation, the Gentiles are basically anybody that is outside the family of God, outside the people of God. For the Jews, a Gentile was anybody that wasn't a Jew. Wasn't a part of the nation of Israel. Wasn't part of the people of God. Anybody outside of that circle? They were Gentiles. Well, he's writing to New Testament believers. He's writing to folks that are part of the church. A Gentile in this context would be anybody that's outside the family of God. How what's another way we would say that? Somebody outside the family of God? We would say they're what? They're unsaved. They don't know Christ. They've not been born again. And so he says, he refers here to the will of the Gentiles, anybody outside the family of God, anybody outside the people of God. We might refer to it this way: the world. The world out there. Those that are outside the family of God. Did you know the world puts pressure on believers to try to get us to do the will of the world? Anybody notice that? I'm telling you, the world wants churches to conform to the way they think churches should be. They want us to have the world's music. That's right. I mean they've come in. The world wants us to. The will of the world is for the church to be as worldly as possibly can be. They want us to use watered-down Bible versions and worldly music. They want us to lower standards and look like the world and be conformed to the image of the world. That's the pressure. That's the will of the Gentiles. For the unsaved world to pressure the people of God, the Gentiles, to pressure the people of God. To be like them and accept their values and live by their principles and share their priorities And he says, he says here, he says, suffice for the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. We lived in the world. We lived according to the world. We shared the world's values. We shared the world's principles. We shared the world's priorities. And he We don't do that anymore. We don't do that anymore. Now I want to throw out just a little aside here. As I was looking at this and studying this, the thought came to my mind Does, now we talked about the world's, the will of the world, the Gentiles, the will of my flesh. The question comes to my mind: does Satan Have a will for your life and my life. Somebody asked an institute the other night, they said, does Satan know everything? Is he all-knowing? He's not all-knowing. He's limited in his knowledge. Only God's the only one omniscient. But the question is, is Satan, does Satan have a plan and a purpose for your life and my life? Here's my answer. I don't think Satan has a specific plan or purpose for a life as long as I don't do the will of God. As long as I'm outside of God's will, he could care less what I do. Well, Satan wants everybody to be a drug addict. I don't think necessarily. Satan's completely fine. If you never touch a drug your whole life, if you never smoke a cigarette, if you never take a drop of liquor, he's perfectly fine with that, as long as you don't do the will of God for your life. As long as you don't do the will of God for your life. And so I don't know that Satan has a very specific and plan and purpose for Dennis Leatherman's life. Like God does. I know God has a plan for my life. God has a purpose. He gave me this life. He created me. He gifted me very specifically for me. And you also With the intention that I fulfill a specific plan and purpose he created me for. Now the world is in competition with that. The will of the Gentiles Is in competition with that. And Satan is perfectly satisfied with me doing anything outside the will of God. As long as I'm not doing the will of God. And so we think of peer pressure, we think of our young people. Oh, these young people today, they got such peer pressure. Listen, I'm here to tell you, it ain't just young people that have peer pressure It's all ages. Can I tell you this? An independent, fundamental, right-wing King James Bible, hellfire, and brimstone preaching, Baptist preacher has peer pressure, probably as much, maybe more so, than young people do You get it from all ends. And so we have to be we have to understand that this world, the will of the Gentiles, is a very real And very powerful force in the life of every believer. It's my flesh, it's my will. Allied with the world, the Gentiles, drawing me away from the will of God. Now, Peter makes a few statements here to these believers and to you and I concerning instructions concerning this will of the Gentiles. Real quickly, I've got two thoughts. I'll give them to you real quick. Number one He says we must restrict our doing of the will of God. Restrict it. Look at verse 3 there with me in 1 Peter 4. For the time past of our life may what? What's that next word? Talk to me now. What is it? Suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. That word suffice tells us that it simply means this, to be sufficient. It means that's enough This was the definition that came to my mind as I was looking it up and seeing how it's used. Put a cap on it. Did you ever say this to somebody? Would you just put a sock in it? Anybody ever You know what what you know what you're saying? Alright, that's enough. No more. You ever say this to your kids? That's enough. Anybody ever say that to their kids? Yeah. We never had two to our boys, but uh uh Peter is writing to us under the inspiration of God, and he's saying, Listen, you lived according to the principles and values and priorities of this world long enough. It's sufficient. That's enough. Put a cap on it. No more. Must restrict our doing of the will of God. They lived long enough according to the will of the Gentiles, according to the will of the flesh, according to the world. Well, I would like to say to some churches, listen, you've been worldly enough, you've been worldly long enough. Let's get right with God. Sometimes I have to look at myself and say, all right, that's enough of your will, Dennis. It's time to get the will of God done. Restrict that. No more. Put an end to it. The world says life is short, live it up. Invest your life, it's short. Invest it in the here and now. Listen, life is short. You've got to enjoy all the pleasures of this life, and you've got to indulge in all the opportunities that this world gives you because it's going to be over, and you're going to miss out on all the things of this world. That's what the world says. The world says, just do it. You only live once. Go for all the gusto. Anybody remember that commercial? That's the world's mentality. What they're saying is this, you've got to live it up under the sun. That's the world. That's the will of the Gentiles. Invest your life in the here and now. Invest everything you have: all your time, all your energy, all your abilities, invest it in the temporal things of this world. You people talk about a bucket lesson. I'm not sure what I think of that. But it's like I've got to enjoy all these things before I die, because if not, I'm going to really miss out. That's the will of the Gentiles. That's worldly thinking. The world says life is short, live it up while you can. You know what the truth is? Life is short. We better invest in eternity. We're here a brief time, we're there forever. Our time here is temporal. Our time there is eternal. Why in the world will we invest all our abilities and all our resources and all our time In something we can't take with us, on something that is temporal pleasure, and then die and go out into eternity empty-handed. Must I go empty-handed? Lay no trophies at thy feet? It's what the will of the Gentiles is. The world wants us to invest all our time and effort and energy and abilities into something that is wood, hay, and stubble. That's the world's thinking. God says life is short, invest in eternity. Keep your place here if you would. Real quickly, would you come to Matthew? Chapter number six. This is the Sermon on the Mound. I find myself in preparing messages ending up in Proverbs In Romans chapter 12 and in Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7, a lot. And in Matthew chapter 6, a Sermon on the Mount, Jesus put it this way. This is in contrast to the will of the Gentiles. And Jesus said in chapter 6, look at verse 19 with me if you would. It says, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon what? Would you agree with me? The world says, hey, invest in the world. Everything. Here and now. Here and now. You only live once, you better pour it all out in this old world. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth where mouth and rust doth corrupt, where thieves break through and steal. You know what he's saying? Can I summarize what he's saying? It's just temporary. It's not going to last But lay up for yourselves treasures in where? Heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, where thieves do not break through nor steal For where your treasure is, there you will your heart be also. You know why some Christians are so worldly? Because their heart is set in the world. They're investing the best they have in this world. And moth, rust, corrupts it. Thieves break in and steal it when it's all said and done. I've nothing. I have nothing. I use this illustration often, I maybe I overuse it, but when we were youth pastor, we had a young fellow in the teen group, was very wealthy, was in an accident. when he was young teen and he had physical damage and he got this phenomenal insurance um what do you call it uh uh re well settlement And like the kid, 15, 16 year old, the kid was loaded. He's like one of the richest people in the church almost, maybe. I don't know. But he was he was in an endowment, it was entrusted, he'd get so much a month he didn't have access to all of it very wisely. We'd go on we go on teen trips. And he'd have a ton of money. I mean, he'd have more money than the whole youth group put together. But we'd stop at rest stops on the way and gas stations on a long trip. And that guy would come out with just grocery bags full of snacks and goodies and stuff, and he'd buy everything he saw, and we'd finally get to King's Island, the big amusement part, and the old boys broke And I'd have to lend him money so that he could get in. He spent all of it on the trip there. You know, when I first saw that happening, I thought, bingo, right there's a whole heap of Christians We're investing everything we have on the trip, and when we get to the destination, we have nothing to show for it. We have nothing to show for it. And Peter is writing to these believers, and he I did that this morning, didn't I? Peter is saying to these believers, he's saying, Enough of that. You've lived that way long enough. Suffice it to have lived this long, investing so much of our time and effort and abilities into the temporal things. The will of the Gentiles. The will of the Gentiles. Enough of the will of the Gentiles. So number one, he says we need to restrict our doing the will of the Gentiles. Stop it. It's done. No more of this. And then he says, remember the wickedness of the will of the Gentiles. Come back with me here. Look real quickly He says, for the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. We lived long enough in that, the past, no more. It's sufficient. We've done enough of that. No more Then he says, when ye walked, and he's reminding them and he's wanting them to remember what their lives were before They became children of God. And he goes through and he gives a pretty specific list here. Now I want to say up front I want to put a real caution that remembering our past can be very dangerous. Going back and reliving Our past can be very dangerous. I think there's two dangers in remembering the past sometimes. One of them is discouragement. And I'll just be very personal and be very honest with you. My past discourages me when I think back on it too much. Remembering our past can be dangerous in that the devil can use that to tell us How useless we are, and how useless we are to God, and you're of no good to God. Listen, that's a die of the devil. It doesn't matter what your past are, you get right with God, God can use you. Doesn't matter what your past is, you get right with God, you can be a shining star in Christ's diadem. So we have to be very, very careful when we start remembering the past that we don't allow that as something Satan can use to bring us down and make us feel like I can't do anything for God. And I don't know about you and I I just being a little transparent here tonight. Sometimes I sit there anticipating preaching and boy the devil start reminding me of stuff and bringing stuff up And and uh and uh man I get where I I shouldn't even be standing I'm just uh I don't I shouldn't even be standing behind this pulpit. But I tell you, then you have a special like that this morning. Stirs your heart and I'm ready to go. I preach for an hour and twenty minutes. No, not quite that long. But you see what I'm saying? You have to be very, very careful about rehearsing the past Can discourage us. Or if we're not careful, rehearsing the past sometimes might entice us to go back into it Anybody find out devil's pretty clever. I mentioned we were talking in an institute the other night about the devil. He's no dummy. By the way, Satan's smarter than you and I. He's clever. And I'll tell you, he's pretty, he can produce a selective memory for us. And this is what I'm saying. If we're not careful, we'll remember the pleasures of sin, and we'll forget that they were just for a what? Season. Just a little while. Sometimes you think, oh boy, that was fun Saturday nights. Man, we had a big time. But then we forget Sunday morning, the guilt, the shame, the regret, and the damage that was done. So Peter is under the inspiration of God, he's encouraging them to remember where they came out of, but there's a caution here. That we do not allow Satan to discourage us from our past or to entice us with our past But God does tell us throughout Scripture that we should remember things in the past. For instance, God instructed Israel to remember their slavery in Egypt in Deuteronomy chapter 5: to remember where you came out of. Remember how miserable that was. Remember that. And by the way, in the wilderness, Israel forgot and said, Oh, we can go back. We had lots to eat. We had a great time in Egypt. No, they didn't They were crying out to God to deliver them. God instructed, Paul instructed the Ephesians to remember that they were outside the family of God at one point in chapter 2. Paul remembered the fact that he persecuted believers in 1 Timothy 1. So there is a place to remember the pit from which we were brought out of. There's a place for that. And that's what he's telling them here. Remember, remember. He's reminding them how wicked the will of the Gentiles is. How wicked the will of the Gentiles is. Now we're going to look at these names real quick. I want to do it as quick as I can. But I want to say this: not everybody that's outside the family of God lives like this. But this is where the will of the Gentiles leads us. This is where it leads us to. Look at the words he used. Let's go down this real quick. He says. For the time past of our life may suff may suffice us to have brought the will of the Gentiles when we walked. Now here's the list. He's saying, remember this, when you walked in lasciviousness I doubt seriously any of us have used that word in a conversation this past week. It's not a very common word But it me it's used nine times in the New Testament, and a few variations of the word, but it's the word itself is used nine times. It means this. It means the corrupt indulgence in the desires of the flesh. Here's another more simpler definition: unrestricted lust. No holds barred. Anything goes. No restriction. I'm telling you, that is exactly where the world is going today. Whatever you want, whatever the most base, debauched desire you have, no restrictions. No restrictions. That's lasciviousness. That's the way some of them lived. No bars, no holding back, nothing. It's debauchery, is a word that is used for it. Shameless indulgence in every desire of the flesh. Lasciviousness. Then he says, lust. The word lust means the passions and desires of our fallen nature, the appetites of the flesh. Says you've lived that way long enough. No more. Put a cap on it. You've done enough of that. Then he says excess of wine simply means what you think it means, drunkenness. Drunkenness I tell you, we live in a drunken world, don't we? I hardly get out visiting. I hardly get out visiting. A week goes by where I don't come across folks that answer their door and they are drunk Drunkenness. That's the world. That's the will of the Gentiles. Listen, I'm telling you, I get so mad at beer commercials, I don't even watch them. I can't even hardly watch TV anymore. They're the biggest liars, I'm telling you, the alcohol industry is the biggest liar on planet Earth They put their commercials out there. We're having a big time at the sports drinking and all this party and all the girls love them and all this great stuff about drinking. It is a lie. How come say if if drinking is so great for sports, why don't the sports men, the players, drink before they go out? Because it messes them up. Drunk excessive wine. Listen, God says, enough of that, people of God. He did enough of that. No more. No more. I was preaching like this one time years ago and a couple was visiting. I was shaking hands at the back. They came back and they said, How'd you know? I said, how'd I know what? How'd you know we had liquor in the refrigerator? I said, I didn't know you had liquor in the refrigerator. I said, God knew. Yeah, I do now I said, God knew that you had that. You know what God says? Enough of that. Listen, can I say this? If you've got if you've got any form of liquor in your home right now, if you have any of it and you claim to be a child of God. What you ought to do is go home, pour that down the bottle, smash the bottles, and ask God to give you victory over that wicked, wicked sin. Excess of wine. That's the world. This is the will of the Gentiles. And then he says, revelings I thought, what in the world is reveling? It's an old English word. It means this. Here's the literal definition. I thought this was interesting. Nocturnal rioting. You know what we call it? You know what the world calls it today? Party all night. Rock and roll all day and party all night. You know what that is? That's reveling. Reveling. And it bothers me, it bothers me to hear Christians describe their get-together as partying. Oh yeah, we were partying. Now I know a lot of it's just innocent having fun, but we're taking a term that the world uses. That is what reveling is talking about. And maybe I'm being a little picky on that, but I tell you, I did, it sufficeth me the parting I've done before I got saved. I don't need any more of that. By the way, sometimes sometimes people might give you and me a hard time because we're goody two shoes. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Oh you guys. Somebody said one, I was out visiting, they said, oh, your church is so strict. Amen. Oh, you guys don't do this and you don't. Listen, I don't apologize one bit for not living in that garbage anymore. I've been there. I'll tell you, I'll take this side over that side any day, hands down Don't let this will of the Gentiles, don't let this world press you and get you to conform to their Their mentality and try and intimidate us and mock us and make us feel like we're somehow inferior because we don't live in sin like that We've had that. Enough of that. Amen or not. Enough of that. So will of the Gentiles, revelings. And then he says this Now this step this word will throw us a little bit. Banquetings. What does that sound like to you? Just from the surface, what does that sound like? Somebody talk to me. Overeating. Oh, we're having a banquet. You know, man, it's going to be great. We've got crab legs and uh uh we've got uh palae mignon and shrimp. And jumbo shrimp. And that's what we think of. But that's not what that word's talking about. In fact, that word there, where it comes from, doesn't talk isn't talking about eating at all Has no reference to food whatsoever. This is what it means. And I want to be careful how I the terms I use in defining it. It means sensual parties. Now that's my version of the definition. Sensual parties, sensual indulgence It includes drinking parties, drinking parties that lead to sensual indulgence, unrestricted sensual indulgence. Now that's as clean a definition as I can come up with for it. Banqueting. He says you live that way. That is the will of the Gentiles. That is the mentality of this world. We're not part of that anymore. And then last of all, he makes this statement and abominable idolatry. Man, God uses some pretty uh pretty descriptive words, abominable idolatries. And it simply means this: the worship of anything other than the Lord. Exalting anything above the Lord. It can be anything, fill in the blank. But anything is put above the Lord, it is abominable in the eyes of our God. In the eyes of our God. That's the will of the Gentiles. That's you say, well, I know people are unsaved, and they don't live like any of that. No. And not necessarily, but if you follow the mentality of the world, this is where it leads to. This is where it ends up. You know why a lot of people live decent lives that are unsaved? I think because of the influence of Christianity in their life, even though they're not saved, but the values and principles of Christianity have been instilled. If you would remove that Bingo, that's right where they'd be. That's right where they'd be. You look at societies where there's no Christian influence, there's a description of it. You read these old biographies of missionaries that show up in cultures where there was absolutely zero Christian influences, and you find them doing those exact very things are common. That's where the world ends up. That's where it leads to. Read again, the days of Noah. And God judged the world. Read again, description of Sodom and Gomorrah, the will of the Gentiles, right there. And Peter is writing to the believers, he says, no more of that. No more. God's will. Not the will of the flesh, not the will of this world. God's will. God's will No other will for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church but God's will. No other will for my home than God's will. No other will for my life than God's will. And we meet at the judgment, like the reference James said, the fellow used to say, We'll meet you at the judgment. And when we meet at the judgment, not one of us will regret doing God's will over our will. Not one of us. I'm afraid there's going to be a lot of tears and a lot of shame. We bow before Christ and said, I did the will of the Gentiles. I did my will. Life is short. Live it up! Or, life is short and less in eternity. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. To follow Peter's advice here. Help us to follow your word, which we know is your will. And not give this whole world one crack. Not open the door one crack. Not one inch. We're all sufficient. We have enough of that I pray you'd help us, Lord, to put our foot down. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many of us would say, Preacher, I know that battle. I know that conflict between my will and God's will. It is there And you'd say, Preacher, pray, God help me to die to self and let the will of God prevail. Any like that? Do there any that feel like I do and I come short of this? I'll be first to admit it. But no will in my life but God's will. Anybody like that? Preacher, pray that that be true in my life. No will, but God's will. What a way to live. What a way to live. Maybe some of us have been besting so much time. Now I know we got to work and do that. Don't misunderstand. But what are our values? Where are our priorities? In here and now? Or in eternity? Father, bless now our invitation. Help us to finish out the Lord's day. Surrendered to you, yielded to your will fully. We can go into this week to be a good strong witness for our Lord and Savior in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.