Verse number uh twenty-two. Pastor Matt read uh three verses here. Look if you would notice verse twenty-two to get us started here on the message. It says, and the goat, that's the scapegoat, the goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities into a land not inhabited. And he shall let go the goat into in the wilderness. This is referred to three times in Scripture here as a scapegoat Scapegoat, scapegoat. So I want to talk about this scapegoat here. Let's ask the Lord to bless and help us. Father, we do thank you for the privilege and the joy of assembling together in your name Lord, we love the church, our church, and how you blessed us. And I ask now, on this uh cold, snowy winter day, that you would please meet with us, and I pray your presence to be here. And Lord, as we consider this ancient Old Testament ceremony and the significance of it and the symbolism of it and how it relates to us. I ask that you would teach us. I pray, Lord, that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray it would be more than just a history lesson or a study. God, I pray you'd use your word to touch our hearts and uh and strengthen our faith and direct us in our lives. So I yield my will to you, Father, this morning. I present my body anew With all my heart, I pray and ask, Lord, with all my heart, that you fill me with your Spirit. You be the teacher. You speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The first five books of the Bible are we referred to, and you've probably heard this, as the Pentateuch. How many folks have ever heard that term right there? The Pentateuch If you've uh been in Bible preaching churches or read any um theology books or Bible study books, you come across that term, Pentateuch. That term is not found in the Bible It's a man-made term. It comes from a Greek word that means five books. Penta, five, to books. So it's simply referring to the first five books of the Bible. Now, uh none of those books, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, not one of those books has any uh penmen identified as to who penned it? Uh each one individually or the five as a whole? We look read through them You're not going to find anywhere that we are informed as to who the penman is behind those five books. Of course, God being the author, we always want to emphasize that. God's the author of Scripture. But when we come to the New Testament, We find numerous times that passages from the Pentateuch, these first five books, are quoted in the New Testament, and numerous times they are identified as the books of Moses. or the law of Moses. And so we have reason to believe, pretty confident reason to believe, that Moses was actually the man That God used to pen down these five books of the Bible. Of course, under the inspiration of God and the Spirit of God has preserved them for us for all these many years. And we have them here today. So the Pentateuch. Now the book of Leviticus is an interesting book. The name itself simply means pertaining to the Levites. Leviticus, the Levites. Of course, Levi was the third son of Jacob. We've been studying the life of Joseph, and uh we looked at his brothers, and uh Jacob's third son was Levi When God assigned responsibilities to the various tribes, the tribe or the offspring of Levi, Jacob's third son, were given the responsibility of the priesthood within Israel. And so the high priest and the various priests and thrown always came from the lie uh the tribe of Levi. In fact, they were not given land in the promised land uh they uh they uh were uh assigned um uh uh they were given land, but uh uh they were assigned specific responsibility uh to operate the tabernacle and fulfill the priesthood The book of Leviticus was vitally important to the early Jews. They cherished the book of Leviticus. It was very, very important to them. In fact, we are told that in early Jewish history, back around this time and and following, the book of Leviticus was the first book of the Bible that a Jewish child would study They were taught, right? The first book they were taught from the Bible was the book of Leviticus. It was the first one they were urged to study, to read and study. And so the Jews, back in the day, they knew the book of Leviticus. It's very important to them. Now is the first book that a child study. Nowadays it's usually the last book that a Christian studies. Anybody here ever read uh uh read through your Bible or attempt to read through your Bible? Can anybody at all? Sure I highly encourage it. I think it's good. But you hit the book of Leviticus and sometimes get bogged down. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? You hit this book and like, what in the world are they talking about here? And so it's important to the Jews. And by the way, the book of Leviticus is just as inspired as the book of Psalms. The book of Leviticus is just as important as the book of John or Revelation or any other book of the Bible. It has a purpose. There's a reason it's there, and its content is given to us by God for a purpose. The book of Leviticus details the various sacrifices and ceremonies that God instructed Israel to follow, particularly in their service in the tabernacle and later in the temple. They had all kinds of ceremonies they would go through. They had various sacrifices they would offer up, some on a daily basis, others weekly or monthly, some were once a year. But uh very specific, very detailed sacrifices, ceremonies, and it also included social behavior uh for the nation of Israel, and some of it included hygiene And some of these types of things and uh healthy society, things to avoid, and things to make sure you have and things that you should eat and shouldn't eat. Some of it was ceremonial purposes and some of it was simply for health purposes. And so the book of Leviticus was very, very important to the nation of Israel. We study the book of Leviticus and we realize, we see pretty clearly. That sin had and has a devastating effect on mankind. The most devastating aspect of sin is that sin separates man from his creator. We were created by God to be in fellowship with God, to walk with Him, to love Him, and Him love us and serve Him. But sin came in the world and separated us from sin. Sin has devastating effects. You and I, as individuals, we ought to take this matter of sin very, very seriously. We should not play with it. We should not indulge it. We should not uh try and uh uh um cover it up or allow it even one inch in our lives, it is devastating The greatest enemy to mankind is, I believe, sin, in whatever form it may take. Of course, Satan behind all of it. So sin, we study the book of Lyticus, we find that sin is devastating and and one of its consequences, the primary consequence, is separation from God. And so when man sinned, God intervened And we if we took the time, we could go back to Genesis chapter 3, where Adam and Eve disobeyed God, and he gave them the option to trust him and obey him. They decided of their own free will to uh give in to the serpent's temptation, enticement, and they simply ate a simple little act, but it was an act of disobedience. It was an act of rebellion. Against their creator. And they ate of the forbidden fruit. And the immediate result was as they were separated from God. They ultimately, they died spiritually, they ultimately died physically. Now this is what I find fascinating, and this is what I love about our God. When they sin and they disobey God, the very first thing God did was he intervened and he did what needed to be done to have that fellowship, that relationship restored. He found Adam, he confronted him about what had taken place. Adam confessed it, acknowledged that what they did, and God immediately provided a way that those sins could be covered, shed the blood of an innocent animal, I believe a lamb. took coats, covered them up, and that was an early, early act on the part of God of covering and uh the sins of man until Jesus comes and he cleanses us from our sin So that's what the book of Leviticus is about, primarily. It's about the fact that we have sinned against God as mankind, and our sin separates us from God, but God loves us. And so he intervenes in man, now in this case, in the nation of Israel, and he provides these ceremonies, these sacrifices, gives the instruction, and all of them are for the purpose of making it possible for man to be reunited in his fellowship and his relationship with God until eventually Jesus Christ comes So the book of Leviticus is an important book. It's a clear picture how God restores our relationship with man. And then eventually, of course, and we're told throughout the Old Testament, the Messiah is going to come He's going to fulfill all these types and symbolism of Leviticus. He's going to fulfill all of them. When he takes our sins on him is crucified, buried. Rise again so we can be forgiven and permanently, completely restored with God. Leviticus is an important book. Leviticus chapter 16, what we read from here That whole chapter is dealing with the most sacred day in Jewish year, in the Jewish year. And that would be the Day of Atonement One day out of the year when the high priest, in this case Aaron, enters into the tabernacle, and not just the tabernacle, but into what is referred to as the Holy of Holies. Now, how many people here are familiar with the Holy of Holies? Anybody hear that? Yeah. God gave instructions to build this tabernacle. There was places for sacrifices to be made for the covering of sin until the Messiah comes. There's washings, various things, table showbread. But in that tabernacle was what is referred to as the Holy of Holies. In that Holy of Holies was the Ark of the Covenant. That is where God met with man That represented and actually in a sense hosted the immediate presence of God. Now nobody Nobody could go into that Holy of Holies behind that veil where the Ark of the Covenant is, nobody could go in there except on the Day of Atonement. That was one day established by God where the high priest would go through various ceremonial washings and various uh uh sacrifices out here outside the tabernacle. Then he came in the tabernacle, had the um uh candle uh candlesticks and uh various furniture there then on the day of atonement The high priest would take the blood of a boar that was shed, and the blood of a lamb and goat, and uh he would come into the Holy of Holies and he would sprinkle that onto the altar, the uh the the mercy seat. And the Ark of the Covenant. And that would cover, that was a symbolic of Israel's sins being covered for the next year. And that way they could interact with God and their sins didn't separate. It was a covering. Eventually Jesus would come, shed his own blood, and then it wouldn't be a covering from sin, it would be a cleansing from sin. We'll talk about that here in a minute. On this Day of Atonement, very, very sacred day, and um he had to be very, very careful. He put on uh very specific garments And uh to wear in there. It was, as I said, the most holy day of the year for the Jews, the most solemn. The Day of Atonement was not to be taken lightly It was uh uh uh it was a very, very sacred day. And so he would go through, as I said, this cleansing ceremony, if we would. Look there in chapter 16, look at verse 4. He had some very specific garments he was to wear. Now, all of this has significance. All of this is very, very symbolic as to pointing to the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 4. It says, speaking of the high priest It says he shall put on the holy linen coat, and he shall have the linen breeches upon his flesh. and shall be girded with a linen girdle, and with the linen mitre shall he be attired. These are holy garments, therefore shall he wash his flesh in water, and so put them on. So there was this ceremonial, very symbolic washing, these ceremonial and very symbolic garments he would wear to enter into uh the uh the Holy of Holies. He would take a young bullock. Look at verse 6. It says, and Aaron shall offer his bullock of the sin offering, which is for himself. and make an atonement for himself and for his household. So he's to offer a young bullock, a bull, sacrifices that, and applies the blood, and that was for his own sins. Now eventually when he goes in the Holy of Holies, that's for the sins of the nation. But now to just to enter that, he has to have his own sins covered with the blood of these bulls. and also his family. Now that's a whole nother message, but that tells me the significance, the importance of the family. His family needed to be covered with uh by the blood and have their sins covered by the blood. So he uh goes through this, and then uh notice verse number seven. He said, take these two goats. Now this is the what I want us to look at this morning. He shall take the two goats. And present them before the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. So he's not in the Holy of Holies. He's outside the door of the tabernacle. So he takes these two male goats, and he's to present them to the Lord. Verse 8, and Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats. One lot for the Lord, and the other lot for the scapegoat. The scapegoat So he takes these two goats and he brings them to the door of the tabernacle. I was doing a little research on this. And um and the Jewish writings about this, how they went about this. And I thought it was a bit interesting. He would bring these two goats to the very door of the tabernacle, it's enclosed They would have the goats, according to what I studied, they would have these goats facing the tabernacle, facing the door of the tabernacle. The congregation is all assembled out here for the Day of Atonement, for the priests to go in. They had these two he goats, and um they would cast lots. Uh we don't know exactly what that one, whether it was a piece of a stick or a piece of something to write on. And uh they would take one, one would say something to this effect, to be sacrificed. And the other stick or paper, whatever it was they were using for the lot, would say uh scapegoat. And so what however they did this, we're not told, it's not clear, shuffle it up or whatever, but he would, uh unknowingly, not knowing which was which, he would lay one on the back of one goat And another of the other one on the back of the other goat. Whichever one, whichever paper, whatever, whichever one said sacrifice Then that goat was sacrificed. He was killed, his blood was taken and applied. The one that said scapegoat Was taken, as we read here a little bit ago, was taken by a fit man, strong man, and there was a few things he would do, we'll look at, and they would take it out way out into the wilderness Where nobody lived, nobody would ever go. They take that goat out in the wilderness and release it into the wilderness, never to be seen again. It's gone. It was alive, but never to be seen again. Just gone. Gone. And so this all took place on the Day of Atonement. On the Day of Atonement. Backs, the backs of the goats were facing the people. They were looking, the backs were towards the people facing the uh the goats. Oh, and one other thing they did The goat that was to be sacrificed, that was chosen by Lot to be sacrificed, they would take a red cloth. That's what I'm told. This wasn't in scripture, but this is Jewish history. They take a ray cloth and they would put it around the neck of the goat to be sacrificed. They would take another red cloth, and they didn't put it around the neck of the goat to be sacrificed. They would put it around the horns and identify that's the goat that is the scapegoat. And so, for whatever reasons, they identified them that way. So you have these two goats. Now here's my question. Why goats? Why would they pick goats to be a sacrifice for sin? And they had sometimes they'd use lambs, and sometimes they'd use bullocks. But in this case, they're using goats. The dogmatic answer is we don't know. We're not told specifically why goats were chosen God had a purpose, no doubt. But there's been suggested reasons. One reason that's been suggested is um By Matthew Henry is a great commentator and I have tremendous respect for his opinion, his insight on this He suggested that it was because goats are, for the most part, a goat is very stinky Anybody here ever have goats? I've been around goats a little bit, years gone by, and they are very can I get a witness? Anybody know? Uh even if I'm wrong, say I'm right for the sake of uh my ego. Uh thank you. Uh but I'm told I understand that goats are very, very stinky, at least back in the day. And uh uh they were somewhat repulsive, goats were And so he said, because of their offensiveness, they were a very accurate description of sin. Sin is offensive, sin is stinky in the nostrils of God. And so he suggests they were chosen because they were very unpleasant type animals. Now the Hebrew word, again, we're just doing some speculation here, but the Hebrew word For scapegoat is, I'll try and pronounce it, Azazel. Azazel. Now, Azazel was a devil's spirit in paganism. It was a uh uh satanic uh spirit that was used in ungodly religion, pagan religions in the area there In fact, even to this day, uh Satanists will use goats' heads as a uh in their uh emblems and their logos they use on different things. They'll use goats' heads I think it was a rock group, I forget, uh Rolling Stones or somebody had a song, Goats Head, something about goats' heads. It was a demonic song And so uh and so some suggest it's because Satan is behind, ultimately behind sin and introduce sin into the world. And so They say that uh the reason being is these goats would be very, very accurate representations of the awfulness of sin and the sinfulness of sin and the the the devilishness of sin. Anytime we sin, we're siding up with the devil against God. Everything they say, well, it's just little, uh, it doesn't matter. Sin is a transgression against God. And so these goats represented our sin. They were the sin offering, and they would represent God's judgment on our sin. So you have these goats. One sacrifice gives his life, the blood, taken and applied to the altars. The other, the scapegoat. Was taken away. Now I want us to notice three things real quickly this morning about the scapegoat. Number one, I want us to notice the confession of sins. Look with me if you would at verse 21 Ver uh Leviticus 16. Takes this scapegoat. It's one that's left, the other one's been killed. He takes his scapegoat, the live goat, verse 21, and Aaron, look at this, shall lay both his hands upon the head of the live goat. The scapegoat, lay both his hands upon the head, and look what he does. And confess over him All the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions, and all their sins. He takes the goat, he puts his hands on the goat, and he confesses the sins of Israel. Now notice he doesn't just confess the really, really bad sins He doesn't commit, uh we had some Israelites murder somebody this year. That's really bad. Would you agree with me? Murder's bad. Amen. And uh uh he and uh no, he's he confessed, he uses the word three times, that little three-letter word. Oh! Oh And so he comes before God and he confesses all their sins, all of them, as he holds his hands on the head of this scapegoat. All their sins are confessed No, uh everybody sinned. Nobody's excluded. It's for all of Israel. Notice it says, confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, not just a few of people. Everybody's sin is being acknowledged and confessed as he holds his hands on the head of this goat. Now, remember we said Leviticus In these ceremonies, the purpose is for us to be restored in our relationship with God. Our sins have separated us. Uh how many people know what I'm talking about? I I say our sins are separated from God. You ever been there? Before I got saved, uh I didn't care about God. I didn't know anything about God. And when I was young we went through the motions, Daddy was a very, very religious man and all that, but he didn't have a relationship with God. His sins had broken that. He would go through the rituals and go through the outward stuff, but he didn't have that relationship. And you know what I'm talking about? Are you with me here this morning? And so to have that relationship restored, that's what all this stuff is about, symbolic of what Jesus eventually is going to do for us. And so what I notice here is, first of all, is there needs to be confession of sin. If I am going to have a relationship with the Lord, It begins with me acknowledging and confessing my sins against God I have got to get to the point in my life where I say, you know, I am a sinner. I have sinned against the holy God. I have broken his law. I have violated his commands. I have violated his holiness by my actions, my attitudes, and my words. I've broken God's law. I remember back before I got saved, and I talk about it so much, too much probably, but I remember back before I got saved uh as I would read that Bible in in the first five months of uh 1979, I was reading my Bible under conviction, and it seemed like the more I read the Bible, the more of a sinner I saw myself to be. Can I get a witness? And by the time it came up to the day I got saved, I was saw myself as such a sorry, wretched sinner before God. And what God was doing, he was showing me my real condition, my true condition. And he was bringing me to the point where I would acknowledge that. Where I would say, yes, Lord, you are right. I am not worthy of heaven. I have nothing, no merit, nothing that I can come and present to you that earns your salvation, earns a home in heaven, earns to be accepted by you. I have nothing And so that's where it begins. Salvation begins when I recognize myself as a sinner. Have you recognized yourself as a sinner before God? The Bible says there is nothing good in man. No, not not one of us are good before the Lord. The Bible says for all have sinned. The Bible says in Jeremiah, our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked We're told in Isaiah that even our righteousness, we come to God and say, God, I did this and I did this, and boy, I was a church member, and I helped feed poor people and I did all these wonderful things. And God says as far as your salvation earning your acceptance by me, pew, it's stinky rags Right? I've got to come and say, Lord, I don't deserve your acceptance. I don't deserve this. I'm falling short The biggest problem with mankind, humanity today is their failure to recognize how sinful we really are That's why socialism doesn't work. That's why communism, that form of government doesn't work, because it rejects the fact that man is inherently sinner. And so many other areas fall short. If I'm going to be restored in my relationship to God and find salvation, acceptance by God, a home in heaven, escape hell, I've got to begin with confessing my sins. Acknowledging to God that I've fallen short, I've sinned against the holy God. And so that's necessary for salvation. Let me say this: once we're saved, and sometimes uh folks get away And get away from the Lord to come back, not to get saved again. We don't get saved again, we're secure, but to restore that fellowship with God. I need to confess my sin. Now we don't have time, but we could go to in the book of Luke, we have the story of the prodigal son. Familiar with that? And he wants the inheritance from his daddy and daddy gives it to him and rather than invest it and help the family and invest it in the well being of the home and the family, he takes that inheritance, he goes to a far country, and what's he do with it? He what? Waste it. He squanders it on riotous living. And uh wine, woman, and song. And man, he's living it up until the money runs out. Now he is nothing. And by the way, if you study that, look at it carefully, all his friends bail on him also. Nobody would give him anything to eat. By the way, that's the way the world is, huh? As long as you got something they can get out of you, then you're wonderful. So the Bible makes an interesting statement. He's there in the hog pen, he's eat wanting to eat the husk that the hogs are eating. He's so hungry. The Bible makes an interesting statement. It says he came to himself. The idea there is, is uh And he obviously he didn't literally do this, but the idea is he looked in the mirror at himself and made an assessment of who he is and what he is and where he's at And he says, I made a mess. I've ruined my life. And he says, I'm going to go back to daddy. His servants are living better than I am. I'm going back to Daddy. I'll just be a servant. I'll just be a servant. It's better than this. And so he goes back to Daddy, and what's the first thing he says to Daddy, Daddy, I've sinned against heaven against you. And Daddy, of course, accepts him right back and And God accepts the backsliding you're away from God. I tell you, if you'll stop and look at where you're at and acknowledge your sin and rebellion against God, God takes you right back. Right back And so the scapegoat, the very first thing they did was they confess their sins over it. Proverbs twenty-eight thirteen says that He that covereth his sin shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh shall have what? Mercy, it says. Confess it, confess it, confess it. What does it mean to confess? It means to acknowledge to God that I'm a sinner It means more than simply sometimes, and I preach on this periodically, but sometimes people have the idea, some people have the idea that confessing my sin to God is simply telling God what I've done wrong. As if God doesn't know. You know, certain religions they have and they'll sit at a little booth and forgive me, Father, for I have sinned. And they'll say, I I don't know what the exact wording is, but something to this effect. Oh yeah, what'd you do? They'll tell them, oh, I did this and that and that and then they'll give some penance, you know, say twenty five Hail Marys and give $400 to the nursery fund, something like that. Confessing of my sin is not telling God what I've done. God knows what I've done. Not giving God information. By the way, you and I cannot tell God anything he doesn't already know So confession is a lot more than saying, oh God, I said a bad word, or I lost my temper, or whatever it may be. It's not just telling God I did that. Confession goes way deeper. Confession is acknowledging that it's so and agreeing with God as to the sinfulness of it. To confess my sin is this, to judge my sin as God judges it. To see my sin the way God sees my sin. To condemn my actions or whatever my sin may be, to condemn it The same way God condemns it. And when I'm confessing my sin is, God, I've done this, I acknowledge it. And God, I agree with you. You are right. This is horrific. This is sinful. This is wrong. No excuses, no justification. Just acknowledge it and condemning it as God condemns it. That's what the high priest was doing. When he laid his hands and he confessed the iniquities of the people, he was saying, we have done wrong. You are just, God, when we are under your condemnation. You are absolutely just in that because we have sinned. So if I want to be restored to the Lord, whether it's in the initial act of salvation, coming to Christ for salvation, to have my sins forgiven, or as a child of God away from God and coming back, it begins with confession. Confession. Second thing I notice here in verse number 21 is the consignment of the sins. First one is confession, consignment. Look at verse 21, the first part. And Aaron shall lay both his hands upon the head of the live goat. Look at the last part of verse number 21. Putting them upon the head of the goat and shall send him away by the hand of a fit man into the wilderness. He's putting his hands on the goat. He puts his hands on the head of the goat. Now what's that the purpose of that? The word consignment. Anybody here ever take some stuff to a consignment store? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Or you shopped at a consignment store A consignment is I take something that is mine, but I put it in the uh the hands of another Another person becomes responsible for that which is mine. If I have some, let's say I have a sofa, and I want to sell that sofa. I take it to a consignment store, I hand it over to them It is, for all practical purpose, theirs, although I'm still the owner, and they deal with it, they take responsibility for it, and make sure it gets sold, and get it sold for me Well, when the priest is putting his hands on the head of these goats, he is consigning, now this is all symbolic. But he is consigning the sins of the people to the head to that goat. They're uh transferring, if you want to say, the responsibility of my sins. Onto that goat. Follow what's taking place here? He's putting his hands on it. It's a consignment. It's a symbolic transfer of guilt. It's a symbolic transfer of responsibility. Symbolically, this goat is now responsible for the sins I committed. This goat is now guilty for the sins that I have committed. They've been transferred. They've been imputed again, symbolically, to that goat. The consignment. Israel, in so doing this, was no longer responsible for their sins. It was transferred over. They were no longer guilty of their sins in the eyes of God. There no longer were. It was transferred to that gill. Listen to Isaiah chapter 56 in verse 3. It says this, all we, remember that word all All we, like sheep, have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. Now listen to this. And the Lord hath laid upon him Jesus. The iniquities of us all. Question, did Jesus ever sin? Did he ever say a word he shouldn't say? Did he ever think a thought he shouldn't think? No, he never sinned. He was without sin. But on that cross, like that scapegoat, on that cross, our sins, our iniquities, the things we've said That are horrendous, that are sin against God, the attitudes we had that violate God's holiness and his love and compassion, the things we've done with our hands The things we've listened to, allowed our ears to hear, the things we've looked at with our eyes, that are violate God's holiness and purity, places we've gone with our feet, things we've done, how we've treated others Things we've said to others that hurt and are sinful, all that sin is laid upon Jesus Christ. It's consigned to Jesus Christ. It's placed on him. He, although we're the ones that did it, He takes our guilt. He takes our responsibility. And we preach this often, but it's an amazing, it's the heart of God Where Jesus Christ says, I'll take responsibility for everything Dennis has done. Hold me responsible for the things he said Hold me responsible for the thoughts he's had and the way he's treated people and the places he's gone and the things he's listened to and looked at. Hold me responsible for what he has done Oh, what love. What amazing thing that the pure, sinless Son of God would take responsibility and take my guilt upon him so I can be forgiven. So that I'm not held responsible for the blindingly holy God that is my judge. Jesus says, I'll take responsibility. Hold me guilty for his sins. That's what was happening. Symbolically, that priest laid his hands on that head and he confessed the sins of God's people. That goat Well, was consigned, the sins of God's people were consigned to that goat. 2 Corinthians 5, 21. For he hath made him, Jesus, to be sin for us. Who knew no sin, he knew no sin, but he was made sin for us. For us. That we might be made the righteousness of God. In other words, he's saying that our sins were consigned to Jesus Christ. He took responsibility for the things I've said and done. And so the consignment of our sins put over on the Lord Jesus Christ. He takes responsibility for it. And then, in so doing, then God sees me. God sees me as, here's a here's a Bible term, justified. Now that word justified has a lot of meaning to it, and scriptural word is used all through, particularly New Testament But it simply means this. Now, this is an oversimplification. I know that, but it'll help us understand what he's saying. It means just as if I had never sinned. Now I know I've sinned. Good. Nobody said amen now. I'm glad to hear that. Well you know I've sin, and I know you've sinned. We've all sinned But when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, when we, so to speak, put our hands, Lord Jesus Christ, and confess our sins, they're consigned to Jesus Christ. And he is guilty. He is sinner. When he was on the cross, darkness settled down over the earth. Darkness that blotted out the sun. I think it was the darkness of hell. I think it was so dark, and I can't prove this is just my thinking. But I think it was so dark you could hold your hand in front of your face and not see your face. It was a total absence of light And the very first thing Jesus said in that darkness, hanging on that cross, dying the first, the very first thing he said, he cried out, My God! My God! Why hast thou forsaken me? God turned his back on Jesus Christ. And the answer to that question, why was because all the things that Dennis has said and done, all my sins were put on Jesus Christ, and God couldn't even look at him. He's so holy. And he was forsaken of God, and he was judged and condemned of God for my sins that were placed on him. That's what's taking place symbolically when that priest laid his hands on that scapegoat So there must be a confession. I see confession of sins. That's the first step in being restored to the Lord. Then my sins need to be consigned, taking off of me. I can never enter heaven with being being responsible for my sins. So Jesus takes responsibility so that I can be accepted by God. So I can have Fellowship with God. So nothing between my soul and the Savior that all laid on Jesus. He took it from for me The consignment of our sins where he is judged, takes responsibility and judged for our sins. How many people, that's exciting to you? That God would do that for me. That he would, I'm free. Oh, that leads me to my last thought real quickly: the clearance of our sins. First we confess. See that in verse 21. And then there's a consignment that's laid over onto the scapegoat and uh becomes responsible again, symbolically, but in the Lord Jesus Christ, literally becomes responsible for my sin. And then the clearance. The word clearance means this, the removal of, to get rid of stuff. A store has a clearance sale. I tell you, my wife has a clearance radar. I mean they're going to be a store 55 miles away if they have clearance. Boom. Clearance sale. And uh Well when a store uh at Walmart uh every time I go in, I walk down the clearance aisle, they never have anything I'm interested in, but just in case So when a store has a clearance sale, what are they trying to do with the items that are on clearance? Get rid of it Get it out of here. We'll reduce the price. We'll do whatever we need to do. Then get this stuff out of here. We've got to move it. Get it out. When he confessed, laid his hands on that scapegoat, confessed his sins symbolically till Jesus comes, all the sins were consigned to that goat. And then they took the goat, a fit man, it says. Look there at verse number 22. The end of verse 21 shall send him away. By the hand of a fit man into the wilderness where nobody lives, nobody ever see it again. It is gone, gone, gone. And the goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities into a land not inhabited. And he shall let it go, let go the goat in the wilderness. It is gone. It's clearance. So we confess our sins. When we do that, when Israel confessed their sins, the high priest, then those sins were consigned to the goat. The goat becomes responsible And then they take the goat out into wilderness and never to be seen again. Nobody lives out. I mean it is gone. The consignment, God doesn't only take responsibility for our sins, but when we trust Jesus, he takes them away. They're gone, never to be remembered again, never to be seen again. I know I'm talking to some Christians. You know the Lord, you've been saved, and you love the Lord. But there's some things in your past that haunt you. Can I get a witness? I have it. They haunt me. And I think every now and then come back to my mind something I said or did And I just hang my head in shame and I think, God, I have to be reminded over and over and over again that when I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, those sins are gone. They're in the wilderness of eternity gone. Never to be seen again, never to be dealt with again, never to be an issue again. When we sincerely acknowledge and confess our sins to Christ for salvation, trusting what He did for us, our sins are forgiven and removed. And when a Christian gets away from God, they don't lose their salvation, but that fellowship is broken. And when they confess and they come back and they have that forgiveness of fellowship restored, forgiveness and fellowship restored. God does not hold those sins against us. I like the old song, uh, what sins are you talking about? God forgives and he forgets. Do you ever try to forget something on purpose? The more I try to forget something, the more I remember it. Huh? And the stuff I really need to remember, I forget I came over this morning, I forgot my wallet, I forgot about twenty-five different things I always have with me. I forgot all of it. But uh I tell you, that one thing I wish I could forget from the past, that keeps coming back and haunting me, haunting me, haunting me It is, I think, impossible to forget something on purpose. Alright, I'm going to say this. I'm going to say, I'm going to say 20 inches of snow. Now, forget I said that. Deliberately. Put it out. I don't even remember what he just said. Right? You can't do it. It's there. That's a dumb illustration, but it's true. God can do what you and I can't do. That which is impossible, man, was possible with God. God can deliberately, on purpose, forget stuff. That doesn't mean he's ignorant. He just chooses not to bring it to mind. It's not a factor anymore. It's not an issue anymore. We confess our sins. He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Not just forgive me, but remove it. Go on. 1 John 1:7, the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanseth us from all sin. Cleanses. It's gone. I like that song. Gone, gone, gone, gone. Yes, my sins are gone. Buried in the uh I forget the rest of it, but I like that part right there My sins are gone. Buried in the deepest sea. Yes, that's good enough for me. I shall live eternally. Praise God. My sins are G-O-N-E-Gone. That's pretty good singing right there, I think. I don't know if it's good singing, but that's good theology. Our sins are gone. How many people are glad when you confess your sins? God forgives and forgets They're out in the wilderness. Go it. Inevitably some and it's not so much anymore the older I get because everybody remembers it's dead. But um People every now and then I run across someone that when I was little and it used to be this way, they call me Denny back home. Ah Danny, I remember when you did this and I want to die You know? I don't want to remember that. God's for your I'm glad God never comes up to a saved person and says, Well, I remember when you did this. He doesn't. He doesn't. They're gone. They confess their sins. They're consigned to that goat, scapegoat, and then they take that goat out in the wilderness, gone, never to be a factor again, never to be seen again. I think those two goats are one symbol. I don't think it's two different things. I think both those goats are symbolic. One Gives its life, sheds its blood, put on the altar. Jesus Christ gave his life, he shed his blood, and today, on the perfect, original, eternal altar in heaven, the blood of Jesus Christ has been applied. Paid the debt of my sin. And then those sins are gone. Forgotten. Listen, don't keep dragging out your old sins. Don't keep beating yourself, going back and saying, oh, I did this, oh, what did I do? Listen, God's put it away. God's put it away. By the way, don't keep reminding other people about their sins. God's forgiven and forgotten and did away with theirs just as much as yours. I like God's clearance on sin. Get them out of here. No more record, no no more remembrance. Go on. I got reading in Maica Chapter 7 and verse 19, the Bible says that all our sins, God casts all our sins in the depths of the sea. Now of course he's talking again symbolically, but he puts all our sins in the depths of the sea. You know, there's I was reading this week uh a week or two ago about the Pacific. There's uh what's the name of that trench out there? Marianna Trench, so deep, never been to the bottom of it. I'm not even sure we know how deep that thing is. I hope they never get down there because God said He put my sins in the depths of the sea. Then I got reading in Revelation. So he takes our sins, again, this is all symbolic, but he puts them in the depths of the sea. Then I got reading in Revelation 21 and verse 1: in the new heaven, new earth, there's no more sin. So he takes my sins, he put them in the depths of the sea, then he throws the sea away. What I'm trying to say is We confess our sins forsaken. We come and trust Christ. They are no longer, ever, ever, ever in any way a factor in my acceptance to God and my relationship with God. So you say, well what do I do? I gotta confess. They're trusting that doing this ceremony that God gave them, they're trusting That they find forgiveness and a relationship with the Lord is restored. Now all that was symbolic, and we don't have time, and all pointing to what Jesus Christ would do, not symbolically, but literally For you and I. If you're not saved, confess your sins. Come, put your faith and trust in the Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the world If you are saved and you're away from God and you've allowed some things to creep in, I say, come, acknowledge that to God, confess it, forsake it, and He'll restore you back into fellowship with Him. Amen. Father, bless now, I ask. Help us to walk with you. We thank you for the Lord Jesus and his blood and what he did for us. that we can be restored. You're so good. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need God to help me forget the past just like he forgets the past. Any like that? Anybody struggle with that? My hands raised I need to put that. Maybe there's some here, another Christian, years ago, whatever, something, and it eats at you, and it eats at you, and you need to forget about that. God did And you need just put that aside. Now, that's between you and God. I'm not going to ask you to respond. That's between you and the Lord. But I say you forgive them even as God, for Christ's sake, had forgiven you. There's some here who would say, Preacher, I don't know I'm saved. I'd like to sure I'd sure like to know that God has taken my sins away and that He accepts me and I'm going to be able to go to heaven, not to hell And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I would be able to get that settled. I'd get that taken care of. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. Maybe if you're online or on the radio God's dealing with your heart. You see that. I wish you'd contact us and we can help you, show you from the Bible. And you can know for sure your sins are forgiven and gone through faith in Christ. Father, God bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name.