Psalms chapter nineteen and we're going to reference Psalms nineteen a time or two throughout the message. But uh Romans chapter one, I want us to um Begin there at least and look at some of this. Again, I hope you'll pray for Bible time this week. Get involved. I'll mention this again probably, but we need cookies. We are in desperate need of cookies, cookies, cookies, thousands and thousands of cookies. If uh we were asking folks if you can make twenty dozen cookies, we will go through them this week, I guarantee it. And so I know there's a lot of folks been preparing and bringing boxes of them in. Any homemade chocolate chip cookies go immediately to my office. And um so keep that in mind. Romans chapter 1. I'd like for us to read together in unison verse number 20. Romans 1 verse 20. We actually memorized this verse some year or so ago. It was one of our mint monthly memory verses And I want us to read verse 20, Romans chapter 1, together in unison. You got it there? Alright, let's say it together. Ready? Here we go. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen. being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. I want to speak this morning and actually I'm hoping to throughout the summer come back to this. I want to speak about God. Particularly this morning I want to speak about the existence of God. Now to be very honest with you, I feel a lot like the Apostle Paul when he said that I am not sufficient. For the ministry God has given me. He said, but my sufficiency is of God. In other words, Paul was saying, when it comes to serving God and the things of the Lord, I really feel incompetent But God gives me the competence, the ability to be able to do what God has called us to do. I thought of that as I thought about preaching throughout the summer on God. Who he is, what God is like. And I think of that subject and I think, you know, I am incompetent on this. I do not have the sufficiency to be able to communicate who God is and what he's like. But God helps us. I be honest with you, I feel I draw it down here in my notes, I feel a little bit almost like a clown wandering out on a Shakespearean stage. And trying to act Hamlet or some tremendous play and just stumbling around. That's really how I feel when we try to consider the greatness of our God And who he is and what he's like. How does he interact with us? If there is a God, what's he like? And how does he interact with us? What does he expect from us? Does he even interact with us? And we find these answers in the Word of God. And so that's what we're going to attempt to address throughout the summer. And this morning I want to talk particularly about the existence of God. So you pray with me. Ask God to open our eyes and stir our hearts. Ask God to help me communicate accurately and clearly what the Word of God teaches. So let's pray. Father in heaven, we bow before you this morning. Very grateful hearts for your goodness to us. Lord, we're so our hearts are stirred as we see these young children here and excited to be in church and anticipating a great week of Bible time. But I pray that you would meet with us here in this auditorium, and I pray that your word and your presence Would stir us, our faith would grow and be strong. God, we want to know you. We want to have a relationship with you. We want We want your will to be done in our lives. We want to understand you as much as is humanly possible. So we ask for your help. We need your Holy Spirit to do this. And so I yield myself, my body, present anew, and I pray, Lord, you'd fill me and you would speak through me and help us today. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Is there a God? And if so, what is God like? Is he involved in the affairs of mankind, or is he just some distant, removed deity? Or is he active in our lives? Can we see his moving? Can we see God's activity around us? What does God expect from us? These are profound questions. I want to suggest to you if there is no God If there is no God, if we are mistaken and there is no God, that is tremendously significant on who we are and why we're here. On any kind of meaning in life. If there's no God, that would have a profound impact on how we live our lives. What we value, what we even decide is right and wrong if there's no God, if this is it. But if there is a God If what we're saying is correct and there is a God, that has profound significance in life also. Suddenly that means that there is something more than just what I see. There is a purpose in life. There is absolute right and wrong. So what we're tackling is profoundly significant and has been addressed throughout the history of mankind. The concept of God has challenged some of the greatest minds. that has mankind has ever experienced. I came across an article, it's back in June, and I I filed it away. I I uh uh kept it and I filed away. It it's it's it's fascinating to me. There's a fella, and I've seen this fella on the news before. If you've watched news of any amount, different issues come up. You've no doubt seen this guy, though you might not register who he is. His name is is I think I'm pronouncing his name correctly. His name is Michio Kaku. He's an Asian fellow. If you ever see him he has white hair. He's on Fox sometimes in different news. CNN has them when they're discussing different things. He is a renowned astrophysicist. He's highly regarded. He has this theory. And I can't even say it, let alone understand it. He came out with a statement in June. I mean, this guy is highly regarded. He says this I have concluded, and he works with these tiny molecules and vacuum and all that, but he says this, I have concluded that we live in a world made by rules. We live in a world made by rules, created by intelligence. Did you catch that? Believe me, he goes on, believe me. Everything that we, by we he's referring to evolutionists, everything that we call chance today Does not make sense anymore. It is clear to me that we exist in a plan Which is governed by rules that were created, shaped by a universal intelligence and not by chance. Now for somebody in his position of his notoriety as an evolutionist to come to this conclusion, that is profound. The article goes on to say he's shaking up the evolutionary world of scientists He's not known to believe in any particular religion, so I'm not suggesting this man is a saved man by any stretch of the imagination, but I am suggesting this. This is an honest man He is honestly saying what he sees to be true in his study. A number of years ago I was had the opportunity to do a funeral for a fellow, and it's just a handful of people. There is many, many years ago. And he had some, I don't know if they were family or distant friends or what, but they came to the funeral. They were from down D. C. area And we got talking, and lo and behold, they were involved in the uh Hubble Space Telescope, the development of the Hubble Space Telescope. You all have heard of that, right? Fascinating pictures coming from this. Space Telescope. We got talking a little bit, and they claimed to be Christians of some sort. And the conversation, one thing led to another, and I ended up asking them this question. I said, how the what behind closed doors, the scientists, the evolutionists, the unbelievers What do they say about evolution? Do they really believe that? Honestly. And the wife kind of paused a bit and she said, you know Behind the closed doors, they would never say this public, she said, but you know what they all struggle with is design. There is design. Even in the most complex, even the most simple things, there's design. She said nobody would come out and say That there has to be some sort of designer by it, but how can chaos produce design? We have here a fellow that came out and said it And that's why I say I'm not suggesting he's a saved man, but I am suggesting he's an honest man. He says, I have concluded that we are in a world made by rules, created by intelligence. Not unlike your favorite computer game, but of course much more complex and unthinkable. What we call chances no longer makes sense We're a universe control governed by established rules and hazards not determined by universal plane. This means that in all probability there is an unknown force that governs everything. The final statement was this. The final solution, resolution, could be that God is a mathematician And I suggest I believe he is. So here you have some of the greatest minds in the world as far as intelligence is concerned. And they grapple with this subject of God. And occasionally you come across someone that is honest enough that say, I see his evidence. I see his hand in creation. So it challenges the concept of God, challenges the greatest minds, but the concept of God comforts even the simplest child. I tell you, Wednesday night, I tell you, if you miss prayer meeting, you miss a blessing. Wednesday night we had our lesson and Did our announcements and all that. We took prayer requests. As we always do, we end the service from prayer and people break up and pray together. And I was over here and one of our young boys was there and I said, Would you pray with me, a nine-year-old boy And we knelt by the pew uh in the pews there. And I said, you pray first, then I'll pray. I'll tell you one of the greatest blessings I had in a long time. Just to bow on my knees beside a nine-year-old boy. Hear that little boy say, dear God. And just in simple faith Pour his heart out to God and ask God to save his friend and bless his daddy and bless church. I tell you what, hear a little child pray, it'll stir your heart. Stir your heart. I believe the subject of God is the greatest subject any man can study. Now there's two ways to approach this, and as I've been saying, and we've touched on it a few previous messages leading up to this, but I'm looking forward in the what's left of the summer of coming back to this subject, who God is, what he's like. how we understand him and interact with God. And as we study this subject and we think about God, I think there's two approaches we can have to studying God and learning if he exists and what he's like. One approach is what I'm calling to study God in theory. In other words, it's simply as an onlooker, a subject that really has no relationship with me, no real importance to me, more of just curiosity. All right, is there a God? Okay, what's he like? And it's just simply a curious, removed, onlooker type subject. uh in theory, sometimes become very critical and just finding fault with the idea. Some people can approach it that way. That's usually your academic approach to God. Just cold, dry We used to call it years ago egghead type approach to it. There's another way to approach the concept of God, whether God exists or not. And that is a very practical approach. In other words If there's a God, then that affects the way I see life. If there is a God, then that will have an effect upon my worldview. It's a very practical application of the reality of the existence of God. Or if God does not exist, then that Has a profound impact on my life and my worldview. A number of years ago, my wife and I, it was just the two of us, the boys uh had moved out, we had just started empty nest syndrome I love it. But um I miss the boys dearly, but I like kinda like having a house to ourselves And our oldest son Sam was living down in Texas. And so uh uh we decided we're gonna take vacation. And uh we're gonna go down and spend some time with Sam and see the work he was doing down there, and we took two weeks We could only be there on the ranch where Sam was for three days. So we had two weeks. We had a week at about just about a week to get down there and about a week to get back. And so we could take our time. We did something we never did before. We're just going to drive and we see something we like. We're going to pull over someplace we want to stay. We'll stay there the night. And we thoroughly enjoyed that. We wanted to go through New E New Orleans And so when we were leaving to go on this vacation, we found out we were going to go down through Nashville, we're going to stop at the Sewer of the Lord, and then we're going to go down New Orleans and do that. Well we found out that Our schedule was such that Mardi Gras was going on in New Orleans during that time. And we thought it might be inappropriate to go to the Sword of the Lord and then go to Mardi Gras. So we changed it and we went out through uh the Midwest and we went out Tennessee, went out to Memphis and down through Arkansas and went down that way, and then we're coming back w after Mardi Gras was over, then we came up through New Orleans because we just want to see it. And there's a couple of restaurants there we want to get to and uh just some stuff. We want to see what it's like. And so it was all cleared out by the time we got there. New Orleans is a unique, in some ways fascinating city. Really is. Some of y'all have been there. And so uh Brother Lee Bowman, good preacher friend, most of us know Brother Lee Bowman, he grew up down there. He's a Louisiana, he's uh from Louisiana And so we told her we were going because oh you gotta go to Cafe Monte. You gotta go eat one of these Poe Poe Boy sandwiches. And he told us all this stuff we need to do, so we wrote it all down. So we got there and parked, there's a little information thing, we told them what we were looking for, they said, okay. And uh then Brother Bowman said, now there's certain areas you need to stay away from. Certain neighborhoods do not go down then He says, okay. And so we got down there and we began walking. I'm trying to illustrate two approaches to God, is what this story is about. We got into the city, the uh the what do they call it, the French quarters I think, is where the balconies and all that are. We got into there and we're walking along and I'm holding my wife's hand very tightly, uh, in case I got scared, she could help me. But uh and lo and behold you get down there and the s and the houses and the shops and everything are like two, three stories high, and they have these little balconies Up there. So we walk along. We notice every now and then somebody be sitting out in that balcony and they'd just kind of be relaxed and they'd just be watching everything take place in front of them Didn't involve them in any way, didn't affect them, they didn't have to move out of somebody's way and they didn't have to make any decisions. They were just looking and observing what was take transpiring on the streets. And they were basically empty when we were there. It wasn't like you see on the TV. That's one approach people have about God. It's like they're sitting on a balcony, it doesn't have any effect upon me, I'm not gonna make any decisions. It doesn't affect what I'm doing. I'm just sitting here and I want to see what this idea is about God. Just a curious observer, onlooker. However, my wife and I were not on the balconies. We were down in the street. And we were wanting to find this certain place, and we wanted to make sure we avoided these other places. And we had to walk around people and there was some strange people there. And street performers and doing different things and uh we went up to one. I'm so far off subject now, but I might as well finish this. But uh this guy's there playing a trumpet and he was pretty good. I guess it was a trombone with the slide and he's playing away and yeah, it was pretty good and we're kinda watching and and he waves to Kathy and tells her to come over here. So I got this recorded on my phone so I can show this. And uh he gets her there and he tells her to do the slide while he's playing. And um I got out of there. She's on her own on that one. But there's all this stuff going on. But here's the point I'm this is what I'm trying to illustrate. What was happening, the reality in the streets of New Orleans affected us directly We had to make decisions. Am I going to go this way? Am I going to go that way? Some places we felt were comfortable on the other side of the road. We needed the turn at a certain street to get to the cafe we were trying to get to. And uh it had a profound impact on what we did and the decisions we made, what we were learning. And that's the other approach to understanding God. How does it affect my daily life? Not just a curious onlooker sitting on some balcony, oh God, sure, whatever. But no, down here, I need to know. If there is a God, what's expected of me? What's going to happen to me when I stand before Him? Whoa, uh how do I get Him to help me? Where do I You see what I'm saying? So there's two very different approaches. One is in theory, and you'll get that in seminaries and universities. They'll talk about these great concepts of God Really never giving any thought what it means to me personally. And then you have folks like, I believe you and I, are trying to live our lives. Trying to be what this God intends for us to be, and understanding that someday, when it's all said and done, I'm going to stand before this God and give an account of myself to him. And that's very important to me What do I need to do? How do I raise my children in light of the fact that there is a God? Decisions made, places to avoid, things I need to find and know and understand. And so we're approaching this idea of God and God's existence from a practical standpoint. I'm not interested in theories about God. I want to know who God is. And what I mean to him, and what he expects from me. And so we're coming from a practical Now this morning, a little bit of time we have left, I want us to consider the existence of God. Does God really exist? Notice in verse number 20 of uh Romans chapter 1. I love this verse. This is a significant verse. It says, For the invisible things of him, being God, Invisible things of him from the creation of the world are what? Clearly seen We're going to start out with this premise. To deny the existence of God is to deny the obvious. I'll say that again. To deny the existence of God is to deny the obvious. He is clearly seen in creation. He is clearly seen in our world. Charles Spurgeon put it this way: even the devil Is not so foolish as to be an atheist. James says the devil believes and trembles. The devil does not try Let me put it this way. The devil is not an atheist. The devil knows God exists. I want to give you three, what I believe to be powerful evidences. That God is. That God exists. And like I said, I'm not interested in just the theory. Does God exist? If he does, I'm very, very much concerned about that. I'm going to give you three, as I said, what I believe to be powerful evidence. Number one, our soul's awareness Our soul's awareness. Look at verse 19 of Romans chapter 1. Because that which may be known of God, now look at this next phrase, is manifest where many. In them. Talking about mankind. That which may be made known of God is manifest. The word manifest means to be made plainly evident. In them. In other words, God has placed within the heart and mind of all of mankind an instinctive awareness of his existence. You catch what I'm trying to say? In other words, every single human being instinctively knows that God exists God has placed within the heart and minds of mankind an awareness, a consciousness, that we are created beings and there is a God. This awareness is universal. In other words, every person that lives on planet Earth and ever has lived on planet Earth has had within their heart and soul an awareness that God exists. There has never been a civilization, there has never been a society or culture ever found, even in the darkest, most removed regions of the most removed jungle. That has not worshiped some sort of God. Man has never found a society of atheists. He always has to produce that. It does not come naturally. God is placed within mankind. Universally, an awareness of an existence. Every single human being is aware that God exists Uh there's been a number of times, I think of one I've used it number of times over the years as an illustration. We were visiting out, um, it was on uh Glendale Bridge Road And metaphell, he claimed to be an atheist, invited me in. We got talking and different things and bantering back and forth. And uh I think he just kind of liked the banter more than he really believed what he was saying And finally, after going back and forth and I gave my my little arguments, finally I said this to him, I said, Sir, I don't believe for one minute that you believe that all you are is muscles, tissues, bones, and fluid. You know in your heart and soul that there's more to you than simply this flesh. You know, before we left, he says, well, I know there's more to it than just flesh. You know what that is? God made manifest in his heart that God exists. He knows it. He knows it. Every one of these little children come in. We don't have to present proofs to them that there's God. They know there's a God. I do not believe there has ever been or ever will be a born atheist. They're taught that. In fact, some cases it takes years and years of years of advanced education to convince somebody of atheism. That there is no God. It's universal. This awareness is universal. This awareness is enduring. In other words, atheism has not stamped out mankind's belief in God. You look at the turmoil taking place in our world on a global scale. The overwhelming majority of it is God-based. Now I'm not blaming God. What I'm saying is because a society or group or religion believes in God and is doing, in Islam's case, horrendous things in the name of the God. That they believe in. You follow what I'm saying? Atheism has not stamped out belief in God. Now, the belief in God is distorted around the world, but it is as strong today as it's ever been. Mankind has within their heart and soul an awareness that God exists. By the way, even the Antichrist will play on man's innate belief in God, and he will claim for himself deity. The Antichrist is not an atheist. Within our soul we have a conscious awareness. That God exists. It's distorted. It's twisted. The Antichrist even Himself will play on that and claim deity for Himself. I received an article from a lady. Let me see if I got it here. Her name is Nicole Cliff. She's from London. And uh they wrote an article about her in a Christian publication. Nicole Cliff was a hardened atheist. She taught in a university atheistic studies, and she was very proud of the fact. And her words were, I was very comfortable in my rejection of any God. Because I was very confident in the fact that this is all there is. There is no God. What we see is all there is. She loved to debate others. She felt very strong in her arguments against God. She gave birth to a little girl. I think the girl was four, five, six years old in that range. Found out the little girl was deathly ill. Now this is a woman who's very comfortable, very confident in her atheism, no doubt that she was right, no slightest thought that there's any kind of God. But her little girl got sicker and sicker and sicker. And it got to the point where the doctors said, we don't know what more we can do to help her. This is serious. And Nicole Cliff, this is her testimony now, she said, I don't know where it came from. She goes, but just out of nowhere, I said, oh God, help us. And she said, that shook me. Why did I say that? I know there is no God I do not believe that. Why? Where did that thought come from to call on God to help me? Now, just an aside, I know where it came from. She was born with an innate awareness in her heart and soul that God exists. And she had so squelched that and so convinced herself that it did not exist that when the crisis time came, that awareness came through And here's the amazing thing. That shook her up so much that she would say that, oh God, help us. She began seeking. And lo and behold, the gal ended up getting saved. And now she has a testimony of a former atheist, now strong believer in Jesus Christ and the existence of God. You know what? God has put within the heart and we if you those of us that know Christ, when we run across people that claim to be atheists, claim to not believe in God, don't let that intimidate you. Inside their heart and soul, they know God exists. There's no doubt about it. It is a facade, it is an argument they throw up to try and quench that awareness. And I'll tell you, just a good testimony, a faithful witness from the Word of God, can many times break down that wall and that awareness of God, and then they can act on that. So how do we know God exists? One reason we know God exists, and I think it's a powerful evidence, is our soul's awareness, the fact that anywhere you go in the world People believe in God of some sort. They're aware of His existence. A second strong powerful evidence of God's existence is, I put it this way, scientific evidence First of all, we have our soul's awareness, then we have scientific evidence. Again, Romans 1. 20 says, For the things, the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen Being understood by the things that are what? Made. Creation. What we see and study about creation. Psalms 19. Do you have that there? Did you find that? Come back to Psalms 19 with me. And notice what David wrote many, many hundreds, thousands of years ago. Psalms 19, verse number 1, he says, the heavens declare the glory of God. And the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night showeth knowledge of God. There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. Their line has gone out through all the earth and their words to the end of the world. For in them he has set a tabernacle for the sun. Then he goes on. What is he saying here? He's saying the stars at night present evidence of God's existence. They share his glory. The things we see around us declare very clearly that God is and show us His glory. The evidence of God's existence is right before our very eyes Everywhere we look, we see evidence of God. You take the telescope and look into the deepest regions of space, and we see evidence of God. We see plan, we see purpose, we see design, we see order. We can set our clocks by the movement of the planets. We look into the microscope and the smallest particles of material. We see God. We look in the sky. We look into the ground. God's evidence is everywhere. God's evidence is overwhelming. For sake of time, we won't turn there, but 2 Peter 3 and verse 5 tells us that people do not believe in God not because of lack of evidence. But because of unwillingness, all around us we see God's handiwork. Everywhere we look in creation, we see design, we see order, we see beauty, we see purpose We see intelligence. We see power. God, the evidence of God's existence is right before our very eyes By the way, we look into the world creation and science, we also see something's wrong. We see that something is out of whack. We see deterioration taking place. We don't see developing into higher forms and more complex. We see deterioration. Um do you ever drive by an old farm or somewhere and you see an old car parked out behind the barn? It's been there for years. That thing's getting shinier and shinier and looking nicer and running better. No, what's happening to it? It's deteriorating. As it was originally designed and created, as time goes by, that thing deteriorates. We see that all around us. We look and see something's something's out of whack here. Things are tearing. There is death on every hand. We look around. Something's out of whack. This body is designed to live. And yet it's dying. We see deception. Deception. And so we look, one of the powerful evidence of God's existence according to the Bible, and we see it in reality, is Creation around us. I quoted the doctor here, the uh the Asian doctor, and he says, I gotta be honest with you. I see such amazing, complex order and design. There has to be a designer behind this. Powerful, powerful argument. There's a doctor out of uh, he's a PhD in astronomy. He's a Christian astrophysicist. That sounds impressive. I don't know exactly what that means. But he made this statement, Dr. Hugh Ross. Listen to this statement he made The work, oh by the way, he's a Bible believer. He said the work of secular scientists is the friend, not the foe, of the Bible-believing Christian. Their efforts, the secular scientists, their research and all that, their efforts have given to us some of the strongest evidences for our Creator, God, and Savior. I've often said we're not afraid of the archaeologist's fade. We're not afraid of the scientists' telescope or microscope. We're not afraid of their studies and theories. The more they discover, the more they find, the more it reinforces that God exists and that book is true. The creationists and the evolutionists, the atheists, we have the same body of evidences. But they begin with the assumption, the conclusion there is no God. They begin with that, and then try and use the evidence to prove their conclusion. Whereas a creationist begins and says there is a God. And we look at the evidence and we see strong evidence that yes, God did create this. God does exist, and he did create this. I use this illustration many times. I want to tweak it a little bit. Suppose the Pathfinder that we sent up, that's a sent up to Mars and it's still up there. I follow it actually on Twitter and they show pictures of what it's doing in that day and different things it saw and um uh it's kind of interesting. Suppose it came up a little hill and it's got its little camera there. And it sees something. And it goes down, and lo and behold, there is a digital camera on Mars. And they look at it and they fiddle around with it and it's functioning and the lens adjusts itself, self-adjusting lens, it can focus. If you mash this little button, it'll put shades over, you can close it and open it And move it around? What would be the headlines in the newspapers if they found a functional digital camera on Mars? Intelligent life. There is no way this could have just happened. This was designed and built by intelligence. There's no way in the world this digital camera could be there functioning the way it is. There's it has to be intelligence on earth. Am I right or wrong? There's no other conclusion they could come to. And here's the ironic thing. Meanwhile, they're looking at that camera with eyeballs that are 10,000 times more complex than that camera. And they say, this just happened. And these eyeballs are fascinating. Their ability to adjust. You know the picture comes in upside down. And our brain, our eyeball is able to turn that around, able to take two independent eyeballs and focus in on such a way that it gives me depth perception. Incredible technology in our heads, incomprehensible technology between our ears. Some cases little not as And yet these very same people find a pottery scrab in a desert and they say, Oh, there was intelligence here. Because there's no way that little piece of pottery just happened. And right beside is a little lizard that is unbelievably complex in its makeup and its function and can reproduce itself. And that just happened. But the piece of pottery had to be made by an Indian somewhere. Find uh drawings on a wall, cave drawings from primitive men years ago in Indians And uh we say, good night, man lived here. Look at that design and those pictures. There's no way that just happened by erosion. That was done on purpose. And they look around and there's a flower that is unbelievably complex in its design and its beauty and its purpose. And they say, that just happened. But this obviously was drawn by some intelligent being. Give me a break. Now, who are you calling the dummy? I'm suggesting to you, if we just look around with honest, open eyes, the evidence of God is all around us. All around us. Cave drawings, pottery shards, the eyeball. And then I'll give you the last one. I gotta end Soul's awareness, we know there's a God. Everybody does. Every country I've been in, and many of you have been a lot more than I have, but every country I've been in on different mission trips, every country I went, people worship God, one way or another, right or wrong, but they worship God. It's universal. Scientific evidence all around us. And last of all, scriptures, exclamation. I want to suggest to you that the greatest proof as to the existence of God is found in the pages of our old King James Bible. Genesis 1:1. In the beginning, God. There's no effort on the Bible's part to prove God. Just God is. God is. And in this book, we have an accurate record of God's interaction with mankind. This book tells us who God is, what he's like, and what he expects, and what he promises us. The Word of God tells us the reality of heaven, the reality of hell. The Bible clearly declares to us the reality of the spiritual world we live in. There is more to this world than just Flesh and blood, just what we see. There is a spiritual world all around us. We are spiritual beings. The Bible tells us the reality of the return of Christ. And it tells us the reality of God in the beginning. God, just assumed, just declared, God is, God is Conscience tells me there is a God. Creation, scientific evidence, tells me a little bit what that God is like. And the Bible, the scriptures, tell me who God is and what he wants. There is a God. We see a little bit what he's like. And this book tells us what his name is, what he's like, and what he wants from us. If God exists, and he does, it's undeniable. If God exists, then we need to know him. If God exists, then we need to trust him. If God exists and he does, then we need to follow his instructions. The evidence of God is all around us. Only a spiritually blind person would say, no, there is no God. Only someone who's set in the rebellion against God will try and convince others there is no God when it is so obvious all around us. Story goes there was a man years ago who driving a Ford car, and it was found along the roadside dead. The Ford cart. Anyway, uh the guy had this Ford car and it was along the road, it's broke down The hood was up and the guy's in the in the engine area and his feet are sticking out and he's working on it and he's hollering and saying bad words and mad and throwing stuff around. Another car pulled up behind him, so he's having trouble. He came out. The man walked up and said, sir, I see you're having trouble there. Can I help you out? I'll take a look at it. Maybe I could help you out. By this point the guy was so bent out of shape he started yelling and hollering and cussing, get out of here, leave me alone, I don't need your help, I do this myself. And the more he worked on it, the worse it got He says, listen, I think I can help you. I know a little bit about it. He says, get out of here, you old fool. I don't need you. And so Henry Ford walked back to his car And drove off. We laugh at that guy. But we do the same thing. God says, I'm here. I made you. I created you. I know you better than you know yourself. I know what life is. I have a purpose, plan, and all of it. Let me help you. Let me show you what to do. Trust me. We say, Leave me alone. Boo God. We have a nation that is doing just that to God. And we have violence in our streets like we never had before. We have chaos and hatred and division like we've never had before. Hey, I've got a good idea. Let's push God out more. Let's deny him even more. That would make things better. Let's take his teachings on life and marriage and what things are and just twist it even more. That would make our nation better, huh? Of course I'm being cynical. What I'm saying is this, God exists, and we desperately, desperately need him. And what our nation is doing on a national scale, I see people all around us doing on a personal level. And they wonder why their world's falling apart, and they wonder why there's so much tension and misery and chaos in their life. Such dysfunction. We push our creator out. We're not even working. If you take an if you take a motor and you don't operate it the way it's designed to operate It's not going to function right. You're going to have problems. It's going to break down. If we take our lives and we don't live them the way our Creator designed them to be lived, they're going to break down. There's going to be dysfunction. There's going to be serious problems. We need to understand God exists and get back and say, God, you created me, you have a plan, you know how this thing works. And I will trust you. And I'll follow your instructions, and then God can work. Am I making sense? The existence of God, he does exist, and it is profoundly significant. On who we are and how we should live. Father, I ask you to take these thoughts and challenge us. Help us to see the significance of your existence and what that means to us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher, I know God exists. There's no doubt it. I trusted Jesus my Savior years ago. I've been walking with the Lord many years. But you say, in this day and age I just want to reevaluate my standing with God, where I'm at as a Christian. And maybe today the Lord's deal with your heart and say, you know, I need to take my Christian life seriously. I need to take what God has spoken to me and His Word seriously. There's areas of my life I need to apply the instructions of God. There's areas of life like that man with the broken down car. I just need to step back and let the Lord step in and fix this Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I know there's areas. Some of us there's decisions, hard decisions need to be made, but if we're going to be right with God, we've got to make them. How about it? Any others? Any others all around? God bless you. Many hands. We know many of us know the Lord. We know how He works. We've experienced. We need to take that seriously. Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die, I'd go to heaven I'm not sure that my sins are yet. I'm not sure my soul is saved from the judgment of sin. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I'm concerned about where I spend eternity. You say, I don't want to go to hell, I want to know I go to heaven to be with God. You're concerned about that. You'd like for the Lord to help you settle that in your heart in life. You'd like for me to pray for you. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven. When I die, I go to heaven. I'm sure I have that settled. Is there any like that at all this morning? And we'll pray with you that God will help you settle that. Any at all? Now I know many of us know folks that are unsaved That need to know the Lord. Some of us are working and have kids coming in this week for Bible time. Maybe a good thing to do this morning would be pray for them. That God would open our eyes to see the obvious. And they come and trust Christ. Father, bless our invitation. Now I ask a lot of hands raised. Help us by faith to trust you and respond to what your Spirit speaks to our hearts about. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are