So I have changed my approach to the night's service about five times and that was just this afternoon And uh so uh I I I've got a lot of things that uh on my heart that I want to say and share I guess I'll begin by this by your while you're turning to Acts chapter two is just saying I'm I know my wife speaks uh I know I speak for my wife when I say this. But uh pastoring this church has been the absolute joy of my life for the last going on twenty years now. Absolutely. There is nothing in my life Uh other than my marriage to my wife and my salvation, that brings greater joy than to know what God has done and what God is doing at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and allowing us to have a part in it. And so I just thank God for that. Uh I like the idea, I started this a couple years ago. I like the idea of taking a Sunday night early in the year, beginning of the new of a new year, and just stop and kind of sharing with the church. My evaluation of what the Lord has done the previous year, my vision and hopes, anticipation for the coming year. And then uh some areas I see what our strengths are and some areas to be very frank with you we're we're weak at that we need to address and bolster up and and some are the same as last year. Some we didn't we weren't able to uh I I think we weren't able to um strengthen some areas and we gotta stay focused on it. But notice with me in Acts chapter two. I'm just gonna I don't think I have Mike here today either. I don't think I have Mike anywhere But um Acts chapter 2, verse number 41. Notice what the Bible says. Then they that gladly received his word were baptized. And the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and in breaking of bread and in prayers, and fear came upon every soul, and many wonders were and signs were done by the apostles. And all that believed were together and had all things in common, and they sold their possessions and goods and parted them to all men as every man had need And they, continuing daily, with one accord, in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart Praising God and having favor with all the people, and the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. Here you have right at the beginning of the church, the New Testament church You have a snapshot. God has given to us a snapshot of the daily life and the spiritual condition of that early church. And man, what a beautiful picture it is. And I just want to take tonight some observations. about that early church. And to be very honest with you, as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, I look at the New Testament Church as our model Not some other church that's already it's in existence today. I'm looking back to the to the master uh if you will, so to speak And so that's what I want to do. Let's have a word of prayer, and uh we'll see how this comes together. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would bless uh our church. You've been so good to us Lord, I'd have never dreamed 19 years ago that we would be today where we are and what you've done over these years. God, we anticipate you doing greater things. This is your church, Lord. You paid a heavy price for us to exist, the blood of your own son. And I pray that we would honor that and we would glorify you and we would live and be and function exactly as you intend for us to, I ask you. In Jesus' name, Amen. Now I shared this brief outline with the deacons on Friday night, but I want to take it and apply it to what we're trying to do this evening. The first thing I notice here is that in the New Testament Church, in looking at the book of Acts, the New Testament Church, I find that they continually had people saved and people baptized. It was a regular event in the New Testament church. It wasn't something strange. In fact, you read down through here. In fact, it says there we read, God uh, and daily God added to the church such as should be saved. Uh here's the idea. Here's the picture I get in the New Testament church. Let's kind of take our setting and put it back in in that environment. It would be like every single Sunday, at least, you go to church, people get saved and baptized I mean continually. It's a continual thing. If there would be a Sunday where somebody didn't get saved and baptized, people driving home would say, boy, I can't believe it. That was strange. Nobody was saved today. Nobody was baptized today Now compare that to our day and age. Our day and age, we go home from church and we say, Praise the Lord, there was someone saved today. Man, that was exciting. We had someone baptized today. And that's good. We need to praise the Lord to be excited about that But I'm afraid in many churches the standard, the usual thing is people not being saved, people not being baptized. Now, granted, this was the beginning, this was the initiation of the church, you know, and they're sweeping the land, and the gospel is just like a wildfire going across a ro around the world. And no doubt that initial flame, that initial burst, uh died down somewhat and they settled in and they got into more of a long-term uh uh uh me frame of mind, but nevertheless uh they saw people saved and baptized on a regular basis. Now where are we at on that I do thank God. I thank God for this. This past year we had 84 people profess faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank God for that. We'd love to have more, but uh that's uh not bad. You figure fifty-two weeks out of the year, that's almost two people two professions of faith a week. Now we're not looking at numbers and regardless of that, but I am looking at it and saying, well praise the Lord that many people heard the gospel and at least profess to trust Christ as Savior. Question is, were all of those for real? Uh I know all that meant it were for real. You think all those people got saved? Everyone that exercised faith in the Lord got saved. And so uh we had eighty-four professions of faith and we had twenty folks follow the Lord in believers' baptism this past year Now I thank God for that. Uh and uh we praise the Lord for that. My goal and my desire and my request to the Lord for many years has been that we could average one baptism a week. That'd be fifty-two baptisms a year. So we have a challenge ahead of us. is working towards the Lord, seeking God, and uh seeing folk follow the Lord in baptism. The sa another thing I notice in the New Testament church here, and I'm trying to evaluate where we're at, is that that church had the joy of the Lord No matter where you read in the book of Acts, they're praising God. They're having a big time. They're rejoicing in the Lord. They're singing praises to God. Uh if they're uh uh they're in jail, Paul and Silas are in jail, beat up, bloodied, uh battered at midnight, they're praising God and singing praise the Lord and praying. And the uh the prisoners heard them. They're being persecuted. The disciples come out praising God that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for the Lord Jesus Christ. They were a happy group of people Didn't matter what the world did to them. Didn't matter what the Pharisees did to him. They just praised God. They just rejoiced in the Lord. And uh I think as pastor, I'm trying to honestly evaluate where we're at as a church, I think for the most part we have a happy church. I think so. I'm happy. And uh uh we have a happy church, we're a praise the Lord church. Uh I think as Americans we're a little bit spoiled. Let me take that back. I don't mean that. As Americans we are very spoiled. And uh we have a tendency to want everything our way and our particular flavor of of everything and if it isn't we tend to gripe and complain. Uh I believe I'm talking to myself as much as anybody, I believe we could work on that Maybe work on our gratitude or contentment or uh just rejoicing in the Lord. Uh how many of us uh get some opposition, get cussed out at work or something, boy we get mad, oh tell you what, he'll pay for that Uh why don't we change that over into praise the Lord? God sure is good to me. And uh pick this up. So they had the joy of the Lord. I think that's something we could work on. I think we're pretty happy. We sing and praise the Lord and we and We're a pretty happy group of people, but we could work on that. This another thing I notice here in the New Testament church is they were unselfish. Man, they're sharing their possessions one with another. You get in there a little bit later on and they're selling their property. They want the church to succeed. They want that thing to go forward And uh they're just giving generously. Old uh Anoniris and Sapphira got a little hypocritical about it and paid a price, huh? But nevertheless, the mentality of the church was very generous, very giving, very unselfish of themselves. And to be very frank with you, I think we have a very generous church. Now stop and think about it. This past year, we paid forty thousand dollars cash for those buses up and running, and that's all paid for People gave sacrificially uh to the church to get those buses up and running. We thank God for that. Do you remember last year our missions conference over a hundred thousand dollars promised to give the faith promise missions Uh church our size? Come on. And so uh we thank God for that and uh the offerings and all of that. Uh does everybody tithe in your church? No, but they should. Come on now. They should. Uh but uh thank God they were very given and that's a challenge for us. Uh, to be very generous, we got missions conference coming up in May. And uh Brother Jimmy Rose is going to be with us. I am so excited about that, I can't even sleep at night. I just lay there waiting for Brother Jimmy Rose to get here That's a little exaggeration, but um uh this is a great blessing. What an opportunity we'll have to trust God and give of ourselves to get the gospel around the world. I don't believe we have one missionary that uh we have I can't think of any one missionary that we have that I don't believe is a good investment of our finances in getting the gospel around the world. If we did have one, I'd drop them Men. They're not getting the gospel out. They're not doing what God's told them to do. We're not going to put our money in that. So, uh unselfish, just giving of ourselves. Let's challenge ourselves this year. Here's a challenge I'm trying to take all my thinking and putting it in here in some sort of an outline. Here's a challenge. We owe $29,000 on that barn out there. We borrowed to build that barn. That barn has been a blessing. We have used that and used that and used that in so many different capacities. You know what I've asked the deacons and I have talked about trustees? We'd like to see that thing paid off this year. And we're going to begin a campaign. We're going to put in the bolt and work towards that and try and knock that thing out and get that uh it's not a burden on our back so much and uh we thank God for it. It's something we we agreed to do But wouldn't that be a blessing, get it get that off our back by the end of the year, and just have that taken care of and be able to go forward in some areas? So that's something to pray about, something I'd like for us to see. and we'll be talking about in the coming years. But giving, uh they gave unselfishly to the needs of the church. Let me give you another one. What number are we on? Is anybody writing these down? This is number four. I've got it scribbled all over here. I've got notes all over the place. Number next. They had the power of God upon their ministry. Man, everywhere in the book of Acts you read, there was wonders. The power of God was there. Power of God was there. Power of God was there. Great was the power of God. Phrases like that all through the book of Acts. I believe this is one of our greatest needs, is to have the power of God upon our ministries. I think we see it a little bit here and there. I think we see God work here and now every now and then. Hey, three folks trust in Christ out on soul soul salvation, uh trusting Christ out on soul winning. Uh that's not something we work up. That's God does that. And lives changed. People added to the church. Those types of things. But I'm telling you, you read the book of Acts and you see the power of God that rested. On those New Testament believers, I hunger for that. I thirst for that. And our ministry, that it in it our preaching and our witnessing, the radio going out, the tracks, that it has a powerful impact And lives are changed, souls are saved. And uh just a great, great thing. They had the power of God. I told the workers down in worker meeting just a little bit ago, and I mentioned this a number of times. At Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we are attempting to do more than we have the manpower to do. We're trying to do far more. You say we don't have enough workers to do that. I know it. Uh we don't have enough workers to run these buses, bring these kids in. But I tell you what, I want to do more. I'd like to run a bus up to up to uh McHendry and up that way. Accident. And uh you say, good night, where do we get the workers? I don't know. We need the power of God on us. Uh I I came to this conclusion. One Christian that gives himself to the Lord to serve the Lord that has the power of God will accomplish more than ten Christians who are half-hearted and have no power of God. Say, well, the minority uh Dr. Lee Robertson used to tell us. He says it doesn't matter the size of your church, ten percent of the people are going to do ninety percent of the work. I found that to be true. Highland Park, 6,000 members, about 10% did the work. Uh everywhere we've been. But I tell you what, I'll take 10% if that ten percent has the power of God on them. Follow what I'm saying? And uh power of God. We need that. What is it that produces the power of God? I put these down. Number one is doctrinal purity. God will not bless that which is not biblical. And just because it's a big crowd doesn't mean it has God's blessing. It's because there's a lot of noise doesn't necessarily mean the blessings of God. God will not bless that which is not biblical And we must be biblical in our doctrine. You say, preacher, we live in a day and age when doctrine is not important. The important thing is we all get along. God will not bless that. Doctrinal purity, loyalty to the word of God. Look what it says there in verse 42. And they continued steadfastly. In what? The apostles what? Doctrine. They held to it. They were unwavering In their commitment to their doctrinal purity, what the apostles were teaching. Now, the apostles were the fa uh the foundation stones, Christ the cornerstone, they were foundation stones of the church And what they were teaching, much of it is under the inspiration of God, recorded for scripture here, and they held steadfastly to it. I believe with all my heart that our doctrinal statement is as biblical as it can get. And we don't cover everything in here, and thus it brings me up brings to the subject of the fact of adding some things to our doctrinal statement that I believe, as particularly in the day and age we live, must be addressed for several reasons. We've made uh uh uh you do not approach changing your doctrinal statement, you do not approach that lightly. It's not something uh you want to do often. When we first came here, I our doctoral statement, before I even c uh candidated, brother Dr. Don Williams sent me a uh the doctrinal statement of the church and the constitution, all of that. I wanted to look at that before I even pursued it And the first thing I noticed was in this doctrine about the Bible, I noticed what I considered to be a weakness. It wasn't incorrect. It was an area of weakness. It did not address the preservation of the King James Bible. Now he assured me that this church held strongly to the King James Bible. God had preserved his word. I believe that very strongly, but it wasn't expressed that way in the doctrinal statement. So some of you here were here then, about a year or so into it, I said I feel very strongly we ought to put make alter the statement on the Bible that it covers the preservation of Scripture, that God has preserved in the English language the King James Bible from the Textus Receptus. And so we made a slight alteration. How many folks were here remember that? Sure, that was important We haven't touched it since then, had no reason to. Uh, this past year we had the issue with the homosexuals, and all that blew up, and the lessons I've learned from that. And uh it came out in in dealing with the CLA and dealing with all of that. They asked me, they said, What's your doctrinal statement on uh sodomy, same-sex marriage? I said, Well look I don't know. Let me check. And I got our doctor statement out, and I pretty much knew the answer, but I got it out and looked, and lo and behold, we didn't have a statement on homosexuality. We didn't have a position on that at all. And she said, listen, you need to really seriously consider that this was a lawyer telling me. She goes, just for legal reasons. You could be held and she says, Everything blowing up here, he said, You don't know where this is going? says, You ought to do that. So I began seeking the Lord And uh really, is that something we need to address and all that? And I got thinking about it. Whether it stands up legally or not, I believe it's important for us church to take a position and say, hey, this is what the Bible teaches on this. This is where we stand I want to if I'm going to go to jail for this thing, I want to go to jail with them knowing exactly what I believe. Amen? I want to know why they're putting me in jail. Now I'm not saying that's going to happen But I am saying this, I became convinced that this is a situation, this is a subject that we ought to have a biblical statement on in our doctrinal statement. And so we did that. While I got researching that, you know what? Some other subjects came up. And so I met with the deacons for a couple months now and presented this. They've prayed over it, looked over it. I've been looking at it and praying over it, and we are suggesting to the church, and I'll have these available as you leave this evening. Everybody's welcome to it. We'll print more off. We are suggesting that we add a number of statements to our doctrinal position Let me just give them to you quickly. We are adding article number twenty, a statement on human sexuality. And what the Bible teaches about that says, we believe God has commanded that no intimate sexual activity be outside engaged in outside of marriage between one man and one woman. We believe that any form of homosexuality, lesbianism, bisexuality, bestiology, incest, fornication, adultery, pornography are sinful perversions of God's gift of sex. We believe that God disapproves of and forbids any attempt to alter one's gender by surgery or appearance I think it's very important. We'd be very, very clear on that. And we stand strongly on that. We believe the only scriptural marriage is the joining of one man and one woman. And we want that to be known. We want that. And we give scripture for it here. We have a we're going to add article number 21, family relations. Uh we believe men and women are spiritually equal, and I'll just summarize it. These are a little bit lengthy, but talks about husband being the head of the home and eats the husband and wife having a role to play And the biblical roles there and uh the importance of the family and home and scripture for all of this. We're going to add article number uh twenty-two on divorce and remarriage. We've never addressed that What the Bible teaches about that. And we go through a statement there. And maybe I'll take a Sunday night here sometime or take a service sometime and just go through that and what the Bible teaches. The matter of abortion. To me, it's just common sense, obvious. But uh we need to put this in here. We believe that human life begins at conception and that the unborn child is a living human being Abortion constitutes the unjustified and unexcused taking of an unborn human life. Abortion is murder. We reject any teaching that abortion of pregnancies due to rape, incest, birth defects Gender selection, birth, or population control, or the physical or mental well-being of the mother are acceptable. We address, we uh article number 24, we put euthanasia. And I'm telling you, that is going to be a bigger issue in the coming uh years than what we realize. Uh the church's commission. We didn't have anything there. What is exactly our commission as a church? Well that's obvious. Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. So I am recommending to the church, I recommended to the deacons, I'm recommending the church that we put these additions into our doctrinal statement, make it very, very clear where we stand on these very important issues. And um, you know, we may have to answer to the government someday for this. I may be getting a little cynical in my thinking as a result of this past year, but nevertheless, we need to make it clear where we stand. So we're going to have these available. I want you to take them. I want you to look over them. Don't hesitate. Call me and ask me if you have questions about them. I think they're pretty self-explanatory. We've preached on most of these over the years and um But uh I think it will make us stronger on our position and where we stand. So how do we get God's power? Number one, uh we have doctrinal purity. We stand on the right side of things. Separation from sin is uh brings God's power. They had the power of God on us. Separation from sin. We must stand against worldliness, be opposed uh to uh uh the encroachment of the world on the church. And uh I'm telling you, we're I'm telling you, biblical Christians are getting weirder and weirder. Now you know what I mean by that? In the world's eyes. In the world's eyes, we're weirdos. Kathy and I were out visiting yesterday and And uh we were way up uh and trying to find a house. We couldn't find it. So I said, Well, let's just go up here, maybe by chance we'll find the right house and we just go on door to door through there, and I was leaving swords, we got a ton of sword of the lords, and so I was giving them out. And I got in the car and I said, You know We're pretty radical. What we're teaching and preaching and promoting in the world today is radicalism. In a lot of ways. Do you know the Sword of the Lord was at one time the biggest selling Christian periodical in the United States of America? At one time the Sword of the Lord had more subscriptions than Christianity today. You know that? Back in the 40s and 50s? 300,000 plus subscriptions the sword had at one time. It was a mainstream Christian periodical. Now today we're just off the charts. Society has changed so much that we're the oddballs. And we cannot, cannot let the world encroach on us. We cannot do that. I give you my word as Pastor Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, I will give my heart and soul to keep this church from becoming contemporary Christian worldly Christianity. I have no time for that. And we're going to keep that at bay as as every way we can. And uh you say, Oh, you're going to lose members, you're not going to be popular, the Christians in the town are going to think you're crazy Uh, if we're nice about it, they'll tolerate us. And if we're and if they don't tolerate us, I'm still more concerned about pleasing God than I am about pleasing man. And so doctrinal purity, separation from sin are necessary to have the power of God. Obedience brings the power of God. I'm convinced if we obey God. We can see God's power. Obey God in this matter of prayer. God's commanded us to pray. And we've got to do that. The New Testament Church was a praying church. I want to challenge this coming year I cannot emphasize, I'm telling you as my pastor, I cannot emphasize how important the midweek prayer service is. That is so important that we get together and we earnestly pray as a body of believers for God's power on this church. For God's protection, God's leadership, God's provisions. And uh very important. And so obeying God in this matter, having the power of God. Uh let me move on. I see something else here in the church that I notice in the new in the book of Acts, the New Testament church, they had unity and faithfulness to the Lord. Their people were faithful. Uh I I don't hear it so much here anymore. I guess folks figure I ain't gonna pay no attention to it anyway. But it used to be good night. We have so many services and then we didn't have it here so much. It was uh Indianapolis a little bit. But uh it was uh good night. We have so many services. W they didn't have church every Sunday night in the book of Acts. No, they had church every Sunday night, Monday night, Tuesday night, Wednesday night, Thursday night, Friday night, and Saturday night in the Book of Acts Daily they got together for preaching and fellowshipping and all of that So let's do it the way the book of Acts says. And uh no, no, no. They were faithful, Lord. I thank God for the faithfulness of our church. I thank God for the faithfulness of our members. Boy, they were unified there. There was they had little fusses. Paul and Barnabas had their fuss. They had to deal with that. And uh there's a couple others here, you know. God killed a few people here and there, but uh other than that, uh it wasn't too bad. Uh but um I believe we have a tremendously unified church. This is family to me. We had somebody this morning came and said, Preacher, we were away, we love the church we visited, but man, there's nothing like coming back home here I thank God for this. There is a family spirit here, and we've got to work to protect that. It requires dying to self, it requires staying focused on Christ. It requires staying busy for the Lord. But there's a danger comes with that. There's a danger. When we get along real well and we enjoy each other and we're family-like, you know what that danger is? Visitors don't feel welcome. They're outside. They're not part of the family. And we've got to watch out for that. We've got to focus and work hard at making folks that come in making them part of the family. Inviting them in, opening up, making them feel welcome. And you know, our testimony that I get back from folks, the testimony I get back from folks is you have a friendly church, you have a friendly church, you have a friendly church. And I'm glad for that, but I'm saying let's work on that. Let's say that. Somebody new in, they're they're not real familiar, they're not maybe been around here for a while. Well let's let's go out of our way to to make them feel comfortable, befriend them, establish a relationship with them. Now how do you do that? What can you do? to make somebody that's not part of the gang be part of the gang. What can you do? Yeah, take 'em out to a meal. We've been trying to do that. Kat and I have been working on that, trying to get folks and just take them out to a meal. Invite them over to the house of an evening. Get to know them, swing by, just stop by their house, say, hey, we just wanted to get to know you, talk to you a little bit, single mouth after a service, pull them aside, hey, I'm so-and-so, just want to let you know, and uh invite them to sit with you Ask God to give give you create help you ask God to give you some um uh uh ideas. Those hard words are the ones I struggle with. Uh ask ask God to make you creative is what I was trying to get at. Or give you ideas of ways. How can uh we befriend these? Find someone. Uh you know what good thing, Sunday morning? We got a visitor? Everybody over there shake their hand over and uh greet them and and make them feel well. But I thank God for the unity, the family, the great spirit we have, but again there's a danger with that and that's getting clickish You know, it's us, it's just us, and we don't want that. Uh remember you were a visitor at one point. Uh I was new here at one point And so let's uh keep that. Now, uh, here's a last point I notice here is that priority in the New Testament church was prayer and the preaching of the gospel. That was a priority. We talked about prayer this morning. You go through the book of gospel, uh you go through the book of Acts, you find them doing two things over and over and over and over and over and over and over Praying and sharing the gospel with the lost. Just heading out. Organized ways, unorganized ways, disorganized ways, they were just heading out. Philip shows up over here witnessing Peter's over there, Barnabas is up there, Paul's over there, the church gets organized, sends them out on a mission, and they're just going. And they're praying, praying, praying, praying, praying. I want to give myself this coming year to lead our church to focus and make prayer and preaching of the gospel a priority. Getting out soul winning. Am I happy with our soul winning schedule? No. Uh we had Thursday nights for years, and in the cold and the dark, we tried to switch that. We go to Sunday nights. That seems to be working fairly. We have some folks coming out Sunday Sunday afternoons. Today we had some saved. I thank God for it. We do Saturdays at one. We have a couple folks come out for that. And I'm not complaining I'm just saying I think we can do better. And I've prayed about this for the last six months, and I asked the Lord, how do we fix this? And I've I've come up with an idea. I think the Lord's leading in this is having twelve Great Commission Days in 2013, 12 of them. One each month. We take a Saturday. We wanted everybody that would possibly care. To come out on a Saturday. We'll have a uh brunch about eleven uh ten o'clock, make some pancakes or whatever, and uh get together, kinda organize. And then we'll head out for about an hour and a half, two hours into a community surrounding the area here somewhere, and we'll just saturate that, go door to door. We'll have surveys for those that maybe aren't confident enough to share the gospel We'll have others who have been through the soul winning trading feel very confident they can win people to Christ. And we'll go through there and we'll get try and win people to the Lord. We'll try and get prospects. We'll try and get anybody that's remotely interested in the things of God and the church and get their names and address. And then the next four weeks We'll use the Thursday night, Sunday afternoon, Saturday afternoon to follow up on them and go back from the names and the prospects we got and use that time. Then the next month, boom, go into another area And just try and get every possible name, prospect, win people to Christ, then use that to follow up. Does that make sense? And so we're going to try that And uh maybe this would be a way we can have a greater impact into our community, a way to incorporate more of the church members into preaching the gospel and getting, sharing the gospel with others Of course, we have track month coming up. Thank God. Last year, Track Month, 40,000 tracks given out. Amazing. In four weeks' time. And uh what a blessing that was. And um uh track month, we promoted it with other churches. We're in the process of doing it again. Uh 30-some churches had track month just like we did, followed our our lead. and over a hundred and fifty thousand tracks distributed around the world last uh last year through Track Month. Out of our little old church here. And uh Samoa, New Zealand, uh, Ireland, all around the world, churches having track month Isn't that an amazing thing? We're gonna do that again this year. We're gonna get after it and uh try and get trucks out. Praise God this past year our Puerto Rican missions uh trip down there. Uh swords are going out. I want to this coming year my plan is to get uh sword boxes up in Uniontown along Route 40 down in uh uh uh Cumberland somewhere, uh thinking down Petersburg, maybe getting some sword boxes down there and getting these things out. You know what Dr. Smith said when he was here He gets more response from Oakland. Uh I shouldn't say more. He gets as much response from Oakland as he does anywhere where the sword goes. Isn't that something from the ministry here? God's using that thing. And uh we praise the Lord for that. The prayer and the preaching of the gospel. Bus Ministry. Our buses are running as great as they ever have in crowds. I am thrilled with it. I said we'd like to start another route. I'll tell you this: we are in desperate, desperate need For CDL licensed bus drivers. Uh we had Stu, um James, Mark, and myself. And I thank God I enjoy if I wasn't pastor, I'd be bus captain. You guys fire me, I'm gonna sign up to be bus captain. I'm telling you, I love it. And uh driving the bus, I love it. But it's down stew, poked his eye out. Um James went to West Virginia And uh Mark and I are driving a bus, I thank God for it, but I'm telling you, I'm asking God I'm not gonna try and twist your arm to drive the bus I'm praying God breaks your arm until you drive the bus. No, God twists your arm. I want God to lead you and direct you. I don't want you to do it because I do. But I'm telling you, these kids are something else I wish you could have saw this afternoon Vicky with the little Dean's kids. Those kids are so naughty. I told her, I said, you're more patient than I am. They they'd all be dead. And um Good night. Uh those little kids are so naughty and they're getting off and she grabs them, pulls them over, and hugs them and says, I love you. You'd be a good boy this week. And here's your treat and get 'em all. I said, thank God. That may be the only time some of these kids hear someone say, You well, I love you, be a good boy. What a great ministry. Listen, every church has to answer God for themselves. Well you tell me what other church around is doing anything like that. I don't know. Maybe they are. I don't see any buses running around. I don't see anybody going picking up these little kids, all dirty, a lot of them. Rough homes. Man, they're mouths are so filthy. Their language. But we have a team of people here that just love those kids to death and teach them about Jesus. Cindy said She was saying back there, she was leading his grandma and them to the Lord, and she went through the gospel and Jesus down across was buried and pointed to the kids, the little bus kids, and they said, Rose again Where'd they learn that? King's kids. I just thank God for this ministry. Bus Ministry and King's Kids. We need help though. We really do. I really, really would like to see a route go north. Who knows what God would do? Our youth. I appreciate James. He's been gone a week. I realize he did a lot more around here than I gave him credit for And uh I thank God for him and and what he's done. But um we have a big hole here now. Look around. We need help with our teams. You know what else? I'm burdened for our teens, and I'll tell you what's been a burden for about a year now in my heart. I think I may have mentioned this last year. Young couples. Look around you. How many young couples we see in their twenties in church tonight? It's not there That's a whole. And so we need help in these areas. We need to reach these people. Your young couples, your young families. Uh you know, we've got to reach them and train them and teach them the word of God and help them live for God. And so what's the answer? Well, I tell you for the youth in particular with with uh Brother James gone, there's two approaches I have, and I'm I'm finishing up here, but there's two approaches I have. One is a temporary approach I really want to keep our team schedule going as much as we possibly can the way it's been going. As far as activities are concerned, all that. I don't know that we can do teens live Wednesday nights, but we want to get the Sunday school straightened out. And uh we have James had teen activities scheduled We want to keep them going. Kathy and I said we're going to do our part. We're going to try and help keep these schedules. If we can get a few couples maybe help us out and get these teens that want to go sledding and different things like that, get them to these conferences. And all these types of things. Temporarily, we just need folks to step up and help us keep this thing going. Doug's not here tonight. Ricky's not here tonight. We don't want to lose these kids. And uh others that uh could be, and so um we just need to work at it what we can. The permanent solution is finding someone bringing them in, I think. And getting an assistant here. We're at a point now. If we are going to go beyond what we are now, if we're going to go another step forward, I'm convinced we're at a point where we have to bring someone in, has to step up and share the burden and provide leadership in some of these ways. You follow what I'm saying? If we're satisfied with this the way it is, and um praise the Lord, this is a blessing, but I want us to go forward. And so I've already made phone calls and uh we've already out there This is very early. Uh I don't know if it's even at a point where it's to say anything about it, but there is a young couple that uh in their late twenties, husband and wife, little baby They've been in the ministry for a period of time. They're looking to go somewhere new. One of our evangelist friends knows them, recommends them very highly. He's to talk to them about our need This young man is praying on his end about the Lord's leadership. Lord willing this week I'll hear from him. We have no idea whether it's going to go anywhere or not, but there's possibilities out there And uh we need to pray and seek the Lord. I hope you'll pray for me, that God will give me wisdom and leadership and know what who to contact and what to bring in. Personally, I'd like to see someone that's been in the ministry a little bit It's a little bit older. I heard a someone said recently, they said if you've got um if you have a uh they said your youth ministry Don't take just uh anybody that's available and throw them in. They said take your best teacher, your most committed, dedicated Christian, and give it to the young people to train the next generation. I said, boy, that's a good suggestion. And maybe God could bring someone in that has some experience and is strong in this area. and be able to take our young people and our buses. I'd like to see someone take our buses and do with our buses what Mark and Jackie did with the Sunday school. And just really organized that and got that thing up and going and running great And uh Dave and Becky and King's kids, what they did down there, and have somebody come in and take the bus and get that thing going. Our teens, our young couples. And give themselves and work towards getting reaching young couples for Christ and these areas like that. So there's a lot to do. There's a lot ahead of us. God has blessed us And I hope I was able to communicate to you tonight my picture of our church, where we're at, where we've come from, where we need to go. I thank God for this church. I'm convinced that we are on the precipice of God really doing some great things. I've been, let me just share this. This is my personal prayer request. I wasn't going to say this. I've been asking God that we could start averaging 250 on a Sunday morning And we could run a hundred every Sunday night and at least seventy-five on Wednesday nights. Just stepping it up from where we are. Not losing our spirit, not losing the joy and the unity, just building on it. And growing on it. I'm asking God to give our church five new families this coming twelve months. Five new families that are added, whether we win them to the Lord and they come in and get discipled or they come in for some other way. But five new families added to the church to help us. The harvest is great. The labors are few. So we're just praying that God would send forth laborers into the harvest and help us. Amen. Will you pray with me this coming year that God will bless our church? Will you join me in committing ourselves anew to making this church everything God intends for it to be? It requires commitment, it's going to require sacrifice, inconvenience, dying to self, uh giving of ourselves. But nothing ever is accomplished without effort being put into it. There has to be great commitment. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that this coming year, Mountain Lake, would be year of growth. A year of vision. Lord, we have some weak areas, we have some strong areas. We want to keep the strong areas strong, we want to make the weak areas strong. We need you to lead and direct us and help us. I'm so grateful for every person that works so hard and gives of themselves so much. Lord, may their tribe increase. May we grow and our outreach be even greater. You be more glorified. We be drawn closer to you Bless us, I pray. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Let's stand together. And this is what I'm gonna do. I fussed all afternoon with myself how to give the invitation. Would you stand together with me And maybe we want to just as members come to the altar of this church and say, God, we give ourselves, I give myself anew to you, as part of the body of Christ, for you to use me and lead me and direct me in this body as you see fit. Maybe give ourselves to pray and make this church everything God intends for it to be. As the piano plays. Maybe we'll just those that want, and then I'll have prayer. And we'll just