Exodus chapter 20, I failed to recognize a first-time visitor in our church this morning. We have uh Joselyn Ringer. Wow, I'm in trouble. Jocelyn Graham was born Thursday afternoon, correct? About 3, 3 30, somewhere around there. And um uh five pounds, some ounces and about a foot long, something like that. Jennifer has memory my wife has all the details. I always mess that up. But uh we are very happy for uh Jennifer and Joe and God bless them with a little girl and uh Jennifer Just a beautiful little girl. I visited Jennifer in the morning, about what was it, about nine or so, ten, sometime around there. And um she just looked great. You never know she's gonna have a baby Came back around 435 and uh she had the baby. She still looked great. You never even know she even had a baby. And so I think they went to the store and bought it. I'm not sure But uh we're so happy for them and to have the child in church on its first Sunday, what a testimony. That's a good thing. Good will And so you pray for them that God will bless them as they raise their children. Exodus chapter 20, verse 7. I know we've quoted this together once. James has read it to us. Let's read verse 7 together once again. if you would with me. Verse 7. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. For the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. We are memorizing the Ten Commandments this year, and um I'm trying to take one Sunday a month and bring a message on that month's commandment. And so today I want to look at the name of the Lord thy God. Am I on there, Sam? Am I do I have it turned on? Okay, good. Alright, let's pray together. Father in heaven, we ask, dear Lord, that you would bless now our look in your word. I pray that you would uh speak to our hearts, take this truth, apply it to our lives. I pray it would be incorporated into our behavior, into our very character of reverence and honor, fear of the sacred name of God. I ask, Lord, that you would use me to accomplish this, use your word through me, I should say. I present my body anew, I yield my will to yours. I pray you would have your way now in Jesus' name. Amen. I think I might be just a little louder. Just a little loud. Thank you, Sam. God has given to us Ten Commandments. Of course, there's many others, but we understand the Ten as being a concise expression of God's holiness. And what His holiness demands of mankind. Two, out of the Ten Commandments that God has given to us, deal with the sins of our tongue. Commandment number three, the one we just read, we should not take God's name in vain. And commandment number nine, which is given to us in verse 16: thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. Commandment number three, verse seven, deals with our tongue in its use of God's name. Commandment number nine deals with our tongue and its use of the truth. I would suggest that verse number, commandment number three, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Is a command given to, in a sense, protect God's name, to hold his name in reverence and protect the dignity. The sacredness of God's name. Commandment number nine, on the other hand, and we'll bring a message on this later in the year, Lord willing, commandment number nine is given by God to protect our name. And our good name. Proverbs chapter 22 and verse 1 says, a good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. Now, what do we mean by a good name? A name that is respected. A name that people hear that name and they say there is an honorable person, there is a man or a woman of integrity. That is an honest. That is the name of an honest person. A good name. God says to have a good name. Is more important than having lots of money. Now we can all think of very wealthy people who have bad names, right? Who are not known as men or women of integrity. Now wealth in and of itself is not evil or good or in any way. It's simply the person, the integrity of the person is what's being dealt with Proverbs 19, verse 22 says this. A poor man is better than a liar. In other words, it is better to be known. It is better to be a person of upright integrity and honesty. Than it is to be very, very wealthy. So, God gives us commandment number three to protect and honor the sacredness of his name, and God gives us commandment number nine to protect the integrity of our name. Now There is a, I was hesitant how to phrase this. I'm going to put it this way. There is a holy dignity In the very nature of God. Now think with me: a holy dignity in God's very nature. And because of that, God takes the use of his name very seriously. I want us to first of all this morning consider the revelation of God's name. The revelation of God's name. The Bible gives us many names for God. Each of those names is given to us by God for the purpose of revealing a different aspect of his character. Somebody uh God gives us various names for himself, and the purpose for that is so that he can reveal to us what he's like. So each name that is given to us by God is given for a very significant reason. There's purpose behind it. In fact The Jews understood this, ancient Jews understood this very deeply. And when the scribes, the ancient Jewish scribes When they would be making copies of the manuscripts of scripture. Now you understand they didn't have printing presses, they didn't have Xerox machines, they didn't have any of that. They didn't even have ballpoint pens. So to have a copy of the Bible, to have the Bible and to reproduce that to make a copy of it, that was a quite a task. They understood the sacredness of God's word. And so they would undertake that task of copying the scriptures over very seriously They applying themselves very diligently. I believe God oversaw much of it to make sure it was copied correctly. But when they would come to the name one of the names of God, now this is documented in history When that Jewish scribe was copying over from the older copies, making a new one, word by word, he's going to cross. When he would begin, when he would approach one of the names of God, they would literally stop. When I got to the name, he would stop. Throw that pen away. He would go bathe himself completely, put on completely clean garments. Come back with an unused, now we say pen, it's more like a quill type thing. Come back with one that had never written a word before. He would write the name of God down. Discard that and then go on. Come to the name of God again, he'd go through that whole ritual again. The ancient Jews understood the sacredness. Of God's name. And that it was more than simply a means of identification, but it was literally a revelation of the character and nature of God. We give our children names. Many times we give them names simply for the purpose of identification. I uh one year was in Bible college. I went home for breakout of Easter or something, went home for a a little while, and I was home over the weekend and there was a fellow that had a church up in Northern New Jersey, Patterson, New Jersey, Dr. Clarence Sexton was pastoring up there. And of course we all knew about him. He was a great man and great work going on. So One weekend I said, I want to go up there. I had some friends in the church up there from college. I want to go up there. So we went up, uh I believe I went up a Saturday evening, got up early, rode the buses Sunday morning in Patterson, New Jersey, just outside New York City. I mean just huge Huge Spanish population. We got in the bus and we pulled up one place and these four little Hispanic boys got on the bus. And the first one got on. I'm sitting there and you know I'm with kids, I like to mess around. First boy came out and said, hey, what's your name? He said, Jose. I said, hey Jose. His brother got on. I said, what's your name? He said Jose. Said your kid? No. Third one got on. He said, I said, what's your name? Jose. You're all brothers. Yeah, you're all Jose. Yeah. Fourth boy got on. Guess what his name was? Jose! I said, you gotta be kidding me. I asked the bus worker, I said, is that really their name? They said, yeah, they named all four boys, the same name. I guess it's easy at suppertime. Jose! They all come running, you know. The bus workers called him Jose One, Jose II, Jose III, and Jose Four. It's like thing one, thing two, you know. We name our children for purposes of identification. My parents gave me my name. I don't think my parents did much research into the meaning of my name. We've heard this before, but the name Dennis comes from the Greek god Dionysius, who is the god of wine and drunkenness. So I certainly hope they didn't consider the meaning of the name when they named me. They gave me that name just because it's a cool name. And uh they wanted to identify me as that. And that's what we do as parents We name our children. Primarily, we give them that name for purposes of identification. Now we may not like the name, the sound of it, we may be something associated with it Uh we named our oldest son, as uh Pat mentioned uh before. We named our oldest son in honor of my grandfather, Samuel David Leatherman. Uh our youngest son, we named Daniel from uh the prophet in the Bible and the meaning of his name, anointed of God. We like those names. We like the association with them. And so we chose it for that purpose. Now that's what we do. But when God uses a name, whether God uses a name to identify Himself, or God gives a name to a man God uses a name for much greater reasons than simply identification. God uses those names to represent the character Of the one being named. Remember, uh Jacob wrestled with the angel at night. And God said, You will no longer be called Jacob, but your name shall be what? Israel. A prince with God. So God puts much more significance in the names that He gives, whether to Himself or to a person, than what we do. We often, I mean that it's not wrong, but we just think very little of what the meaning of the name is, but we use it rather as identification I am afraid. And I tell you, as I prepared this message, God dealt with my heart. And I am afraid that there are many Christians Who have little or no understanding of the significance or the sacredness of God's holy name Significance or the sacredness of God's holy name. Thus, the careless use of God's name Even among Christians, using God's name so carelessly, so lightly. Bible scholars, I haven't counted it, you couldn't prove it by me, but Bible scholars who have studied this in depth suggest that there are 300 names. Given for God throughout Scripture. 300 differing names. And we're not going to look at all those, but I would like to pull out some key names that are used quite often through Scripture. And just to try and get it into our hearts and minds, the sacredness of the name of God In Genesis chapter 1 and verse 1, we're familiar with that. In the beginning, what? God created the heaven and earth. The word God, the name God. Is the most common name God uses for Himself throughout Scripture. The word God itself means this: the strong and faithful one. Now, why does God refer to Himself with the name God? Just to be identified? No, no, no. God uses that name for a very real purpose, and that is to reveal to mankind the fact that he is strong and he is faithful. Throughout scripture, the name God is often associated with God as creator. It testifies to God's infinite power, God That name itself reveals to us an aspect of God's power. God's faithfulness. In the beginning, God, the powerful one, created heaven and earth. My consider the incomprehensible power of the one whose name we use so lightly God. You can't hardly go to the grocery store without hearing somebody express the name God. In a light or vain way. Powerful one. Faithful One. The Creator. God Let's not use that name carelessly. Let's not use that name lightly. Another name in the Bible that God uses of himself, gives to himself, is the name Jehovah. You'll see sometimes the name itself, Jehovah, will be spelled out. Other times The name of God Jehovah will be represented in the Bible by the word Lord, but a very specific way, and we point this out often. Capital L, capital O, Capital R, Capital D. And in our Bible, in the King James Bible, is The English form of the word Jehovah. Sometimes it will be capital G, capital O, capital D. All caps, God. It's God's name of Jehovah. Jehovah. Actually, the name Jehovah is actually a combination of three names. And those three names reveal to us a character of God's nature, an aspect of God that is profound. The word Jehovah is a combination of one name that means he that will always be. The second name that makes up the name Jehovah is He that is right now. And the third name, that is part of the whole name of Jehovah, is He that always was. Jehovah, the God that always will be, that is right now, that always has been. The eternal existence of our God is revealed to us in his name, Jehovah. Jehovah. You know the story of Moses. See, he was on the back side of the desert. He had murdered an Egyptian and fled. Of course, he was raised as a Pharaoh's son. Murdered Egyptian fled, uh, married Jethro's daughter, lived in a backside shepherd. He was 80 years old. I think in his mind His life was pretty much over. It was whatever he is going to do has already been done. But he sees this burning bush and he goes over to the burning bush to see what in the world's going on. God says, take this shoes off your feet. For the place where you stand is holy. God begins to give Moses His instructions as to delivering Egypt, the confrontation with Pharaoh and the ten uh miraculous plagues and the deliverance, and God's given him all these instructions And Moses begins to give to God a series of excuses why he should not be the one to do this. And God counters every one of the excuses. Then Moses says this. When I get down there, the Jews aren't going to listen to me. Who am I going to tell them sent me? And God gives a profound instruction. He says this tell them I am Hassan. Jehovah, the God who always was, the God who always will be, the God who is right now. The eternally existent God. In the 1960s, there was a blasphemous atheistic professor out of uh California, I believe it's Berkeley. It could be Romanette. But he came up with this concept that God was dead. Now I don't know that he meant literally God had died. But his thinking was that God, the concept of God was no longer necessary. Man had outgrown Any belief in God that that was over. Those days were past. I'm here to tell you God is not dead. God never has been dead, God never will be dead. And far long and far beyond the day when you and I cease to live, God will still be. And when this earth and this moon and these heavens are no longer, God will be Jehovah Lord Third name that God gives us in the Bible, there's many, according to some several hundred Another one that's very familiar is the word Lord. Now this is distinguished from the word Jehovah, translated L-O-R-D with all capitals. This time you will see God referred to with the title or the name of Lord. It's a capital L and then lowercase O R D. To distinguish it from Jehovah. Again, this name is given to us, this name of God is given to us not simply to identify the Lord, but to reveal to us An aspect of God's character. What God is like. And by the way, let me just throw this in here. God is not like anything we come up with. God is like what He says he is like. People come up with these ideas of God. That's meaningless. God is what he says he is, not what we imagine him to be. So the word Lord, capital L small O R D. The word name Lord means master. And it is used to indicate the relationship of a master to his servants. So when God says, when God reveals to man that one of his names that he is to be referred to is Lord, capital L small O R D God is revealing to us the fact that He has complete authority over our lives Just as a master has authority over the slave to tell them when to get up, when to go to bed, how to dress, where to go, where not to go, what work to do, what not work, what work not to do, how to do that work. Just as that master has complete authority over that servant, our Lord. Has complete authority over us as his creation. Lord, Master. Authority. Someone says, Well, I'm my own person. No, you're not. You're God's. He has authority. Well, I can do what I want. I don't know. You can't do that and be right with God. You and I cannot do as we please. We cannot disregard the instructions of our God. We cannot live independent of the principles He has given us to live by and think for one moment we are going to have His blessings on our lives. Because he is Lord. He is the authority over my life. We had a lady and I use this story often, it's kind of humorous, but it's very true. I think I'm telling it fairly accurately. My wife usually points out if I don't. A young lady came one Sunday morning, heard the message, trusted Christ and got saved. And I mean she was excited. She was in back. I don't remember who counselor Cindy or someone, uh ladies always counsel ladies. And so uh she came out, we had already dismissed, so they came out, oh I got saved, praise the Lord, that's the greatest thing And she just went on and on and on how great this is what I needed in my life. I'm gonna jo I'm gonna join the church, I'm gonna get I'm gonna get baptized, I'm gonna join the choir, I'm g again in Sunday school and she just listed this whole am I being accurate? Oh so we're good. And um So this is all these things she was going to do, and we're just like, praise the Lord, this is exciting. Sunday night she came back to church. Amen. Christians ought to come back Sunday night That was a little weak. She came back Sunday night and I preached a nice warm and fuzzy message like I always do. And I don't have any idea what I preached on. But as soon as I said amen, she was out of that pew. And you could it sounded like this, literally I think she had high heels on her something, but she was just clomping out. I thought, oops, that didn't look good. So being the brave preacher I am, I sent my wife to go visit her. I tell ya, I don't mess with the women. I tell you what, they're mad you stay away. And uh she says, I'm never going back to that church again. Kathy says, what? And she said, that preacher has no right to tell me how to live my life. Now I'll be the first to admit that I have no right to tell you how to live your life. But I'm going to stand here and say God has every right to Tell you and I how to live our lives. He is Lord. He has authority over our lives. He does have the right. He does have the authority. To tell me what I should say and not say. He does have the authority to tell me how I should use my finances. He does have the authority to tell me how I should use my time He does have the authority to tell me the type of places I should go and I should not go. God is our Lord. That's what that name signifies. Lord. The revelation of God's name. When God gives his name to man, it is not simply to identify himself It is to reveal an aspect of his character. The last name I want to use to illustrate this is The name that God gives himself, the most high God. You'll read that Number of places throughout scripture where God refers to himself as the most high God, or he is given that name. That name implies ownership. The Most High God, it has the concept that he owns that which he has created. He is our owner. This is my house, no discords. Huh? Sometimes I'll refer to the church, they'll say, well, um, that's my church over on Broadford Road. Reality is this isn't my church I'm not my own. You say, what? This is my body. I'll do with it what I want. Wait a minute. My Bible says you are not your own. You are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and your spirit. These aren't my eyeballs. These aren't my hands. This isn't my tongue. These aren't my ears. God owns this. And my body and my time and the abilities and talents God has given me, my finances, my resources All of that are to be used for the purpose of the one who owns it all. Almighty God. God owns us. We preached on this a couple weeks ago. Stewardship. Almighty God has referred to God owns everything and he entrusts us to use our bodies, our resources, our facilities. Our abilities, all of that for the purpose for which He as owner has given them to us. Say, how do I know what God Almighty wants me to do with that which is His? It's all given in Scripture God lays it out very clearly. So the revelation of God's name, not merely for purposes of identification. But a revelation of his character to man. Now here. How sad. How sad That man uses God's name so lightly. When his name is inseparable from his character And by misusing God's name, I am impugning God's character. How foolish. How foolish. To abuse the name of God when it is a revelation of who and what he is. So the revelation of God's name, I want to quickly guess number two, the vain use of God's name When God says, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, what does he mean by that? How do I take God's name in vain? Well, we know one thing, it's very clear, God forbids it, right? God plainly says that we are forbidden to use his name. Vainly. Now the word vain itself means to be means empty or worthless. It means to be of no substance. A uh one way I think of illustrating what the word means, a you know when you were kids used to blow bubbles, you know, remember that? That bubble is very vain. There's no substance to it. It's empty. It's worthless. God says, I forbid you. To use my name, which is a revelation of my character, in an empty, worthless, substanceless way Now how do we do that? How would a person use God's name in a worthless way, in a vain manner? Well, I think the profane use of God's name is vain. Profanity I'm telling you, profanity is very common today. It used to be back alleys and sailors, right? That's where you get the saying that you know swearing like a drunken sailor. Fact of the matter is, it's women, it's grandparents, it's Head Start children. Using profanity. My wife works down as a receptionist at Garrett County Community Action Little children in Head Start come right by her. She said, you would not believe the language that four and five-year-old children are using in Oakland, Maryland. The language. Profanity. Profanity is common today. Hey, I hate to say this, even among professing Christians Though profanity is common, profanity is filthy. And the use of profanity is a sad commentary on the person that uses it. I studied the Bible. The only people in the Bible who used profanity Now get this. Now you correct me if I'm wrong. You look in scripture. You correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't believe I am. The only people in scripture that used profanity were people who denied Christ. Only people in Scripture that used profanity, that cursed and swore, were people who denied the Lord Of course, the classic example was who? Peter. When Jesus was before Pilate, Peter withdrew himself and began associating with the wrong people. People who were not believers in Christ, people who were not followers of the Savior, and they heard his accent and began to identify him as one of Christ's followers. And Peter says, I don't know the man. And by the way, it does matter who we spend time with. They will influence us. And again they confronted Peter. Surely you're one of him. Your speech betrays you. He says, I know not that man. And when they pressed him the third time, the Bible says he cursed and swore. Now, some people say he was reverting back to his days as a sailor. That may or may not be the case. My own feeling is he was picking up the language of the people he was around. And he wanted to assure them that I'm not a follower of Jesus. I'm one of you all. And he denied Antichrist profanity, the profane use of God's name A person who loves the Lord, a person who respects the Lord, will not use profanity. The revelation of God's name reveals to me aspects of his character, who and what he is. The vain use of God's name, to use it emptily or worthlessly or without any substance, when I use profanity, especially when I use God's name in profanity It's a vain use of God's name. Not just the profane use of God's name. How about the trivial use of God's name When I use God's name in a trivial way, that is taking it in vain. Humorous stories that invoke the name of God. And using God's name as a means of pulling laughter out of people. What a vain use As I was preparing this, I talked to my wife and I began studying this and realized this. I said, I need to be careful. We need to be careful how we use God's name in funny stories and jokes. Now I'm all for laughing and I'm all for a good joke. You know that. Because I've studied this and I look back, I believe there were some times we use somebody shows up at heaven's gates and St. Peter and the Lord says or does this and elicits laughter. Using God's name to elicit laughter from mankind. What a vain use! Of God's name. Uh, using God's name in humorous stories, or just the idle use of God's name. How often the name of God will just come out In a surprising situation or some type of setback or difficulty, and God's name just comes out. In a vain way. Oh God. Lord. And even the name Jesus. God says that we are not to use his name in vain. Because he will not hold us guiltless. We use his name in vain. The profane use of God's name, the trivial use of God's name. What about the dishonest use of God's name? Let me back up here. I want to illustrate. When I was a teenager I believe it's just my dad and I think my sisters were living us with us at the time. It's just my dad and I and I believe my sisters were there I don't remember if mom was there or not. But anyway, something my dad and I got into a a fuss. And I was wanting to do something stupid And he was forbidding me. And I got mad and I was just a mess. And believe me, I'm not proud of this. My daddy absolute, I don't remember what it was, but I remember my dad saying something absolute, and I responded. I just blurted out the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. I said, Jesus Christ. And to this day, that has to be 35 years ago. And to this day, I can see my Father's face as a man who loved God dearly. I blurted that out and his face, his countenance fell. His heart was broken. He said, Don't ever use that name that way ever again. And walked away. I went and did my thing, but to this day, that's burned in my heart. To use the name of God in a truth trivial way. Just blurting it out to blow off steam. The profane use of God's name, the trivial use of God's name, the dishonest use of God's name. Some folks are very seldom guilty of telling the truth. Right? Let me say that again. Some folks are very seldom guilty of telling the truth. In other words, they don't tell the truth very much. And I'll tell you one of the biggest shockers that I got going into the ministry. I'm just bearing my heart with you this morning. One of the biggest shockers I got going into the ministry. Was how easily it is for so many Christians to just lie. Just lie. The dishonest use of God's name, and I believe one of the worst forms of lying is to use the name of Christ as a mask, as a guise that I'm some sort of person that I am not You follow what I'm saying? Using the name of Christianity, which is Christ, and putting on some front. That I'm this type of Christian. I'm hiding behind the name of Christ in some hypocritical way. And in reality, I'm not doing what Christ wants me to do, and I am not the person Christ wants me to be. But I'll put this facade up at the name of Christ. To try and make people think that I'm something I'm not. It's called hypocrisy. And in the Gospels, if you were read the Gospels, Jesus' strongest condemnation. Was directed at the Pharisees who hid behind the name of God and used the name of God as a mask To deceive folks as to what they really were. God's name is a revelation of his character. God forbids us to use his name in vain. And thirdly, and last of all, very quickly, consider the virtue of God's name. The virtue of God's name. When Jesus was on earth, he was pressing through a crowd, and a woman who had an issue of blood for twelve years had sought many doctors, and they were unable to help her. And she thought in her mind, surely this Savior, the Son of God, can make me well, but she was too timid to approach him directly. And so the Bible says she reasoned in her mind that as she just touched the hem of his garment, that that would be enough to make her well. And so she pressed her way through the crowd, and lo and behold, she got up and right there was Jesus. And she squeezed through the crowd and reached out and just touched the hem of his garment. The Bible says she was healed immediately. Of the issue of blood. Now that's fascinating in and of itself. But the Bible tells us that when she touched that hem of his garment and healing took place in her body, the Lord stopped. And he said, Who touched me? Now the disciples are incredulous. They say, what are you talking about? There's 5,000 people pressing around you and you ask us who touched you? They're saying basically, what are you nuts? And he says, no. Somebody touched me. Now I'm injecting into the thing, my own words here. Somebody touched me in a unique way. They didn't just brush up against me. They touched me in faith. And he says, virtue has gone out from my body. Virtue. Healing power The word virtue has the idea of moral excellence, of moral power. In that context, it was healing power. Now, I want you to think with me of the virtue of God's name. The moral excellence, the spiritual healing power of the name of God. The name of God. You could preach a series on this. Through the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, according to 1 Corinthians 6. 11, we are justified. The name of Jesus Christ, that me, when I claim it by faith, and all that name represents. When I take him as my Savior, I stand before God justified, just as if I had never sinned All my filth, all my guilt, all my profanity, forgiven, gone, washed away in the name of Jesus. The moral, healing, spiritual virtue of the name of Jesus. We're justified in the name of The Bible tells us that it that through the name of Jesus we are to preach repentance and forgiveness of sins. Now we just had a missions conference. What do we do in sending 66 missionaries out around the world? Why are we trying to raise $90,000 to get missionaries out around the world. Why are we investing time and money and effort trying to get into the country of Kazakhstan with the gospel? Because God has commanded us to take the name of Jesus Christ to every creature in this world and through that name preach repentance and forgiveness of sins. The virtue of that name that we take so lightly is the name that brings salvation. For there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. That if whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. Shall be saved. That name is the only name that can bring forgiveness of sins. That name is the only name that can give me a new life A life that is pleasing to God, a life that is humble before my God, a life that has influence in the spiritual lives of others, the name of Jesus. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Because God will not hold him guiltless That takes his name in vain. Third command given by God to mankind. God has given us the gift of speech. And that gift comes with a responsibility that we will all one day stand before God and give an account for. Now what about you and I? Have you trusted that name, Jesus, and the one it represents to be your own personal Savior? Let me put it this way. Now don't turn me off yet. Do you know for sure? Beyond a shadow of a doubt, it's settled in your heart and mind based on Scripture. That God has forgiven your sins fully and completely. And that when you die, you go to heaven and you don't go to hell. Now if you can't honestly say, oh yes, that's settled. I know for sure when I die, God has forgiven my sins. I'm going to heaven, not in hell, and it's through the name of Jesus I know I've trusted Him. If you can't honestly say that, the most important thing for you to do today is to call on that name the Lord Jesus Christ. There is nothing in this world worth going to hell for. There is nothing in life. There is no pleasure. There is no experience. There is no thrill that is worth Denying the name of Christ and going to hell for. Going to hell for. Say, well What will people think of me? That's not the question. What does God think of you? Where do you stand with God? Now, those of us who are Christians, God has given us the gift of speech. That is a very sacred entrustment God has given us. We are stewards of the ability to speech, to speak. Now how are we using that? Are we using our speech to cut others down, to point out the faults of others, tell them how awful they are, how unkind they've been to me? Or are we using that gift, that privilege of speech, so that we can share the love of Christ in the name of Jesus with others We can be a testimony to the word of God. Where are we at? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use this message. You challenged us, Lord, you challenged me in the preparation of this message. And Lord, I believe with all my heart your spirit is challenging us now in the delivery of it. And I pray, dear God, that we would take seriously the gift of speech, and that you would put in our hearts a holy reverence A godly fear of using your name in a vain manner, in an unholy way. Whether it be directly with the word, the name coming off our lips, or the life we live. As being a dishonest presentation of who and what you are. Our heads about