Here today, I want to thank you for your hospitality. And I'd mentioned in Sunday school class that uh, you know, the weather really doesn't stop us from eating, does it? It's uh in America it's not if I'm gonna eat, but where I'm gonna eat. And so uh we're not sure where the picnic will take place afterwards. It'll be somewhere, inside or out, but you be sure to stick around afterwards and uh have just some all-American fare and uh and just get to know uh some of our visitors and guests as well. If you are a visitor, you did get a visitor's packet, please see my wife On the way out, we'd like to add to your visitor's packet a $30,000 production on the car that sits down in the shed. No, we are not going to give you the keys to the car We'll give you the next best thing, and it's a movie, America's Mobile Memorial. It's the Marine Corvette story, 15 short stories we've produced And we want to gift that to you as a thank you for being our guest. Every individual in that video production is a friend of mine all the way up to the two-star general, Ron Henderson. And tonight we'll be showing a a seven and a half minute clip, one of the fifteen stories that are on there. And so listen, if you do not like my message You can always come back tonight for the movie. All right? And we're going to show a clip of that tonight. So please, if you're visiting, see my wife. She'll be posted with me. Actually, she'll be back at the table there. Is that correct Just go back to that corner where my ministry table is, and just you wave the little bag to her, and she'll be dropping that in there. And it's our way of saying thank you for being our guest. A couple of things I want to read, then move into the message this morning. First is something somewhat humorous. There's oftentimes inter-service rivalry between different branches My daughter Robin down in Tampa sent this to me a couple years ago, and she knew dad would get a kick out of it, and I think you'd enjoy it as well. It's a newspaper cliffing from Augusta, Georgia newspaper. The headline is entitled, Assailant Suffers Injuries from Fall. Orville Smith, a store manager for Best Buy in Augusta, Georgia, told police he observed a mail customer later identified as a Mr. Jones of Augusta on surveillance cameras, putting a laptop computer under his jacket. Wing confronted the man, became irate. Knocked down a store employee, drew a knife, and ran for the door. Outside on the sidewalk were four Marines collecting toys for the Toys for Tots program. Smith said the Marines stopped the man, but he stabbed one of the Marines, Corporal Philip Dugan, in the back. The injury did not appear to be severe. After police and an ambulance arrived at the scene, Corporal Dugan was transported for treatment Quote, the subject, Mr. Jones, was also transported to the local hospital with two broken arms, a broken ankle, a broken leg. Several missing teeth, possible broken ribs, multiple contusions, assorted lacerations, a broken nose, and a broken jaw. Injuries he sustained when he slipped and fell off the curb after stabbing the Marine, according to a police report. If you were in the army, you'd say hoo-ah. If you were in the Marine Corps, you'd say ooh rah. Gotta love it when law enforcement covers your six, amen? And I just thought to myself when I read that, a twelve foot curve, whoever saw that thing coming, huh? There's a loyalty and a camaraderie amongst our military fighting men that oftentimes is forged out of life and death situations. To every one of you who served, I say thank you. Freedom has never nor ever will be free. And you and I are gathered here today, not worrying about a satchel charge, not worrying about some terrorist going ahead and blowing us up. Because someone died to give you that freedom. You see a veteran, you tell them thank you. You go ahead and let them know you appreciate what they've done. done. Visit my Corvette after the service. On the trunk of the car, 6,318 names of just such men and women that died to keep us free. The casualties after 9-11, they're alphabetized under their branch of the service, and the roses you find have been posted in the last eight months by somebody who found a buddy a son, a daughter, a dad, a brother, posted the rows and told me their story and who they were, and many a tear has been shed. Take the time to tour her. She represents a lot. She represents a whole bunch of freedom. And she is a tribute as well to our Savior. For there we put a verse out of John chapter 3 that if you know him, you have eternal life. the greatest soldier that ever lived. Alexis de Tocqueville was a French observer in the 1830s. He loved America. He wrote many a book, but he stated this upon visiting America. He said, Quote, I sought for the key to the greatness and genius of America in her harbors. In her fertile fields and boundless forests. I sought for it in her rich mines and vast world commerce In her public school system and institutions of learning, I sought for her greatness in her Democratic Congress and in her matchless constitution. But then he said this. But not until I went into the churches of America and heard her pulpits flame with righteousness. Did I understand the secret to her genius and her power? American is great, he says, because America is good. And if America ceases to be good, America will cease to be great. The psalmist said, Blessed is that nation whose God is the Lord. And it's my prayer this morning, this pulpit would flame with righteousness. And you'd see the goodness of our God. And you'd see your need for his son. Take your Bibles this morning. Go to 1 Samuel chapter 16. And 1 Samuel chapter 16. Once you find your place, if you're able to stand comfortably, stand with me. I'll know that you have it. 1 Samuel chapter 16, a very familiar narrative here, beginning in verse number 1. First Samuel chapter sixteen, beginning in verse number one The Bible says in 1 Samuel 16:1, and if by the way, if you don't have a Bible, look around, sit with somebody, make sure everybody is on the same page. You don't want to hear from me this morning, you want to hear from the Lord. 1 Samuel 16:1. And the Lord said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I've rejected him from reigning over Israel? Fill thine horn with oil and go. I will send thee to Jesse the Bethemite, for I provided me a king among his sons. Notice verse four. Samuel did that which the Lord spake. He came to Bethlehem. And the elders of the town trembled at his coming and said, Comest thou peaceably. And he said, Peaceably, I am come to sacrifice unto the Lord. Sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them. to the sacrifice. Notice in verse 6, and it came to pass when they were come that he looked at Eliab and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him. Notice the Lord's interesting response in verse 7. But the Lord said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance or on the height of his stature, because I have refused him. Notice the reason for refusal. For the Lord seeth not as man seeth, for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart. Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel. He said, Neither hath the Lord chosen this. Then Jesse made Shaman to pass by and said, Neither hath the Lord chosen this. Again Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, the Lord hath not chosen these. Samuel said unto Jesse, are here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest. Behold he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him, for we will not sit down till he come hither. Notice verse 12, he sent and brought him in. Now he was ruddy With all the beautiful countenance and good thing to look to. And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him, for this is he. Here in 1 Samuel chapter 16, we see that God is finished with King Saul. And he's instructing Samuel to anoint the next king of the nation of Israel. I want to remind you this morning, this familiar story we just read together, this is not a story about talent This is not a story that focuses on intelligence. It doesn't focus on abilities, favor, or even kingdom timing. No, this story is a story about The heart. You see, the question that's begging to be answered is this, why was David Why was he the one who was chosen above all of his other brothers? Why was he selected by God to be the next king of Israel? And the answer Because of his heart. Got a message for you this morning. I hope it stays on your heart for years to come. Got a message that's simply entitled, The Heart of the Matter is this. It is a matter of your heart. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you this morning that you are not only a God and a King who holds kings' hearts. Turns them whithersoever you will, but you're a God and a creator who sees those hearts and knows them as well. Father, we're aware this morning that your eyes are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. And that even now, Father, you see past our exterior, and Father, you see the deepest resources of our thoughts And our mind and our being and our heart. And Father, we recognize you see our hearts and you know them even better than we do. Lord, I pray this morning for the hearts of these people. I pray for that heart that's empty. There's no life. They've tried to fill it with everything this world has to offer, and yet at night it's empty. Lord, I pray that that heart will be filled with the love of Jesus Christ, and may this morning they see their need for forgiveness of sin. Cleansing of soul. And Father, may they say yes, and may their heart yield and find a resting place in the finished work of Calvary. May they be saved today from their sin. I pray for the bitter heart this morning that's been wounded. I pray, Father, that you would heal it and sweeten it. I pray for the filthy heart that you would cleanse it. I pray for the cluttered heart you would simplify it. Lord, may today the words of our mouth and may the meditations of our heart be acceptable in thy sight, for we ask and pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. But the Lord said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance or on the height of his stature, because I have refused him. For the Lord seeth not as man seeth, for man looketh on the outward appearance. But the Lord looketh on the heart. I suppose as we come into a message like this, it would be good to begin by asking the question: what is the heart? When the Bible speaks of your heart, it's not talking about the organ inside of you right now that's pumping blood. When the Bible speaks of your heart, it's not talking about that little Valentine cutout shape about middle February. we see on cards we give to a loved one. When the Bible speaks of your heart, it speaks of something entirely different. Noah Webster in his 1828 dictionary, amongst other scholars and theologians, they collectively define your heart as follows. They say your heart is the seat of your passions and your affections. It's your innermost being. It's the source of all your desires. It's that rudder inside of you right now that turns you anywhere it wants you to go, makes you face whatever it wants you. Wants you to think, it makes you do whatever it wants you to do. Somebody once said so wisely, your heart is who you really are. No one else is flashing. Do you know of everything about you this morning and how your Creator has assembled you? It's your heart that He prizes the most. It's your heart that he sees. It's your heart that he knows when no one else can know it. And it's your heart that's most valuable to him. That's what he's after. You say, but why is my heart so valuable to God? Why is it so important to God For a number of reasons, but the first reason is this, and you may want to write it down, because according to the Bible, sin is a matter of your heart. Sin in your life is a matter of your heart Go with me very quickly to Jeremiah, Jeremiah chapter seventeen and verse number nine. In Jeremiah seventeen and verse nine We see your heart and my heart described in its natural condition, untouched by the grace of God. Notice how God describes the seed of all your passions and the source of all your desires in its natural condition without his influence? Jeremiah 17 and verse 9. Look what he says. The heart. That's your heart. That's my heart. That's your source of all your desires and affections as well as mine. Notice is deceitful above all things. And desperately wicked, who can know it? The rhetorical question in verse 10 is answered: I, the Lord, searched back. Notice when the Lord describes your heart, he describes it in less than glowing terms. He ascribes to it words like desperate and deceitful and wicked. Now when I hear those words, I think of a certain somebody. And and and I meet these people, these folks all over the nation, and if you've not met this type of person for a while Live in a motor home like I do full time. Park in Walmarts and Kma Parks and all the other places where the public gathers, and sooner or later you will meet such an individual, a homeless person, asking you for some money. I'm telling you I've met the best of them. And and I'll say this, I don't give them money because I know that's not what's going to help them, but I don't shun them and hate them Man, I invest in them, I try to love them, I try to care about them. But I'll tell you I meet the best of the best. And a few years ago I was in Central Florida, a little country church about an hour out of Orlando, and uh uh late in the morning, Monday morning, there was a knock at the RB door. I thought, who in the world is out here in the middle of nowhere. And I look, and there was a guy in his mid-40s, every worldly possession he owned on his bicycle, and he was panhandling. He wanted some money. I said, Well I don't do that. I said, but let me ask you a question. Have you had breakfast yet? He said, No, sir. I said, You got anywhere to go for lunch? He said, No, sir I said, well let's take care of that. I borrowed the church van, put his gear in, put his bike in, put him in, and for the next three and a half hours we were joined at the hip Took him out and fed him. Went ahead and brought him some clothing items and some items that he needed. Shared the gospel with him and the love of Jesus Christ. And just He cared for him and spent three and a half hours. I had the time I invested it in this guy. And our time was coming to a close. He found a halfway house that was going to put him up for three nights for free. But he needed a sheriff's department background investigation. printed out accompanying him to do that. And so we found the local sheriff's department. He gave them his social. He went outside to burn one, and while he was outside burning one, I waited at his fatch for the hand About a minute later, the little lady behind the glass, she leaned forward and tapped into the microphone and she said, Excuse me, sir. I said, duh, what? She said, could you come inside, please? I thought, now this is weird. He's the guy that's supposed to be staying. I'm the guy that's supposed to be leaving. Why am I coming inside? And so I came around the side, she opened that little door, I walked into her her dispatch office there, and as soon as I got inside, she closed the door and she she would very Speaks in a sounding voice, he said, how long have you known us? So well not that long I mean and I I really didn't pick him up. He kind of picked me up about three and a half hours. Why? She said, do you know he's wanted in five states? Well, that wasn't the story he told me. He told me an entirely different story. And that isn't what unnerved me at that moment. It wasn't the story he told me. It was how he told it. He looked me in the eye unwaveringly with no blush and no shame, and he told me a completely different story. He told it to me. with confidence, he told it to me with great enthusiasm. You see, in his desperation He had become incredibly deceitful. He could tell a lie and believe his own lie. And inside of every one of you is just such a person in your heart. Your heart will tell you things about you that aren't true. Your heart will lie to you and convince you that That's how it is. I see hearts tell their owner, they're saved when they're lost. I see hearts tell their owner, they're lost when they're saved. I see hearts tell Very happy with them. When God is not happy with them, you cannot trust your heart. That's right. It's deceitful, it's desperate. It's wicked, and it's the source of sin and the reason you break objects with God in your life. Look with me very quickly in the book of Mark chapter 7. None other than our Savior Jesus Christ. Listen to what he says in Mark chapter 7. Sin this morning, disobedience to God, the breaking of His commandments this morning in your life is a matter of your heart. It's a matter of your heart. Look what Jesus Christ said in Mark 7 and verse 21. He says this in Mark 7, verse 21, Jesus Christ says, for from within Wow, whatever he's talking about is inside of us, not outside of us, and then he identifies it out of the heart of men. That word men is mankind, men and women, boys and girls. Proceed to follow him Evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness Wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, getting someone to lust after you, an evil lie, blasphemy, pride, and foolishness. And notice the reconfirmation, verse 23. All these evil things come from within. And defile the man. Notice Jesus Christ identifies the source of sin And it's not something outside of you, it's something inside of you. It's something he calls your heart. I want to remind you this morning, sin is not the result of a poor education Can I hear someone say amen? That was a very educated young man that recently shot up at Aurora Theater down in Colorado. Sin and disobedience and crime, that is not a result of a poor education. It's not the result of your tough social surroundings and the neighborhood you grew up in. Sin in your life is not the result of your financial status or money you do or do not have. Sin is not the result of your ethnic background or your skin color. I've had men say to me, Well, I have a bad angry temper for my birds. No, you have an angry tem We can temper, but you've got a sinful heart. Amen. Synth is not a reason outside of the streets. Sin originates inside of hearts. It's an inner problem that manifests itself outward And how long ago we saw this truth come through. We got on the road 14 years ago, my wife and I, six children, 300 square foot motorhome. Ladies, please do not complain about the size of your house. I call that submarine warfare. It's got room for everything but an attitude in that thing. Children would complain about it and I'd say the floggings will continue until morale improves. They say, Why do we have to live this way, my ship? One day you'll get one of your own. But along with us came a little dog named Patches. Patches was my oldest daughter, Kimberly's dog. He's about 35. He was a miniature Australian shepherd, about 35 pounds, a lovable, huggable, adorable. So said the kids. And as we got on the road, I really didn't know how Patches was going to take to this hourly living. Some dogs get motion sick, some hard to housebreak. Man, he fit right in About two, three months in though, something caught me off guard. We were in a Walmart doing what you do in Walmart, spending money and meeting people you haven't seen for a while. I always tell people, if you haven't met somebody for a while, go to Walmart. You'll find them. And we were in there about 15, 20 minutes, and and then I said to my wife, I said, I need to run back out and grab something from the RP, probably more money. As I went back to the RV, I put the key in the lock, I started to come up the steps, and as I came up the steps, Patches met me on the landing. But he met me acting very strangely. That breed, if for some reason it thinks it's in trouble, when it's confronted by the alpha male, which was clearly me, they'll do some really funny things. They'll turn their head to the side and Smile. You know, press themselves into the floor and try to look like a piece of rug. Smile and stretch and smile and strengthen on looking at it. So what you sure problem he just smiled and as I finished my set I looked down the length of the motor room and I saw I think that was in that fifteen minutes I was in that Walmart we hadn't left the trash can full to overflowing Leftovers. I mean, just everything you could think of. He got in that thing and he screwed it from one end of the motor to the other. It'd say, well, creature, what you do with patches. But let me tell you, I was raised a farm boy, Minnesota Beef opera. We shot dogs for less than we didn't pay anything for them, so they were easily replaced. I wasn't about to blow away a $700 dog, you know. It crossed my mind. Then I joined the Marine Corps and that didn't give me any more Kubaya purple dinosaur Barney moments either, you know. So I don't offend anybody I'll just say it this way. I shredded him. I shredded him. And when I got done, he found refuge underneath the dynet Pressed himself in the corner, tried to get as far away from me as he could, as I'm picking his mess up. I'm talking to him the whole time. His eyes are just as huge as officers. And my parting responses I leave was, don't you ever do that again? And I mean it was like a flex, yeah, yeah, everybody did that, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, got it, got it, yeah. Two days later, I'm in a Walmart. Patches is loose, trash cans full, no biggie, man. He ain't gonna touch that thing. He had a near-death experience, you know. And we're there for 15, 20 minutes. I tell my wife, I gotta go back and I gotta get some from the wolf uh from the RB, and so back I go. and as I put the key in the lock, I don't even take a step up. And all of a sudden, boom, there he is. He's high level on the landing, stretching and climbing and tripping. I look at him and I say, you You did. Every little part of his doggy body he seemed to say, I couldn't find you. And I did it again And this happened a third time. So one day said, this is nuts, man. I'm gonna kill my dog, I'm gonna get turned into pita. I'm gonna turn Michael Vic. Something that will happen here. He'd never touch the trash while I was in his outside periphery. I could be dead asleep at the night trash camp. Well, he'd never touch it because I was there within his periphery. But when I left his exterior, I moved out away from him. What was inside? But he couldn't help himself. It was his nature. It was what his evil setting was. And he knew he was one. I didn't catch him. He caught himself. He knew he shouldn't do it, but he could not help me. Yeah, inside of you inside of you just such a person. You dress a certain way. You're making people think something about you. You act one way when everybody's around. But you get on your own. You turn into something else. You can blame mommy. You can blame daddy. You can blame society. Do you blame a church? Do you blame a preacher? Yes, there are things that contribute to who we are, but they do not control us. They may explain, but in the sight of God they will never excuse. For at the end of the day, you see it and you can. You do filthy things because your heart wants to see it. You have a problem inside. And no one can solve a God. Amen. Sin is a matter of your heart. Until you own that, you'll never get hell. Sin is that often. But there's a second truth out of Romans 10. Look at the second truth that goes right in line with this, according to your Bible Not only that sin is a matter of the heart, but according to Romans chapter 10, salvation from that sin. Is a matter of your heart. Salvation from sin is a matter of your heart. Look what said in Romans chapter 10 and verse number 9 The Bible says that if thou should confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, uh oh, watch this, and shalt believe where? In thy heart. In the seed of all your passions, in the source of all your desires, in your innermost being, that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Notice the reconfirmation. For with the heart Man believeth unto righteousness. And with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. Do you see the second great truth? this morning about what's inside of you, your heart. It's this salvation is a matter of the heart. You cannot get saved. You cannot become a Christian without your heart Being involved according to your Bible. Now words and their meanings and uses do change over the years. The simple words like faith and believe, how we use them today and their shallow meaning, that's not what those words meant when that Bible was written. You say, well, why is that a big deal? Here's why, because you can't get saved without faith and belief, according to the Bible. You can't get delivered from the grave and go to heaven. without faith and belief. You cannot escape hell and the lake of fire, according to that Bible, without faith and belief. Help me here. I'll say the verse. You help completed it. John 3. 16 said, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever Believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. But here's my question. What kind of belief? Not all belief in Jesus cleanses you from your sin. Not all belief in Jesus Christ guarantees you heaven. Not all belief in Jesus says you're going to escape hell one day. For James tells me the devils believe also. Yeah, Trump. How about faith? Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 says, For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. You can't go to heaven without faith. You can't have your sins forgiven without faith. But what kind of faith? Not all faith in Jesus Christ cleanses you from your sin and makes you a Christian. For there's a faith that is referred to as historical faith. This is a faith that simply agrees with historical records and facts. For instance, how many of you this morning believe Abraham Lincoln was a president of the United States of America? He actually resided, raise your hand. Raise your hand. I'd say, I believe he was our president. All right, you never met him, did you? No. But you have accepted historical information about who he was. The fact that he was a president. He wrote that Gettysburg address and he addressed he was there for the healing of the You know that history, you've accepted that. Do you know historical faith in Jesus Christ will not cleanse you from your sin? Do you know knowing what he did for you will not blease you from your sin? Well, there's a faith. Noel Webster's 1828 dictionary says, listen to what he says that faith is, and that's the faith it saves. It's called evangelical or justifying faith. You ready for it? Number one, it's a mental ascent of the mind to the truths of the gospel. You have to believe what the Bible says about who Jesus is and why he came and what he did. But it's accompanied with a yielding of the will and affections that's your heart. And then a humble reliance on Christ alone. Your salvation. We say that again. The faith that saves you, the faith that sets you free The faith that cleanses you of all your sin, and the faith that takes you to heaven when you die, is a mental ascent of the mind to the truths of that Bible, but then it's accompanied with a yielding of the will and affections. That's repentance. And then a humble reliance on Christ alone by stepping on board ship for salvation. This is the argument of the ages in the book of James. Faith works. Works faith. All James is saying is everybody has faith. Some people's faith is dead. It just tells you it's there. It just comes from the mind. It just comes from the head. It agrees with information. Others people's faith is living. It comes not from the mind, it comes from the heart. Evangelist Lester Roloff, the first fellow I met after I got saved, said, You're saved by faith alone. But the faith that saves is not alone, it's living It's not dead. It wells up from the heart, not simply from the head. And not long ago, boy, did we see this truth come through. My daughter Kimberly was on staff at a church, fourth-grade teacher in the Virginia area. A few years ago she called one Thursday all excited. She said, Dad, guess what? I said, What? She said, I've been given the opportunity to hold Bible studies with a young lady. She's about 30 years of age. And I want you and mom to pray for us and pray for her. That I'd be wise in giving her truth and she would accept it. I said, Well, what's her standing? And she said, You know, that's the funny thing, Dad. She was raised in a Christian home. She knows her Bible very well. She would tell you she's a Christian, but there's nothing about how she lives. There's nothing about her life that says she belongs to Jesus Christ. It's all right, we'll pray. So every Thursday, Kimley would call and update us. She let us know how it was going. One Thursday night, she called really excited. She said, Dad, do you remember that young lady we were having you pray for? I said, yes. She said, well, tonight we had that Bible study And my singles director and his wife, they held the study. And so as a foresome, we we listened, we studied, and he was teaching what it meant to be saved, and he's going through the Word of God, he's teaching her about salvation. And she said, Dad, all of a sudden she took her pen, she slammed it down, and she said this, now wait a minute. I believe everything you believe. And she said, Dad, she read you the checklist. I believe Jesus was born of a virgin. I believe he suffered under Pontius Pilate. I believe he was crucified, buried, and rose again. I believe everything you believe. What makes what you believe different than what I believe? And she said, Dad, you should have heard my teacher's answer. It was so powerful. He looked at her with a smile and said, What makes what I believe different than what you believe? Oh, that's easy. What I believe changed my life You know what he was saying? I didn't believe here. I believed here. I relinquished the reins. I yielded my being. I gave myself to him. Oh, does not our Bible teach that if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature? Only a faith from the heart Can save your soul. I'm going to say this clearly. You can get saved without a prayer. I never prayed a prayer when I got saved. If it takes the prayer to save you, the mutes will go to hell. You get saved by believing. I'm not saying if you prayed that you're not saved, but I am saying this: the object of your faith was not what you said, it's what he did. When he died for you. You can get saved without a prayer. You can get saved without a preacher. You can get saved without a single person present. But you cannot, according to that Bible, get saved without your art. For salvation is a matter of your heart. Of everything about you this morning It's your heart that God sees. It's your heart that God wants. And sin is a matter of your heart, but so is salvation. Go back and look with me in Psalm 1. Look with me in Psalm, Psalm 139. I want to read these two verses and we're closing the service down. In Psalm 139, the psalmist recognized his need for help for his heart He didn't need help for his his head, he didn't need help for the wallet, he didn't need help for his health. It was his heart he was after. And he recognized that, and so he prayed this prayer in Psalm 139 Look at what he said in Psalm 139, verse 23 and 24. The psalmist petitioning his God says this Search me, O God. And know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. And Lord, see if there be any wicked way in me. And then lead me in the way. Everlasting. Oh, the heart of the matter this morning, when it's all said and done, it is a matter of your heart today. It's not a matter of what's outside of you. The issue is what's inside of you. It's that heart that needs help. If you're here this morning, I have found by experience. People give God a little money, they give God a little time. They'll give God some talents. And you know what I noticed my God do? He takes what you give him. And he uses it. If you really, you really want help from the one who made you, you're going to have to give him what he's really after. He's after your heart. That is when your soul will get help. The heart of the matter this morning. It's a matter of your heart. Sin is a matter of the heart, but so is salvation. I believe this morning God sees your heart and He knows it better than you do. And if your heart needs help, you ought to be wise and turn to the one who changes heals and helps and saves hearts. His name is the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow hearts before the Lord. We don't need to stand. Heads above, eyes are close for just a moment. Would you allow the Lord to search your heart this morning? Just between you and God, would you be honest with him? What kind of heart does he see inside of you right now? The quietness of the moment, maybe you, between you and your gods, you say, to be quite frank, I got a dirty heart. I I got a dirty heart. It meditates on things that are filthy. It runs toward things that are wrong. It thinks thoughts and it And then it causes me to do and say things and express attitudes that are just filthy. I've got a filthy heart this morning. Let me say this this morning. If you've got a filthy heart I've got good news for you. I know someone who can cleanse a dirty heart. His name is Jesus Christ. Right now, in the quietness of the moment, why don't you turn your filthy heart to him? And say, Lord, would you please forgive me? Please cleanse me, wash me. Make this dirty heart clean. Turn to him. Yield to him. Maybe you're here this morning, you've got that empty heart. You've tried everything, money. You've tried all the entertainment the world has to offer, and you're still empty. Cotton candy it is. There's a place inside of you that's meant only for your creator. And his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. The psalmist says, embrace the Son. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him. Would you this morning in your heart be honest and say, I need a Savior? I need cleansing for my sin and I need a Savior to save me for all time and eternity. Would you right now, in the quietness of the moment, just Bow your heart before him and say, God, I don't know much about me, but I know my heart needs help. I don't want to go to hell, but I know I'm not ready for heaven. Please save me. Cleanse me. Would you drop the reins and just step across in your heart and trust what Jesus Christ did for your sinsick soul 2,000 years ago? He's the only name under heaven given among men whereby you've got to get saved. You must be saved. He offers salvation if you come to him. Maybe hear this scorning a wounded heart. He can heal a wounded heart. Got a broken heart, he put it back together. You say, I don't even know what my heart needs. I just know it needs help. You don't have to know what it needs. He knows your heart better than you do. You just have to know who to go to with it And he says to you, come to me. Come to me. Heads about, eyes have closed. Does your heart need help today? I'm going to pray and then we're going to stand. And as the music plays softly, we'll stay in an attitude of prayer. If your heart needs help and you want somebody to guide you through Scripture, you slip out and come. Christian, you just slip out and come and pray that God would meet the needs of hearts. Father, thank you this morning. For the privilege we have to call you Father, to recognize that you are a God that sees King's hearts and holds King's hearts. From the least of us to the greatest, you turn them whithersoever you will. And Father, you know. Father, you see what's inside of every man and every woman. And every boy and every girl right now. And Lord, you know their heart even better than they do. I pray for that one unsaved. They just dropped the reins in all the busyness of life and all the things they think are important. Lord, may in the quietness of this moment, what you're tapping their heart, what your spirit is telling them, this is truth. This is the truth about who you are and who you need. May their heart yield Surrender. Give up the fight. Just collapse at the feet of your son. For the cleansing, the healing, the forgiveness, and the eternal life they need. Hear our cry. Deal with hearts of everything we've given you. May this morning we give you the reins of our heart. We ask and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.