And I uh just read uh for the scripture reading a little bit ago the six verses that are addressed here to the book or to the church at Sardis. But just to kind of get in gear again here, verse one says, Unto the angel of the church in Sardis, right, These things saith he that hath the seven uh seven spirits of God, the seven stars. That was addressed in chapter 1, if you remember. I know thy works. And now if you notice, he uh he started with just about every every one of the seven churches. He starts out with that, I know thy works, and usually it's a good thing But here not so much. Because if you look at it, it says, I know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou livest and art dead. And then he goes on with the rest of the the letter here. And in verse four, it really sticks out. Thou hast a few names, even in Sardis. So it's like even in this bad church, there's a few that are alright. And so if we were going to uh uh give a a label to the church at Sardis, it would be the dead church. And so we're going to look at the church in Sardis this morning. And again, I mentioned this last week and I mentioned it before. The point is not to put down and make fun of our brothers or anything like that. We're going to be in heaven with these people. Um there are brothers and sisters in Christ, so it's but it's to learn from the mistakes and learn from the strengths. Just like you would an older sibling. You see your older brother get the spanking, you know don't do that. So that's kind of how we're going to look at that uh this morning. So let's pray, then we'll look here at the church at Sardis. Lord, again, we praise you for the day that you've given us, and we thank you for um Recording this, voice, as we look through the series of of those churches, each one is so unique. Uh but Lord we have uh similarities Uh with each one of them it seems like, and uh we pray that we would learn from the strengths and the weak points as well of these churches And um Lord, I pray that you would speak to our hearts uh this morning. Show us what it is we need to do, show us what it is we need to change, bring conviction where it's needed. Lord, I pray that you would uh hide me behind you, that you would just take over the service this morning. And you uh uh you be the teacher this morning is what I pray, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen. So uh first off, I like to always um look at the city itself that it's in. That the church is in just to kind of bring us into the the scenery, I guess you'd say. But uh Sardis It was a very ancient city. Um it it existed well before the Roman Empire uh was there, which of course it was ro ruling at the time. that Revelation was uh written, but it was it it it was founded in uh twelve hundred BC. So this is a long time ago. uh very very ancient city and the city had some ancient um heritage and history, very, very rich in history, very, very rich in culture. Just some kind of unique things about it. It is said that Sardis is where they first started minting gold and silver coins. That's kind of cool. Just a little interesting stuff there. It was also uh known for some other things as well. Some people think that's where they first started um dying uh cloth and clothes and stuff like that to get different colors. Um but they think that started there. Um but they were uh in terms of industries, um in the ancient times, uh again the city was very very old, but in the ancient times it was known for like wool and carpet and Textiles and things like that in terms of industry. But another thing it was known for was its invincibility. The way the city was set up Pretty fascinating. And if and if you you can go uh you can go online and just p pull up pictures of of you know ancient Sardis or or something like that. And um it's pretty fascinating the way the city is laid out. There's one narrow road going into the city. And it sits up on this really high plateau, um, which especially in those times would make it a fortress. The city was a fortress. And along with that, there was, you know, they they built it up even more so. And the ancient uh uh Sardis was the uh ancient capital of the of the Lydian Empire, the Lydian kingdom And a very, very, um very, very strong fortress there. And uh with cliffs on either side of the plateau and and great walls as well And so with that in mind, uh the the the city was was very, very rich, um, very very wealthy, very well known, a lot of history And it got to the point where they got pretty well complacent, like kind of like we're okay. Like we got money, we got stuff, we we we've got the industry, we've got the military, we've got I mean we're set, nothing can get us. You know, and and I didn't think about that until just now, but I feel like we kind of sit like that, don't we, as a nation? I mean, like, you know, we got ocean on this side, ocean on this side, we're rich, we're doing pretty well, industry's booming We kind of think like we're kind of invincible sometimes, you know. But that's kind of where they were at, uh the not the church, but the city's mentality, until Persia came along and um this is a very fascinating story. I I I was listening to a guy on online give a commentary on this and what he was saying And I did some digging and and this it it seems to be accurate. But when Persia was coming through, you know, taking over the world like you know people did back then, it's just everyone wanted to take over the world all the time. But anyway. Persia was coming through and they of course they couldn't take the city because it was up on that plateau and one narrow road in and uh the walls were great and everything. So they they uh besieged it, they circled it set up camp round about it. And one of King Cyrus's soldiers at night was watching the wall, observing the wall here at Sardis And there was a one of the the the the soldiers leaned over the wall and his helmet fell off. And so he was watching and then he saw this little tiny door in the side of the wall open and this guy come out and get his helmet and go back in. Aha We found a door, we found a way in, and so that's how they ended up taking the city. They f and they they uh gave a little distraction, went to the other side of the city, acted like they were gonna attack the wall there And then they of course had some sneaking through the back there where that hole in the wall was. And so the mindset was we're impenetrable. We have all the wealth, we have the military, we're geographically, we're set. And um they thought they were All right, but they weren't. Just when they thought they were safe, just when they thought they were impenetrable, they weren't. And actually this happened to the same city on two different occasions where um they were attacked um is totally caught off guard and taken over. So if you look at the city, we'll get to the church here in just a minute. The city had the attitude of Before they were taken over, we're impenetrable, we're rich, we're good, we don't need anything, uh, the military is the strongest, and we're fine, nothing's going to happen. And then they were taken. The and the city was b a booming industrial city until they weren't. And so at the time that this is being written The only thing that the people of Sardis had to hang on to was their history. We were this, we were that. And at the time of this writing when the Roman Empire was there Um it was it was no longer what it used to be. And it was just kind of there. And so they what they were holding on to was their history. And and from what I understand, people would come and view the because that it when when uh John penned this, people would come and view the ruins from, you know, a thousand years earlier and stuff like that. So it was it w that's what it was known for. It was known for what it used to be. Okay, that was the city. So then we get into the church. And what it seems is the church was no different than the city. The church had the same thing. Now, look at the way this is worded. In verse number one, the angel of the church in Sardis write, These things saith, He hath the seven spirits and the seven stars. Now if you remember when we first started the series, the seven stars, we looked at that coin up on the screen, if anyone remembers that, and had the seven stars on it. And what that represented, whoever, in the slogan that was around the Roman Empire at that time was whoever holds the seven stars holds the power. So remember that image, and he says this, I know thy works, which implies doing, action. What are the works? That thou hast a name that thou livest. That name, that's the reputation. Their reputation was that they were alive, but the truth is they were dead. They were known for what they used to be. They were known for Alive, but they were dead. And so we can see that the church has almost followed in the footsteps of the city, of their environment. And this is a total side note, it's not in my notes, but we really need to be careful that we don't adapt to our environment. That's bad. Don't do that. Don't adapt to your environment. If we as Christians adapted to the environment, that would not be good. We're supposed to be different. We're supposed to be the light, we're supposed to be the salt, we're supposed to be distinct, unique, peculiar, not look like everything else. And then if the salt's lost its savor You know, it's good for nothing to be cast out child under the foot of men, or something like that. So um the church had very much taken on that Um not I want to say philosophy, but that status of, yeah, we used to be this. We used to be this. And it would fit in with the rest of the culture there. It would fit in with the rest of the culture. So the church of Sardis had adopted the atmosphere of the city. The church had become a thermometer rather than a thermostat That changed the temperature of the city. So if you were a part of this church Unless you were one of the few mentioned in verse four, generally speaking, the church was probably a little apathetic, maybe complacent, like we're good, like we've done this before. Like look what we did in the past, so we're good now. I don't I don't know exactly, but it kind of implies that. Um So anyway, that's what the church. And normally, this is interesting. Normally we look at each one of these churches and he'll say something good about it and something bad about it. You know, or this is what this is what I applaud you for, this is what you need to correct. There was one church where there was no uh condemnation, but there was uh only commendation. Am I saying that right? Condemnation Yeah. You know what I mean? And then here we see this where there's really nothing positive said, except for maybe and there is some if you look at different uh commentaries and stuff, some will say Here in verse number one where it says, I know thy works, that means they were doing something. Yeah, but we don't know if what they were doing was good. So you can do something, but it'd be the wrong thing. So there's that. But then in verse 4, this would be a positive spin. If you I mean you could spin this to make it look positive, where he says this, thou hast a few names, even in Sardis, which have not defiled their garments. But I think that's more of a thumbs up to the people, not the church itself. Because the way its word is, yeah, even Sardis, there's a few that are doing all right So it's kind of sad, really. The name that the church had, the reputation that the church had was that they were alive and they were doing good. But really they were dead, just like the city itself. Oh yeah, we used to be, but now we're not And we can already kind of see where some of these applications are going to hit. I don't want to be that I praise God for revivals that have happened in decades past and centuries past. But I don't want to hang my hat on that. The theme of the of our church this year is revive us again. Why? Because we don't want to settle on the revivals that used to happen. We don't want to settle for the people we used to see saved. Oh yeah, we used to be the That was Sardis. That was Sardis. So moving on here, let's look at the condemnation. I'll get on to the applications here in just a minute. But he says this: you know, you have your reputation. But like the city of Sardis was that was once thriving, the church of Sardis at one time had been a good church and had the name. But that reputation was not reality. You know, you can have a reputation that doesn't fit reality. You can have that. You can fabricate that, people can give you one. But but but God cares more about your character than he does your reputation. So the reality was is they were dead And I have a few thoughts here, just uh, you know, this isn't the the main outline per se, just a few thoughts I had written down, but what was it that made him dead? I thought, well, maybe it was just the apathy. Like we're good now? Like we've seen all these people saved and everything's good now. Or we know we were this big church and you know we're good now. Maybe it was the apathy of, you know, hey, we're alive. I don't know. Maybe it was the compromise, because and I get that from verse four where he says, as a few names which have not defiled their garments. So evidently whatever was causing this church to be labeled as the dead church had something to do with their garments being defiled, then brushing up against something else or brushing up with someone else. That would cause a stain to get over on them. This cracks me up. Every time I wear a white shirt, it's gonna get stained. Y'all know what I'm talking about? I mean last night at the banquet I wore my white shirt at the cufflinks. James I had the cufflinks. That was my good shirt, you know, is is the one with the cufflinks and the the gold ones that you gave me. I was sporting those, yeah And the chicken juice, right there. And and now it's not like, oh we'll put it in the washing machine and the stains will come out. No, you put it in the washing machine and now that chicken grease is getting around the washing machine, everything else that goes in it's gonna get the chicken grease on it. Y'all know that's what happens, right? Well it does it to me. Does that happen to you, Evan? No? Okay. Maybe I just have more chicken grease. Probably because I have more chicken. Anyway, um that's something we can kind of understand, right? When you get the or this. This um you'd think I'd learn by now, right? We get so, which means we have salt, which means it's all over the car, which means it's not a good idea to lean up against the car. In a suit. It's not a good idea. You're gonna get your garments spotted, right? You're gonna get you're gonna whatever you're rubbing up against is gonna get on your clothes And so that's the analogy he's giving here. In verse 4, thou hast few names in even in Sardis, which have not defiled their garments. So what evidently something was going on is they were rubbing up against the society. They were getting along with the society, maybe some compromise there in doctrine, maybe some compromise in practice, maybe They were going in and worshiping Christ, but then when they get out, um, you know, they're just they're just rubbing up with society like everything's fine. That's dangerous. You know, that's that's dangerous. And so what was it that caused them to be dead? I think it's a few things. But um the the the church won, I think they were dead because of um of the compromise there, the defiled garments, and they had that get along mentality and you know it's just all get together Maybe because they were arresting in past accomplishments, I don't know. Maybe they were satisfied with their past accomplishments, satisfied in their present state. Maybe they were more concerned about other things. Maybe, maybe that, maybe you know, being a Christian was their weekend hobby. I don't know. But the thing is Is the reality was not what their reputation was. The reality was not that they were alive, but they were dead. You know, I think sometimes we fool ourselves. We think that we're alive, but we're dead. Now uh going through some of this more, I just want to lay a few more things and for groundwork before I I've got um, let's see here, three three main points and they'll be very quick, but The reason that they were dead was not because they weren't doing anything. I want to make sure I'm careful here. But just because we're doing something in Jesus' name doesn't mean it's good. And just because we're doing something good doesn't mean the motive is right. You know you can you can be a bus captain, but mmm but be dead You can be a Sunday school teacher, but be dead. Have the reputation of being alive. But because maybe our garments are spotted a little bit during the week. Maybe we're rubbing up with some things we shouldn't be rubbing up with. Maybe there's a sense of apathy. I'm content with where my class is now. I'm content with where my bus trout is now. I'm content with where my ministry is now. Oh, we used to have this many. We used to do this or you know that last year we saw this many saved. That's awesome. We can get complacent and have the reputation that we're alive, but we're dead. So We're not measuring our spirituality off of what we do, if that makes sense, because we can do the right thing for the wrong reason, we can do the right thing with the wrong motive. We can have the right reason and do the wrong thing, and that's still not right either. You know what I mean? We gotta make sure that our motive is correct and what we're doing is correct. So He says this. Look at verse number three. Or excuse me, verse number two. Be watchful and strengthen the things which remain that are ready to die. So if you find yourself in this complacent mentality or this uh this situation they were in, now that you've observed that, let's take what we have that is working and take what's good and strengthen that before it dies. And then we'll move on to the next step. So let me get back to my spot here. Alright, uh by application, just uh three points here real quick. Number one, number one, what kept this so this is what's going on in Sardis, this is what was going on, that was the city, that was the history When he says something like this to the city, they know exactly what's going on. That church is familiar with their history, I'm sure. But number one is this. Our integrity is more important than our than what we're doing. Let me try to rephrase that. Why we're doing is more important than what we're doing. I don't i and so so I'm thinking about King Saul. Did he have you know he he he sacrificed and all that and and and Samuel said to obey is better than sacrifice? You know what I'm talking about? You know, and then also in the Old Testament, and I'm totally drawn a blank here, I should have written this down, but where where they they took all the sacrifices and they were doing all the rituals and he but he said he left me out of it I don't want to leave God out of it. What's the point of doing it if it's not for Him? So we can be religious or something? I don't want to be religious. I want to serve my Lord because I love my Lord because he loves me. I don't want to just do for the sake of doing. You know, um what why are we Working so hard in ministry so we can have a reputation? Reputation can deceive you. We finished up Proverbs today. Second to last verse. Favor is deceitful. Favor, popularity, reputation, that can be deceiving. The fearing of the Lord of the Lord she shall be praised. But it applies here too So integrity is important. Um I don't want to operate as a dead youth pastor. I don't want to do that. I don't want to operate as a dead husband. Oh, I can fulfill my obligation and you know I'll take care of my wife and I've made a promise and I but I don't want to dead And have a reputation, oh yeah, they're great, they they're m no I want it I I want to be alive I don't want to you say, oh wow, that is great. They had uh oh oh bus uh two you had twenty-three today, right? Praise the Lord for that. Twenty-three on bus on bus. What was that? Oh yeah, praise the Lord, praise the Lord. That's great. But it's possible to have twenty three and be dead. Right? Now I'm guessing it was probably pretty lively. Yeah. Yeah. And and Aulibury's already gearing up for the songs on the way home, wherever she went, there she is, right there. Yeah. Potato chip? No. No, uh milkshake. That's what you'll do, right? Yeah. Anyway, their songs are great. So um I'm sure it's gonna be very live. I lost my spot again. You see I do that But that what so what it what is the church's reputation, our church's reputation, but what is your reputation? But not just what is your reputation, but what is your heart? What is your heart? So um next thing would be this, moving along. We'll probably finish fairly early today, but that's okay because it's chilly. But but we can go s just to back up a little bit. We what what we can go soul winning and and be dead Because we we can we can lead someone to the Lord when we're not right with the Lord, right? But I don't want to do that I want to be alive. I don't want to be a dead youth pastor. I want to be a dead husband. I want to be alive. I don't want to be a fake. I want to put on a facade. I want to put on a show. And I don't think any of us do. So so When you come to church and the family has a reputation of looking great, that's your reputation, and that's great. But what's it really like? Are you just putting on the show? And when you get home, those garments are getting soiled from all the mess you're rubbing up against. Like leaning up against the side of a salty truck. So so when you get home, what what is that like? Or when you get to work, do you still have that same reputation? So what's your heart like? Forget your reputation, what's your heart like? And if you have good integrity Then your heart's right, then the reputation probably will follow. But don't shoot for the reputation. Shoot for the character and let the reputation follow. Anyway, moving on. Number two, it's good to repent. It's good to repent. If you're looking at this and you're saying, uh-oh, this might be me, or uh-oh, this might be us. Uh good news is we can fix it. We can fix it. I love it. Hey, we can you know God got things right for us so we can ex you know Forgiveness is a thing. Repentance is a thing. And it's great. So look at verse number three. First off, we said in verse number two. The things that you haven't messed up that really are legit, and it's not just your reputation, but the few things you have left that are alive, before they die off, let's strengthen that. But then, verse three, remember therefore how thou hast received and heard, hold fast and repent. Okay, so let's repent. Let's repent. Repent means to change our mind. You know what? I'm gonna not, excuse me, I'm just not gonna put on a show anymore, but I'm gonna actually fix my heart. How do you do that? First off, it says remember. We need to remember. Why do you think the church used to be booming there at Sardis when it first got going? Because they realize the basics of Christianity. I'm a sinner and I deserve hell. Christ died for my sin. I can have a home in heaven. I can be reconciled with God. This is pretty awesome So the church had exploded, I'm sure, and had this reputation for being a booming church. Remember where we came from. You want your heart to get right with God instead of just your reputation. You remember where you used to be. Remember. And then and then he says, remember the things we heard. Don't just remember remember what you heard from from uh and so it's like it I'm trying to put myself in their situation, early church, first century church. Remember what John told you. Remember what your elders told you. This isn't that far removed from when Christ went back to heaven. Remember these letters. Remember these things. Remember what you were taught. I think if we just stop and think and try to remember, I think it might help We get so stuck in what's going on now that we forget from where we came. You know, if you if if we all knew that Everyone's past, it'd be kind of scary, right? Like if we all knew what everyone has done and where everyone came from before they were saved. Huh. But we s God saved us out of that. That's not who we are anymore. That's not what defines us anymore. And we start to have this memory. We start to rehearse this and then remember what Christ did for us. That's why we have communion, right? So we can remember. We talked about this in the soul winning class Thursday night. Man, just stop and think about what Christ went through for us. He suffered our hell for us. What he went through on that cross, things leading up to the cross, the suffering that started while he was in the garden, and everything he went through for me. We start to remember. We'll start to liven back up. We'll start to liven back up. Um You know, you'll do that in your marriage, right? You should. Every now and then go back and look at some notes from your spouse from, you know, years gone by when You know, you used to be creative and things like that. You remember that. I'm I'll I'll never forget this. I I talk about my parents a lot. I I think they're pretty cool though I was probably in middle school or something like that. And I went in um homeschooled and I needed help with something, so I went back to my mom's room to get uh get her to help me with something with school. And um she had a big old shoebox, actually a couple of them sitting out, and she was just going through letters that dad had written there in college. Pretty cool. Um and then even after that, um just more letters from when he was back in Indiana and she was back in in uh Hampton and stuff like that. And this is pretty cool. Pretty cool. And she was rehearsing that. I think we need to do that. And that's again that's what communion is. I'm moving on here. But re how how do how do we how do we Change our heart here to liven back up. We need to remember. We need to remember what we've heard. We need to remember what we've received. Remember, therefore, how thou hast received and heard and hold fast. Hang on to that and repent. Repent. If this is you, and you might have a good reputation, but you know that you're dead. Let's change that, right? Let's change that. Let's live in back up. And now this, to me, a little off topic, but it's one of the most encouraging things in this passage. Third point is this. Not everyone's doing it. Especially with young people. But really not really with everyone. We hear people say everyone's, you know, oh everyone's doing it. No, they're not. No, they're not. Elijah felt that way, right? It's like, oh, I'm the only one serving the Lord. No, uh, no, you're not. No, you're not. Look at verse 4. Thou hast a few names, even in Sardis First off, for him to say even in Sardis, that again implies how far gone the church of Sardis was. Even in Sardis. The point is this: even in a church that was that far gone, in a city that was that far gone, there was people standing right. It might feel like you're the only one that's trying to stand right. You might be in that room. You might be in that area even, but you're not the only one. You are not the only one. You're not the only one that's trying to live pure, trying to live right, trying to live for God, trying to live by the Bible and its convictions and not giving in. Oh come on, this this stuff was so you know, you you don't want to give in to that, man. That was like that was like two or three decades ago, or that was that was a century ago, and you're still gonna live up to that. Yeah. You know, I've I've had people s you know stuff that they think is not that big of a deal, but to me it is, and I read scripture and it is a big deal. Oh, you still believe that? You're still going to hold that standard? Yeah, I am. Well, everyone else is, no, they're not. No, they're not. Most might be here in the church of Sardis, even at Sardis, yeah, there was most of the church Was dead. But there were some people there that were standing right. There were some people that were holding their convictions. There were some people that weren't compromising. There were some people that were just doing the best of their ability to serve the Lord. So when someone says, oh come on, just give in. Everyone else is doing it, well that's false. Not everyone else is doing that. And I find that encouraging, especially as a youth pastor, right? Uh because especially during you know from twelve to twenty that time frame, well really, really your whole life you're under peer pressure. You really are. It's different, but you're under peer pressure your whole life Don't give into it. Don't give into it. Not everyone's doing it. So wrapping things up here, just a few comments to make at the end. I think our church has a reputation of being alive. I really do. You all seen our calendar, right? I think that's the case. Now, whether or not you are personally, reputation might be that we're alive, but what is your heart like? Are you dead? See, I don't know. Because you know your heart. I don't. God does. You know he's telling the church you're starting, yeah, you got your name. Yeah, you you're doing the work. But you're dead. So let's look internally this morning and ask ourselves that question. Alright, I'm I'm working the bus route, I'm singing the choir, I'm going soul-winning. Oh Y for the reputation or for the Lord? Are you dead or are you alive? Not talking about your name, but what you actually are. And as I'm talking about this and thinking about this, I can't help but mention. You know, the verse that says, um, and you have the quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, you cannot be a living church, a live church, or a live Christian if you're not a Christian. If you've never been quickened, which means made alive, if you've never been made alive in Christ, then you can you're dead You're dead. Spiritually. But that can be fixed. Just like w if if we're dead Christians and we've you know God's reputation and we have we're serving the Lord but and wrong motive, we can fix that. Well, if you never trusted Christ as your Savior, you can fix that. It's not complicated Can be a little hard to swallow the pride maybe. Hard to give in maybe. It's not complicated. Sinners deserve hell. Christ died for our sins, was buried, rose again, suffered the penalty for us. Trust in him, and we can have a home in heaven. It's not complicated. Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one look around for a few moments. Just a couple questions real quick. I know I'm done a little early, but that's okay. Just a couple questions here real quick. Question number one is this. How many of you say, you know what, Pastor Matt, I'm not sure that I am saved. If I died right now, I don't know that I have that home in heaven. I'm not 100% certain of that, but I'm concerned. About that. Could you pray for me? I'm not going to make you give a speech. I'm not going to bring you up here and put you in front of everyone. I'm not going to do anything like that. Never my goal will embarrass anyone. But I want to pray for you. Pastor Matt, I'm not sure that I'm saved, but I'm concerned about that. Could you just slip your hand up and put it back down? No one's looking. Between you, me and the Lord, that's it. You just slip your hand up, put it back down. Pastor Matt, I'm not sure that I'm saved, but I'm concerned about that. Anyone like that, just slip your hand up, put it right back down. Okay. Next question is this. And this hits home with a lot of us, I think. You know what? I have that reputation. But really, God spoke to my heart. I feel like that's all it is, is my reputation. But I feel like really, I'm dead. I'm serving the Lord, but it's not right. That's you, could you raise your hand, Pastor Matt? God's dealing with me about some some stuff right now. Hey, my hand's up. Absolutely. If that's you, could you just raise your hand? The Lord's speaking to me about something this morning. You can put it your hands down. Thank you. As we stand to our feet, uh however the Lord has dealt with you, the altar's open. If he's dealing with you, you do business with