2 Samuel 19, I'm going to read verse 40 down through verse 2 of chapter 20, starting in chapter 19, verse 40. down through verse 2 of chapter 20. The Bible says, then the king, of course, being David coming back from the victory over Absalom, then the king Went on to Gilgal, and Shimham went on with him. And all the people of Judah conducted the king, and also half the people of Israel. So take note of that. All the people of Judah, half the people of Israel, are helping them across the river. And behold, all the men of Israel came to the king and said unto the king, Why have our brethren, the men of Judah, stolen thee away, and have brought the king and his household and all of David's men with him over Jordan? And all the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, Because the king is near of kin to us. Wherefore then be ye angry for this matter? Have we eaten at all of the king's cost, or hath he given us any gift? And the men of Israel answered the men of Judah. You see the back and forth going on here. The men of Israel answered the men of Judah and said, We have ten parts in the king. And we have also more right in David than ye. Why then did ye despise us that our advice should not be first had in bringing back our king? The words of the men of Judah were fiercer than the words of the men of Israel. What's going on here? What did they get into? You got a big argument going on here. These guys said that, and then they said that, and they said that. And then look at verse 1 of chapter 20, and there happened to be there, while all this is going on A man of Belial, whose name was Sheba, the son of Vitri, a Benjaminite, and he blew a trumpet and said, We have no part in David. Neither have we inheritance in the Son of Jesse, every man to his tents, O Israel So every man of Israel went up from after David and followed Sheba, the son of Fitchri, but the men of Judah clave unto their king from Jordan even unto Jerusalem. David's not, he's not even back to the palace yet, and he's already got another insurrection going on. And uh he's got his hands full. I've entitled the message, The Rebellion of Sheba, and that's what the whole context is from verse 3 in chapter 21. Through the end of the chapter, it describes Sheba's rebellion and David's response to it and how it ended up. But I want to look tonight at the last part of 19 And I want to look at the setup for this rebellion. What took place that led to this Sheba rebelling against David. So let's pray together. Father in heaven, we come to you now this evening again with our Bibles open, and we pray that you would teach us from the life of David, from your word. And apply to our lives truths here and principles that were given that would help us Be uh little better Christians, more effective in our Christian life, and uh be more the people you intend for us to be So I yield myself to you, Lord. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body to you now in this hour, Lord, just uh Take me and use me and speak through me and help us, I pray, dear Lord. In Jesus' name, Amen. In Job chapter 5, in verse number 7, there's a fella that is confronting Job. Eliphaz is his name. And of course Job has just lost his whole family, all his possessions And um then his health went bad. You know the story. And Eliphaz, along with his two other buddies, Are they get in an argument with Job about why Job is going through his trials? And a lot of it, again, this is a little off-subject, but a lot of their arguments, they have the right interpretation of Scripture, but they have the wrong application. In other words, some of the statements they make are correct, but they don't apply to Job. But Eliphaz makes a statement in chapter 5 and verse 7 that is true across the board, regardless. And this is the statement he makes. He says, yet a man is born unto trouble as the sparks fly upward. Now if you think about the picture he's painting there, the word picture he's given Trouble comes to our lives, and every one of us, no one's exempt from it. Trouble comes to our lives. And Eliphaz is saying here, under the inspiration of Scripture, he's saying that It comes just like when you have a campfire, and that campfire, there's sparks coming up out of that campfire. Now think about it, we've all seen it It's just one spark after another, sometimes two or three at a time, but they're just continuous one after another. Everybody have that picture in your mind And they're just one after another. And Eliphaz is saying this, and we see this in the life of David, that Trouble is just like those sparks. It's just one thing after another. Anybody ever say that? Well, if it isn't one thing, it's something else. That's what Eliphaz is saying. You put out one spark and another one's right behind it You got one trial shows up, one difficulty, one heartache, one uh one uh some adversity. Man, you work through that, and you get that, and you just kind of, and boom, something else comes up And I see this in our study of David, and it's just becoming, I guess, more evident to me that ever since David killed Goliath, From that point, he has just one trial, one difficulty, one adversity after another. Now killing Goliath was a tremendous act of faith. Would you agree with me? What an act of courage on a young man He says, God will kill him. My God's greater than him. And he steps out in that battlefield and boom, brings down Goliath with a sling and a stone. And uh what an act of faith. And from that point on, it's one trial after another for David. From without You have Saul attacking him for several years. You have a division in the nation. There's a little civil war at the beginning of David's, and it's just one thing after another without But then he also is dealing with trials within. He's got his own personal failures. He struggled early on there with his faith when he went to the Philistines and trying to flee from Saul And that cost them. And the ziglag there, they took his family and all his possessions. He was able to recover, but he was so distressed, he wept until he had no more power to weep. And you look at the life of David, and from that one tremendous act of faith, that one tremendous act of courage for the glory of God and the cause of the Lord. From that point on, trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble. Just like the sparks flying upward I think there's a lesson to be learned from that as we're going to look here at Sheba in a minute I think every time my experience has been, and I've observed this, just about every time I take a step forward in faith The old devil in the world raises its head and just throws everything it they have at you. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man, you just get God stirs your heart in a revival meeting. We got revival coming up. God stirs your heart and say, you know, I'm going to do this and I'm going to make this change and I'm going to trust God and step out in faith in this area of my life. And brother, you take that step and you face that Goliath, you pick up that stone and you get a victory, you mark it down, you're fixing to face some opposition and difficulty. Satan does not give up ground without fighting back. And I see that in David. I see it in life. We're going to face spiritual opposition and anytime we take some steps forward for the Lord. And like David, this is going to be a lot of in various ways And one other statement I want to make here before we get to our text, and that is this: trials aren't always the result of our failures. Sometimes trials are the result of our faith. Follow what I'm saying Sometimes we decide I'm going to trust God. I'm going to stand up for the Lord. I'm going to establish some convictions. I'm going to make a difference in this world for the gospel. And I tell you, we do that, we are going against the grain of the world we live in. We are going against society, and we're certainly going against the devil, and you mark it down, we're going to face some opposition. Now we don't have time. I really wish we did, but we could go to Hebrews chapter 11. How many people are somewhat familiar with Hebrews 11? The hall of faith, remember? By faith, Noah, by faith, Adam, by faith, Moses, by faith, Abraham. Not in that order, but these people are named. If you get to the end of chapter 11 in Hebrews, watch very carefully. Talks about the great exploits of these tremendous men of faith who, through faith, did all these things. You get to the end of the chapter, and it says there it talks about widows have their dead raised through faith, but then it says, because of their faith, some people were tortured. Some were imprisoned, some sawn asunder. Um I think that's referencing Isaiah, I believe. They legend says that when they they killed him, they put him in a log and sawed the log in half. And it was because of their faith that they struggled. It was because of their faith that they had opposition and difficulties. Trials and difficulties are often that characterize the life of faithful, of God's faithful people. But here's the thing, God gives peace. God gives peace. God gives grace all through that. And these people make a difference. David, many of his psalms that are most filled with praise to God are written During the dark days of David's life. You go back and look at the context of the Psalms. And David is praising God with all of his heart when absolutely sincerely in the Psalms sometimes when he's going through the most difficult trials And so, one thing after another, one after another, as the sparks fly upward. Now, in our text, David's not even back at the palace yet. He's already dealt with uh he's had sh uh Shimei come down, he's had, you know, remember he was trash no trash talking them, throwing rocks at him, then he comes and apologizes, Zyba's in there, and all that drama with Mephibosheth. And uh then he deals with Mephibosheth. Now he's got Israel and Judah uh come down there and they get in a big fuss. And uh he's not even back to the palace yet, and these sparks are flying upwards. It's just one after another. I want us to notice, first of all, David comes back to a fractured nation He comes back to a fractured nation. If you would, look at verse uh 40 again with me. Then the king went on to Gilgal and Shemham went on with him. And all the people of Judah conducted the king, and also half the people of Israel. That becomes an issue. That becomes an argument And so you have the eleven tribes of Israel, the northern part of Israel, and you have the southern tribe of Judah. And they get in this this big fuss, this big argument over something that really was pretty trivial. What they're fussing about is who met David first and why they did it. Um there has been an ongoing friction between the nation of the not the nation of Israel, they're not divided nation yet But the eleven tribes of Israel have had this ongoing friction with the tribe of Judah, all the way back from the times King Saul was killed. They were fussing, they were fussing. And so you have this current, this undercurrent tension between these two groups. And they get in this argument over a very, very trivial thing. I have some quotes about arguing. Arguing is something you do with a fool. And be sure he, the fool, isn't similarly engaged. You get it? Arguing is something you do with a fool, but make sure the one you're arguing with isn't similarly engaged with you. Someone else said this: more arguments the more arguments you win, the fewer friends you have Probably truth to that. It is better, I like this statement, it is better to lose an argument with someone than to lose someone over an argument It's better to lose the argument and maintain the relationship than to lose the relationship, but I won the argument. It's better to lose an argument with someone than lose someone over an argument. An argument cannot survive without your participation. Arguments drag out because one of the parties is too stubborn to forgive, and the other of the party is too proud to apologize. Here's another one. And in any argument, anger never solves a problem or wins a debate. Now this is what brings us to our context here. He says this. If I'm right, I have no need to get angry. And if I'm wrong, I have no right to get angry. If I'm right, I don't need to get angry. If I'm wrong, then I have no right to get angry. These tensions between Israel and Judah here flare up into an ugly, ugly argument. over, as I said, a very f uh a very trivial issue. And this is the issue. Judah came down when David is returning. He engages Shemiai and he deals with him and Ziba and then Mephibos uh shows up and he deals with his situation. And now Judah is down there and some of some of the tribe of Israel, but The majority of the tribe of Judah is down there. There's a large group of people, and they greet David, and they help him get across the river, and uh and uh they're uh escorting him back to the palace And Israel gets upset about that. Israel is offended by that. I want to take a little bit and I want us to notice Somebody had pointed out six stages in any argument. So we're going to talk, I'm going to preach about arguing tonight. Six stages in any argument, and you can see it Right here in this fuss between these two groups. Six stages in argument. Stage number one In any argument, stage number one generally begins with a misunderstanding. At least that's the case here. A misunderstanding. Look with me at verse 40 and then verse 41. Behold, all the men of Israel came to the king and said unto the king, Why have our brethren, the men of Judah, stolen thee away? And have brought the king and his household and all David's men with him over Jordan. I think Israel misunderstood Judah's intention Israel misunderstood. They thought that they were getting David and trying to establish him and get some inroads with him and try and earn some favor with David. I don't believe Judah was that's what they were trying to do at all. I think they just excited the king was back. And so there was a misunderstanding between Israel and uh uh Judah's intentions. I want to suggest to you that is a major cause of most arguments Somebody said or did something and it was misunderstood and it ends up into a huge uh argument. It's interesting, the more The more advanced our communication technology gets, the more fussing and fighting there is with the with the Technol communication technology. I have a thing on Facebook and I use it for missionaries and family and promote the church. A lot of you probably saw it. But I follow the James Webb space. telescope. They have a site and they put pictures on there. It's fascinating to me. And I got things to talk to you about that. Ideas I have. But um not building spaceships, but just theories. No, never mind. But um but here's something if you get one of those, and I like to do this, and I don't do it for people's reaction, I just do it to try and be a witness. But for instance, they had one today, and it was just this phenomenal picture they took of some far away, some galaxy, far, far away in another galaxy. And some phenomenal picture And I put on there Psalms 19, 1. The heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament showeth his handiwork. People go berserk. They'll laugh, they'll call names, they'll tell you to shut up. I mean, you wouldn't believe the stuff that comes off on there just by quoting a verse. Can I give a little advice? Don't ever deal with issues by texting. That is the worst thing in the world. It is so easy to be misunderstood. Somebody asks a question and you just put down no, and that one little word can be so misunderstood. Did you know there's a hundred different ways you can say no? No! Oh no. Oh no. Right? And every one of them has communicated something differently, correct or not? Come on now. And so somebody says something and you put no, what you're doing is you're leaving the understanding of your answer to that person, not you. So if you have an issue, this is pastoral advice here. If you have an issue with somebody, don't text them, give them a call and talk one-on-one together. Or better yet. Go to them, sit down, and talk one-on-one together. That way, if there is a misunderstanding, you can address it immediately before their feelings are hurt or emotions are all worked or whatever. And so the worst thing in the world, and and uh the worst thing in the world is on social media trying to deal with or correct things. And so most arguments, I want to suggest to you, the overwhelming majority of arguments begin because of someone's misunderstanding of what was said, what was done, or he more importantly, why it was done, misunderstanding motives misunderstanding reasons they're doing this, and next thing you know you got a huge uh fuss on your hand. Let me give you two advices on how to avoid A misunderstanding. Number one, and this isn't complete by any stretch of the imagination, but I jot two down. Number one, I put this down. Give the other person the benefit of the doubt. Don't assume that they mean evil. Don't assume that they're up to something bad. Don't assume uh something evil about them. If you'll study 1 Corinthians 13, love thinketh no what? Evil In other words, if you care about them, you love them, you give them the benefit of the doubt. You don't assume it's something wrong. Well, I know why you said that, I know why you did that. Give them the benefit of the doubt. And number two, I put this down, get all information before you respond. So many arguments blow up because I only got part of the story. The media is a master at giving part of the story to influence what you believe about what happened. It's called manipulation And so don't be manipulated, and worse yet, don't manipulate yourself. Find out what the story is. Give the benefit of the doubt. Find out the information before you respond. If Israel would have done that, a lot of people would would have uh would not have been killed in battle. If they'd have just come and talked to Judah. not assume they were doing wrong, give them the benefit of the doubt, find out exactly uh what they were doing, what was going on. It could have helped a lot. So stage number one in an argument Is often, if not almost always, a misunderstanding. Stage number two in an argument, and I see it here in this case, is anger I misunderstand what they said, I misunderstand what they meant, I misunderstand what they did, and man, it makes me angry. Look with me at verse number 42. And all the men of Judah, so Israel comes to them and says, What do you mean? Why have you stolen the king away from us? They didn't steal the king. They didn't intend to steal the king. They assumed that. They misunderstood. And all the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, because the king is near of kin to us. Wherefore then be ye what? Angry for this matter. The response of Judah gives us a little insight into the attitude of Israel when they're confronting Israel. When they were confronting Judah, Israel was angry. They misunderstood and they got mad. The word angry there means to burn intensely. I mean they were furious. In fact, that's another one of the definitions, furious to be incensed. They are absolutely furious at Judah. Israel, here's a key word, Israel assumed That Judah was taking advantage of the situation to get in with David. Well, they may have been jealous, but I I think they we're gonna see here in a little bit, I think they uh thought Israel was up to something. is what they thought. They made a wrong assumption. They thought day they thought Judah was seeking David's favor, and it just ticked them off. If you would, take your Bibles, keep your place here. I want to look at New Testament. And the thing, the interesting thing about the Old Testament, let me ask you this. Did you ever read just different events in the Old Testament, and you think, well that's kind of strange. Why would that be in the Bible? Anybody, ever anybody here, don't talk about anybody uh listening to me? No, y'all are great. Um doc's a little spacey, but other than that, everybody's pretty good. But you ever read something in the Old Testament? You read this little account and you say that's kind of strange. Why is that in the Bible? Anyone? You know what I'm finding out the more I study the Bible? Every one of those Old Testament events Usually is illustrating a New Testament principle. And you read that and you get to the New Testament and you go back and say, oh, here's what he's talking about. Here's a picture. Here's an example of what happens when this is true. I think that's part of I think that's true here. Take your Bible, if you would, turn to me to First Corinthians chapter six And so Israel assumes That Judah is ripping them off and trying to get in favor with the king and leave them out and they'll miss out on something, and they get very, very angry. If you come to 1 Corinthians 6 Paul was writing to the church at Corinth, and there were people in the church who were angry at each other. And there was people in the church who felt like other people in the church were ripping them off. And boy, they were mad and they were so upset about it. They were taking one church member was taking another church member to court. Because they weren't being treated fairly and they were being ripped off, and this, that, and the other. And man, they got all worked up about it. And look what Paul rebukes them And he says in verse number 7, now look, he says this, now therefore, there is utterly a fault among you, because ye go to law one with another. If you're taking someone to law, you're arguing with them, right? You're in a fuss. And you're worked up. Look what Paul's solution is. Why do you not rather take wrong? Why do you not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded? Nay, ye do wrong, and defraud and that your brethren. I think, can I just paraphrase what he's saying, at least my understanding of what he's saying here? I think he's saying this, listen, it's better for y'all to get along and maybe you lose out on a something and keep the that unity there than to get your way and demand your rights and get what you want and not be mistreated And then lose that relationship. You follow what I'm saying? He says, you're doing wrong. This is a fault. Well, why don't you just suffer the loss? All right, whatever. All right, Israel, Judah, maybe they're down there ahead of you. Maybe they're going to get in with David. Let them. Let God take care of that. But they are angry about it. Come over with you, if you would, to Ephesians chapter four Paul is here writing the church at Ephesus, and it's not an issue like it was in the church at Corinth, where he deals with it at length. And pretty bluntly, but he does make a few statements here in Ephesians chapter four, and beginning in verse number nine. And apparently it must have been somewhat of an issue in the church at Ephesus, or he wouldn't have addressed it. He says, verse 29: Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. That's good advice. But that which is good to the use of what? Edifying, that it builds up. That which comes out of your mouth, make don't uh don't leave it. Let it be corrupt. Build people up. Encourage them. Help them. Be stronger. That it may minister grace to the hearers. Now, in the middle of this, he puts about grieving the Holy Spirit, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God. whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Now look at verse 31. Let what's that second word there? Now I circled that word because I think it's key. to what follows. Let all bitterness, how much bitterness? Any exceptions No. Let all bitterness and wrath, how much wrath? All of it, no exceptions. And what? Anger. And clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with malice. And then he tacks on the great verse 32. Be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Israel came down, misunderstood what Judah was doing. Ah, you're trying to get in with David. You're trying to get favors from him. You want to sit at his table. You want the goods off of the king. Oh, we know what you're doing. And they misunderstood the motives of Judah. And it made them very, very angry. We come to the New Testament, we find out it's better to suffer loss and not get angry. And destroy that relationship. We'll find out in Ephesians, we're supposed to put away, put off all anger. Come over, if you would, one more, Colossians chapter number three. And notice with me verse number eight. Here we have almost a verbatim, he's saying to the church at Colossae, just a local independent church. And he says to them almost the same thing, but now ye also put off, there's that next that next word again, all these Anger, first one on the list, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth He says, put all that away. It has no place in the life of a Christian. That's what he's saying. Put it all, put it all. Again, Israel misunderstood Judah's intentions and they got angry and they did exactly what these verses tell us not to do. Not to do. So stage number one is misunderstanding. Stage number two, we're told, is anger. Then in the stages of an argument, I came across the third one, was this accusations. And lo and behold, we come back to our text, and here you find accusations being made. Come back up to verse number 41. It says, behold, all the men of Israel came to the king. They're come to David. They approach David. They're upset, very upset, they're angry. Why have our brethren, the men of Judah, stolen thee away? That's an accusation right there. They didn't steal David away. I don't think that was even remotely their intention. But they throw this accusations out Here's my understanding of an accusation. An accusation is beginning with a conclusion and then making the evidence fit my conclusion. Ah! They were trying to steal the king away. So then everything I look at what they're doing is interpreted in light of my conclusion I made. You follow what I'm saying? And that's what Israel did. They made an assumption, oh, they're stealing the king. Ah, then everything that happened all of a sudden proved in their minds that that's what uh was taking place. Accusations begin with a conclusion and then try to make all the evidence fit the conclusion. I got studying accusers in the Bible. I'm going to challenge you to do this study sometime I got studying everybody in the Bible that it says they accused somebody of something. The word accusers or accusation or accuse Anybody want to guess, without exception, without exception, who the people making the accusations are in the Bible? Without exceptions, the enemies of Christ and the enemies of the gospel. Go through the book of Acts Every person making accusation is the Pharisees or the worshipers of Diana or the pagan people that are upset because people are getting saved. The Pharisees are upset because bigger crowds are coming to Paul and them, and they start throwing accusations and accusations and accusations. You go into the Gospels, the people making accusations against anybody in the Gospels is the Pharisees against Jesus Christ. You're blasphemy God. You're working with the devil. And they throw all these accusations out. And then you get to the book of Revelation, and we touched on this with Sunday night a couple weeks ago. You get to the book of Revelation, chapter 12, I think it's verse number 10, I think. Where you have the accuser of the brethren, which is who? The devil. We need to be very, very careful about throwing accusations around about people. Making accusations. Israel comes down, they make an assumption, they misunderstand what's happening, they get angry, and man, they start throwing accusations. Here's the thing, you get in an argument. When you start losing the argument, when someone starts losing the argument, they start throwing accusations at the other person. They start calling them names, they start trying to defame them somehow or slander them somehow. And that's exactly what Israel is doing here. And so accusations take place. And number four The fourth stage, we are told, is argument. Misunderstanding, anger, accusations, and argument. Look at verse 43. And the men of Israel answered the men of Judah. Did you catch that back and forth, verse number 41? All the men of Israel came to King Verse 42, and all the men of Judah answered the men of Israel. Verse 43, and the men of Israel answered the men of Judah. And they're in a full-blown argument, going back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. Making their point was more important than strengthening the relationship. Israel, making their point was more important than the well-being of the nation of Israel as a whole They were mad. They were ripped off. And brother, they're ready to burn the nation down. And uh arguments, arguments. Winning an argument is not worth damaging a relationship. It's better to lose an argument and keep a relationship than to win an argument and destroy a relationship. Number five, stage number five, one is misunderstanding, two anger, three accusations, four argument. Number five, offended feelings Look at verse 43. And the men of Israel answered the men of Judah and said, We have ten parts in the king, and we have also more right in David than ye. Does it start to sound like little kids? If we stop and listen to ourselves arguing sometimes, if we would step outside and look, we'd be embarrassed. How childish we get in the midst of an argument. And that's what's happening here. And they start getting like a little child. They get offended. Notice what he says here. Why then did ye despise us? The word despise means think lightly of, to consider insignificant, to lightly esteem. You know what they're saying? They're saying this. You didn't even care about us. You know what I put in my note there, I wrote beside that, I put snowflakes. Anybody know what a snowflake is? They were all over here this morning. But they melt at the simplest little thing. And Israel got offended and they said, Oh, you didn't even care. You despised us. You didn't even care. You went down to the king first and you didn't even think about us and you didn't even care about whether we were there. You just thought lightly of us. You didn't think very highly of us. You didn't care about us. Personally, I doubt Judah meant that at all. Now, maybe they could have been a little more considerate. It might have been a good idea in hindsight for Judah to say, you know, give them a call. Say, hey, we're gonna get out and meet the king. Come on long. Let's all go down together. Let's be a unified nation. Get down here and get together. That may have been better looking back But I don't think they intended to deliberately offend them or think ill of them. I think they were just excited the king's coming back and went down Philippians chapter 2, verse 4, we memorized this two years ago in 2020. It says this: look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Israel could have stopped maybe and thought a little bit. You know, let's let's get everybody, let's come as a unified nation, but David's their man. I mean, that's he's they're his he's their people. They're his people Boom, they go running down there. And so they could have been a little bit more considerate. They could have been, but I'm telling you, it's no reason to get offended. Sometimes we get offended at the most trivial things. You didn't look at me, you didn't say that. Here's the old joke in churches. Well you didn't shake my hand. I ain't coming back. Sometimes, you know, sometimes there's a lot of different ways to say this, but sometimes we just need to grow up. And just say, you know, it's trivial. This is silly. But a whole nation now is really upset. And that brings me to my sixth and final stage of an argument. And is an alienation and division. And that's what sets us up for chapter 20. And the horrific events of chapter 20. And I wish we could have taken time to read through the whole thing. But notice verse number one and two of chapter twenty, and there happened to be there where this argument is going on between these crowd from Israel and the crowd from Judah and they're going back and forth and they're offended and they're angry and they're arguing. No doubt there's yelling going on. Maybe pushing and shoving a little bit. And there's a guy standing there, and we'll look at this in a little more in-depth next time, but notice the dis God's description of this fellowsheba. There happened to be there Notice what it says. A man of Belial. A man of Belial. You know what that is? You know what he's saying? This is me. This is my interpretation. There's an agent of the devil standing there. He's a man of the devil, a man of belial, an ungodly man, a wicked man. By the name of Sheba, and he just happens to be there, smack dab in the middle of this ugly argument. And notice what he does. Whose name was Sheba the son of Bitri, a Benjaminite, and he blew a trumpet, and he said, We have no part in David. Neither have we an inheritance in the son of Jesse, every man to his tents, O Israel. Judah and Israel's argument. And anger opened the door for the enemy of Israel to come walking right in. I'm telling you, the devil thrives on division. He thrives on it. It is an open door in any relationship, in any home, in any church, in any ministry. You get division in there, you let these stages take place, and it gets to the point of division, and a man of belial will be there every single time. To step in, the devil thrives on it. Jesus said, a kingdom divide against itself cannot stand. And you can make application, a nation, a church, a ministry, a home, a friendship And that this argument over a petty little thing, who met David first, ends up in the slaughter of a lot of people, because it opened the door for the devil to come walking in. If you would, turn with me a few last verses and I'll quit. Back in the New Testament again. Like I said, these Old Testament events are illustrations of New Testament principles. Come with me to Philippians. What do you know about the Philippian church? Somebody tell me. Philippian church, good or bad? It's great. Really good church. In fact, about one of the top five you're going to find in the Bible, in my opinion. But Paul addresses some issues there. I'm sure you've heard this, I know you have. You will never find a perfect church. Right? Even in the best of God's churches, it's human beings still part of it. So Paul is addressing Some issues here. Philippians chapter 1. Look with me if you would at verse 27. Or chapter 1, verse 27. Only let your conversation, that's your lifestyle, what your lifestyle communicates, how you live, what that communicates, only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. That whether I come and see you or else be absent, I may hear of your fares, that ye, look very carefully at this, that ye stand fast in what? One spirit, no division. With what? One mind. Striving what? Together for the faith of the gospel. Paul's writing to me and says, listen, you've got to have the same mind, the same spirit, working together for the same goal, getting the gospel out to everybody we can, striving together for the gospel. For the faith of the gospel. Come over to chapter 2 and look with me at verse 3. Again, a tremendous church. And he says, verse 3, let what's the next word? Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. Division. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other what? Better than themselves. You know what he's saying? It's not worth fussing it over. Strife is not worth it. The relationship is more important than winning the argument or making your point. Come down to chapter four and verse number two, and I say this just about every time I reference these two ladies. Can you imagine for all eternity their names are in the eternal Word of God. Heaven and earth pass away, but their names are not going to pass away. He says, Paul says, I beseech Eodius. And beseech syntechi, assuming I'm close in my pronunciation. So he uses the word beseech twice. So I'm beseeching you, uh Yodius, I'm beseeching you, Syntechi, I'm beseeching you. But what in the world does he want so badly from them? What is he begging them to do? That they be of what? The same mind in the Lord. Huh. Must have been pretty important. Apparently, apparently, these two ladies were what? They were not of the same mind. They were fussing. They were arguing. They were divided And Paul says, listen, I'm begging you for the sake of the well-being, your own well-being, and the well-being of the body of Christ, be of the same mind. Be of the same mind. Humble yourselves. Just put it aside, whatever it is you're fussing over, suffer the loss. It's not worth it And Israel and Judah, their division, did great, great harm to the nation of Israel. And um Brother Holmsher, the founder and director years ago of Neighborhood Bible Time, I worked with him closely for many years. And he's with the Lord now for a long time, but he used to make this statement to us. He says, There's no reason for two people who are indwelt by the Holy Spirit to not be able to get along. The Holy Spirit indwells this person, the Holy Spirit indwells me. The Holy Spirit There's no reason for us to get along. In fact, if we're not getting along, if we're arguing and fussing, it's not because of the Holy Spirit dwelling within us, it's because of what? The old nature, it's flesh. I take that statement and I up it a notch. There's no reason in a world where two Holy Spirit-filled believers should not be able to get along. If I'm indwelt by the Holy Spirit and that person I'm having issue with is indwelt by the Holy Spirit, there's no reason for us not to get along, but we don't. But if I'm filled with the Holy Spirit And they're filled with the Holy Spirit. There's absolutely no reason for not to get along. And so if I'm fussing, if I'm angry and I'm arguing and I'm offended. That's a indicator to me that I am not filled with the Holy Spirit. I'm operating in the flesh. Right there. No reason in the world too spirit-filled believers cannot get along. Might doesn't mean we have to agree on everything. But you can disagree without getting angry and and hateful. I came across this poem, I kind of thought it was a little humorous, but I think it makes the point. A horse can't pull while he's a kickin'. This fact we merely mention. And he can't kick while he's a pullin', which is our chief contention. Let's imitate that good old horse and lead a life that's fitting. Just pull an honest load, and then there'll be no time for ticking. I think what that poem is saying is this, if we just get busy about the Lord's work, if we just get busy serving God, And strive together for the faith of the gospel and get this whole world reached for the Lord Jesus Christ, we won't have time to be fussing over who shook the preacher's hand first or not. Or who got that seat. Or whatever. Fill in the blank. If we just be busy about the Lord's word. Father in heaven, I ask you would help us to learn from Israel and Judah And just not let us go down that road. Just not let us fall into these stages. Lord, keep us humble. Lord, I pray you do what needs to be done to keep us humble. And we could just love you and love one another. We're not compromised, Lord. We don't want to compromise. But we sure don't want to argue. And so please help us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if one of these stages or some point here might struck a nerve. Maybe in some of us and maybe there's some of us need to say, you know, I just need to be a little more thorough in in uh dealing with things. I mean a little more careful how I go about it. Maybe I need to keep my feelings, not l keep them on my shirt sleeve and and just die to self. Is there anybody at all say, Preacher, God touched my heart tonight? God touched my heart. Any like that? God bless you And we're going to have an invitation, maybe just an old altar, take it at whatever it is, just put it on that altar, say, Lord, here it is. God, I just want to be spirit-filled. I want to be focused on what you've called us to do. Father bless, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together