Amen. Good to see you this evening. Let me get my microphone turned on and you can hear me. Not not that I really need a microphone, but it just makes me even louder. I love it. Boy, I love this church and I sure appreciate the Lord allowing me to be here. I was excited when your pastor called me uh some time back and asked me would I do this? I love him, and I've been here before, and I knew I loved this place, but I want to tell you, my heart has really been knit with yours, and I just enjoy being with you. I know you don't know heritage, but you remind me of heritage. It's almost like being at home when I'm here. People love each other, talk to each other, fuss with each other. Insult each other. You know. It makes me feel at home. I love it. And uh I am very, very grateful for the opportunity to be here. And I've got 18 miles to go tonight in this message, so we need to get started. Amen? Take your Bible and turn with me to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. If you listen fast, I'll talk fast. But if I see you slow down in listening. . I'll have to slow down, alright? 1 Thessalonians, I just want to read to you what we're going to talk about tonight. Here's the title of the message. The title of the message is The Clocks Are Ticking. And here's what they're ticking down to. The rapture. For those of you who don't know what the rapture is, or maybe need a little help understanding it. Jesus Christ is coming again to earth. Now understand that he came the first time as a suffering Savior. He came and he went to the cross at Calvary because it was the only way that we could be redeemed. We are sinners. I'll be honest with you, I don't think we really struggle with understanding that. We may not like to admit that. We may like to cover that up and not talk about that. But here's the truth. I sin and thought at least. Every day, don't you? Sometimes I sin in my words throughout the day. I can sin in my actions throughout the day. I don't have any problem understanding that I am a sinner. And sinners can't save sinners. And so God sent his only begotten Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, who lived here 33 and a half years, never one time committed a sin, even though he faced every temptation that we face. And that allowed him to be the lamb that was not blemished, had no spot, no stain of sin And he willingly went to the cross at Calvary. That's what those young people just sang about. It's still the cross that matters. He went to the cross, and there on a cross, in an exchange that I don't get, I don't understand how God does it. God's thoughts are above my thoughts But on that cross, the sins of the whole world were placed on Jesus Christ. God cannot look on sin. And so he turned away from that sin. And we heard Jesus cry, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Well I'll tell you why the Father forsook the Son Because the Son was bearing our sin. Now, when he died, they took him down off the cross, buried him. Hey, here's the good news. Third day he rose again. And all those who will look to him in faith and say these two things in their heart, you're right, God, I am a sinner. And you're right a second time, God. The only way that my sin can be paid for, that I can be reconciled to you, that I can become a child of God That I can enter into your love is for me to believe that Jesus Christ died in my place. Well, he stayed on earth for a few days. He allowed himself to be seen. There were many above 500 people who saw the resurrected Lord. He really did resurrect from the dead. He brought his disciples out to the Mount of Olives. I hope someday you get to go to that place, that holy land. If you ever get the opportunity, do it. You stand on the Holy Land and you look out the Mount of Olives and you look out over that city of Jerusalem, the eastern gate, and the Bible tells us, by the way, the Bible never tells us anything that isn't true. It tells us that the Lord Jesus ascended up off that Mount of Olives back into heaven, and the disciples were just amazed. And they watched him going up into heavens, and they were so amazed at it that they stood there, and finally an angel had to say to them, now look, fellas You can't stay here. This same Jesus that you've seen us in is coming again. Now, he is coming again to rule and to reign from the city of Jerusalem. He is going to set things right. Oh, he came the first time as a suffering savior. But he's going to come that time when he touches the earth, he is going to be a conquering king. Now understand that there are seven years before he sits on that throne called the Great Tribulation Period. Don't minimize it. Don't mock it. It will be the worst seven years this earth has ever seen. It will be so horrible that men will beg for mountains to fall on them to cover them rather than see the wrath of God poured out on this earth. God is going to pour His wrath out on this world. And my friend, I don't care how smug you think you are, I don't think how cool you think you are. You do not want to be the object of God's wrath. But God didn't save us to pour wrath out on us. We're going to read in just a moment that God's will for us is not wrath. God's will for us is eternal life. God's will for us is love and joy and peace. And so before that seven-year period of wrath hits, God is going to do something amazing He is going to catch up those who have trusted him as their Savior. He's going to catch them up out of this world. He's going to rapture them up out of this world. And we are going to leave this earth. We are going to be changed if we're living. We're going to be changed in the air, and we're going to meet him in the mid-air. So shall we ever be with the Lord? And if we have gone on, some of our loved ones who who we know knew Christ are buried, they're dead, but their bodies are going to resurrect and their bodies are going to join us. And you talk about a reunion. That is going to be a reunion. And those seven years that God is pouring wrath out on this earth, you know what those the same people are going to be doing? We're going to be eaten. We're going to be enjoying the marriage supper of the Lamb. It'll be a wonderful thing. But here it is. You've got to be saved before the rapture. Because if you're not saved when Jesus comes to redeem and to take out his saints, The Bible teaches us that he's going to allow a great delusion upon the earth. I want you to understand something tonight, and I'm going to go as quick as I can. But I've never wanted to be more clear than what I'm telling you tonight. If you leave this room tonight unsaved, and Jesus comes again tonight, I know there's novels out there that tell you that a lot of people are going to get saved. You're not going to be one of them Because you sat and heard the truth and rejected it. And God is going to say to you, I gave you the opportunity, and you didn't take it. So if you have ever listened to a message seriously, I pray that in the next 30 minutes you will listen to this message seriously. Because Jesus is coming again. And he is offering you an opportunity tonight to be saved. Notice with me, first of all, I just want to read what I just talked to you about. Notice with me in verse 14. Yeah, let's go to verse 13. of chapter 4 and 1 Thessalonians. I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that you sorrow not Even as others which have no hope, for if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain under the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, the voice of the archangel and the with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words If you're a believer tonight, it's a comfort to know that Jesus is coming again. If you're not a believer tonight, it's no comfort. Now, I want you to know we're going to read right on into chapter 5, and I want you to see something. But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you. For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. God is not announcing when he's going to rapture his saints out. It's going to catch us by surprise. For when they shall say, peace and safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them as travail upon a woman with child, and they shall not escape. But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief Ye are all the children of light and the children of the day. We are not of the night nor of darkness. Therefore let us not sleep as do others But let us watch and be sober, for they that sleep, sleep in the night, and they that be drunken or drunken in the night. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love And for a helmet, the hope of salvation, for God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by the Lord Jesus Christ. Hey, there's a lot of folks running around the country today teaching a theology called mid-trib rapture And they're suggesting that the church is going to go through at least half of the tribulation. Or they're suggesting that we're going to go through all the tribulation. They just don't know their Bibles and don't listen to it. God says clearly, I didn't appoint you to wrath. I'm not pouring my wrath out on you. I poured my wrath out on my son for you, and I'm not pouring wrath out on you. It is reserved for the unsaved and to prepare Israel for the coming of their king. He goes on. He says in verse 10, who died for us, that whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him. Wherefore, comfort yourselves. Together and edify one another, even as also ye do. Second time we've seen their word. Comfort one another, comfort one another. The rapture of the church ought to be a comfort to us And if it's not, then examine your heart. This is the question I'm asked all the time: Preacher, when is the rapture? Preacher, do you believe we are in the last days? The answer to that is absolutely, definitively, yes. We have been in the last days since Jesus Christ came in the flesh. The Bible says in Hebrews 1 and verse 2 hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds It says in the book of Acts, it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh. We saw the fulfillment, the beginning of the fulfillment of that, on the day of Pentecost. Now I don't know if you're counting. But the last days started 2,000 years ago. We've been in the last days For 2,000 years. I think the better question is not, are we in the last days? I think the better question, and I say absolutely yes, we are in the last of the last days. We are in the days just before Jesus will return for his church. Peter said this, knowing this first that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lust, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? I had someone say to me not too long ago, preacher, you dispensationalists, and you uh you preach the rapture of the church. You you must follow Schofield. And I said, well, I believe Schofield got an awful lot of things right. And I believe it was right on the rapture of the church. And by the way, the early church believed that the rapture of the church, they believed Jesus was coming And all I'm here to tell you is, though I cannot tell you the day of the rapture, I can tell you that the clocks are a ticking. You know, I don't know about you, but I got a lot of clocks at my house. I've got an alarm clock by my bed. Now, to be honest with you, I'm an early riser. I very rarely need that alarm clock. But every once in a while, like a thief in the night, it catches me. And startles me. The most important clock in my house is on my coffee maker. And it comes on in time so that when I get up, I got coffee ready I got a watch on my wrist, I've got a clock in my car. I'm just telling you I'm always watching what time it is Why in the world aren't believers aware of the times and aware of what is going on around us? And why can't we understand That the clocks are ticking and they're coming down to the last stroke. And Jesus, I believe, will come in our lifetime to rapture his church. Now, what I want to do in a few minutes tonight is I want to give you four clocks that are ticking that if you'll think about them, they're undeniable. They're undeniable. We are in the last of the last days. Jesus is coming soon. Here's number one. The culture in which we live is a ticking clock. I want you to take your Bibles and turn with me to 2 Timothy 3 very quickly. 2 Timothy chapter 3. And I want to read some verses there and then comment on them real quick. 2 Timothy 3 and look at verse 1. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come, dangerous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truth-breakers, false accusers, incontinent. fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heavy-minded, lovers of pleasures, more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof from such turn away. Now listen I know that there has been sin in every culture. But can I tell you as an older man who was born in the very, very early 50s? Almost the 40s. I've watched life and I'm a student of history, and I just want you to understand that this world is not my father's world. And it's not my grandfather's world. And the culture that we are living in, I believe, is one of the most sinful, godless pagan cultures. that the world has ever seen, even though we have churches on every corner. I'll walk through this very quickly. Just let me let me expose some things about our culture. We are lovers of their own selves. You see that in verse 2? For men shall be lovers of their own selves. We kitted a little bit about it last night, but we are the most narcissistic culture that has ever existed on planet Earth. We are more interested in ourselves than any generation has ever been. We prove it by our constant infatuation with selfies and social media. We walk around with selfie sticks. Probably be better to get beat with them than use them. We have Facebook and Twitter. And we're constantly posting from our lives things that I wonder if we really should be posting. We are just constantly interested in us. It gives rise to us being boastful and proud and unthankful. We're a culture where celebrity is the idol and the goal. We literally, our our young people have as heroes people who don't work. They just do stuff that people are interested in. I don't know how else to put it. I wish I could tell you what the Kardashians do. I just haven't figured it out Now we're laughing at it. It is humorous, but it's sadly humorous. We are a nation and a culture of celebrity. That's that's to be honest with you, that's part of what is sparking these horrible shootings that are going on in our country. It is the willingness to do anything for self to be noticed, the willingness to have 15 minutes of fame, and no matter what it takes to do it. Notice that our culture is marked by a lack of natural affection. Look in verse 3. Without natural affection. Now I'm going to tell you something, and it makes me sad to say it In the year 2018, well, let me talk about 2017. In 2017, in the United States of America, there were 1,195,000 aborted babies. Get your head around that. One million one hundred and ninety-five thousand aborted babies. And my friend. A pretty good percent of those were because I didn't want to be bothered with it. Hey, when you live in a culture where you can abort almost a million two hundred thousand babies, where it is funny and put on TV that a man can father children that he has no intention of taking care of. There is something wrong about the natural affection of that race, of that culture. There is something wrong when divorce is rampant. And you know why the divorce rates are going down? Because we're not even bothered to get married anymore. There's something wrong with that natural affection. Never has it been like it is. Our culture is marked by truce breakers. A man's word is not what a man's word once was. Even legal contracts are at times not worth the paper they're written on. They can sign a contract and still walk away from it. I don't want to make anybody mad, but I I'll tell you there's a there's a radio advertisement that just makes me want to scream And this guy on the radio says, don't let this credit card company tell you you're responsible to pay back all the money that you borrowed. Well, who is? Who is? We have come to the place where our word is worthless Not only that, but our culture is marked by being fierce. I wrote down these statistics on a recent 4th of July weekend 70 people were shot just in the city of Chicago. Eight died. A New York policewoman was assassinated that same day in her patrol car. That same weekend there was a play in Central Park that dramatized the assassination of our current president, and a comedian thought it was funny to hold the image of a severed head of our president. What is wrong with us? The clocks are ticking, folks. There's never been a culture like this. Tick, talk. Tick. Talk. Here's clock number two. Daniel's prophetic clock is ticking. Turn with me to Daniel 7. Daniel chapter 7. In Daniel chapter 7, let me just read a couple of verses, make some real quick comments. But in Daniel chapter 7, look at verse 7. And after I saw in the night visions and behold a fourth beast, dreadful and terrible and strong and exceedingly And it had great iron teeth. It devoured and broke in pieces and stamped the residue with the feet of it, and it was diverse from all the beasts that were before it And it had ten horns. I considered the horns, and behold there came up among them another little horn, before whom there were three of the first horns plucked up by the roots, and behold in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking great things. Slip down to verse nineteen. Then I would know the truth of that fourth beast which was diverse from all the others, exceeding dreadful. whose teeth were of iron and his nails of brass, which devoured and break in pieces, and stamped the residue with his feet and of the ten horns that were in his head, and of the other which came up, and before whom three fell, even of that horn that had eyes and a mouth that spake very great things, whose look was more stout than his fellows. I beheld in the same horde Horn made war with the saints and prevailed against them. I could go on reading, but I gotta stop and talk about it for just a moment. I want you to understand this. If we had the time To develop Daniel 7, we would come to understand that there is yet a future empire that Antichrist is going to rule. And we already have the seeds of it. It is the empire of the old Roman Empire. It covered the continent of youth. And you and I are watching that thing work out before our eyes. We're watching the European common market and the European Union and we're seeing England trying to break off and we're seeing some others trying to break off, but they keep pulling them back in. And here's what I would suggest to you. I would suggest they will maybe get pulled back in. Because Antichrist is going to set up a kingdom, and that kingdom will be his to rule and eventually rule this earth. I want you to understand that if you've noticed, we're seeing a change in thinking. We hear words like global Global. We have global markets, global trade, global currency, global knowledge. Everything is global The whole world is tied together through the Internet, through the stock markets, through the United Nations. In his State of the Union address in January of 2000, President Bill Clinton said this. Globalization is the central reality of our time. It is coming, and you cannot stop it. Here's what he was saying. There is one world rule coming, and you're not going to stop it. Because we are trying to tie this world together as much as we can tie this world together. And it is being set up so that one man can rule this world. You and I, now stay with me, you and I have never lived in a day where it was more possible for one man from one capital to rule the entire world. We are so connected by a computer, we are so connected by travel, we are so connected by currency, we are already there. We are one world. And may I suggest to you, without being too radical, that the great struggle that we are seeing in our country today Is that some have stood up and said, we don't want to be global, we want to be America. And may I also say to you that God has already spoken on this one world thing. He spoke at Babel When they tried to make a generation and a city and a situation to where they could be their own gods and they could tell him what they were going to do, God said, nope, no way. And he came down and confused the languages and put borders, and God's will is not for one world until Jesus Christ rules that world from Jerusalem. And the clocks are ticking. Germany is rising. Russia Gog and Magog. Isn't that amazing how they're rising? Hey, have you been watching what's going on in China? And the armies of the East, do you know that the North Korean leader just took a train to Beijing and met with Xi? And the armies of the East are rising. They're rising. And I'm telling you, you've got to look at the reality of this world and look at where we are because the clock is ticking. It's ticking. Tick, tock. Tick. Here's a third one. I want you to see the church age clock. Turn with me very quickly to Revelation chapter 2 and Revelation chapter 3. Revelation chapter 2 and Revelation chapter 3, in this great letter, or in this great book, the Revelation, John is led of God by the Holy Spirit to write a letter to seven churches. Now we have to understand some things about those churches. Those churches are seven existing churches in the world when John writes to them But they are also symbolic of two other things. They number one are symbolic of churches that it can exist in every age. Hey, I guarantee you, Mountain Lake Baptist Church is not a Laodicean church. It's a Philadelphian church. It cares about souls. It's trying to win souls. It can also indicate church ages, the ages that the church has existed and that they have passed through. Now, I want to do it very quickly, but I want to illustrate something to you. I want you to begin reading or just noticing with me. The first letter that John writes is to the church at Ephesus. The church at Ephesus. That church at Ephesus represents the first really 100 years of church history, and I think I won't read them for the sake of time. But the church at Ephesus represents that great early church. That word Ephesus means desirable one. And it's as if God is saying, that's the church I love. That's the church as I want it to be. After Ephesus, John writes a letter to the church at Smyrna. The church at Smyrna, that word Smyrna comes means literally myrrh. And if you remember what myrrh is, myrrh is a spice often given as a gift But it was given as a gift so that it could be used at the burial of a person. And it came to be associated with suffering. And that early church, though it was a wonderful church in about 100 A. D. , entered into a period of incredible persecution. It started with Nero When Nero literally burned the city of Rome, he blamed the Christians and began to persecute them. He hung them on posts and lit them and he lit the Palatine Hill with Christians burning on the cross. He martyred Paul. He he would run them over. in the great circus Maximus and in the Colosseum, and ten emperors in a row brutally persecuted the church. Along about 313, the church at Pergamos. That's the next letter John wrote. And it means marriage. Pergamos means marriage You know what happened in 313 A. D. ? They tried to stomp out the church by persecuting it, but the more they tried to persecute it and stomp it out, you know what happened? It got stronger and stronger and grew and grew. And they figured out, man, we can't get rid of them doing that way. Let's marry up with them. And Constantine The emperor looked up into the sky and he saw what he said he saw was a fiery cross, and he heard a voice that said, By this sign lead, and he brought Rome and the church together. And you know what happened after that. The next letter was the great church at Thyatira. Thyatira means literally continual sacrifice. It marks that time between 500 and 1500 A. D. when the Roman Catholic Church held sway in the world. We call it something else. We call it the Dark Ages. Because it was during those dark ages that the Word of God was taken out of the hands of men. You didn't have a Bible if you did have a church to go to, and it was dark, and Satan ruled, and that church ruled, and then along about 1500 AD, something wonderful happened That John writes a letter to the church, it's Sardis. And that word Sardis means literally a red remnant And it represents the Reformation, and men like Luther and men like Calvin and men like Zwingli stood up and said, We're going to put the Word of God back into the hands of the common man. And by the way, I love this church because we're still trying to do that today. We're trying to print them in every language we can print them in so we can put the Bible back in the hands of a common man And the revelation was, I'm sorry, the Reformation was followed by that church of Philadelphia, John wrote to them And that represents about 1700 to 1900. And there were great revivals and revival fires burned. The Great Awakening. And there was a great work done on this continent. And then it was followed by the church. Of Laodicea. That's our church age. It started in the year about 1900 when we started saying the Bible's not really the Bible. We started creating new versions. We got away from the truth of God. We became more interested in our rights, my rights, me first. We are that church. Where people are more concerned about what they want than what Christ commands. Now, I did all that to say this. Let me talk to you about the church age that comes after Laodicea. Oh, wait a minute. There isn't one Tick talk, tick, talk There is no church age. John didn't write another letter. I believe we can have revival in our hearts. I believe we can still see revival in our nation, revival in our church. But my friend, if we're going to seize this moment Please understand we've got to seize it now and get busy with it because there is no other church age in the Bible after Laodicea TikTok. TikTok. Here's number four and I'm done. The clock of Israel. The clock of Israel. I won't have you turn there for the sake of time, but Matthew 24 says this. Now learn a parable of the fig tree. When his branch is yet tender and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is nigh. So likewise ye, when ye shall see all these things Know that it is near, even at the doors. Verily I say unto you, this generation shall not pass till all these things be fulfilled. Now give me about four or five minutes. The future of the world is not wrapped up in the future of America. I know we think the world revolves around us, but the world doesn't revolve around us. In God's eyes, the center of history and the truth of the world moving forward revolves around Israel. Most Bible commentators believe that in that parable the fig tree represents Israel. And they believe that that passage is a prophecy about the restoration of the nation of Israel. And what they're saying is this, what the Bible is saying is this, when you see Israel bud, that generation will not pass away until I conclude all things. Now, when did Israel bud? Some will say 1948, when there became a recognized Israel once again after World War II. That's solid. I've read, and I think there's some credence to it, that in 1967, in that war, when they took Bible lands again that were theirs, and they pushed the borders out, and they possessed once again Jerusalem That that's when the fig tree budded. There could be some other point that God sees that I don't, God's thoughts are higher than mine There are also questions about what comprises a generation. Is it 40 years? Is it 70 years? Is it a reference to some other number that God has in mind? I don't know. But I do know this, Israel has budded. I know that Israel wasn't. They were dispersed in the world, and now I can get on a plane and go to a place that is called Israel. And when I get off that plane, I can go to what is going to be their capital, Jerusalem. And I'm very glad for our president who stood up and said, we're going to move our embassy back to Jerusalem because that's the capital of Israel. That is more substantial than you think. We don't see it. We don't notice it. We think it's just a political argument. But I'm telling you, it's moving. It's moving. It's moving. We're moving back to Jerusalem. And God says, when you see that budding, when you see those things, that generation shall not pass away. Till I bring all things to conclusion. Tick, talk. Tick, talk. The clocks are ticking There's nothing we can do to take the battery out. It doesn't move by the will of man. It moves by the will of Almighty God. God has his timing and his purpose, his reasons, and God will absolutely do what he wants. There's no doubt that the temple is going to be rebuilt. There's no doubt that Jerusalem is going to be the capital of Israel. And so I say in conclusion, I believe we are in the last days. Of the last days. And I say that you and I ought to take the admonition of Scripture. We need to be sober. We need to get serious. Let me ask you this question. What do you want to be when Jesus returns What do you want to be as a believer when Jesus returns? Do you want to be confident in his coming or ashamed? The Bible said that he's going to come as a thief in the night And you and I ought to be aware and ready and watching and working because when he comes, I want to be on fire for him. When he comes, I want to be serving with him and for him. When he comes, I don't want to be ashamed. I don't want to have a long list of I wish I would have, I knew I should have, I wish I could have. Now listen, never in one day of my life have I been everything that God wanted me to be. And I know you haven't either, but man, it's time to get serious about it. It's time to get into the Bible. It's time to get a prayer life going. It's time to tell somebody about Jesus It's time to clean our lives up. It's time to be seeking revival. The clocks are ticking. Tick-tock. Tick-tock. You're here this evening and unsaved. What are you waiting for? I'm telling you that if Jesus comes and you have not made the decision to trust him as your Savior, there is no other opportunity for you. And I could stand here and go through a list of the horrors of the tribulation. I'm not going to do it. But I'm telling you, it is the worst time in human history. It's worse than the natural disasters we've seen, the mudslides where people are buried alive, the earthquakes, earthquakes will be common. Disease, death. And yet Jesus says to you tonight, I love you so much. That's why I came. That's why for two thousand years preachers have been preaching And believers have been witnessing. And that's why in your lifetime God has been convicting you. Can I go further? That is why we are here tonight. That's why the Holy Spirit moved on this preacher's heart months ago to invite to decide for this church to have a revival. for for me to come and preach, for us to come tonight, because God loves you Because God says, one more time, one more time, I want to extend grace to you. One more time, I want to plead with you. I want to get some old bald guide up there and just plead with you and plead with you. Get saved, get saved, get saved, because tick, tock, tick, tock I'm telling you with all of my heart. I believed before we would even leave this room before we pillow our heads, before we get up in the morning, there is absolutely nothing prophetically to stop Jesus from coming again I beg you, if you do not know you're saved You say, well, my dad said I got saved. Well, I got baptized. Well, hey, if you're putting a well before your testimony, you need to get it straightened out I'm telling you tonight, God has done all of this because He loves you And he is saying to you one more time, Come to me. All that will come to him, he will receive. He's never turned anyone away. Get saved. Would you pray with me? Father, I thank you so much for your word. Truthfully, the time is coming, the night is coming when no man can work, when no one else can get saved. But Lord, tonight we can work and pray. Tonight people can get saved. Tonight your Holy Spirit is still working. And I pray for every believer in this room that God, tonight, they would purpose. They've made great decisions all this week. But decisions can go away. But there isn't time for them to go away. It's too urgent. Those people that you laid on our hearts, we've got to reach them and we've got to start tomorrow. And those things that we promised and and we dealt with in our life that need to be changed, that that need to be improved, our our our our Bible life, our our spiritual walk. There's not time to put that off. We can't roll over and go back to sleep. God, give us a sense of urgency now, now, now. And I pray for those who are here tonight. That if they were dead honest, they would say, I don't know for sure I'm saved. God, it's too important. It's too important to risk that. And I pray right now, Holy Spirit, that you would settle down on their hearts and trouble their hearts Put sorrow in their heart about that, not because I want them to sorrow, but because I want them to see their need and trust you. And Lord, I pray that your Holy Spirit would go pew by pew, person by person, and for those who are unsaved, Would you speak to them and convict them? But would you tell them you love them and that you made this meeting and sent this preacher for this night to extend to them one more opportunity? God help them and save them tonight. Just before I conclude in prayer, every head's bowed, every eye is closed. This is the most serious moment of your life. If you're here tonight and you are not sure you're saved, As a matter of fact, there's a question in your heart. It's just rolling in your heart right now. And you know that rapture clock is ticking. And you'd say, preacher, I don't know I'm saved. And I'm going to put my hand up because I'm asking you, please pray for me. I do not know for sure I'm saved. Would you slip your hand up right now where I can see it? Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved. Let me do it this way. How many in this room tonight would say, Pastor, without any question, in my heart, I know, I know where I was, I know when it was, I know the circumstances around when I trusted Christ as my Savior. Would you lift your hand up and hold it up? Hold it up. As a testimony. God bless you. I believe most hands, if not all hands, went up, but I want to offer one more time. You can take your hands down. If you're not sure about you, I don't care whether people thought you were or weren't. If you're not sure you are. I want to give you one more opportunity. Would you slip your hand up? Say, preacher, would you pray for me? God bless you. I see that hand right there. Someone else. God break this open. Help these. Help us. Someone else. I'm not sure, preacher, and I'm I'm not going to risk my soul and my eternity for this, for my pride. Someone else, preacher, will you pray with me? Oh, heads bowed, eyes closed. Will you look at me, young man? When I give the invitation, I want you to come forward and I want you to let somebody deal with you from the Bible and getting saved and let's get this thing settled, okay? All right. Now I'm going to conclude my prayer, and I don't want you to have any fear of coming. I just want you to come the minute the piano plays. Now, Father, you speak to the hearts of others who may be unsaved, and you speak to the hearts of believers. We cannot play at this any longer. We must get started tomorrow, tonight. Oh, God forgive me for saying tomorrow. We ought to start tonight. We ought to start immediately doing all that we can to gather in those who will turn to Christ. TikTok, TikTok