A full month here. We had Bible time, then we had camp. This week's um uh is uh what is this week? Um County Fair Booth out there. We got that going on. And then also uh Then next week we have Brother Harding with us and so a lot happening and we're excited. I've learned one thing years ago in Garrett County. If you're going to do much, you've got to do it all in the summer because you're going to be limited what you get done in the winter. Ecclesiastes chapter 9. I'm going to read verses 4 through 6 a little bit on the subject we looked at last week. I'm going to take what a couple other statements here and And um pick up where we left off last week and do a few things. I'm trying, I see what time it is, so I'm trying to be uh to the point and uh share a few things. There's only two points to my message. You're going to like this. There's only two points to my message, and I'm only preaching the first point. So amen. First point has 42 subpoints. But uh no, I'll be I'll be respectful of the time. A little boy heard a sermon, maybe he went to camp and he heard a sermon about that God answers prayer. And so he got in his head he wanted a hundred dollars. How many people can appreciate the kid? He wants a hundred bucks. And so he thought rather than just pray and ask for it, he's going to write a letter to God. Now I think this is a true story. I believe this is a true story. And uh so he wrote a letter to the Lord. saying that he wanted a hundred dollars, asking God for a hundred dollars. And he put on the envelope, he put a stamp on, return address, and he wrote on there to the Lord in the United States of America, and he put in the mailbox. Well the postal folks down at the post off uh down at the um uh post office they got the letter and they got in curious about it, so uh They forward it to Washington, D. C. , and lo and behold, and this is, I think this is true story, lo and behold, it ended up in the hands of President Clinton. It was during his administration And uh he opened it and read it, and uh the story goes that he was so impressed by this little boy, and it kind of touched his heart and amused him, so he told the secretary, send the boy a five-dollar bill. What a cheap skate, I thought. But uh he thought, uh, that'll be a lot of money to a little boy. So they sent the boy a crisp five dollar bill in the mail The little boy got it, and of course he was delighted. And he sat down and he wrote a thank you note to God. This kid isn't no dummy This is what he wrote. He said, Dear Lord, thank you so much for sending me the money. However, I noticed that for some reason you sent it through Washington, D. C. And as usual, those crooks deducted ninety-five dollars And before I read my passage, my point is this. There are two things that are inevitable in life. You know what they are, right? Taxes and debt. So let's read this and um We'll see what we can get from this real quick. Verse 4. For to him that is joined to all the living, there is hope For a living dog is better than a dead lion. And we pointed out last week. As long as there's life, there's hope, right? Now look at verse 5. For the living Know that they shall what? Die. But the dead know not anything. Neither have they any more reward, more reward, for the memory that of them is forgotten. Also, their love, their hatred, their envy is now perished. Neither have they any more a portion for anything that is done where Under the sun. Solomon is looking at death. Now, this is important to keep in mind, I believe. He is looking at death from an earthly perspective, from under the sun. Not from heaven's perspective. So I've entitled this, and we're just going to get the opening, few opening statements, but I've entitled this, The Living Know, They Know. Let's pray. Father, I ask now in the few moments we have that you would speak to our hearts and teach us and challenge our faith. I thank you for the kids at camp and I thank you for those that made it possible. And a lot of people gave and help in so many ways. People prayed. And we're very grateful for that. And I pray you would do a great work in the hearts and lives of these young people. Lord, we think of the next generation, God, and how desperately this world is going to need a witness. Lord, we know that the day of our death is approaching and a new generation will come on. So teach us from your word tonight. I yield my will and present my body anew in this hour. And pray with all my heart you fill me with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The two inevitable and inescapable inescapable realities in life are taxes. And debt. I read about a cannibal tax accountant. A cannibal tax accountant. She charged an arm and a leg. And um I'm just trying to get these out of my system right up front here, okay? And um and then death. Two inevitable things. Again, I heard is an old story, but I heard about a fella two uh to we used to call them uh we used to call them hobos. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Now they're homeless. They have all these other terms. But these guys were kind of whinos and they're sitting up on a hill and they see this funeral procession going by And finally the the uh hearse with the caskin in it, and man, this thing's a big Cadillac and it's all decked out and it's got chrome wheels and all this and went buying all these fancy cars and the one guy looked at the other and he says, uh, man, now that's living right there. And that is in many ways the mentality of this old world when it comes to death. But um I've done a lot of funerals. I've done a lot of funerals all the years. I wish I'd a kept record how many I've done. Uh there was another preacher in town, a different denomination, but sometimes inevitably we ended up doing some uh funerals together at the funeral homes and one day he told me he had five hundred and twenty-five funerals he had done and he had all the little cards on them. Well, I haven't done that many, but um I've done a lot of funerals from poor folk to rich folk. I've done funerals for little infants and to ninety uh year old folks. I've gone all around and I found that one thing they all had in common, they all were dead. You don't do funerals for the living. So death is an inevitable thing. And it says there in verse number five: the living know that they shall die. We know it. In the back of our minds, that reality is always there. That this this life here under the sun is not forever. And so Solomon is addressing this issue of death that we all know we have to face someday. And we all know is out there, and none of us know when that day is. I want to remind you of Proverbs 27:1. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. And I'll just throw this out. If a person's unsaved, today's the day they need to get saved And if we're not, even as a Christian, if we're not right with God, today's the day to make that right. Because we do not know. So Solomon is addressing this from heaven He's not addressing it from heaven's perspective. There in verse number six we notice under the sun. And he's looking at it. And you get down through uh verse seven all the way down through verse ten Then he's going to tell how to respond to death. We know it's there. We know it. The living know that death is something we're going to face one day And then he talks about responding to it. So my first point is this, and this is the only one we're going to get to, is the reality of death. I get that from verse 5, the first part. The living know that they shall die. The word know there is interesting. Living people know that they shall die. That word know there means to be fully aware of. It means to clearly understand. It has this idea to confess. It's almost like this. It's almost this idea, for the living have to confess. That someday they're going to die. So the reality of death is something that everybody is aware of. It is inevitable and it is an inescapable reality of life. I put three thoughts here about death. Number one. I don't want this to be a morbid message, but it is a reality in life, and he addresses this. Number one, I put this down: death was not God's design for mankind. Now we touched on this last week, but I want to come back and remind this. Death is not God's design for mankind. I say this so often, just about every funeral, God did not create us to die, he created us to live. Death is the consequence of man's decision to disobey God Now, if you would come with me again. We looked at another portion here, but in Genesis chapter 2, this is where we're introduced to the concept of death. And in fact, God gives Adam and Eve a very dire warning while everything's good, while before sin has entered the world, he gives them a very dire warning about this matter of death. And this kind of ties in with what we preached this morning. If an omniscient God, if a God that knows everything says, don't do this or you will die, you'd be a knucklehead not to listen to them, right? And that's exactly what happened. Look at Genesis chapter 2 and verse number 16. The Bible says, And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden, of how many trees? Every tree of the garden thou mayest, look at the next statement, freely eat. So he's given this phenomenal statement. Listen, this is all yours. This is every tree. You can, just whatever you want. You're not required to eat of any specific one, you can just freely choose. You have an absolute free will And I think God used that phrase freely, eat deliberately, to counter this false doctrine that we have no free will. But then look at the next statement. He says, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt what? Not eat of it. And how many of you agree with me? That's a pretty good deal. Now, don't forget, this is God's garden. This is his. This isn't Adam and Eve. This is God's garden. He said, I made this incredible garden. Wouldn't you love to see what that thing is like? Wouldn't that be an amazing thing to experience? And God says, you can freely, of your own free will, keep any of these, except there's just one. He says, but Of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it. Now look at this next statement. For in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Thou shalt surely die. Say, oh, that fruit they ate, that's what killed them. It wasn't the fruit they ate that killed them The fruit didn't kill him. It was disobedience what brought death. Disobedience brings death. Now, I don't know. I put this in the margin of my Bible, and I might have to think this through and develop this a little more, but I put in the margin of my Bible I put this, it was not the fruit that brought death, it was the disobedience. Life is dependent upon obedience. If they would have obeyed God, they would have lived. But disobedience brought death into the world. Now I'm not exactly sure how that all plays out, but I do know this. Obedience to the Lord is very, very important. Obeying God. God knows what he's talking about. God is God And when he tells us something, something ought to place, you need to do this, you need to not do this, make sure this is in place, make sure that has no part of your life. When God says that, it is vitally important for you and I that we listen to him. And that we obey Him. So, death was not God's design for mankind. God designed man to live, but disobedience On man's part brought death into existence. The most dangerous thing in life is disobedience Is disobedience. Most dangerous thing in life. I put this down. Number two, death is an enemy of man. Death is our enemy. Turn with me, if you would, to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. First Corinthians chapter fifteen, Paul addresses this And I want to begin reading in verse number twenty-five, First Corinthians fifteen. And verse 25, notice the Bible says, For he must reign till he hath put all enemies under his feet. Speaking of Christ. Now look at verse 26. For the last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. Death is an enemy. Death is the enemy of man. Man spends billions and pr no doubt trillions, billions of trillions of dollars trying to ward off death, right or no We do all kinds of strange things. We get up and run on treadmills. The stupidest thing in the world in my mind is a treadmill You get on, you run yourself to death, and you get off the same place you got on. You didn't get anywhere on the thing. Right? And so we do all this stuff, we take this medicine, we spend money, we have these surgeries, they cut us all open, everything. Why? To try and ward off death. Death is the enemy. The Bible says that. Listen to what David said. Now, this is a man after God's own heart. In Psalm 55, 45, 4 through 5, he said this: My heart is sore pained within me. The terrors of death Are fallen upon me. Fear, uh, fearfulness and trembling are come upon me. Horror hath overwhelmed me. Now, this is somebody, a tremendous man of God, a man after God's heart, a man who God used in phenomenal ways, but yet when he thought of death, the enemy of death, instead of brought fear to him. Trembling. Death is an enemy. Death is an enemy. Death is not of God. It was born in disobedience. It was introduced in disobedience. It's our enemy. But I put this down, death is not the end. Death is not the end. Now, under the sun, from the world's perspective, if all there is is what's under the sun, then death ends it all. And it's all over. Um I've witnessed this so many people, I'm thinking of one fellow in particular out on Glendale Bridge Road One of the houses, about halfway through there, and we were out there knocking on doors and got talking to God. I said, You know for sure when you die you're going to heaven. He said, Let me tell you what happens to me when I die. I said, What's that? He says, That ends everything I'm dead, I'm done, it's gone, it's over, no longer nothing. I said, sir, you're wrong. And I showed them from the Bible. that he was wrong. Under the sun, that's an under the sun mentality if there is no God, if there is no spiritual world, if I'm not a spiritual being, if all I am is bones and muscle and blood Then death is the end, but death is not the end. Jesus Christ conquered death through death. Our great enemy. Listen to Hebrews chapter 2. I'm going to uh you can turn there with me if you want. Hebrews chapter 2 is And uh verse number 14, notice what the Bible says. He says, uh, for as much Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 14, For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same. Speaking of Christ, he came down, took part flesh and blood, that through death He might destroy him that had the power of death. That is the devil. In Romans 5. 8, God commended his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ did what for us He died for us. Christ conquered death through death by coming down in our place and suffering death in our place, suffering eternal separation for us. And then, as he promised in John chapter 11, speaking to Mary and Martha concerning Lazarus, he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. Live And so through death, Christ conquered death. Through death, Christ conquered death. If you would, turn with me one last passage, and I'm parring this down. If you would, go to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. And I want to end with this, verse number 54. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 54. If you don't have this underlined in your Bible, this is a great passage to underscore. 1 Corinthians 15. And beginning in verse 54 and reading down through verse number 57. So when this corruptible, this decayable, this dying flesh shall have put on incorruption, undying flesh, this mortal shall put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written. Death is swallowed up in what? Victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the what? Victory of the Lord Jesus Christ. Victory over what? The context is death. The context is death. So I'm I tried to par this down a little, but here's the point. The living know that we're going to die. Now that's, you say, boy, what a morbid thought. And I agree with you, it's not something I walk around dwelling on, but it's something we're all aware of, right or wrong. There's ways to respond to that. We'll look at that at the next time. Some people dismiss it, some people deny it, or we can be determined to be pared for it. But we cannot escape it. Young and old. Young person says, Oh, I I don't have to worry about that for a long time. I wish you'd be with me at a but uh some sir uh some funerals I did where a sixteen-year-old girl Twelve-year-old boy, little two-month-old baby. None of us are guaranteed. None of us are guaranteed another day. But through the Lord Jesus Christ, if we know Jesus Christ as Savior, We conquered that. A Philadelphia legal firm hurt had an associate in Baltimore opened a new office. One of their folks went down and they sent some flowers to welcome in their new opening, the open grand opening of their new legal office. But the flower shop made a mistake. The flowers they sent The flowers they received at the at the legal office said this our deepest sympathies When the florist was told of his mistake, he let out a shriek and exclaimed, Oh no, the flowers that went to the church for the funeral said, Congratulations on your new location. It may have been a mistake, but if that person was a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, they can be cracked congratulated on a what? New location. A new location Absent from the body, what? Present with the Lord. So the living know, the living know, and the wise prepare for that. Prepare for that. And the foolish deny it and ignore it. You say, well, what does that apply to me, preacher? I'm saved. We're saved. We're good. What does that apply to us? This is what I take away from it. This coming week out at the fair, we're going to talk to hundreds and hundreds of people. Who under the sun know in the back of their minds that someday this life here on earth is going to end. And I'm telling you, the overwhelming majority of the folks we talk to are not prepared for that. And God has given you and I a tremendous responsibility, not just at the fair, but on an ongoing daily basis to do everything we can to take the message of Christ, the message of life. with as many people as we possibly can, because they are going to die and they know it. And we have the answer to that, the way to conquer death. Amen? Amen. Let's pray and ask the Lord that this coming week every single one of us will be a faithful witness to the message of eternal life. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take these few short, simple thoughts tonight But challenge us. God, we don't want to be morbid. Or we don't want to be dark in our thinking. But God, we do want to be realistic. We want to be prepared. We want to help others. So please stir us in this matter of reaching the lost. Lord, as pastor, I really, Lord, I really feel like we need to see, we should see more people being saved and baptized. And so, Lord, help us to stay faithful in our part. Help us to be diligent and earnest in getting the gospel to the lost. And Lord, we'll trust you to do your part And bring conviction to draw them to Christ. So make us soul winners is my prayer in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher? I need to be a better soul winner. I need to be more diligent. I need to be more soul conscious in witnessing to others and sharing with others. Any like that? Any like that by the uplifted hand. I think every Christian that's sincere would say that same thing, would feel that way. And maybe tonight we can ask the Lord to help us. Just a small crowd tonight. May we come kneel to us and say, Lord, make us a soul winner. Make me a soul winner. Help us to see more people find life in Christ. And let's ask the Lord to do that. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing invitation