We need to jump right into this. By the way, I was going to tell you a joke about insects, but it really bugged me, so I'm not going to say it. Blessed is he, verse number one of Psalm 32. Blessed is he whose transgression whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. I just want to speak this morning quickly on the subject, the blessedness of forgiveness. The blessedness of forgiveness. Being guilty Of sinning and being guilty of sin and then being forgiven for that. The blessedness of forgiveness. Let's pray. Father, we ask you to bless now our time in your word. Again, we're very grateful for the young people and their accomplishments. And we're so proud of all of them. And we pray you'd bless them real good. Now as we look at this passage, I ask you you would direct our hearts and minds to your word And that you would challenge us and help us and uh speak to our hearts. I yield my will to you again, Lord. I present my body anew this hour. I ask with all my heart as I always do That you fill me with your Holy Spirit. You speak through me. You be the preacher. Apply your word to our hearts and lives as you see fit. I pray in Jesus' name Amen. And if we could, we'd like to encourage folks, if you would, just for the next few moments, put your phones up or turn them off or whatever. We want to give our attention to the Word of God this morning. Not because I'm preaching it, but I'm convinced that what takes place in the next few moments is the most important thing going on in the world. It's the preaching of the Word of God. Again, not because it's me preaching, but because of the content, because of the subject, the Word of God. So we want to give our attention to the Word of God for the next few moments, if you would, please. How many people recognize the name Sherlock Holmes? The great detective. Well, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was actually the novelist that created Sherlock Holmes. And I was reading about him this week, and he was actually a notorious practical joker. And he would pull jokes on his friends. And one time it is said that at one point, this is back before emails and all of that, telephones even, he sent telegraphs anonymously to twelve of his friends. He sent an anonymous telegraph out to twelve of his friends, and it said this. This is all the telegraph said. Telegram said, All has been discovered. Flee at once. He's playing a joke on him. Within twenty-four hours, all twelve of them left the country. What were they? They were guilty. There was something hidden. There was something in their life. There was, what's the term we use? Skeletons. in their closet. We read here in Psalms chapter 32, we read about a fella that had some pretty serious skeletons In his closet. And he tried very, very hard to keep that closet door closed and locked. But he could not do it. He could not do it. You notice above verse 1, the little title up there, the penman of this psalm is David. Tremendous man of God, a man after God's own heart. And so we notice here, and it's very certain, that David is the penman. Now I always point this out, and I want to do it again, and I always do this. David is the penman He is not necessarily the author. Because the author of Scripture is who? Is God. We are holding God's Word, the very Word of God. So God moved on David's heart and mind to record this down and God has preserved it for us here to this day. So the penman is David, the author is God. And I like to try and look at a little bit of the background. Sometimes it helps us get an idea, a little more insight into what's being said here and the truths being presented. And so we look at this and I do a little research and a little digging what other people have said and things we try to observe in the context, and we come to the conclusion we really don't know exactly what the circumstances are. behind the recording of this psalm. We're not told directly. Now we look at the content and we come to a few conclusions. We make some observations Apparently, this was recorded in a time in David's life when he was dealing with some very personal sins. He is going through, and we're going to notice this here in a minute, a time of great conviction. He is under intense conviction over the sins he's committed, these personal sins. We notice he goes through a very thorough confession, and again, we'll look at that in more detail. He sinned greatly He's under intense conviction of the Spirit of God. He acknowledges and confesses that sin thoroughly. And then he experiences the complete and full forgiveness of God. Now that's the idea behind this psalm, particularly the first five, six verses. Now, when in David's life. Would he have experienced some personal sin and go under tremendous amount of conviction as he tried to cover the sin and hide it? And then is exposed and confesses it thoroughly and experiences forgiveness. Well, there's two possible times. One we don't have a lot of information on could have been his initial conversion I know salvation is always preceded by a time of recognizing and acknowledging sin in our life. Now I'm still old-fashioned enough to leave, and I believe the Bible teaches, if there's no conviction, there's no conversion. So there's time of conviction. Before I'm saved, I need to see myself as I really am before God, a sinner. Guilty, condemned for breaking God's law, for being a sinful being. I become aware of that or become very concerned about that. That's where conviction comes in And then the act of trusting Christ is acknowledging to God, yes, I am a sinner, I do deserve the judgment I'm under, and ultimately in hell and the lake of fire, I deserve that as a sinner But I recognize Christ died and suffered that judgment for my sins for me. It's buried and rose again. I acknowledge that, I trust him, and I find complete and full forgiveness. So David could be there's a possibility that he's referencing his initial conversion when he trusted the Lord by faith and was saved. However There's another point in David's life that we are given some details about after his conversion, after he was saved. When he sinned grievously, very personal. We want to say, to an extent, a private sin. That he tried to cover, that he tried to keep from the public and even from God, I guess. Where he's confronted about it, he acknowledges it He finds forgiveness completely. And that is with David's horrendous sin, with who? Bathsheba. I think this psalm is written As after the whole experience with Bathsheba, the sin, the guilt, the confession, the forgiveness, and he records that down for us Now, I want to point out here, and we don't have time to deal with this, David did not lose his salvation when he sinned with Bathsheba. In fact, let me make this statement. Nobody ever loses their salvation. If salvation is genuine, then it cannot and will not be lost. Now it's possible to make a public prof it's possible to make a profession of faith and never genuinely trust Christ. And maybe have a uh uh reformation for a period of time. Maybe my life has changed a little bit for a period, then revert back to the old lifestyle and go on. Person didn't lose their salvation, uh they just never had it in the first place You follow what I'm saying? So I I don't have time to elaborate on that, but I want to point out here, I believe this psalm is referring to David's sin with Bathsheba, the consequences And how he ultimately dealt with it. And again, he did not lose this salvation. It's interesting in Psalm fifty one you have the tremendous confession of David about his sin. He makes this statement. He says, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. If David had lost his salvation, he wouldn't have said, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. He would have said, Restore unto me thy salvation. He never lost that. But he did lose the sweet fellowship. He did lose the peace of heart and mind As a child of God. And so I believe, my personal conviction is that this is when David had dealt with that horrendous thing. Whatever the case, the purpose of the Psalm is clearly The blessedness of forgiveness, the joy, the relief, the peace that floods the heart and soul. When after I have sinned against the Holy God, I find that God fully and freely forgiven me of my sin. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven. Forgiven. Now the world says, the world says, blessed is he who has more money than he can spend. Right? Blessed is he has millions and millions of dollars in his bank account and he can live it up. The world says, blessed is he Who holds a position of great power and is very, very popular, and uh holds a uh a significant position in the world. Boy, blessed is he! The world says, blessed is he who is wealthy. Blessed is he who is powerful. Some say, blessed is he in the world. They'll say something like this, blessed is he who can fulfill every desire and lust of the flesh. Wealth, pleasure, power, popularity, that's where happiness is That's where joy is. That's where the blessedness is. That is the world's perspective. In fact, that is the attitude of those who are living under the sun. Ecclesiastes We're preaching on that on Sunday nights, and Solomon, David's son, he pushed God out of his life, tragically, late in life, as wise as he was and as blessed as he was earlier in life, he pushed God out of his life. And he says he's tried all these things. He sought wealth, he sought power, he built great buildings, he lived in the lusts of the flesh, no holds barred. And his conclusion was this, living that type of life, the blessedness that the world seeks, the things the world seeks to find happiness, he says all they did was left me empty, vain, and vexation of spirit. We live in a frustrated world. We live in a world of people who lives are empty, whose lives are seeking for something to give meaning, something to bring happiness, something to bring peace to my heart and life. The world says, blessed are those who seek and find those things. However, God has a different perspective. God has the correct perspective. And he says, blessed are those whose transgressions are forgiven. Forgiven. Nothing between my soul and the Savior. Perfect communion and fellowship, relationship with my Creator floods the heart and soul with peace. Enjoy. Now I want to quickly get into my outline of this passage and I actually want to look at it. I want to arrange uh uh how we approach this. In other words, I'm not going to approach this chronologically in the verses. I'm going to skip ahead And look at a couple verses, then jump and look at a couple verses. Then we're going to come back to verse 1 and 2. And I think you'll see what I'm trying to do here with this this morning. But I want us to learn this first of all, verse 3 and 4 Verses 3 and 4. And there I notice the agony. Here's my first point. The agony of conviction of sin. The agony of conviction of sin. Look at verse 3. When I kept silence about my sin, my transgression, my iniquity, when I kept silence about that, look what happened My bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. My moisture is turned into the drought of summer. And he makes this statement. He says, selah. Selah is a Hebrew word. It simply means this. Stop and pause there for a moment. Stop and give some consideration to what was just said. We might put it this way in our day and in our lingo today. Let that sink in. Now look what he says here again. The agony of conviction. When I kept silence, what happened? My bones waxed old as we read down through there. Now, what do we mean by conviction? The agony of conviction. Now those who are familiar with Baptist and Bible lingo, you understand what we're talking about by conviction. This guy's miserable. How many people see that in those two verses? He is absolutely miserable. He is the exact opposite of blessed at this point in time. He is an absolute misery. Now, what we mean by conviction is this. The conviction, when I use the term conviction, this is what I'm referring to. The work of the Holy Spirit God's Holy Spirit, His work in a man's heart, a person's heart, convicting them, convincing them of the guilt of their sin. The Holy Spirit working in a person's heart, making them aware not just of the presence of sin, but of the sinfulness of that sin. It is the Holy Spirit working in the heart of a person, compelling that person to acknowledge their sin and their guilt. It is God dealing with me in my heart and soul about the presence of sin in my life and the sinfulness of that sin in my life and the guilt That sin produces before a holy God. The Holy Spirit conviction. Now I hope I have everybody's attention up here because this is incredibly important. Now, I'm talking to some folks right now that know what I'm talking about when I'm referencing conviction. Can I get a witness? We know what that's like. And I would venture to say, anybody that's experienced the conviction of the Holy Spirit of God, you would agree with me when I say this, is one of the most miserable things in life. One of the most miserable things to be under conviction. I remember, and I've shared this many, many times, but I remember the months leading up to the day I was saved. uh May 7, 1979, when I trusted Christ, those months, January, February, and March, as uh I realized uh in January that the direction my life was going and what I was becoming was horrible. And here I am, an 18-year-old young man, and I knew enough of the truth, and I saw reality enough to know that what I was becoming, I did not want to be. And I began crying out to God, God help me. I don't want to be this way. I don't want to be this kind of person. I want things to be right. I want my life and heart to be true and right. A sincere desire. And I think that was a result of my daddy's prayers for me. I want to be right. And I pray, God help me. Late at night I come in, God help me. I can't change. I don't want to be this way. And God prompted in my heart, and it wasn't an audible voice, but just as real as if it was an audible voice, God spoke to my heart, read your Bible I would begin reading my Bible and I started seeing myself the way God saw me. And God began to convict me, and the things I never gave thought to before, never gave them a second thought suddenly bothered me deeply. I felt and I started seeing myself as wicked and godly, and as the months leading up to the point of my conversion. Those days and weeks just leading up to it, I look in the mirror and I saw the most wicked man that has ever walked this planet. Conviction of sin. Conviction of sin. David is under the agony of conviction of his sin. And notice what he says there in verse 3. When I kept silence, that phrase kept silence, he's saying this: I refused to acknowledge the sin in my life. I refuse to acknowledge it. It is an attempt to ignore The fact that I had sinned against the holy God, just pushing it out of my mind, trying to ignore it, trying to suppress That Holy Spirit's conviction. God is working on his heart. God is saying, You sin. That is sin. You are guilty. You've broken my law. You've disobeyed my clear will. And God's Spirit is convicting David, convicting David. And he says, I'm keeping silent. I'm not going to deal with it. I'm not going to acknowledge. I'm going to suppress that Holy Spirit working in my heart. And it produced misery. That word kept silent. I I got this picture in my mind. I like to try and you know come up with word pictures or visualize what he's saying. I got this idea. Were you ever in a service, you had a little baby or whatever, you saw somebody doing this little baby, and that baby keeps making noise, and you're trying to keep that baby quiet? We were at the graduation yesterday and there's a little baby next and that that that little kid was just making all kinds of rack and the parents were there, be quiet, huh? Holding their hand over its mouth. I kept looking to see if the baby's still moving. Or you're somewhere and your dog's barking at someone, you're trying to keep that dog quiet. Shut up, be quiet. You hold his muzzle shut. You ever do that? I heard a preacher say one time they were out soul winning. You always you generally you go with two people, one's a silent partner, their job is to run interference for uh You know, if somebody's disrupting, you're witness somebody, and somebody's disrupting, the silent partner's job is to run interference. He said one time, uh, he was the silent partner. I heard this preacher saying, and this guy's witnessing, and the dog kept yapping and yapping, and it was irritating, it was distracting. So he just stretched down and held the muzzle. He was witnessing going on, dog was tight. He said after a bit the dog went limp Just pushed it under the sofa. No. But that's the idea, if you can picture in my mind, this is what David is trying to do when the Holy Spirit is dealing with him about his sin. I'm keeping silent. I'm trying to quench that. I don't want to acknowledge it. I want to push it away. I don't want to deal with my sin. Sometimes people do that in church. I found sometimes the Spirit of God, when the Word of God is being preached, the Spirit of God will deal with hearts. You know how that plays out? Preacher's preaching away. He doesn't know anything about you. Or maybe I'm in the audience. I don't know anything's going on. He's preaching away the Word of God. And a spirit, the Holy Spirit of God comes down and says, hey, I'm talking about you. And the preacher sometimes will reference a verse or give an illustration or make a statement something in my heart and life that really has nothing to do with the subject, but the Spirit of God comes and says, then He calls me Den sometimes. Uh Spirit God says, Hey, this ain't right You're neglecting this area. You're toying with something here. This needs to be dealt with. And conviction sets in. And here's what we do. We do everything we can to try and push that aside. You know what people do? Sometimes the invitation will grab that pew. Just hold on to it. Nope. I'm going to keep silent. I'm not going to deal with theirs. I'm not going to do it. It's what David's doing. I think sometimes playing with phones during church, I think sometimes that is trying to keep that Holy Spirit quiet. Huh? Passing notes or whatever. Trying to keep, I don't want to hear that. I want to keep silent. I want to keep silent. David does that and he's miserable. He's miserable. Look what he says here, real quick. Look what he says. He says, when I kept silent, my bones waxed old He says I felt like I felt like my bones were just so old. What's he saying? His strength was failing It sapped his strength, his vitality from him under conviction. He says, uh, he says, uh Like so through my roaring all the day long, I thought, what in the world? That word roaring there had the idea of crying out in distress. Oh Sometimes we look at people, maybe they're wealthy, they seem to have their act together, and they're living in sin, and we look at them, we think they're the happiest person in the world. You have no idea what's going on in their quiet personal life. I think what David's saying here, now this is complete speculation on my part. I'll uh I acknowledge that up front. But I think what he's saying here, there were many long nights in the middle of the night where he would cry hard because of the Holy Spirit's conviction. Is roaring. I think there were times where he don't get off, and I'm just speculating again, but I think times he got off by himself and just sob and sob and sob Because he's fighting that conviction. He knew what he did was wrong. He knew it was sin. But he kept silent. And it sap distragth. It brought cry of distress. Look at verse 4. He says, For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. I think he couldn't sleep. He couldn't sleep. Tossed and turned at night under conviction of that sin. He says the drought of summer. He says, my moisture has turned into the drought of summer. I think he's under such stress. That he feels dried up. This sin affected him physically, emotionally, spiritually. The agony of the conviction of sin. I thought about Lot down in Sodom. Peter tells us that Lot was righteous. What? Lot was a righteous man. Lot was a saved man. Down in Sodom, sitting in the gate, holding position in that wicked, wicked city, accepted by the people of the city to an extent. But Peter tells us that his righteous soul was vexed. Lot living in sin was miserable. Was in agony. And I'm convinced the Spirit of God was dealing with Lot. And he kept silent, kept silent, until finally God had to just pull him out of there. before he sent judgment down on. The agony, the agony of conviction of sin. Now, I just want to inject this here As miserable as the conviction of sin is, we ought to be very, very grateful that God convicts us of our sin. Because you know what I found out? If there's little or no, if there's no conviction there, generally there's no response to it We just go on in our sin, and then we have to deal with the horrendous consequences of it. And so, David here, I noticed, first of all, the agony of conviction of sin. He is affected physically, emotionally, and by the way, sin does affect us physically Sin does affect us emotionally. And sin does affect us spiritually. If you're here this morning and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, your greatest need is to trust Christ as Savior and find forgiveness of sin. Acknowledge it. Don't keep silent about say, yes, Lord, I am a sinner. I am guilty. I need a Savior. And of those of us that know Christ as Savior, and there's sin in our life as a believer It's vitally important that we not keep silent about that sin. Don't try and ignore it. Don't try and just cover it up and smother the fact that that sin is there. What we need to do is the next thing that David did, and that is acknowledge acknowledgement of guilt. Look at verse number five. Verse 3 says, When I kept silent, he went through all that agony. Then verse 5, I acknowledged my sin unto thee. That's the very opposite of keeping silence. I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgression unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. The acknowledgement of guilt. The acknowledgement of guilt. That word acknowledged there in verse number 5, right at the beginning, it's more than simply acknowledging the fact or the presence of sin. It's a whole lot more than that. It's not and he says I acknowledge my sin. It's not David saying, Alright, God, uh I sinned. God doesn't need us to give him information. Alright? You and I don't need to come and tell God we've sinned. He knows that. You may have it hidden from everybody in the world. But I guarantee you one thing: that sin is not hidden from God. Secret sin on earth is open scandal in heaven. So when David said, I acknowledge my sin, he's not simply saying, Oh, it's there, yes, it's sin. I've been out soul winning and I have a lot, but on occasion I've come across people like this and I'd talk about I'd ask them I'd share how to be saved, sure. And I'd go through the start through and the first point is that we've all sinned and come sure of the glory of God And they have to acknowledge that and they have to be aware of that and concerned about the fact I've sinned against God. And I've had people say this, oh yeah, I'm a sinner. Yeah, buddy Listen, that is not acknowledging sin. I mean, they're acknowledging it, but that's not what God's talking about And he uses the term a little later on, couldn't fess. They both come from almost identical word And it simply means this. It's more than simply acknowledging the fact that sin is in my life, but it is agreeing with God's view of my sin. It is adopting God's what's the word I want, God's valuation Of my sin. It's seeing my sin the way God sees it. It's having the same attitude about my sin that God has about my sin. It is not simply an acknowledgement of its presence. Oh, for peace's sake, God knows that. It is saying, God, you're right. This is horrendous. This is this is bad. My sin is very, very sinful. We have become experts at minimizing the wickedness of sin. We have mastered the art of excusing and justifying the most ungodly acts of sin. And that is not acknowledging sin. Acknowledging sin is saying, God, you are absolutely right. I deserve to die and go to hell for eternity for this sin that I've committed. The wages of sin is death. And acknowledging, when David said I acknowledged my sin, he said a whole lot more say, oh God, by the way, you probably didn't know this. but I did this. God says, no, I know that. I've been convicting you about it. It's saying, God, you are right. God, this is bad. This is wrong. This is wicked. I've said this often the last several years, and it's becoming so obvious it's it's becoming painfully obvious. The world has perfected the ability to call that which is evil good and that which is good evil. And acknowledging my sin is calling that which is evil evil. Saying you're right, God. This lifestyle is evil This sin is evil. It's bad. It's wrong. He acknowledged his sin. In fact, he has such a thorough acknowledgement of his sin. He uses three terms to refer to his sin. He uses those three in the first two verses, but look here. He uses, he says, I acknowledge verse 5, I acknowledge my sin. All right? What is sin? The word itself simply means this, to come short of a standard, to recome short of a requirement. Has the idea sometimes of uh you know you have a basketball hoop and you're gonna shoot the basket, but you don't put enough uh you don't put enough uh oom That's a cre Hebrew word. Uh um into it and it comes it falls way short of the hoot. You know what I'm talking about? That's what sin is. God has put a standard of acceptance. He's created us as our holy creator. He says, here is the standard that must be met for me to accept you as a holy God. This standard must be met. Sin is coming short of that standard. Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. David says, this sin, I've come so short of what you required of me. I've fallen short of that. I've failed. I live up to that. I've fallen short. So he uses the term sin. Then notice he says, I acknowledge my sin unto thee and mine iniquity. Now there's another term referring to the same subject, but he uses a different term. The word iniquity simply means this: to twist or distort. It's a very similar word to our word pervert. In other words, it's to say take something that is good, take something that is right, but to corrupt it To twist it and pervert it and distort it. And sin, disobedience to God is a distortion, is a perversion, is a corruption. of something good God has given to us. And then he uses a third word. He says, I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and my iniquity have I not hid. I said I will confess my what's the next one? Transgressions. The word transgression, again, referring to the same subject, but a little different take on it. It has this idea: to cross over outside of a perimeter. Again, back to the basketball game. If you step outside the boundary line, you're out of bounds, you transgressed the the playing area, the court, the where you're you're out of bounds. It's a transgression to step outside. God has created mankind to function within certain perimeters That's God's law. That's God's requirements. God's created us to function within the perimeters of God's holiness. But man has chosen of his own free will, beginning with Eve, but continuing on through the generations, man has chosen to step outside of what we were created to function in. And the moment we transgress God's instructions, God's law, the moment we step out of bounds, we begin to have problems. I've used this illustration before, but an engine is designed to run with, it's a gas engine, it's designed to run with gasoline, oil where the oil goes, gas where the gas goes. And if a person, for whatever reason, chooses to put gas where the oil is supposed to be, or put oil where the gas is supposed to be, how many people agree with me? You have problems with that engine It's going to malfunction. We live in a world of humanity that is malfunctioning. Anybody agree with that at all? Why? Because we've transgressed. We're stepping, we're trying to operate outside the boundaries, the perimeter that God has designed and created us to function in. And so you have a horrendous suicide rate, you have rioting in the streets, you have uh murder, you have theft and rape and lying and misery and anger and frustration and hatred. That is all mankind malfunctioning. That is that is a uh Man steps outside of the perimeters of what how we were designed and created to function, step outside of that, and suddenly you've got Cain killing Abel You've got incest and rape, stealing, war. David says, I've transgressed. Doing this sin, I'm stepping out of the perimeter that God has designed me to operate in, to live in, experience. And now he's under the conviction, the agony of conviction. You say, oh, my sin's not that bad. Listen, if we transgress in one point We're guilty. Maybe let's go back to this perimeter idea, the transgression. Maybe David stepped out way over here. Maybe you're saying, at least in your mind, you say, well, I'm just on the line. Regardless, it's still transgression. Whether the basketball player jumps out of bounds or he just steps on the line, he's out of bounds. Consequences are the same. So, what I'm trying to say is this: we must never allow ourselves to minimize our transgressions. We must never allow ourselves to somehow excuse or justify or minimize The seriousness of breaking God's law, of sinning against God, and confession and acknowledgement of our sin is saying just that, God, I sinned. I'm not minimizing it. I'm not justifying it. I'm not trying to sugarcoat it. It is wrong. It is sin. And that's what David did. I acknowledged my transgression. I've confessed my iniquity. The first thing to do when we sin, especially as believers, the very first thing to do is thoroughly confess it. When I acknowledge my sin to be exactly what God says it is, I found when a person says, you know, Pastor, this is so wrong. You know what I found out? That person that has that attitude, when I adapt that adopt that attitude towards sin, I don't have any problem forsaking it. I found that when we get to the point where we see our sin as horrendous as God sees it to be, we don't have a problem walking away from it. We don't have a problem repenting from it. In my mind, the confession, acknowledgement of sin, is synonymous with forsaking it, with repenting from it This is so horrendous. This is so wrong. This is so big. I repent from that. When we see our sin the way God sees it, It's not a problem to repent. Now, there may be a struggle in getting victory over it. Sometimes they become very addictive. Sometimes they really get a hold of the flesh, and there may be a warfare to finally. But as far as I'm concerned, I don't want anything to do with this anymore. I repent from that. And seek and do all I can to get it as far from me as I possibly can. When an unsaved person sees themselves as a sinner as David saw himself and they thoroughly acknowledge and confess that They have no problem trusting Christ. Folks in the church, and I I wish you all were involved in it, but we go out soul-winning and sharing the gospel with people. And Lord will, and we're going to do a little training this summer on witnessing again. Um, do training again. But um Every now and then you come across someone that is so under conviction of sin, they already see themselves what they are, that all you do is share Christ with them. Boom, that's what I want. It's not a problem. I don't have to twist a person's arm to trust Christ when they see sin as David saw it here, thoroughly confessed it. And then, last of all, and I've got to shut this down, but I see the effect of forgiveness, and this is what the whole message was about. This is what caught my attention. Verse number one Then we come back and what David starts out with, blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven I tell you what, you go through the agony of conviction, and then you finally come clean with God and you see your sin for what it really is. And how awful it really is. And you come to Christ and you acknowledge it and you confess it thoroughly. And God says, You are forgiven. Forgive him. Woo! That'd make a Presbyterian shout. That'd make some folks at Mountain Lake Baptist Church shout. Forgive it, forgive it. Blessed. The word blessed is a God-given happiness. It is a divine, deep-seated joy, an unshakable, deep-seated joy. It is something this world cannot give us. The world cannot give me the blessedness that comes by being forgiven by God of my sin The peace that floods the soul, the joy and the confidence that comes to the life when I know that God has fully and freely forgiven me of my sin. Blessed is that man. There's no material thing on this planet that can bring the peace and the deep-seated joy that is found in knowing that my God has forgiven me. There's not a sleeping pill on this planet than give a deep rest to a soul that's found forgiveness. Through the blood of Christ. The world cannot give this blessedness. You're not going to find this joy. You're not going to find this happiness in a bottle of liquor. Help me now. You're not going to find this in some ungodly music. You're not even going to find it in sports or in money. Money cannot buy this blessedness. And by the way, the Pope cannot forgive your sins. And I'm not trying to be disrespectful to anybody But I'm saying this, that is a lie of the devil to think that you can go to a man and find forgiveness of God through a man that is blasphemous. Only God can forgive sins. That was a big issue with Jesus Christ. Remember? He would forgive somebody. The Pharisee, who can forgive sins but God? Jesus never argued with them about that statement. What they missed, the point was, He's God. He has that authority to forgive sins. Religion cannot provide this forgiveness. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot provide this forgiveness. I've used this illustration. argued with myself about whether to use it, but I read years ago, I believe this is a true s true event In New York State, they say upstate New York somewhere. You've heard me tell this before, but it's so appropriate here. They say there's an old, old, centuries old graveyard up there. And I say if you go to the back part of the graveyard where the oldest of the tombstones are. You can't read anything on any of the tombstones. Weather and whatnot has worn off the engraving and they're just stones there. Obviously there was engraving at some point, but they're illegible. But they say there's one tombstone back under a big oak tree or something way in the back. And they say That if you get down and you look at it at just the right angle, you can make out a word on that tombstone. The name's worn off, the dates are worn off, but there's one word that stands out. And that word is this. Forgiven. Forgiven. I don't know anything about that man or that person. Anything about it? But I got a sneaking suspicion that guy understood the blessedness of forgiveness. And I can hear him saying before he dies to whoever engraved his tombstone, I want on that tombstone the word forgiven. Forgiven. Let me ask you a question. Here today, you've never trusted Christ as Savior. More than anything else, God wants to forgive you. Now you need to acknowledge your sin. You have to. You won't do it without acknowledgement. But if I thoroughly acknowledge my sin for what it is, I put my faith, my hope, and trust in the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ and accept him as my personal Savior. That Bible you're holding in your hand promises That God will freely and fully and completely and permanently forgive you. Forgive you Now here there is more than you've trusted Christ. You say, I've got that settled. But like David's sin has crept in. Now I'm not suggesting it might be not the seriousness of David's sin. It might be. I don't know. But I'm saying this, regardless of how man may evaluate that sin in the life of a believer, God views it as horrendous. A person is either a person a sinful person is either under the condemnation of God as a lost man, or if they're sin in their life as a saved man, they're under the chastisement of God. Because God will not tolerate sin. He's holy. And if I will acknowledge that as a believer and I confess my sins, God has promised that He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And regardless of the gravity in your m in a person's mind of the sin we committed, it is very serious in God's sight. But if we thoroughly acknowledge it, take God's approach to it, attitude towards it. God will forgive us and restore our fellowship with Him. And that peace and the joy of our salvation comes flooding back. Does this make sense this morning? I studied this. I was done. I said, thank you, God, for forgiving me. For forgiving me. And help me, Lord, when sins arise in my life and they will. Help me to be quick to acknowledge it and say, Lord, you're right. This is so bad. Confess it and restore that joy. Amen. Father, I pray you bless us. I know I went long. Big service this morning. Lord, I can't help believe but believe that uh Your Holy Spirit isn't dealing with somebody. I know how you deal with me, Lord. And that conviction is so agonizing. But help us to agree with you, Lord. Help us to take your approach and understand you're right. Help us to confess and deal with it. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. And again, this is intensely personal And this is between an individual and God. But whatever the case, it's true for all of us. This morning you say, Pastor, God's Holy Spirit is dealing with my life He's dealing with my heart about something in my life. I don't want to keep silent about that. I want to acknowledge it, not to man or publicly, but to God. And you say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me see this the way He sees it and agree with Him. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? And again, I know this is very, very personal. I understand that, and I respect that. But you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. Any like uplifted hand, God bless you. Several hands around. I think if it was if we were honest, probably every one of us would have to raise our hand about something Is there someone here this morning to say, preacher, I'm not saved? I can't honestly say that I know God has forgiven me completely of my sin and that I'm going to heaven, not to hell when I die. And that concerns you. And you say, God's been dealing with my heart about this. I need to get this settled. I need to get this made right. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. Then God will help me get that right. God will help me settle that. Is there anything like that? On the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me also. That God will help this matter of my salvation of my soul. That that would be settled and that would be taken care of. Any at all? Uplifted hand. One more question, real quick. How many know somebody Say, preacher, I'm not trying to be judgmental in any way, shape, or form, but they're living in sin. They need Christ or they need to make things right, whatever it is. And you'd say, preacher, I'm not trying to be judgmental. We're all Deal with it. But you say, Fridor, I'm so burdened for them. And pray with me that God will help me and move on their heart that they come to the Lord and get that take. care of anything like that. We try to know someone. I'm so burdened for him. God bless you. And again, we're not being judgmental. It's just we're concerned. We love them. Father, bless our invitation time now. I ask, Lord, that you would help us not to keep silent, but to acknowledge what you're dealing with our heart about. Maybe some of us need to come pray for a loved one, a friend And make this a significant time now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads about, eyes are closed. Jenny's playing a invitation