Um for you that are not uh familiar, not aware, Sandy was diagnosed, what was it about a month ago now, Brian? Six weeks ago, diagnosed with a uh Um uh awful disease that uh c uh left her numb from her waist down. She's not paralyzed, not immobile, but just has no feeling And so they told her it would be months till she got out of the hospital and here we are six weeks later and she's standing in front of church singing. Isn't that something? So uh we praise the Lord for that. You better stay out of her way though, she'll run you over. And she can only see out of one eye, so she can't dodge either, so Uh tell you we're merciless around here, aren't we? All right, if you would turn in your Bibles back to um Exodus chapter fifteen. A man was in his usual place. This is um in honor of Valentine's Day. Uh tomorrow actually is my wife and I's 24th wedding anniversary. We got married on Valentine's Day 24 years ago. One of the smartest things I ever did was getting married on Valentine's Day. Never forget the anniversary. Reminders everywhere. So anyway, this is in honor of the this event. A man was in his usual place in the morning sitting at a table reading the paper after breakfast He came across an article about a beautiful actress who was about to marry a football player, and the football player was known not necessarily for his good football skills, but for his lack of IQ Uh he was ugly and he had no common sense. That's what he was known as. The fellow turned to his wife and says, you know, I'll never understand why the biggest, ugliest jerks always get the most attractive women. His wife replied, Why, thank you, dear. You gotta think about that one for a minute. Exodus chapter 15, I'm just gonna read the first verse. The Bible says, Then sang Moses And the children of Israel this song unto the Lord, and spake, saying, I will sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea. And then the song itself goes on down through. Brother Pat read that in its entirety a moment ago. This is actually, you may not be aware of this, but this is actually the first song recorded in the Bible. And so we're going to look at it. Let's have a word of prayer. Father in heaven, please bless our study in your word this morning. I do pray that you would open our hearts and minds to the truths and the principles given here. that uh your Holy Spirit could apply it to our lives where we have need, that we could be a better people, our lives would uh bring glory to the Lord Jesus. And we could accomplish that for which you've created us, the purpose for our existence. I yield myself to you now. I present, I yield my will to your will, I present my body anew this hour. Fill me, I plead with you, Lord, with your Holy Spirit. Speak through me, and uh we'll give you the glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Uh as I said, this is the first recorded song in the Bible. Now, I use the term, the fact that it's the first recorded song in the Bible. We do not believe for a moment that this is the first song ever sung in the Bible. Now I'm going to speculate here, and I invite you to speculate along with me But um I can't help but believe that Adam in the Garden of Eden uh sang as he worked about his duties there in the garden Surely, if anybody could sing, it would have been Adam before the fall with his wife in the garden. So the Bible doesn't tell us he did, but I would imagine that would be the case. I would like to think that um Noah on the ark with his boys and their wives and his wife as they're going about the duties for a year, a little over a year. In that ark, I can uh uh I can um uh imagine Noah and his family singing away. as they went about their duties. Now what did they sing? Maybe they sang the rains came down as the floods came up. The rains came down as the flood I don't know if he wrote that song or not, but um I can imagine can anybody here imagine Noah singing on the Ark? I can see it. Um I think of Abraham uh returning from the mount when God called him to offer his son up as a sacrifice. And coming back with Isaac beside him and seeing how God had provided and the lesson he had learned, I can't help but Abraham comes back with a song on his heart. And a praise to his Lord for what God had done in his life and the lesson he had learned. So, we're not suggesting that this is the first song ever sung But it is the first song recorded in the Bible. Now, as I got studying this I found out not only is this the first song recorded in the Bible, but this is also the last song. Recorded in the Bible. Now keep your place here if you would, and come with me to the book of Revelation. And chapter number 15. Revelation chapter 15. First song recorded in the Bible, and the last song recorded in the Bible. Revelation chapter 15. And look with me, if you would, at verse 3. Of course, Revelation is the last book of the Bible. Chapter 15 is about the middle, a little past the middle of the book. Notice what it says in verse 3. And they sing the song of who? The song of Moses, the one Pat read just a few moments ago from Exodus 15. They sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous are thy works. And they reference The first song recorded in the Bible is also recorded as the last song in the Bible. Isn't that interesting? Now who is singing this here in Revelation? Obviously it's not Moses and the children of Israel. This is thousands of years later. But it is the new it is the tribulation saints. It is folks who get saved during that seven-year tribulation period when God's wrath is being poured out on man. Uh when uh all uh uh the world is in complete turmoil, and they are in the middle of this tribulation period, and Believe it or not, folks do get saved during the tribulation period. But those that do get saved during the tribulation period, they are martyred almost immediately. Their lives are taken. And this song is sung in Revelation 15 by tribulation saints who Trust Christ, and they the Bible says here they got the victory over the beast and the mark of the beast. Now, you need to understand a little bit about prophecy to appreciate this song, who it's being sung by, and the timing of it. Tribulate The Bible speaks about future events. Though the Bible does not go into very specific details, the Bible does give us A pretty, a very clear understanding of what the future holds for this world. The next event in God's prophetic calendar that the Bible references is the rapture of the church. Now if you've been a Bible preaching church, Baptist church very much, you're familiar with the term the rapture of the church. What the rapture of the church is is an event in time, the next event in God's calendar, we don't know when it will be. There's no signs giving us to indicate when it's going to happen. But at a moment, in a twinkling of an eye, the trump of God is going to shout, is going to blast, the archangel is going to shout, and every person that saved, every individual, child, teenager, adult, senior citizen Every person that's saved is going to be raptured off the earth. It's going to be caught up. The word rapture itself is not found in the Bible. The teaching is there. In a moment, in a twinkling eye, we're going to be changed, we're going to go to be in the presence of the Lord. Needless to say, millions, billions of people will be left behind. As the church is caught up, all saved people are caught up off the earth. The folks that are left behind, those who have heard a clear presentation of the gospel and had an opportunity to trust Christ, but refuse to Those that are left behind in that condition will not have an opportunity to be saved. The Bible is very clear. They're going to believe the lie. And uh they're gonna fall for the Antichrist. They did not receive the love of the truth, the Bible puts it that way. They didn't receive Christ But there will be millions and billions of folks who never heard a clear presentation of the gospel, never had an opportunity to trust Christ. Those people will be able to be saved And many millions of them will come to Christ during after that rapture, during that seven-year tribulation period. During that tribulation period, Revelation that goes into pretty good detail and other portions of Scripture, that God just judges the earth. And it is turmoil, the Antichrist comes to reign, wickedness is on every hand beyond what we can imagine, uh catastrophic uh earthquakes and Geographical events taking place just turn the world upside down inside out. During that period, people will get saved The overwhelming consensus of the population of the world will be antichrist, anti-God. People that do get saved are going to be persecuted intensely, executed. The Bible speaks about beheadings. Which incidentally is one of the favorite methods of execution of the Muslims. Interesting. And so, in the midst of this tribulation period, we find the believers, the tribulation saints, the people who get saved during that time, we find them singing this song of Moses. And it is a song of victory. It is a song of conquest over the beast. Though they lose their life, they are victorious in that they were not influenced. By the ungodliness of the hour of the tribulation period. So this is the first song recorded in the Bible. It is the last song recorded in the Bible. But interesting enough, this song is also quoted by David in Psalms 118 and verse 14. He doesn't have the whole song. But he quotes a significant portion of this song in Psalms 118. We get a little later into the Old Testament and Isaiah. Quotes this song of Moses in Isaiah 12 and verse 2. The song, not the whole song is recorded, but a portion of it is quoted by Isaiah. And so, and there's other portions of scripture where you look at the wording, and it looks like it could be a paraphrase of this song or a portion of this song. And so we find that the first song recorded in the Bible is the same song as the last song recorded in the Bible, and it is actually interwoven all through Israel's history. And so what does that tell us? That tells me there's something significant about this song. There's something about this song that is that touches the heart Of God's people through all ages. Old Testament saints, tribulation saints, it's recorded in the Word of God for art Dispensation. And so something about this song. What is it about the song of Moses that is so significant? I see three things that I want to suggest this morning. Number one, I think this is a significant song, and I believe it touches the hearts of God's people, first of all, because it is a song of assurance of salvation. It's a song of assurance of salvation. Are you back there in Exodus? Now we're going to use our Bibles a bit this morning, so keep them handy. How many folks are glad you brought your Bible? Say Amen. Amen. We bring it to use it. Amen. Now look here at Exodus chapter 14, previous chapter. I'm going to begin reading in verse 26. Now most of us are familiar with this story, but let me read verse 26 down through the end of the chapter of Exodus 14. And the Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the sea, that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, and upon their horsemen And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to his strength when the morning appeared. And the Egyptians fled against it, and the Lord overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea. And the waters returned, and covered the chariots and the horsemen, and all the hosts of the Of Pharaoh that came unto the sea after them, and there remained not so much as one of them. But the children of Israel walked upon dry land in the midst of the sea. And the waters were a wall unto them upon their right hand and on their left. Thus the Lord saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians. And Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the seashore. Look at verse 31. And Israel saw the great that great work which the Lord did upon the Egyptians and the people feared the Lord and believed the Lord and his servant Moses. What an event Israel's come out of Egypt. God had brought the five the ten plagues down upon the Egyptians, and of course Pharaoh's heart was hardened. And they went back and forth, back and forth, until finally the night of the Passover, the death angel came, firstborn all died, except for those that had put the the blood of the Lamb on their doorposts. Pharaoh finally says, Get out of here You've been our slaves for 400 years. We want you out of here. He sends them out. Israel leaves. The Bible says they borrowed all their neighbors' gold and silver. I mean, they came out of there. The Bible says with a high hand. And it came out of the city, out of the nation of Egypt. They were free from their bondage, their escape, and they come up against the Red Sea. Moses, as you remain Pharaoh, as you remember, had a change of mind. He says, finally thinks, What have I done? These are all our workers, these are our illegal immigrants. Um they they kind of. Um they say they did all our work for us. What are we crazy? We're going back and getting them, bringing them back. So he sends his army out. Israel's in a bad position. They're between an army and a wet place. Pharaoh's army in the Red Sea. They don't got boats too deep to wade across. What are they going to do? People, oh no, you brought us out here to kill us, you brought us out here to kill us. Moses prayed, God says, just be still. And Moses says to him, be still and see the salvation of God. So everybody calms down. They don't know what to do. They're dead. God says, Moses, take your rod, hold it out over the sea. Moses does that, and lo and behold, that sea Divides in half, and the Bible says, as we read here, the ground became dry. There's a lot of interesting things in this, which really shouldn't take time to get into, but it says the waters congealed They got thick and literally became a wall of water that Israel passed through. Now you've got a million plus people Some have suggested that this pathway, you know, we see the little coloring books the kids have and stuff like that, and it's like a path, the width of the aisle here, you know, or something I I'm sorry million people didn't go in one night down a path or width of the aisle. That thing was most likely a mile wide They're walking across there. They're hoofing it. They're not taking their time. I don't know about you. I'm walking through water while I'm not gonna stroll. I'm getting across there, right? So in one night all of Israel goes across. Pharaoh's armies, I tell you, you gotta hand it to them. That took guts. To start riding down in there behind them. Nobody had ever seen anything like this before. This was obvious manifestation of the power of God. And so Pharaoh's armies, several thousand, maybe ten hundred thousand strong, are coming after the Israelites in the morning, and they're they're running down into that, and as soon as they all get out in that r uh that sea. God brings the waters back on them. And I mean they just crushed down. The Bible says not one Egyptian survived. And we just read there where the Israelites look back in the morning and they see the bodies And the dead horses and the dead bodies, pieces of chariots floating up, washing up on the beach of the army that came after them And they realized we are saved. We're saved. No longer are we going to go back to Egypt. Never again. No longer are we slaves to the Egyptians. No longer are our lives and our future in jeopardy. We're saved. God saved us. And they have a song they break down into This song of Moses, that's recorded the first recorded song in the Bible, the last recorded song in the Bible, and is referenced throughout Scripture, is a song that Israel sings When they finally get assurance of their salvation, they were saved from Egypt and from slavery and from bondage and they knew it. And they sang. It was a settled matter. I like, if you would notice, verse 30 of Exodus 14, the Lord saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians. I like that word saved. Now, look at that word carefully and tell me what tense is that word say, past, present, or future? It's past tense. What does that mean? It's a would you agree with me? It's a done deal. It's already done. They're saved. They're not being saved. They're not hoping they're going to be saved. They're not thinking they' Wanna be saved It is already a settled matter. They are saved. Now I got looking at this, and I can't find anywhere In the record of these events here, that Israel was singing in Egypt. I can't find any songs recorded of Israel sang in Egypt. I do read of Israel sighing in Egypt. I do read of them crying out to God. in Egypt. We do read about them the Bible term lamenting down in Egypt, but there wasn't no shinging coming from Israel. They were in bondage. They were fearful for their lives. They were slaves to hard taskmasters. There was no singing coming from the camp of Israel Now, I would imagine Egypt had their songs. Huh? I would imagine Egypt had their minstrels No doubt Pharaoh had his musicians that would play their songs and their music at his banqueting feasts and his Big events, no doubt, and I'm maybe projecting our society back on there. But I have no doubt that in the street corners and maybe in uh uh inns and uh uh places of uh where people would meet marketplaces no doubt there was minstrels and uh groups would get together and play their instruments and sing their songs. But what were the songs of Egypt? Can I suggest to you the songs of Egypt were songs of pleasure? Were songs maybe of adventure and courage? Maybe songs of love found and love lost? But none of the Egyptian songs were songs of salvation from sin and judgment. None of Egypt's songs were songs of a relationship with the true and living God. Israel was now saved. God had delivered them from their bondage, and they could look past, look back, and they saw the bodies. They saw the cities off in the distance, and they said, God has delivered us from all of that. We're saved. Now, I like that phrase, saved, past tense. They're not over here saying, boy, I hope we get out of this Egypt stuff. Nobody came up and said, hey, uh, what do you are you guys worried about the Egyptians? Boy, I hope I hope we're safe from them No, no, no. They look back and says, we are in no danger of those Egyptians anymore. They are absolutely no threat to us whatsoever. God has saved us. It's a done deal. Now, we come to the New Testament, and we find that word saved in the New Testament Not referencing Egypt being saved from the Egypti or not referencing Israel being saved from the Egyptians and their hardships and their tasks and their murder cement. You know the Egyptians were killing all the Israelites' babies? Slaughtering them as they're born. And so the New Testament uses the same word that's in Exodus 14, they're saved, not referencing Israel's Salvation from Egypt's bondage and hardship, but referencing a believer's salvation from sin, the bondage of sin, and the judgment of God and eternity in hell. Now, this is what I'm trying to get at. The word saved in the New Testament is the same tense as the word saved in Exodus 14. It is past tense. In other words, when I trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. When I come to the very specific point in my life, I recognize I'm a sinner. I have violated God's law. I stand guilty before a holy God. And I hear and learn of and understand the fact that Jesus Christ died in my place. Our memory verse, Romans 5:8. God commendeth. That word commend means to prove or display. commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died what? For us, our substitute. And he took the judgment that I deserve. He took the wrath of God for my sin upon himself, died in my place, suffered hell in my place, was buried, rose again. And the moment I trust him as my personal savior, put my hope, my confidence, my faith in what he did for me, for my sins, as my substitute, the Bible says I am saved. Past tense. It's already done. Somebody says, Brother Letherman, do you know for sure? I was out visiting out in Egland years ago. Took me to visit a fellow. And they invited us in the fellow that was taking me to visit him knew the family and he wanted me to come out and talk to him, so he came out and we're talking a little bit. And I said this. I said um said the fellow's name. I said Let me ask you a question. Do you know for sure, beyond a shadow of a doubt, if you died right now, that your sins are forgiven, you'd go to heaven? First time this ever happened to me. And I don't know that it's happened since. He looked at me without batting an eye, without hesitating. He looked at me and says, do you know that when you die your sins are forgiven, you're going to heaven? He just turned it right around on me instantly. Now, that doesn't usually happen, but I can tell you honestly, I didn't hesitate for one moment. I said, yes, absolutely, I know for sure when I die, my sins are going to go into heaven. Now somebody says that's awfully arrogant. That's awfully presumptuous. Well, you think you're so good that when you die you're going to heaven? No, I know I'm not that good. By the way, neither are you. I know I'm not that good. But Jesus Christ died for my sins. He paid the punishment for the sins I have and will commit. And when I trusted Christ, God has forgiven me and He saved me. Past tense. It's already done. And I can know for sure I'm going to heaven. If you're here this morning and you've trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, sincerely and scripturally, trusting Christ as your personal Savior You can sing the Song of Moses, the assurance that I know my sins are forgiven, and I'm saved from the judgment of God. I'm saved from eternity in hell. You can sing it with confidence and with joy when we trust Christ as Savior. Past tense. Saved. It's already done. Somebody says, oh, you can't know you're saved. Wait a minute. If it's saved, past tense, then I know it. It's already happened. Question, has yesterday happened or not? Are you sure? Are you confident? Why? Because it's already past tense. Um I thought I had a really great illustration with that, but I don't know how it works. But um If I'm saved, it's past tense. It's already happened. You follow what I'm saying? I've had people come to me and say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved, but I don't know for sure that when I know I'm going to heaven That's a contradiction. Then you're not saved. Saved is past tense. I like the illustration, Curtis Hudson Gate fellows, two guys are a guy's out in the boat and he f he flips a boat over. He's in a kayak or some ridiculous boat like that. And um That's an inside joke. But um he he falls out of the kayak Looks to me, when you get in a boat and go in water, the object is to stay out of the water. Why do you get in a boat and then go in the water in the boat? Just pitch the boat Anyway. So a guy can't swim. Ooh, help, help. There's a fellow on shore that can swim. He swims out. Swims out to the guy, gets him, you know, how you're supposed to, and he starts going back to shore. Here's the boat. The piano is ashore. He's carrying them over here. And they get right here. There's the shore, there's the boat. And the guy says, Man, you're too heavy. Forget it. He goes on and leaves them. Did that guy get saved? Was he saved from drowning? No. Um suppose they get all the way to here and he dumps them off and goes on. Was he saved? No. Was he at any time saved? No, he's not saved from drowning until he gets on shore. You follow what I'm saying? He cannot say, I'm saved, until his feet are on shore. Now, the Bible says when we trust Christ, we are saved. Past tense. If it's past tense, if it's already a settled matter, then there's no danger in it not happening. Is this registering anybody? Follow what I'm saying So the Bible says people that trust Christ are saved. The Philippian jailer. What must I do to be saved? Paul said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Settled, done. It's not something you gotta worry about anymore. It's not something you gotta wonder, hope so anymore. It's past tense. You're already saved. There was any chance of me losing my salvation, at no point can I say, I am saved. I can say, I hope I will be, I might be, I I I hope so, but I can't use the Bible term unsafe. But if I know that it's settled, there's nothing can happen, I'm born again, Jesus has forgiven me, I'm as sure of heaven as if I'm already there, then I can use Bible terminology and I can say I'm saved. Are you with me? So what was it about this song that was so significant? What is it about this song that touched so many hearts over so many thousand years? Quoted in Psalms in Isaiah, the very last song recorded in the Bible, where the f uh the tribulational saints sing this song. What is it about it? It's a song of assurance of salvation. Just as Israel looked back at the bodies of Egyptians floating in the Red Sea and realized God had saved them When we trust Christ, we can look back on our past and thank God it's forgiven. God has saved me. I have a home in heaven. Now, before you think it's just some Baptist preacher up here ranting and raving, keep your place here. I want you to come with me to the book of the New Testament book of 1 John Right after Hebrews, James, First Peter, Second Peter, First John. And chapter 5. Now if you're in the habit of marking your Bible, and I think it's a good habit, here are some verses that really are excellent for underscoring and highlighting your Bible. 1 John chapter 5 And I could read these, I could quote these to you, but I want you to see them in your Bible. 1 John chapter 5, and beginning in verse 11. And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life. And this life is where? It's in his son. Who's God's Son? Jesus Christ. Now look at this. He that hath the Son hath life. What kind of life? What did verse 11 tell us Eternal life, living forever, dying going to heaven. He that hath the Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Now, here's what I want to get at, verse 13. These things have I written unto you. It's talking about the Bible. Reason God gave us the Bible. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may what know that ye have eternal life. Not hope so, not think so, not maybe. But if you have the Son, if you've trusted Jesus Christ, received him as your own personal Savior, this verse says that you and I have life. God has recorded this in his word so that we can know that we have eternal life. Nothing. You say, well, how can you know that? It's very simple. Jesus paid it all. Jesus did it all for me. All I do is simply receive what he's done for me, and I have assurance that I'm going to heaven. Listen, uh when I got saved May 7, 1979. For about a couple weeks, a month or so, I really questioned whether I was saved. How could you really know this and all this? And I just did not have assurance of my salvation. I read a sermon, The Sword of the Lord of all things, by John R. Rice. It was on this passage I just wrote, but it read, but in that sermon he quoted Romans 10. 13. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be what? Saved. Past tense. Now I knew, man, if there was one thing I knew in this world, that that Monday night at 10:30 at night, on my knees, I had called on the name of the Lord. There was no doubt about it. And Romans ten thirteen says that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be shaped. And it dawned on me. If I'm not saved, if I die and go to hell, then God lied to me. Because he promised, whoever calls the name of the Lord shall be saved. And if it ends up I'm not saved, and I call to the Lord, God lied to me. I'm here to tell you, God does not lie. If he says, whoever calls the name of the Lord shall be saved, you can rest your eternal destiny. On God's promise shall be saved. So I got looking at this song, what is it about this psalm that appeals to such a broad spectrum over so many years of God's people? And I realize it's a song of assurance of salvation. Israel was saved. They knew it. It was settled matter. No more Egyptians, no more castmasters, no more bricks. No more babies being killed. No more bondage. No more no more fear of death. There's another aspect to this song. Not only is it a song of salvation, but if you look at it very carefully, it's a song of complete dedication. For the first time in Israel's existence, they now stood as a separated nation. For the first time in Israel's existence, they were all their own distinct people No longer incorporated into another nation, no longer under the authority of another nation. They were their own distinct people. They were completely consecrated to Jehovah. They were gods. They were distinct. They were unique. I believe the greatest thing that can happen, the greatest thing that can be done with a life, is to completely dedicate that life to the Lord Jesus Christ. The greatest cause that I can commit my life to is the cause of Jesus Christ. I tell you, we live in a world where people are looking for causes. I want to save the whales, save the porpoises, save the rainforest, save the spotted owls, save the planet. I think some of these people saving the planet are trying to save their wallets, pad their wallets, to be honest with you. Everybody's looking for a cause. I tell you the greatest cause a person can possibly live for is the cause of Jesus Christ. and the gospel of Jesus Christ. There's nothing greater I can dedicate my life to. And Israel was completely the Lord's There is no going back. There was a sea full of dead bodies. They couldn't go back if they wanted. They were gods. They were known from here out as God's people Dedicated to the Lord. Some of the greatest hymns in our hymn book are written about total surrender and dedication to the Lord God. We sang one this morning I am resolved no longer to linger, charmed by the world's delights. You go through the hymn, all to Jesus I surrender, all to him I freely give. Great songs of dedication to the Lord. Romans 12, 1 and 2, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, because He saved you. That ye present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Be not conform to this world But be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. God's call to people who trust Christ is to dedicate your life to me. God's call to folks who have been born again, who have been saved from sin and hell through trusting Christ is Commit your life and cause to me completely. Be as Israel. Be God's people. Come out from among them. John 15, 16, ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you that you should go and bring forth fruit. When we dedicate ourselves to God, we fulfill the purpose for which we exist. And that Puts a song in your heart. I thought I was crazy Thursday morning. Actually, I think I'm crazy about every morning, but Thursday morning especially. I was in the office here, and I was going over at lunchtime to go over to the house, and I came out, and I didn't see it. I looked and looked. I did not see it But I heard a robin chirping. I won't try and imitate it I came out and said, that's a robin chirping. I thought I must be crazy. It's February. It's minus 900 degrees. Lo and behold, I had a meeting Thursday night. Was it Brian? And Mark said, was it Mark? Your daddy saw how many robins? Twenty robins in his front yard Thursday. They were all froze solid, just stuck there, but I'm trying to remember why I'm talking about robins. Because a robin sings. And a robin really has no choice. It fulfills the purpose for which it was created. And it just sings. But you and I have a choice. Even as a believer, those of us who have been saved, I can choose to Live for myself. I've trusted Christ as Savior. I can choose, yay, praise the Lord. God save me from sin and hell. But you know, I want to do my thing. I'm going to make my decisions. I'm going to live life the way I want to. And you can do that Well, you're not fulfilling the purpose for which God created you. We were not created to live for ourselves And can I tell you who the most miserable person in the world is? The Christian living for himself. It's frustrating. It's empty. I get what I want, when I want, the way I want it, and I'm miserable. And you can sing songs and you can put drums on the platform and you can crank up the volume. But if a person's not living for God, they don't have a song in their heart. They might have some tunes on their lips and blast out their ears. But there's no song in the heart. It's not the song of Moses. Huh? Ephesians 5, we won't take time to turn there, says, Be not drunk with wine, but be filled with the Spirit. And the next three, four verses talks about singing with grace in your heart, songs, hymns, and spiritual songs. When I dedicate my life to Christ, when I determine I'm not going to live for self, I'm going to live for Christ, I am His, fully His, completely His, the Spirit of God fills me, and He puts a song in my heart. A song of praise to our God. And that is what the Song of Moses is about. First song in the Bible, last song in the Bible, referenced all through the Bible. And there's a third thing, real quickly That I noticed in this song that I think touches the hearts of God's people. It's a song of assurance of salvation. It's a song of complete dedication. But I also notice it's a song of the manifestation of God's power. If you take some time and read down through those 19 verses again, you know what they keep referencing over and over and over in that song? Those dead Egyptians. God killed them. God did a great work. God divided the waters. God brought them down. God delivered us. God God, God, God did something. Not one time in that song are they singing about what they did. Not one time are they singing about their programs and their personalities and their own personal power They're singing about the manifestation of the power of God. They're singing, our God is powerful and has done things that no man could ever do It's a song and a manifestation of the power of God. And Israel saw the great work which the Lord did upon the Egyptians. A person may be saved, know they're saved, they can completely dedicate themselves to the Lord, and yet still fail to live up to the Bible standards. You agree with me? I was uh uh uh May 7, 1979, I trusted Christ as Savior. God saved me. No doubt in my mind October 25th, 1985, I went to an old-fashioned altar down in Tennessee, and I dedicated my life to Christ. I said, God, I'm yours. I completely yield my will, my future, my dreams, my hope, my body, everything. I give it to you. Two months later, God called me to preach. I wish I could tell you that from that point on I lived up to God's standards flawlessly. But I didn't. I haven't. And no human being ever has. But nevertheless, God never fails. So we trust Christ, we dedicate our lives to Him, but our hope and our confidence is not in ourselves, it's in the power of God. And what this church needs, what this community needs, what this world needs, is not some great program of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. is not our wonderful personalities, is not the tremendous chili we cook on a Valentine's weekend. Chili? What this world needs is to see the power of God manifest in our lives. Amen? That's what brought the song Uh those tribulational saints, man, this world's falling apart. Earthquakes, wars, famines, one-third of the Birds are dead, one third of the fish are dead, one third of humanity's dead. Everywhere they're look, there's stench and death and judgment. And they get saved And the moment they trust Christ, persecution comes down on them, and their wives are being beheaded, and their children are being killed for trusting Christ. And in the midst of all that, they sing, Praise God, for the power of God that kept me from the mark of the beast, that kept me from believing the lie of the beast. And my soul was saved, and I have a home in heaven. The power of God. I'm telling you, we live in a day when Christianity, you could move remove the Holy Spirit from your average church and never know he's gone. Am I right or wrong? You could remove the Holy Spirit from your average Christian home and never know he's gone. What we need in 2011 and in these last days is not better programs or bigger budgets or fancier chandeliers. What we need is a manifestation of the power of God in our lives. Change lives, holy lives, people being saved and lives being changed. Only God can do that. Luke 15, 10 says, there's joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. What we want to see in our church in 2011 is we want to see souls saved and lives changed, something only God can do. And it brings a song. And re- Israel rejoiced when they saw what God did. And I'll tell you what'll get our church singing when we see God saving souls and changing lives and healing homes and delivering drunkards from liquor and dri delivering fornicators from Perversion and start making bad people good and making the sinful people godly. When we see God doing that, I'm telling you, it'll bring a song to our hearts Am I right or wrong? A manifestation of the power of God. One thing that could not be denied, Israel had seen the awesome power of God. Maybe the some reason maybe the reason some people have no song, spiritual song in their heart is maybe they don't have assurance of salvation. Maybe they're saved, but they've never sold out to the Lord and dedicated their life to the Lord. Maybe that's why there's no song Maybe that's why when we sing our hymns, and I'm not trying to be unkind or browbeat anybody, but maybe that's why when we sing the hymns, some folks just stand there. No song. No song. Maybe that's why in the home the little kids don't hear mom and dad singing the great hymns of the faith, but singing Rolling Stones and Lady Gaggag. Is that woman nuts or what? You know what she needs? She needs Christ. Maybe that's why there's no hymns and songs of God and praise and assurance. Maybe there's no assurance there Maybe there's no dedication. Maybe the reason daddy never hears mom singing, Blessed Assurance, Jesus is mine. Maybe Jesus isn't hers. Hmm. Maybe the reason there's little Maybe the reason the world's songs and music is flooding our churches is maybe because there's no manifest power of God in our churches anymore. Thus, there's no song from the heart of God's praise and power. So we bring the worlds in and we crank it up a little louder and we rock it out a little bit more just to make it seem like there's some power there. In reality, there's no power of God at all. My daddy got saved when I was about ten years old. I didn't know it at the time. There's a lot going on in the family. Years later, when I got saved, my dad and I, of course, changed our whole relationship completely after I got saved. He made a statement to me one time. He was telling me he's a truck driver his whole life. He got saved. It was an evening down in the basement. He was reading his Bible and tell that story another time. But years later, he said, he said, Danny, I got in the truck the next morning. So I got up that morning after I got saved and I pulled out. And he says, you know, it seemed like the sky was bluer than it ever been before. He said the flowers were more beautiful, the grass was greener. He said everything was different. I had a song in my heart. Some of the darkest years of our family went through were after he had trusted Christ My daddy said he'd be out in that truck, his heart broken, not knowing what's going on at home. I was so messed up and family. He said tears rolling down his cheek. He'd be jamming those gears and He'd be singing, God is so good, God is so good, I am resolved no longer to linger Blessed assurance, Jesus. God put a song in his heart. Trusting Christ, dedicated to the Lord. God was working in his life. Thank God, years later, every single member of the family has trusted Christ. Let's make 2011 the year of song. Let's sing this year of assurance of our salvation. Amen? Let's sing as we dedicate our lives to Christ. In these wicked days, these last days, as we await the rapture, let's just sell out to Christ and have a song of dedication to the Lord in our hearts. Let's make this year a song of the power of God. I think if we anticipate God doing great things, we have a better chance of God actually doing great things. He said, Call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things that thou knowest not. He said, Preacher, I've got a situation there's nobody in the world can solve it. Ah, but there's a God in heaven. Let's anticipate the power of God doing a work. Father in heaven, bless us, Lord, help us to make 2011 a year of song. Let's be a s Lord, help us to be a singing people, not worldly surface, shallow. Song, but spiritual hymns and songs of the faith in our hearts lifted up to God. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I need you to pray with me? I need to see God's power in my life There's somebody that needs to be saved. There's a life that needs to be changed. There's a marriage that needs to be healed. There's a child that needs to be recla Plain something only God can do And you say, Preacher, pray with me, that God will manifest his power in my situation, and we I can see God do something that only he can do. How many of these people say, Preacher, pray with me? That's My prayer, my heart. I have that situation. I have that burden. God bless you, hands all around. Let's trust God. Let's bring it to God. Anticipate Him doing the impossible. Let's trust Him manifesting His power in a phenomenal way. And in the meantime, we'll just sing of his glory. How great thou art. How many folks this morning say, Preacher, I'm not living for God like I should I know I'm saved, but I can't say my life is dedicated to Christ. And this morning you say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be a dedicated Christian. And I just yield my will and my body and my future and everything. I just put it on the altar. And I want God to have it all. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand this morning? God bless you, and you and you. Number of hands around it. I want it to be all Christ. This morning I make that decision. God bless you Now let me ask this and end with this. So someone here this morning said, Preacher, I don't know for sure that my sins are forgiven. When I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't have that assurance. I'd like to know that I'd like to be sure in my heart that when I die, I don't go to hell, I go to heaven. You say, preacher, pray with me that I can get that assurance that you spoke of. I'd like God to help settle that in my heart. Is there any like that this morning by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't have that assurance that when I die, I'm going to heaven, not to hell. You say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me settle that. How about it? Any at all? Father in heaven, bless our invitation. You know our hearts. Lord, we want to have this song We want it to be real, the joy of the Lord real in our hearts and lives, and let it bubble out that all this world can see.