Morning. Genesis chapter number two. And we are very familiar with the story that we're going to read, the account of of course uh the Lord here as he creates not only Adam but Eve as well. And once you found your place out of respect for the word, as I read, would you stand please and If you can, if you're able, and uh I will have uh the reading of the word, I'll pray, and then you may be seated. In chapter number two. And the Bible says in verse number 18, and the Lord's God said, It is not good that a man should be alone. I will make a help meet for him. Out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every fowl of the air and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them. And whatsoever Adam called every living creature that was the name thereof. And Adam gave names to all cattle and to the fowl of the air and to every beast of the field, but for Adam there was not found an help meet for him. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept, and he took one of the ribs and closed up the flesh there instead thereof. And the rib which the Lord God had taken from man made he a woman and brought her unto the woo man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife And they shall be one flesh. Let's pray, shall we? Father, we do thank you this morning again for this time together Thank you for the love that you have for us. Lord, thank you for this dear church and Lord for the faithful folks that have attended this morning. And Lord, I know that in the absence of their pastor It would be much easier to just stay home and catch it on the uh TV or the Wi-Fi or whatever. But Lord, they were faithful this morning. What a testimony not only to them, but to the leadership of the pastor And Lord, I pray, God, that you would bless now the next few moments. I pray, Lord, that you would meet with us, put a hedge around the building. Holy Spirit, we need your guidance We need your power. We need the your words this morning. We don't want a sermon this morning. We want a message from you And so we need you today. Bless now, I pray, the next few moments. I pray, God, that you would just work on our hearts. And then we'll thank and praise you already for what you'll do. In Jesus' precious name we do ask it. Amen. Thank you. You may be seated. You know, there's a general thought today that states that the traditional family, that's father, mother, children, is no longer revelent for today It seems like it's outdated. We have people that are no longer getting married. In fact, the age li uh of uh people getting married is seems to keep increasing. Uh it seems like it's later, later in life And uh nothing wrong with that, but it seems like the idea of having a home, building a home, having children, raising them in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord to the glory of God has now gone kind of by the wayside. I believe it certainly uh has outlived, some have said that it has outlived its usefulness for society. May I say that the home is the basis of society It is the foundation of the society. If we forgo the home, we're going to forgo the society itself. Our nation needs some strong families You look around our country today, as I said to the men, and you see all the turmoil, all the chaos, all the things that are happening. And I believe it is because of the fact that we have not had strong, godly homes to raise children in in the fear and the admonition of God Himself. We need to get back to having strong homes, strong families. This morning I uh I want to just simply say that there are three questions that we ought to consider today. We ought to consider what is the role of the family supposed to be today in our world. We ought to uh question what is the purpose uh that it is supposed to fulfill in our society and why does the family itself really exist The short answer, I believe, is that it is part of God's overall plan for his human race. The family. As we look here in our passage of Scripture, we'll find that that is the first institution that God brought into being was the family and the home. He instituted three three different things. The home, he instituted uh Good question. My mind just slipped a cog. Thank you. Yes, the church and then government. Amen. Praise the Lord for guys that know something. Amen. Listen, when you get seventy-seven years old, uh sometimes that doesn't work as well as it used to. I call them Geritol flashbacks. Some of you that remember Geritol, but uh anyway. But I'm glad for that. Yes, he instituted the home as the very beginning because he realized that the home governed everything else, as I've already said. As the home goes, so goes the church. As the church goes, so goes the nation. So it all reflects back upon the the home itself and what's needed. So why then Do we have the home? Why has God placed so much importance upon the family? I believe that God established the home and the family for several reasons. First of all, I believe he instituted it to provide intimacy and companionship. Look at verse number 18 of our passage. And the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make a help meet for him We know that God created every kind of animal, every kind of bird, every kind of beast, and he brought them before Adam to name and to give them a name. Adam gave names to each and every one of those animals, and that's what we uh are known by today. But at the end of it all, at the end of it all, after he had gone through all of the animals All of the birds, all of the fowls of the air, all of the fish of the sea, all of those things that God had placed before him, there was not found anyone for him to have companionship with. I believe in that verse of scripture, in verse number 18, it literally says that Adam was lonely He says there was not an help meet found for him. Someone that he could fellowship with, someone that he could talk with, someone that they could relate with and and enjoy the time together. I don't know about you, but I enjoy being with my wife. At this age uh we are together. We're retired now as far as pac active pastorate And so we're involved in missions and uh wherever we go, we go together. Uh we travel the world, we're able to travel the world. We just came back from out west seeing some of our missionaries out there And I enjoy being with her. We talk, we fellowship, we get to see things together, we talk about those things, making memories It's a joy. But for Adam, as he brought looked around and he saw all the beasts, and and I'm sure there might have that back in those days you could pet a lion, you could have all that stuff But there was not someone that he could have an intimate relationship, talking, fellowshipping with. And so God here says, I will make and help meet for him. So God did. He caused that deep sleep to fall upon Adam. He uh reached in, took out one of those ribs and created this woman and brought him to her. Look at Verse number 23, it says, and Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken. out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. God knew that m Adam needed to have some companionship, some intimacy within the relationship I'm so glad that God did that. I I tell you, I remember when I was in the Navy, I was aboard an aircraft carrier, there were 3,000 men aboard that ship as we sailed 3,000. And we were gone for nine months at a time. And even though there were some friends that I would talk with and fellowship with, there was still a loneliness in my heart Because my wife was not there. She was back here in the States, and I didn't have that closeness, that intimacy, that relationship with her as I want to have. And that's why God knew that would happen to Adam. That was in Adam's life. And he created This woman brought her into being so that he could have that intimacy and that created. God created companionship and a partner for him. I'm so thankful for this. God has a purpose for the family. It's so that we don't have to be alone. We can have fellowship. I know that probably in our midst there are some who have lost their mate And that's a horrible thing. And there's a a lack of intimacy, companionship. There's a loneliness that comes And that's why the church is so important that we fulfill that need in their life, that we can encourage them, that we can pray for them. and that we can love them. From the very beginning, God established the institution of marriage and family so that there would be this companionship along the way. By the way, let me just say this while I'm here. Marriage is between a man and a woman. God created Adam and Eve. He did not create Adam and Steve. He made man and woman, and that's his plan is that they would become husband and wife. And so we need to understand the act of marriage is for companionship, for c uh intimacy along the way. God established the home and family so that we could all have someone that we could feel comfortable with. I want you to realize There's nobody, no one, that knows me better than my wife. And there is no one in this world that knows my wife better than me. Amen. We have that intimate, close relationship. And that's the way it ought to be in a home, in a family, that we get that way together. God did it so that we could have that companionship. And then I think also here, as we look down and the next question that we would need, why did God bring this family in? God chose the family to populate, to repopulate the earth I know that you don't have to be married to have children, and I know that in this modern scientific world that we live in today, a woman can conceive and and give birth without having any relationships with a man But that was never what God intended. God intended that man would come together. Take your Bibles and turn over just a few pages to Genesis chapter 9, if you will Look at verse number one. It says, And God blessed Noah and his sons and said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. Look down at verse number seven. And you be ye fruitful and multiply, bring forth abundantly in the earth and multiply therein. God never intended that a man and a man would or that there would uh be a a lack of Populating his earth. Researchers are finally beginning to concede that children that live in a family with both parents Are generally better adjusted to life than those that live in single-parent homes So even if it's possible for a single person to have a child or to adopt a child, and that's great, we're thankful for that. But if it is, it's although it is possible uh that we ought to have two parent homes to raise up a well adjusted child. Neither in in any other situation is what God intended. Noah was following God's desire when he said to his sons to go out and to repopulate the earth after the great flood when all was destroyed. And that is still God's intention today. Some years ago, when we were in Europe, we talked with a missionary there. And they said that because of all of the Muslims moving into Europe, there was a an imig uh a great number coming in, uh immigrating there And they said that in the average Muslim home, they would have between uh eight and twelve children. Whereas the average European home would have between one and two children. So what we were looking at, they were looking is down through the years If that continued, the Muslim population would certainly rise, whereas the European nation would basically stay pretty much level Which would mean that the Muslims then would take over all government, would take over all elections, and begin to run the countries and the nations that are there in Europe We're finding the same thing in America today. We're doing the same thing. We have Muslims coming in. God wants us as his people to repopulate the earth, to bring it out. There's nothing wrong with having children. Amen. We're living in a day when We're taking the lives of the unborn when we ought to be encouraging the unborn to come into this world and to be saved. That's the purpose of the family. And then also, God established the home and the family to educate children. I want you to turn your Bibles over to the book of Deuteronomy real fast, if you will. Deuteronomy chapter 6. Notice verse number four. Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse number 4, God speaking says, Here, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might, and these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house And when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up, and thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand and they shall be as frontlets between the their uh thine eyes, and thou shalt write them upon the post of thy house and on the gates. Listen, let me tell you something. God established a home literally to train up children. Now I understand where I'm thankful for Christian schools, I'm thankful for all the rest, but the real responsibility And the the awesome responsibility to raise up children and train them is on the parent Now that doesn't necessarily mean I gotta teach them geography and I've got to teach them math. Boy, I'm glad I didn't have to teach my children math. I have a hard time with two plus two, let alone all that higher stuff. But I am glad that there are teachers that have that ability. But here's what I am supposed to teach them: I am to train them up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. It is my responsibility as a dad, as a parent, to have a time when I am instructing my children on what God wants for them. It's my responsibility to allow them to know God's will for their life, to help them, to train them in the way that they should go. I'm thankful for the church I'm thankful for the Christian school, but that's not their responsibility. And too many today are taking their children into the public school and taking their hands off and trusting the teachers there to train up their children and the things of this world. Let me tell you something. It is our responsibility as Christians to train up our children I believe that one of the main reasons for the decline in attendance of our churches is the lack of young people surrendering to the ministry because there is a neglect of parental teaching at home. And the importance of what God wants for them. You know that right now in America we have over 400 churches that are closing their doors because there's no pastor Did you know that in all around the world there are uh communities, little homes, uh towns, villages, even big cities that have no gospel witness because people are no longer surrendering to the ministry. And where does it have to start It has to start in the pews within our churches. It has to start at our homes as we train up children and teach them that the first responsibility they have is to say, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Where do you want me to serve? How do you want me to serve? Whatever it is. We need to give our church and our children and train them up. Proverbs 22 to the 6 says, train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. It is Not my response. I don't know God's perfect will, but I can check as my child grows. I can see how they're moving. I can start to see their desires I can start to see their interest. My responsibility is to train up that child with those desires, but using them for the Lord. In the way that they should go. And when they are old, they will not depart from it. Take your Bibles over to the book of Psalms, Psalm 78, if you will. Psalm seventy eight. Look at verse number four Well let's go back to let's start at verse one. Give ear, oh my people to my law, incline your ears to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in a parable. I will utter dark sayings of old, which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from their children. Showing to the generation to come the praises of the Lord and his strength and his wonderful works that he hath done, for he established a testimony in Israel. And appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded of our fathers that they should make them known to their children. that the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born, who should arise and declare them to their children. It's our responsibility to train up the children and teach them what God has for their life. It's to let them know that there is a God. You know one of the great things? My wife and I We've seen so many ways that God has blessed us. I mean, over and over and over again. I mean just miracle upon miracle. We're getting ready to go back to Germany this fall uh for the twenty-fifth time to the missions retreat there. And uh it costs every year airline prices go up and up and up and up And uh so we were looking for tickets, trying to get the best prices we can. And uh because of our travel, uh we gain air miles uh reward miles. And so uh we began to look and uh uh the Lord worked it out that we're both going to fly round trip to Germany this year for a hundred and fifty five dollars apiece. That's God. And you know what we do? We share that blessing with our grown children and our grandchildren. Why we want them to know that there is a God that answers prayer That God can do it. And that's what it's saying here. I am to share. I am to help those young people to realize I have a God with whom nothing is impossible. All things are possible. He can do great and mighty things, and we need to build a trust in them. We need to build a relationship with them. Take your Bibles and turn over to the book of Ephesians, chapter 6 Ephesians chapter 6, look at verse number 4, and it says, And ye fathers, that's the leader of the whole. Provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and the admonition. of the Lord. And the home. In the home. That's our responsibility to train them up in that love, in that nurture, and then in the admonition of God Himself. In the book of Joel, chapter 1, verse 3, it says, tell your children of it, and let your children tell their children. And that's what we need to do. Train up children so that they can see God working in the how powerful, how loving, how kind. And yet certainly He's not one to wink at sin. Amen? And we need to teach them that, that there is a And admonition. There's a a correction if we go f stray, but God wants uh uh to to bless us and use us. That's our responsibility. He established the family, the home, to educate their children in the way that they should go. And then I believe God instituted the home to provide love, support, and encouragement. Back in the book of Ephesians, if you're still there, I think we just read this a little while ago in Ephesians chapter 5. Look at verse number 25. It says, husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. Think about that just for a moment. I am to love my wife as the Lord Jesus Christ loved the church and was willing to give his life for it. That means everything about me ought to be directed for her. I ought to not worry about what I'm getting. I am giving everything that I ought to have if I'm going to have a successful home the way God designed it. My relationship to my wife is that I want to make sure she's taken care of She's blessed. She's happy. Even at my own expense. Too many men today are selfish. I want my way. I want my eggs the way that I like them. I like my steak the way that I well if you get a steak, if you don't I like my hamburger the way I like it. The fact is, we are spoiled if we're not careful. But the Bible says that I am to love my wife. That means I am to encourage her We sit and sometimes we'll we'll pray together. Every morning we'll get together sometimes and we'll sit down and and we'll start to pray. And one of my prayers for her, she loves to speak to ladies And thank the Lord that she had the opportunity today and I think next week as well to speak to ladies here. She loves to do that. And yet she doesn't get a chance to. When we uh when I passed her, she had her own Sunday school class. She had opportunities every week to speak to ladies and other things as well. She doesn't do that anymore But one of my prayers for her, because I know that's what she wants to do, I pray for her that she'll have opportunities. Why? I want to see her being used of God. I want her to be encouraged. I want her And folks, men, let me say, get your eyes off you, get them on your f your spouse. I probably just made every man mad at me, but that's exactly what we are to do One of the greatest emotional needs that a human possesses is the need to be loved and to be in love. Amen? I want to be loved. Wherever I go, I want somebody to love me. I want to be loved and I want to love them as well. And we need it. If it if it was God's love for us that sent his only begotten Son into this world to suffer like no other man ever suffered, so that I could have the wonderful joy of knowing that heaven's my home He did that because of love for me, my God, my Father. And then Jesus himself came and died on the cross. He said, Greater love hath no man than this, than a man lay down his life for his friends. Jesus went to that cross. In the book of Hebrews, chapter 12, verse number 2, it says, looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith, for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. He had a joy that he looked beyond that suffering, and that was that he could provide eternal life for all of us. He did that because of love for me. Oh, we ought to have that love. If I'm a Christian, I have the love of God that has been born in me through the person of the Holy Spirit, but I ought to let that love shine out. It ought to go to a lost and dying world. It ought to go to the household of faith. To the fellows and and the folks within the church, I ought to love them, but I ought to love my wife and family God has given us the pattern of how we are to love sacrificially Laying down ourselves. The Bible says in that book of Hebrews, as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. In verse number 28, it says, so ought men to love their wives even as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. You know what? I don't like to have my body hurt. I don't like to go hungry. I don't like those things that harm and hurt me. I ought to love her as I love my own body. I will do anything to keep me healthy. I ought to love her and do everything for her just the same. We ought to love our wives and to care for them. A home is to be a place of love. It's to be a place of support, lifting up the other, helping the other achieve what they want to accomplish in this life, what the God has called them to do. I'm glad that my wife bought. Listen, it's not easy for us at 77 years old to pack two great big old suitcases and two carry-ons and then a another little b bag each to get on the plane and walk through airports and and then when we get to the airport where we're going we have to load them onto a a little cart and then push them to the the curb and try to get a a rental car. And if you ever drove in Europe, uh you will understand it's not fun, it's not pleasant. And my wife sits there and she she gets scared And uh she is she is my Holy Spirit. Watch it. Slow down, speed up, it's red, turn what but I'm But that's that's the support. That's the support. She's there to help me, and I want to be there to help her. That's why God established the home. And then encouragement. I'm to encourage her in the way that she's to go. I'm to encourage her in helping with her speaking to ladies or serving as God would have her to serve. And we ought to be willing to do it. That's what the home is all for. And I have to hurry along. Lastly, I believe God established the home and family to provide some sense of order in a chaotic world. Look at verse number 21 of Ephesians chapter 5. It says, submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. I think this is the hardest thing that is involved in being in a family. I am to submit myself to her. She has submit herself to me. You say, wait a minute, preacher, aren't you the head of the home? Yes. Don't you make the final decisions? I'm supposed to. But without counsel, I'm stupid. I want to see her side of the thing. I want to hear how she looks at things, because she has a whole different perspective than I do. And I believe I need to weigh those facts out. But we are to yield ourselves and to submit one to another. Why? Because then there's order. There's order. That's the way God wants it. God has always. When I was in the Navy, and these men that were in the Navy know it as well or any military force. Uh except for the Air Force. They're a little shaky. But I had to do that, Jim. Um But but the fact is is there's a commander and under him and there's a another lesser officer and then a lesser officer. And then it comes down to the enlisted men and the orders are given, but they go flows down so that the underneath can work its way up. That's order. That's uncus. Look at what's happening in our country today. There's no order. We're not taught to be respectful any longer. Yes, we can disagree. I disagree with things. I don't always agree with what's happening in our country, but there's a way to handle that You don't go out and destroy stuff. You don't go out and kill people. You you do things. Why? The home is just established. some order and that's what we're losing. That's why I said earlier in my statements is that I believe all the problems we're having in our country today is because there's been a breakdown of the home and the way that we are to train up those children. They have to learn that there's an order. Children realize that there's an authority placed over them, and that's dad and mom as they grow up. That doesn't mean that they dictate, they they instruct, they teach, they train on the way up God has always had a chain of command that brings order. You have a pastor here. He's the under-shepherd that God has placed here to lead this church. And I know that when he makes a decision, there's counsel involved in it. He seeks to know, make sure, not only from God, but from others. There's a direction Laws are made that are to be followed. And when we fail to follow those laws, there's chaos. And there has to be. And that's why in verse chapter 6 it says, children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment. You know, there's a difference between obeying and honoring. One can obey without honoring Some take out the trash. Well, I'll take out that trash. Yeah, I'll take it out. I'll show you. I'll get it out there. He's obeying. But he's not honoring. Honoring is, son, take out the trash. Yes, sir, Dad, I will be glad to take out the trash. It is an honor for me to take out this old bag of stinky's trash and place it next to the road. I want to do it to help the family because I want to honor you I know that's beyond, but there's a way. We are to honor. There's an order to the home. There's an order in the church. There's an order in our nation. It all starts with the family. And when the family breaks down, so does order. When the family breaks down, then chaos enters in. When family breaks down, then we start seeing problems within the nation God has set an order in the home. The husband is to lead, not dictate, but lead the home. Wives are to submit to that leadership. That doesn't mean that they're less. That means that there has to be somebody to make a decision. That means that the wife talks, I believe a wise husband will always seek the counsel of his wife in making decisions before he makes the decision. That's wisdom. Plus also if he makes the same decision, if it doesn't work out, he can always blame her. Sorry about that. And then children are to follow and to obey. God established three institutions, as I said at the beginning: the home, the church, and government. I believe the home is the most important Because all others base and are founded upon it. And if we want a strong foot church, if we want a strong nation And we have to have a strong family. Strong families within the church. Following why God instituted the family. I want to share this with you. I found this just the other day. I've uh found this uh was taken from the tomb of the bishop, of a bishop in Westminster Abbey. in 1100 A. D. And it says this. When I was young and free, and my imagination had no limits, I dreamed of changing the world. As I grew older and wiser and realized the world would not change, I shortened my sights somewhat and decided to change my only my country But it too seemed immovable. As I grew into my twilight years, I settled on changing only my family and those closest to me But alas, they would have none of it. Now, as I lay on my deathbed, I suddenly realized that if I had only changed myself first. Then by example, I could have perhaps changed my family. And from their inspiration and encouragement to me I would have been able better able to help my country, and from there I may have even been able to change the world. Changing ourselves. As we saw what God has intended for our homes, for our families, it all starts with this person right here. Am I fulfilling my role in the home? Am I leading that home? Am I helping that home? Am I honoring that home? Am I doing what I'm supposed to do in fulfilling my God, the purpose that God established that home and family? We have to answer that. It all begins with salvation, doesn't it? Because I can't be right the right way unless I know the one who has created it all. Who established it all, who brought it into being. So I have to first of all look at myself and say, Jim Moore, do you know for sure that you're saved and on your way to heaven? You know for sure that if you died right now, you'd never have to fear eternity. That's where it all begins. And that's what God wants. To have a Christian home, to have a Christian family, the parents, the people within that home have to be saved. So let me ask you today, do you know first of all, ultimately, that you're saved? And then as you look at yourself this morning, in light of the reasons that God established the home, the purpose of the home How are you fulfilling your individual responsibility? Father, I want to thank you today for Jesus. I want to thank you for the wonderful privilege it is to have a home. I want to thank you for my wife and for my children. And Lord, I realize and I admit that I was not always the right kind of a dad, the right kind of a husband. I failed often. And Lord, I'm thankful that you're the long-suffering God, the patient God. And Lord, I ask you today, though, that may be something that was said today some way has entered into the hearts of all of these good folks that are gathered here. That today we might purpose and plan. that we're going to have the right kind of a home. The home that w and t uh fulfills that intended purpose that you have for it. One that will be loving, one that will have companionship, one that will be uh instructing, one that will be uh having an order, a sense of order Lord, we just ask God that you bless. Then again, it all begins with salvation. And I pray that if there's someone here today that yet does not know for sure That they are saved and on their way to heaven, know you personally as their Savior. I pray that today they would come to know you. And that Lord you would bless them. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. I always want to ask a couple of questions. First of all, I'd like to ask this. How many of you know today Beyond the shadow of a doubt, it's not hope-so, it's not maybe so. The Bible says it's a no-so salvation. I wonder how many of us today can say I know that I have trusted Christ as my Savior. I know that if I die right now, I'm on my way to heaven. And as a testimony to that, brother, here's my hand all over the building. I know that I am saved and on my way to heaven. God bless you. Wonderful. Many, many hands raised. Thank you. You may put them down. Now let me ask you this. Out of those that just raised your hand I wonder if God has spoken to you this morning in some area of your family, of your life, in the way that you are the head or the wife or the child And the area that you might have an area that needs to be worked on, improved upon. All of us can improve. But I wonder if there's some here that would say, Would you pray for me, preacher? that I would do what God wants me to do, that I might have a strong, vibrant Christian home that's God honoring. Here's my hand. Anyone like that? God bless you. God bless you. Many hands. Thank you for that. Praise the Lord. Anyone else before we pray? God bless you. Last question. I wonder if there's anybody here this morning to say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I can't have the right kind of a home. Because I don't have the right foundation to build upon. But I want to have that. I want to know that heaven's my home. I want God to work in my life and then in my family. Now wonder preacher, would you just remember to pray for me? Listen, I'm not going to come and drag you down the aisle. I'm not going to call your name, even if I know it. But I'd like to have the the privilege of being your friend and just praying for you that you could get this settled. I wonder if there's one that'll just slip your hand up and say, I'm not sure I'm saved, preacher. Here's my hand. Would you just pray for me Anyone like that? Anyone at all? The Holy Spirit speaking to you and saying, you ought to put your hand up. Let Him pray for you. I wonder if there's just one. Here's my hand. Anyone else? Anyone at all? Father, I thank you today for this group that have gathered here for the membership, for their faithfulness. Lord, I pray that something said this morning would maybe help them in the days ahead, to strengthen the home, to be a vibrant home, a home that contributes to the community and to the church and to the country. And Lord will praise you, we thank you, in Jesus' name. Hedger bowed eyes