I just want us to look at, if you would, verse number 17. And I want us to read that last phrase together in unison. I'll start the verse, and when I get to where I want us all to read, I'll I'll stop there And then we'll read that last phrase together. Romans chapter 1, verse number 17. The Bible says this, for therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith As it is written, here we go, all of us together, the just shall live by faith. That's my message this morning. The just shall live by faith. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God. And for the truth that's here, the power of your word. And God, uh, many of us have experienced over years that this is not just another book, Lord. We recognize this is your word, your living word. And I pray this morning, as the truths of the Word of God are presented, that you would open our hearts and minds, that we would receive the Word of God and incorporate into our lives, I pray, Lord, that we would trust you and obey you as you speak to us. God, we're uh maybe there's some this morning that we need to make some decisions in our Christian life. Some adjustments need to be made. Uh some areas we need to exercise faith. Help us to do that. Maybe some that uh don't have the assurance. That our sins are forgiven. When we die, we go to heaven, not to hell. I pray that when it's all said and done this hour, God, that your will would be done in each of our lives. Fill me, I pray, with all my heart, with your Holy Spirit. I pray that you would speak through me. And as best I know how, I present my body anew and yield my will to yours. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The just shall live by faith. This matter of the exhortation in Scripture of living by faith is given all through the Bible. From Genesis to Revelation, we are taught in the Word of God to have faith in God. Have faith in God. Live by faith, walk by faith. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, the nation of Israel was taught to trust God, to have faith in God. Let Him lead them and direct them Through the book of Psalms, over and over, the great psalmist exhort God's people to have faith in God, to trust him, obey him, let them lead in their lives. You get through the major prophets, the minor prophets. God would send his prophets to the nation of Israel and He would challenge them, and their message to Israel was, Have faith in God, trust him What he says is so. His instructions are what's best for us. Then you get to the New Testament. And all through the Gospels, Jesus encouraged folks and pointed folks to have faith in God, to live by faith The epistles there and um uh Revelation. By the way, the epistles in the New Testament are not the wives of the apostles. Alright, you understand that they are letters written. So, but anyway, from Genesis to Revelation, we're given instructions. We're exhorted to have faith in God, to trust God to believe in him and and to follow his leadership. We have both positive and negative examples through scripture. You don't get far into the book, the first book of the Bible, Genesis. And you find Adam and Eve, rather than having faith in God and trusting that what he says is so, they take matters into their own hands, they lean on their own understanding, and they sin against God. And they bring the curse of sin down upon mankind. You get into Abraham. And Abraham, what an example of having faith in God and trust in God. Did he fail ever? Yes. When it was all said and done, Abraham was a man of great faith. And he knew what it meant to walk by faith He knew what it meant to live by faith, and he experienced God's blessings. He experienced God's direction in his life because he learned to trust God. Live by faith, live by faith. This phrase that we all read together here a few moments ago, the just shall live by faith, I have it underscored in my Bible, highlighted in a number of ways It's actually that statement is almost verbatim repeated four times in Scripture. In Habakkuk chapter 2 and verse 4, God exhorts the nation of Israel to live by faith. The just shall live by faith. Here in Romans 1. 17. Over in Galatians chapter 3 and verse 11, God says the just shall live by faith. Then again in Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 38, the Bible says, the just shall live by faith. The act of having faith in God, that decision that you and I make that I am going to trust God, I'm going to have faith in God in any particular matter. The subject of trusting God, of obeying Him in faith. That we should be very, very careful To give attention to this matter of having faith in God. It's so emphasized. God urges upon us and presses upon us How important it is in life to have faith in God. You say, Brother Leatherman, what is the most important thing I can do in my life? What is the most important action I can take in my life? I say this, to have faith in God, to trust him, to walk by faith. Let God lead you and direct you. I believe it's the most important action in life. I look back over my life and I look at the great uh uh things that God has done. And I look back over life and I see mistakes I made. And uh You all look at me like you don't know what I'm talking about. But I look back over my life, seriously, and I see the mistakes I made in life, and I've I've evaluated them And it boils down to this. The biggest mistakes of my life have been not trusting God. Not having faith in God, not believing what he says and accepting them and trusting them by faith. It has been failure of faith in my life. And many of you perhaps could say the same thing. This matter of having faith in God, trusting God, letting Him lead me and direct me from His Word is so important. Listen, if we are wrong, On this matter of our faith in God, there are dire consequences. To have a, I put it this way, to have a faith mistake. Is a fatal mistake. If I'm wrong in this matter of having faith in God, if I miss the boat, or my faith is in something other than the Word of God, That's a fatal mistake. How many people remember the Heaven's Gate cult? Anybody remember that? It's back in the 90s, I think. Heaven's Gate Cult. They were out in San Diego, California, figures. But uh they had followed uh this fellow, I don't have his name here, a man and another woman, had started this cult, and they had convinced thirty-nine of their followers. They had thirty-nine people, they had convinced them. That there was a comet coming by, and they convinced them that behind that comet was an alien spaceship. They convinced them of this And then when that comet came by, I think it was called the something bob comet, something like that, uh, when that comet came by Earth, the closest point, they convinced all 39 of their followers that they should commit suicide. And that they would immediately be transported to this alien spaceship behind that comet, and then they would live forever in wonderful bliss in some faraway world. Listen, those people had enough faith in that teacher to take their own lives. Now think about that, the level of faith that that would take. Were they sincere? I believe no doubt about it, the followers at least. But they were sincerely wrong. And that's what I mean by this. If we make a mistake in the matter of our faith, that is a fatal, fatal mistake. We have got to have our faith settled in God and His Word. Um they had a fatal faith You could say. I was reading about uh a woman back in the 1970s, and I believe it was in St. Louis, and I don't have the facts here in front of me. But she was an experienced mountain climber, and she had climbed Mount McKinley, and she was very good with grappling hooks and climbing that And she decided she was going to put on a show in uh one of the large um uh uh uh buildings in St. Louis. She was gonna put on a show and she was gonna grapple off of this uh big building. And the cat crowd gathered around. And as they watched, and she had climbed so many mountains, she had done this so many times. She was so confident in herself. She had so much faith in her own abilities. That she never double checked the secure, uh, the uh uh the drainings, pipes, and all of that around, and she had hooked her grappling onto a insecure uh drainage thing coming down the building. And as soon as she went over the side of that building, that thing pulled loose and hundreds of people watched her fall to her death. She had faith in her ability. She had faith in that uh in that uh secure that uh that uh uh hook there and what it was hooked in. But her faith was wrong. And it cost her her life. The Bible says the just shall live by faith. Over and over, we're told in the Word of God to trust God. We must have this matter of faith settled. In the Christian life, In the Christian light, exercising faith is God is of utmost importance. When we finish the service here this morning, this is my prayer. This is my concern for myself and for all of us. We'll walk out of here convinced in our heart and mind that we can and that we will trust God in our lives. We're going to have faith in him. We're going to follow his leadership. We're going to trust him. Faith in God. It's so important. It's so important. When my faith is weak, I'm weak. When my faith in God is strong, then I'm strong. I have two points to my message this morning. Number one, we are saved by faith. We're saved by faith. There's only one of two places. Now listen carefully. There's only one of two places a person can go to when they die. One of two places. I had someone I talked to just within the last two weeks, and um uh we were talking about someone had passed away. And they asked me, they said, uh, uh, where do you think so-and-so is now? I said, well, there's only one of two places they could possibly be. It's either heaven or it's hell. Listen, there is no in-between. There's no other options You say, well, preacher, I heard about purgatory, or I heard about limbo, or I heard about this. Listen, I've studied this book cover to cover. I've studied the Bible cover to cover. I'm telling you right now Study it for yourself. There is no place called purgatory. There is no place called limbo. There is no reincarnation. There is no coming back again. After death, there is no second chance. It's heaven or hell. Jesus made that very, very clear. You say, preacher, how do I escape heaven? How do I escape hell and go to heaven? How can I know for sure that when I die, my sins are forgiven and I go to heaven and not to hell? It's dependent upon what my faith is in. Where a person spends eternity depends solely upon what their faith is in. Now, it is not the strength of my faith But the object of my faith that determines whether I go to heaven or hell. I was I had the privilege years ago and I really enjoyed it, thoroughly enjoyed it. I was had the privilege to be chaplain for the hospice uh program here in Garrett County for four years I I had that privilege and they had a special deal worked out for me. They were very gracious. I didn't have to do anything that violated my convictions. I didn't have to get involved in any kind of ecumenical type thing I was able to operate as uh I understood scriptures to teach. They gave me a lot of leeway there. They were very, very patient with me and very, very good to me. And I had the opportunity to visit with uh scores and scores of folks In those four years, who were diagnosed with some terminal disease. And they had a very limited time left on this planet And the folks that had no pastor or had no spiritual input and they were concerned about where they'd spend eternity, they were concerned about their spiritual condition, they would contact me and they would give me someone's name and I would go and introduce myself. And I was able to many times share the gospel. With all of them, I was able to share the gospel, and many of them trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. As I was preparing this message, I thought of a lady years ago that I met through hospice. The doctors had determined she only had a few months to live. She had cancer She had no church, she had no religious background, she knew about the Bible, over the years she had been exposed to different things about the Bible, and she became very concerned about where she was going to spend eternity And so I was given her name. I went and visited her. She didn't live far from here. I went to visit her and uh a very nice lady, very gracious, very appreciative, and We visit a little bit and I was able to share the gospel with her. And uh Cheryl prayed and accepted Jesus Christ as her personal Savior. She put her faith in trust. She put her faith in Jesus Christ to forgive all of her sin, give her eternal life, and that when she died She would go to heaven and not to hell. She was trusting Jesus to do that for her. I tell you, it's it was an exciting thing to see that lady in her early 60s, late 50s. As she was dying of cancer, and she would read her Bible, and I would give her literature, and I'd give her CDs from the Sunday morning message, and she would devour them. She got to the point where her health was such that she was able to come out the church for a few times. I don't know if some of you may remember on Sunday morning she was come, she was very ill. She came, I visited with her one time and she was talking to different things, she says, Pastor, uh, I would like to be baptized And of course I explained, now listen, baptism doesn't save you, trusting Jesus as the Savior. She goes, I know, but I want to make public the fact that I've accepted Jesus as my Savior and I want to follow him in baptism And in her sickly condition on a Sunday morning, I was able to baptize her there in that baptistry pool. What a blessing it was to see God save her soul. Came down for the last few days. It was obvious she didn't have much time left on earth here with us. I went over to visit with her and I'd visit her about almost every day, every few days at the minimum. And um one day she said to me, she was very concerned. I came in, it was obvious she was concerned, upset about something. And she said, Pastor Leatherman, I'm afraid. I'm afraid. I said, now that's not uncommon. It is a fearful thing to go through the valley of the shadow of death. She goes, no, I'm afraid that my faith is not strong enough. I'm afraid that my faith is not strong enough to get me to heaven. I said, Cheryl, it is not the strength of your faith that determines where you go when you die. It is the object of your faith. Your faith may be as thin and as weak as a spider web, but if it is in Jesus Christ, you are secure. It is not the strength of my faith that saves my soul. It is the object of my faith that saves my soul. My faith may be weak, but Jesus is all powerful. If I put my faith in Jesus Christ, He is more than enough to forgive all my sins. He is more than enough to give me eternal life. He is more than enough. To save me from hell and give me the assurance that I have in heaven. My faith is not in my faith. My faith is in my Savior. Amen. We are saved by faith. We're saved by faith. A few days later, Cheryl passed away I have no doubt in my mind that she is in the very presence of God this morning as I'm speaking to you. Not because she had great strong faith, because the faith she had she put in Jesus Christ She was depending on Jesus. I was youth pastor in Indianapolis for four years. And uh that was a baptism by fire, I'll tell you that. But um I I know I enjoyed it. It was a great blessing. I love those kids. I still get emails and stuff back from it. Here's the thing. The kids that were in my youth group are now now have kids graduating from high school It's disgusting. I don't know why these kids they're getting old. I'm the same, but they're um but uh We took teens. We had a busload. I mean we had a bunch of them. And we went down to King's Island in Cincinnati, Ohio. It was a couple hour drive. And we got down there and listen uh I don't so much now, but back in the day, I liked roller coasters. Amen. I liked them. I thought they were fun. I just zoomed on around there But this was at the point where roller coasters were getting ridiculous. I mean they're going upside down, twisting around, dropping, falling, and doing all this crazy stuff And I said, Whoa, I'm all for the old roll wooden roller coasters. I'm alright with that. But none of this twirly, twisty up and down bombs going off, you know, and And uh there was one there, I don't remember the name of it, it was something like doomed to die guaranteed if you ride this is the name of it, I forget. I was not gonna go on that thing. There is no way. And uh the kids, teens all got together. Pastor they called me Pastor Dennis. Pastor Dennis, you gotta write it. You gotta write it. I said no way. Oh you're a sissy, you're a wimp, you're scared. I ain't scared of nothing. Then write it. All right. Those rat banks talked me into getting on that stupid ride. I'm telling ya, I was scared to death And we're waiting in line and the thing is those lines are so long and you're just waiting to die, you know, it's just And so the whole time I'm looking at thing and I'm checking out that track and everything. I'm looking for loose bolts, you know, just anything. And uh that thing go by, comes in, I'm looking at the wheels and they're all thing, and so finally get up there and everybody's been through and they've all survived. I didn't see any dead people, so uh I said, all right I am going to trust this thing. I'm telling you, my faith in that ride was pretty weak. But I got in and I sat down on it. Scared out of my mind. Knew there was probably a good possibility I was going to not come off of this thing alive. But I put my faith in that ride. That thing went around, up, down, around, upside down, backwards, and we'd go one, then it would go backwards and do this and all that. And I got back there and I lived My faith in that ride, as I said, was very, very weak. But the ride was secure. It was safe. It could and did do what it said it could and would do. And I learned I could trust it. And before that day was out, you know what happened? I rode that thing about eight times Our faith was weak, but the object of my faith was secure. And I went around and thinking I was okay. And you can take the most wicked sinner. You can take the person who has blasphemed God, that has adulterated their body, you can take the person that has lied and stolen and murdered. That person takes their faith, however weak it may be, and puts it in Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins and for eternal life in a home in heaven And the Bible says that person will be saved. The object of my faith, we are saved by faith. My faith in Jesus may be weak. But Jesus is strong and he's secure. Thirty-five years ago, this past May 7th. I took my faith and I put it in Jesus Christ to forgive me of my sin. I had made such a mess in my life. You know the story. And I had absolutely nothing to offer God but a wreck of a life. I had nothing to offer God but sin and debauchery. And I said, Jesus, I believe. That you can and will forgive me and give me a new life. I put my faith in Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ saved my soul. Forgave my sin. And I look back now 35 years, and you know what? I see that you can trust Jesus as your Savior, and He will save you. I've seen it not just in my own life, but in scores and hundreds and maybe thousands of people's lives. Where they put their faith that they had, they put it in Jesus Christ for forgiveness of sins and eternal life and a home in heaven. And God comes through every time. Here's my first point. We're saved by faith. You're here this morning and you don't know for sure That God has forgiven you all your sin, that God has given you eternal life, and that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. If there's a shred of doubt there, I want to urge you this morning, make the decision to put your faith and trust in Jesus and Jesus alone. And I'm telling you, based on the Word of God, He will forgive you. He will save you from sin and hell. He will give you eternal life. And you will go to heaven when you die. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. We're saved by faith. We're saved by faith. My second thought is this: we grow as Christians by faith. Once I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, when I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ, the moment I do that, the Bible says I am born into the family of God. Jesus told Nicodemus In John chapter 3 he says, You must be born again. Nicodemus says, How do how does a man be born again? And go back to my mother's womb and be born over Jesus said, No, no, that which is flesh is flesh. But that which is born of the spirit is spirit Marvel not that I say unto you you must be born again. And then he goes on and explains that when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, that spiritual birth takes place And I am born into the family of God. Spiritually, God becomes my father, and I am his child. And like any physical birth, the spiritual birth of salvation begins a process of growth. And the question is this: Alright, I'm saved by faith. I put my faith in Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I'm trusting Him to forgive my sin, take me to heaven when I die, give me eternal life. I'm trusting Him to do that for me. The moment I make that decision to do that, God gives me spiritual life. I'm born in the family of God, and I begin this growth process. Now the question is this: how do I grow as a Christian? I'm saved by faith. Then how do I grow as a Christian? How do I go forward? How do I develop and be the kind of child of God that God intends for me to be? How do I live the Christian life that God intends for me to live? Sometimes people will say this to me. Some of you all have heard this. You're trying to witness to someone, you're trying to uh lead someone to Christ that they'll trust the Lord and be saved. And sometimes people will say this, preacher, I would become a Christian. I'd get saved, but I could never live it. So I'm not going to get saved because I could never live the Christian life. You know what my answer to that is? I say, join the club. In and of myself, I am not able to live the Christian life. We do not have that ability in our own selves. But if we will put our faith in the Lord as a Christian, God enables us. To live that Christian life. You follow what I'm saying? In other words, I grow as a Christian, I develop as a Christian, the same way I became a Christian by having faith in God. When I got saved, I was trusting Christ. I was putting my faith, my trust, my dependence in Jesus Christ to forgive all my sin, give me eternal life. God did that. May 7, 1979. He saved my soul, gave me eternal life. Then from that point on, I keep trusting God. I trust God in this area. And God says, all right You're a Christian now, this has to be all right. Lord, I have faith in you that that's the right thing to do. Lord, I'm trusting you that this is what I should do. Lord, I'm trusting you that this is what I should not do. And the Christian grows by having faith in God. Let me give you some scripture. Turn with me if you would to Colossians chapter 2. We're in Romans. You go towards the back of your New Testament. Get 1 and 2 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, and then Colossians. I want you to see, chapter 2, verse 6 and 7. I want you to see this in your Bible. Colossians chapter 2, and look with me at verse number 6, and we're going to read verse 7 also. Now notice the wording here very carefully. Are you there? Colossians chapter 2 verse 6. Everybody find it? There we go. Look at this. As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, question, how did I receive Christ Jesus the Lord? By faith. I believe that he was who he said he was. I believe he would do what he said he would do. And I put my trust in him, put my faith. Lord, and my faith is in you. And God comes through. He forgives my sin, saves me, gives me a home in heaven someday. That same way, as ye have therefore received Jesus the Lord, look at the rest of it, so walk ye in him. Look at the next verse. Rooted and built up in him and established in the faith as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving. What's he say? The same process by which I was saved, by putting my faith in Jesus Christ, is how I go forward in my Christian life. And that phrase there where he says, so walk ye in him, and he has the idea of going forward. Of developing in my Christian life, becoming more like Christ, becoming a better Christian, becoming closer to the Lord as a child of God. Go forward, walk by faith. And now come over, if you would, to 2 Corinthians. Now we're backing up a little bit. So we have the principle established here. I'm saved by faith. I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Getting baptized doesn't save me. Amen. Church doesn't save me. Being good doesn't save me. Keeping God's command doesn't save me. It's putting my faith in Jesus Christ to see Sometimes I've had been accused, not often, but over the years, I've had people say, Oh, you folks out at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, you think you're the ones that save everybody. We can't save nobody We can't even save ourselves. This church can't save you from sin in hell. You can put your faith in this church to the day you die, and I'll tell you you die and go to hell. Put your faith in baptism, die and go to hell. Put your faith in the offerings you put in the offering plate, die and go to hell. But you put your faith in Jesus Christ, and your sins are forgiven, have a home in heaven. Now, the process of putting my faith in Jesus Christ, that principle applies to how I grow as a Christian I keep trusting the Lord. I'm looking to him. I'm depending on him. I'm having faith in him as he leads me. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse number 7. 2 Corinthians 5, 7. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 is a great, great chapter. Look at verse 7. It says um For we walk, there's that word again, we go forward in our Christian life, we develop, we grow spiritually, for we walk by what? Faith. Not by Sight. What does he mean? Walk by faith, not by sight. In other words, though when he says not by sight, he's talking about not by my own understanding. Not the way I see things. I've said this. You've probably said it. Do you ever say this? Well, this is the way I see it. Anybody ever use that phrase? What do we say it? I'm saying this is the way I understand it. This is the way I process it in my mind So what he's saying is, in my Christian life, I don't go by the way I process life. I don't take a situation. I don't take something in my Christian life and try and figure out on my mind. That's by sight. That's by my understanding But rather I go by faith in what God says about it. God says this about some area of the Christian life. God gives clear instructions there. I look at it and I say, well, you know, I see it this way. When I do that, I am walking by sight, not by faith. I've had times in my Christian life where that's a situation, I read something in the Bible, I something taught from the Word of God. And I thought, you know, I always thought this way. I I don't know about that. And I had to make a decision as a Christian. And I'm going to have faith in God that what he says is so Or am I going to lean on my own understanding and deal with it the way I think it should be dealt with? The way I grow as a Christian is by having faith in God. Trusting that what he says is so. We grow spiritually in direct proportion to my willingness to trust God. The more I put my faith in Christ, the more I put my faith in God as a Christian, the more I'll grow The more I lean on my own understanding, the more I lean walk by sight, the less I grow. The less spiritual I'll be, the more carnal I will be, the more worldly I will be. But as I walk in faith, Then I grow and develop in my Christian life. Let me give you some examples from my life. As I said, May 7th, 1979, Trusted Christ. It was a Monday night I never given thought years before I never gave thought to going to church. As a kid was raised up, my daddy always witnessed to me, daddy trying to get me to go to church, and he had kind of backed off on that because I just didn't go Uh since I was a young teen, huh? And um but as 19 years old now, I trusted Jesus Christ my Savior. It came to Sunday, it came Saturday night. Something inside my heart and soul as I was reading the Bible stirred me that I ought to go to church that Sunday morning. And uh I got up that morning, I mentioned this recently, but I got up that morning, I thought you go to church, you ought to wear your vest. So I put on my bell bottoms. My polyester black shirt, my gold necklace, I got my very best platform shoes out. I look like John Travolta Maybe that was why nobody sat anywhere near me, you know. But uh what am I saying? I was saying God was leading me and directing me. God was stirring my heart that I ought to go to church. And uh uh by the way I took the ponytail out and just let it hang loose. And um and uh God was leading me and God showed me from his word and God impressed upon my heart, I ought to go to church. And not to my credit, but to his credit. I said, Lord, I'm going to agree with you. I'm going to have faith in you that that's right, that's what I should do. And I went to church. And God led and directed me. A few weeks went by. Some of y'all appreciate this. God was convicting me about the music I listened to. Ungodly music. Now I didn't think anything of it. Nobody was nobody was beating me over my head, but as I studied my Bible and read the Word of God, I was learning to trust God I was listening to uh the music I had and um got impressed from his through his word got impressed by me. That's not the kind of music a Christian should listen to That stuff's glorifying the flesh and sin. It's not praising God. It's not doing me any good spiritually. And by faith, I said, Lord, I agree with you on that. Now I struggled with that one a little bit. But I said, Lord You've proven yourself true. I put my faith in you and you forgave my sin. You've given me a new life. Now you're instructing me and teaching me how to put this worldly, ungodly music aside God, I'm going to have faith in you. I'm going to trust you that that's what I should do. And so one weekday, I guess it was Saturday if I remember right, I got all my eight track tapes out. I mean you had ten of them, it'd take a case that big, you know. And I stacked them up in the garage and I got a big old sledgehammer. I was just smashing them, smashing them. I probably had 85, 90, 100 of them. I'm just smashing them, smashing them. My mom came out and said, What are you doing? I said, I'm smashing these sinful tapes. And uh she said, Um, why don't you just sell them? I said, no way, then somebody else will listen to that sin. So I just smashed them all. What am I saying? I was saying God spoke to my heart. God taught me And I had a choice to make. I could either have faith that what God was saying was so, and that that was what was best and the right thing for me to do as a Christian, or I could say, Lord, I don't see nothing wrong. I don't know, and uh and just lean on my own understanding But the way I'm going to grow as a Christian is when God instructs me in His Word in some area, I have faith that what He is saying is true and right and good. And I can either walk by faith, trusting him, doing what he instructs, or I can lean on my own understanding. Wasn't long, and for whatever reason, the church I was there, they just never brought up the subject of baptism after I was saved. And um I was going to church real faithful Sunday morning, started going Sunday nights shortly, and eventually Wednesday nights. I was reading my Bible, God was leading and directing in my life and bringing about so many changes And something didn't seem right one night for a period of time. I just I don't know how to explain it. There was just something unsettled in my heart and soul And I don't recommend you do this. I would never in a hundred years recommend somebody do this. But I got on my knees by a little desk there. I got on the knees by the chair I had the Bible in front of me, and I said, God, something is not right in my heart and soul. I don't know what it is. I've searched my heart, I don't know what it is, God. I need you to show me from your word What is not right. So I took my Bible, put it like this, I just let it fall open. Now don't do that. That's not a good way to do it. You heard about the fella. He said, I want the Lord to show me what to do. And he did that there. And the Bible opened up and said, Judas went and hanged himself. Yeah, wow. He said, Good heavens, that can't be right. So he closed it, let it fall open again. First verse he said, Saul it said, Go thou and do likewise. He goes, what? I'll try one more time. Closed it, set it down, let it fall open. What thou doest, do quickly So what I'm saying is this, I don't recommend just letting your Bible fall open and uh whatever you read go by. But I was a new Christian. I was ignorant, and God is very gracious to ignorant people. And all the ignorant people said, Amen. Thank God for that. You know what you just said about yourself, right? So I was there and something was unsettled in my heart. I was a new Christian. I didn't know, but something was just unsettled. And I let that thing fall open, open to the first part of the book of Mark. And it there was a verse there, and I don't have it memorized, but the verse there talked about Mark going out and baptizing. And it was like God hit me over the head. You need to be baptized. Not to be saved, not to stay saved, but to be a testimony to the fact that I was saved. And there it was, God was showing me. And I had a I had I had a decision to make. Am I going to have faith in God that that's what I should do and trust in Him? And by the way, later as I studied and was taught, that is correct. The person after they're saved, they should be baptized And I had a decision to make as a Christian. Am I going to obey the Lord, trust Him, have faith that that's what I should do? Or am I going to say, Lord, I'm scared to death of people? Lord, that's a big church. I think uh Lord I could have reasoned that away and leaned on my own understanding, trying to go by my own sight. But I said, Lord, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to have faith in you. That was a big church. There were 600 some people attended Sunday mornings. I mean, it was huge. And uh we got up there, we got in the baptistry, and the nice thing was without my glasses I'm as blind as a bat. So I got in the water, he said, Take your glasses off. I said, Praise the Lord, I won't see nobody. It's like being in the bathtub And uh so he laid my glasses there, and then he said, Brother, we're in the water. And he's there, and the preacher's there, six hundred some people out there, very dignified, all staring at me, and he says, All right, uh, give us a testimony of your salvation. In the baptistry, I need to tell me ahead of time. I about drowned. And so, uh, I got saved. Amen. That's good. And uh, they baptized me. What am I saying? I'm saying this. We get saved by faith by putting my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Simple act of my will. Lord, I'm trusting you. I'm believing you. I'm depending on you to come in my life, forgive all my sin. Give me eternal life. Take me to heaven someday. And then once I do that, I grow as a Christian. I develop as a Christian by having faith in God as He instructs me and teaches me from His Word. I believe that what he says is right. I believe that what he says is best for me, that that's what I need to do. I have faith in him and I go forward and follow his instructions and I grow. And I get stronger and I get stronger. Uh this is a little personal, but because of the family situation, and some of you know what I'm talking about, I had intense bitterness in my heart. There's one of my family members. I mean just there's no other word for it other than just bitter. I wasn't saved long and God began dealing with my heart about that. And I read in Hebrews that as a Christian I should not allow there to even be a root of bitterness. And I say, God, can I I'll just be personal and be very honest with you. I said, God, I don't want to give up this bitterness I don't want to give it up. Bitter. It hurt me dead. And God, that verse kept coming back to mind, coming back to mind. Let there be no bitterness. Put away all bitterness. Finally, I came to the point I had to make a decision. Either I was going to have faith in God that what he said was the right thing to do, or I was going to hold on to my own understanding. And it was a significant time for me. I got on my knees. I said, God, you're right. I have faith in you. I put that bitterness aside and I forgave that person. And God has changed that relationship over the years in just a wonderful thing. We walk by faith. Once we're saved, God speaks our heart. God shows us from His Word things we should do or not do, changes that need to be made. And we can either have faith that what He says is what we should do. Or we can lean on our own understanding and push it aside. But if I want to grow, I've got to have faith. I can trust God to lead me in my life, to direct me in life. Proverbs three, five, and six, trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not into thine own understanding, and all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. If I'll trust him, have faith in him, God will lead me and direct me. I can have faith in God to help me through trials and temptations. Some perhaps are struggling with the temptation. They say, I can't beat that thing, I tried it every way I can. Listen, have faith in God. Trust Him to deliver you from that I'm convinced there's not a sin in the world that Jesus Christ cannot deliver a person from. Not a sin in the world. Now I'm telling you, some sins are very powerful, very addictive. And in and of our flesh seems like there's no way we can have victory. But I put my faith in God, even as a child of God, I put my faith in God. God is all powerful. He can enable me to overcome that. Listen to 1 Corinthians 10, 13. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be attempted above that ye are able. God is faithful I can trust Him to enable me and deliver me. I put this down. I can have faith in God to pick me up after I fall. Proverbs 24:16: a just man falleth seven times and riseth up again. It didn't take me long to find out after I was saved, I still had a sinful nature It didn't take me long that after I had trusted Christ, I had eternal life now. I had a home in heaven. My sins were forgiven. But brother, I still had a sinful nature to deal with. I found myself, I would fall. I'd struggle and fail in this area, that area. But God said that every time I fall, if I trust him, I can get back up again. And get up and go on. And get up and go on. And get up and go on. And it's by faith in God. Faith in God. We lived in Indianapolis, as I mentioned, and I've shared this in occasionally throughout the years, but we lived in a real nice part of the city outside a suburb. It was called Beach Grove. And just nice little homes, lower lower middle class type of uh area, income-wise. And uh it was a nice neighborhood and um I didn't know anything about you know, yard work and all that and learn so we could always tell which house was ours. It was the one whose front yard was yellow and uh all the others were green. And um You'll get that. I thought that was funnier than that. It had dandelions. I didn't take care. Anyway, uh we lived there and uh Sam was about Uh he was probably at this point about three years old, two or three years old. Dan was just uh not born yet, so he'd have been about two. Anyway Um Sam was not Sam was about to Dan was not Quit interrupting me It was a winter day. This is what I'm trying to say. It was a winter day. And uh Sam and Sam and I went out for a walk and we were walking, you know how a little child is they'll hold your finger? You know, you put your finger down there holding on the finger. And we're walking up there, up the sidewalk, and there's a little hill. You go out our driveway and there's a little hill up the sidewalk. It's a wintertime and there's a house there where the ladies Washing machine would drain out their driveway and it would run out the driveway and out across the uh sidewalk Well it's wintertime, cold of course, and we're walking up that sidewalk and I saw this patch of ice and all the lint and different things from the washing machine in it And Sam's holding on my little finger, my finger there, and he's holding on, and we're just kind of making our way. And we got to that patch of ice. And I pulled my finger out of his hand. And I grabbed a hold of him rather than him holding on to me. I had a hold of him. And we went across that ice, and it was going to be a little slick, and we didn't get a couple steps into that ice. And his little two-year-old feet started slipping and sliding. And as he was about to go down, I had a hold of him. I just picked them up. Set him back up. And we'd go a few steps and he'd slip and feet go out from underneath him. I'd pick him up. And we got to cross that patch of ice, not because he was holding on to me, but because I was holding on to him. And that's the way it is for the Christian. When I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior, God forgives me for all my sin. He gives me eternal life. I have a home in heaven. I'm never going to go to hell. And as I grow, as I trust him, and I have faith in him and God instructs me from his word, things to do and not to do and how to approach things. I have faith in him that what he says is so. And underneath all of it, it's not me holding on to God, it's God holding on to me. And when my feet do slip, and when I do lean on my own understanding, I don't go down, I don't lose my salvation and end up in hell. God holds me up. And He sets me back up and goes on. Living by faith. The just shall live by faith. Number one, we're saved by faith. If you're here this morning, you don't know for sure. Sure, that your sins are forgiven. When you die, you're going to heaven. I'm telling you, Jesus Christ can forgive your sins, save you, and you can leave here this morning knowing you're on your way to heaven if you put your faith in Jesus. If you're here this morning and you've trusted Christ, and you know that matter's been settled, then to grow as a Christian, I need to continue to have faith in God. And as he speaks to my heart and instructs me from his word, Lord, you're right. You're true. I'm not going to lean on my understanding. I'm going to have faith in you. I'm going to take that step. And Lord teaches me and shows me something else. I'll take a step. Now let me just throw this out and I was talking to somebody recently. I'll tell you what happens. You and I get saved. We're excited. God shows us something. We take that step. Lord, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to obey you. We take that step. The devil steps in. Man, he'll fight that. I'll make that step forward. I'm gonna have faith in God. Devil will fight that, try and discourage me, try and distract me, get me to lean on my own understanding, somehow keep me from trusting God. But you know what? If I'll just stand there and say, Lord, I'm not going to doubt you, I'm going to stay faith, I'm going to trust you. You know what I found happens? Devil backs off a little bit. And then I go to church or I read my Bible in devotions. God speaks to my heart about something. We say, Lord, that's right, I agree. I'm going to have faith in you and I'm going to do that. All of a sudden, boom, the devil's back up again Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. He'll fight that, fight that. But if I'll just stand there strong in my faith, Lord, I'm not going to die. I'm trusting you. Devil, fight that, fight that, fight that. And he finally dies off And God speaks to my heart again. God shows me, and I take another step. And that process goes over and over. Listen, most important thing in life is that we have faith in God. And Satan will fight that and fight that and fight that. But we've got to trust God. Be strong in the Lord and the power of his might Be strong in faith. Don't let the devil derail us. And we'll grow. Amen? Father in heaven, bless us, Lord, help us. Lord, sometimes it seems like our faith is so weak. God, sometimes it seems like it's so hard just to trust you. But Lord, give us that grace. Help us make that decision to agree with you and have faith in you With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, I wonder how many Christians this morning are saved, you know it, it's settled. How many Christians this morning say, preacher? There's some areas in my life where God's been dealing with me. There's some areas that the Lord has been speaking to my heart about. And his will is pretty clear in my mind what he's wanting me to do, how what he's wanting to do in my life. And you'd say, Preacher, I want to have faith in God in this matter. I want to grow as a Christian. I want to step forward in faith, what God is dealing with my heart about. For me that one thing was music, another one was the baptism, another one was church music attendance, those types of things. For you it may be something different. But you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I will have faith in God and trust him and say step forward in this area that he's dealing with me about. How many by the uplifted hand say, preacher, pray with me. God is definitely dealing with my heart in some areas. And I want to trust God. God bless you, hands all around. Could be leadership in your life, could be sin fighting, dealing with, it could be some trial going through. Say, I'm I'm going to trust God, I'm going to have faith in Him. God bless you. Hands all around. You can put them down. Let me ask this. There's someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. You say, preacher, I don't want to go to hell. I'm telling you, God doesn't want you to go to hell either. And you say, Preacher, I want to know that God has forgiven all my sin. I want that I want to be sure in my heart that God has forgiven all my sin, that I have eternal life, and that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. And you say, Preacher, pray for me that God will help me settle that in my heart and soul. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I want to know for sure that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell I want to know that Jesus saved me. God will help you. We put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. We can settle that. Father, a lot of hands raised. You know our hearts. You know where we're at. And I pray that now as we give the invitation, the hands that were raised, you'd help us give the grace to kneel at an old-fashioned altar and say, Yes, Lord, I'm going to trust you, I'm going to have faith in you in this matter, and go forward. Have your way, Lord, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together