Chapter three, I'm gonna just uh I'm gonna read, I think I'll go ahead and read down through ver verse one and two. Verse one and two. We started this last week. this message and the subject Peter is dealing with, he actually introduced back in chapter two Back in verse number 13, when he is instructing these new believers that he's writing to, he's instructing them to submit to the governments, the authorities. uh that are over them to submit to them. And he talked about that for several verses. Then he continued that subject of submission into the workplace, how we would view the workplace in our day And he says, servants be subject to your masters. And of course, in our context, it would be employees to employers. And uh he elaborates on that and he says, even if they're unjust, even if they're not nice. and they're unreasonable, you still need to submit to them for um uh and uh and then he s presents the Lord Jesus Christ as an example of submission, how Jesus submitted to God's will even to the extent of being crucified on the cross. And as a result of that, he points out, as a result of Jesus' submission to God, that that produced salvation for all of us and healing of our sins and forgiveness of our sins And so that's the context going into verse 1 of chapter number 3. Now let's pick it up. And we looked at this, as I said, last week, but I want to pick up here. Notice he says likewise. That's a key word. Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, that if any obey not the word They also may, without the word, be won by the conversation of the wives, while they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fears. And so we're talking about the wife's witness to an unsaved husband. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us tonight. Father in heaven, we're grateful for the Word of God, and it's just amazing to me how every area of life your word touches on with some principle, some instruction, and some help. So we pray as we look at this and That you would teach us the roles here and what you're trying to instruct us in. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and you would be the teacher and preacher tonight. Help me to be true to your word, Lord. And if there's any thought or uh opinion comes to my mind that would be contrary to what your word, I pray you'd put it out of my mind. Or if there's something I didn't plan on saying that's true to your word and you need to say it, I pray you'd put it in my mind And we just want you to help us and ask that we could be a witness to the lost. In Jesus' name, Amen. Now I want to inject here real quickly The principles that are being presented here to the wife that has an unsaved husband, I believe you can take that and reverse it, and the same would apply in a situation maybe where a husband has an unsaved wife. And so though he's addressing the wife here in this case, I think the principle would apply both ways. And so he's talking about submission Then he brings up the subject of the wife. And as I pointed out last week, if you remember, we said there's two extremes on uh teaching in the wife's uh on the wife's role. One extreme uh you find back in the Roman world, the Greek world, and even to some extent uh in the i Islamic world is that the wife is simply more, nothing more, than just an object possessed by the husband Just like he has the cattle and he has some machinery, he has uh uh these horses and he has in that many times years ago these wives. And they were simply had no rights, they had no freedom, they were simply possessed by the husband. The other extreme on this is more common today, would be that there are no roles for husband and wife. Nobody has any responsibility, that God has not designed any specific role for the wife or the husband. It's just whatever, and you can mix that thing up and turn it around. I want to suggest to you both both those extremes are unscriptural. God has given to us a very clear and very discernible structure and design for marriage and the roles of the husband and wife. And uh we spent most of last Sunday, that was the message last Sunday, talking about that. And I just want to reiterate, and I know for most of us we don't need to be told this, we understand this But nevertheless, the Bible teaches that marriage consists, first of all, of one man and one woman for a lifetime. That's God's design for the marriage. And uh you can, I've had people over the years try and argue that the Bible teaches all these different perversions of that. And uh the fact of the matter is the Bible is very clear: one man with one woman for life Then he gives the husband and the wife that make up the marriage, he gives each of those responsibilities or roles that they are to carry out The husband's responsibility is to provide the leadership, to provide the direction, the leadership, the responsibilities over the home. That's the husband's role. Then he gives the wife more of a supporting role where she comes in and she supports that. And it's not, and we're going to talk about this, it's not a competition between those two It's a fusion of the two together working in harmony to carry out that marriage, the purpose of that marriage uh which is uh uh to carry out that purpose of marriage working together. The husband's role, the wife's role, the husband's responsibility, the wife's responsibility And when they all understand that and they cooperate, work together, man, it's a beautiful thing. I just thought of this when we do um we were unable to have our wild game dinner this year, which makes me very sad. But um Uh when we have the wild game dinner. Has anybody been to the wild game dinner when it's over and we're cleaning up in there and watch that whole machinery take place of putting that thing together. Anybody ever see that? Anyone as impressed of that as I am? Everybody has a part. Everybody has a role. And I mean within a very brief period of time. That place is transform. Everybody's doing their part. Everybody's working together and just a fusion of everybody's work coming together and accomplishing a tremendous task. That's kind of the way I see the role of the husband and wife. Just working together and and working together, understanding what our roles is and what our role is and what our responsibilities are And then we said this, that uh marriage is patterned after Jesus' relationship with the Father. We saw that in 1 Corinthians 11. that's patterned after Jesus' relationship with the Father. Jesus is not inferior to the Father. Everybody understand that? Though it says he's in submission to the Father. In other words, Jesus, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, the three are equal. They all have equal authority. They all have equal equal uh uh in in in every aspect, but they have different roles. They have different aspects in our salvation. And so it's patterned after the Lord Jesus Christ. And the marriage itself is patterned after the church in Christ. And so we looked at that. Now here's the rub That design, that structure for marriage that God has designed marriage to operate by, there's nothing wrong with that design. You say, Well, preacher, why do we have so many problems in marriages? Why is there so much breakdown? Why is there so much tension? Why is there so much anger in our marriages and so many dissolved and broken homes. Why is there so much if there's nothing wrong with that design? There's nothing wrong wrong with the design. The problem is sin entered the world And then there's contention started, and that's what causes all the problem. That's where the tension is. The design itself is perfect. The design itself is flawless. But sin comes in and throws a wrench in the whole thing. So, uh, in our context, so that's what we said last week. Now, Peter's addressing the importance of the wife's role, the wife's role in this marriage, particularly if she's married to an unsaved person. Now, I notice several things here. The first thing I notice in verse number one is this: the pattern of the wife's submission. The pattern of the wife's submission. Look at that first word in verse number one. And I have it circled in my Bible. Likewise. And I got looking that up, did a little study on that word likewise. It simply means this: in equal manner or in the same way. It's referring back to what he has said previously about this matter of submission. Now, he had introduced the whole subject with submitting to government, as we said. Likewise. Ye wives submit to your husbands. Then he introduced the subject of servants or employees being submissive to their masters or their employers. Likewise. In an equal way, in the same fashion. Wives, submit to your own husbands. But I think the immediate context, the immediate reference of the word likewise, is back to the Lord Jesus Christ. In the last verses of chapter 2. Likewise ye wise. In other words, in the same way, in the equal manner that Jesus Christ submitted to God's will The wife is submit to the husband. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn to Ephesians chapter number 5. Now keep your place here. Ephesians chapter number five. And verse twenty-two says, basically what Peter is saying here, wives, submit unto your own husbands unto the Lord. Verse 25. which Peter is going to address here in a little bit. Husbands, love your wives. But what I want us to notice is verse number 18. Of Ephesians chapter 5. Verse number 18 of Ephesians chapter 5 is introducing the roles, is starting the subject of the roles of the husband and wife in the marriage. And notice what Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 18 says. It says, and be not drunk for its wine, wherein is an excess, but be what? Filled with the Holy Spirit. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. And then he builds on that statement. And it leads down as you come down through there, he says. Speaking to yourselves, Psalms, hymns, spiritual songs. Look at verse 21. Submitting to yourselves. This is all part of the same sentence of verse 18. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. Submitting to yourselves one to another in the fear of God. So what he's telling us here is when I as a husband or as a Christian and am filled with the Holy Spirit of God. These following verses ought to be true will be true of my life. And as a result of that, he says, the wives submit to your husbands, the husbands love your wives. The point I'm trying to make here is We ought to have, we ought to have Holy Spirit-filled marriages. Right You agree with me? The husband ought to be filled with the Spirit of God. The wife ought to be filled with the Spirit of God Now, if the Holy Spirit is indwelling the wife and filling her, the word filling there means simply to control, be under the control of self is put out of the picture, it's the Holy Spirit controlling, dictating my life. And if the husband is filled, if the Holy Spirit of God is, if the wife is filled with the Holy Spirit of God, the husband is filled with the Holy Spirit of God, do Does the Holy Spirit fuss with the Holy Spirit No, he's one. And that will fuse that husband and wife, the two roles, the two responsibilities, both filled with the Holy Spirit, that thing uh fuses together just beautifully. Just beautifully. So he says, likewise, in the same way that Jesus was submissive to the Heavenly Father, wives, submit to your husbands. Later on, husbands, love your wives. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. Now I'm way I'm jumping way ahead of what all we want to talk about, but I think I think the solution, this is you're gonna say, oh preacher, you're oversimplifying it. Maybe But you're not going to convince me the Bible don't teach us. I'm convinced the solution to our marriage problems is Christians being filled with the Holy Spirit of God. And to do that, I get myself out of the picture. It's no longer I that liveth, but Christ that liveth in me, emptied of self, filled with the Spirit. The problem in our marriages is when I start taking control. When I start deciding what is what. And what I'll do and what I won't do. No, no, no. No, no, no. I believe the solution is dying to sell, you know, myself by the way, and let the Holy Spirit fill me and control me and power me and enable me to be what God designed me to be. And so the pattern for the wife's submission, the pattern is uh is uh the follow is after the Lord Jesus Christ. Now notice what he says here. Likewise, let me get back here Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection. Now he's been using that word. I've been saying submit, but subjection is a word. It means simply means this. It means the it's a military term. It means to fall into rank. Step into the rank that you've been assigned. Step into the rank that's been given you. Wives, be in submission. Step into that rank, that position, that role that God has given to you. Now here is the interesting thing about that word. They studied it. The definitions emphasize this. It is a voluntary thing. Now, I don't I've not been in the military. If I had to do it over again, I think I would I would have uh been very proud to serve our country. I did not. But I don't think in the military you c voluntarily step into rank in the military, the way I understand it. It's either you do it or you get clobbered, right? Is that right, James? Yeah, he did the clobbering, I think. But in this case, the word as it's used here is a voluntary thing. He's saying wives voluntarily Step into that role that God has assigned, that God has given to you. Now I've studied this Bible for a long time. I am not a Bible scholar. I like to say it this way: I'm not a Bible scholar, but I am a Bible student. And I can't find anywhere that the Bible even remotely suggests that a husband is to make his wife submit to him. That a husband is to force his wife to submit to them. That is the wife's role. That is the wife's responsibility to voluntarily decide whether I'm going to do that or not. There is no place, and I've mentioned this in a recent message, maybe it was last Sunday, but um uh there is no place in the Bible where God justifies a husband using force to get his wife to do what he wants her to do. There's no justification for that whatsoever. And so he's saying to these dear wives, he's saying in the same way that Jesus Christ was submissive to the will of God. Ladies, be in subjection to your own husbands. It's a military term, to place myself under the leadership of another. Nowhere is it the husband's responsibility. Now get this. Nowhere is it the husband's responsibility to see that his wife submits. I've I've had this approach over the years and I've certainly failed to live up to it a as I would like to have, but I've had this approach I'm going to stand before Jesus Christ as a husband, and I'm going to answer to God for the husband I was to my wife. I'm not going to answer to God for what type of wife she was to me. Right? We answer a God for ourselves. And so it's a voluntary decision. The husband does not force that. So the first thing I notice here is this pattern that God gives to the wife In subjection to our own husband. It's to follow the pattern of the Lord Jesus Christ. Likewise, ye wives be in subjection. The second thing I want to notice, and we're just going to look at these two tonight, I want us to notice the purpose of the wife's submission. He gives a reason. Look at here at this verse. Likewise, ye wives, in subjection to your own husbands, what's the next word after the word husbands? That, look what it says, that, if any obey not the word, they may also. That word that, that word that, means in order for. For the purpose of. God is not just arbitrarily saying, all right, wise, you need to be in subject. No, no, he's got a plan, a purpose. It's important for us to understand: God always has a reason for what he does. That doesn't just do things arbitrarily. And so he's saying, Wives, likewise, same way, Jesus, submit to the will of the Father, likewise, you wives be in subject to your husbands for this purpose And now he introduces a very sad scenario. He introduces a very difficult scenario. That if any, look what he says, that if any obey not the word. Now that is what he's describing there, is an unsaved husband That phrase, obey not the word, has this idea. They have no interest in that book right there, what it says, or who it's about, or how it applies to their life. They do not care about the Bible. They are unsafe. It has within the word, that phrase, obey not the word, has within the idea of rejecting the word of God. So here you have a tough situation. Here you have a dear lady that obviously is saved, knows the Lord. He's addressing her as a Christian. And he says, you submit to your own husband that, in the same way Jesus submitted to the will of God, you submit to your own husbands Being subjection to them, that if they're not saved, if they don't have care a thing about God or the Bible, eternity, their spiritual well-being, they don't care about that, that you may still win them to Christ That's the purpose. That's the purpose. This is a whole lot bigger thing than simply submitting to your husband, doing whatever he wants. It's much bigger than that. It's much bigger than that Now, here's the thing. You say, well, if she's married to an unsaved husband, she ought to leave them Get out. If he's not saved, what's he doing hanging around with that guy? Take your Bible with me if you would. Turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 7. Preacher, my wife's not saved. I ought to leave her. My husband's not saved. I gotta move out, kick him out. What does the Bible say? What does God say? Turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 7. And look with me, if you would, at verse number 13. 1 Corinthians, he's addressing the subject here of husbands and wives. First several verses, he talks about their intimacy, their relationship, physical, intimate physical relationship. And he comes down here and in verse 13 he picks this up. And notice what it says And the woman which hath a husband that believeth not, Peter phrases it this way, that obey not the word. Same type of scenario. And the woman which hath a husband that believeth not, if he be pleased to dwell with her, what? Let her not leave him. Listen, he's saying, listen, ladies, you've got an unsaved husband. You're trying to live for God. You're trying to function as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Live by the Word of God. Please God with your life. If that unsaved husband, unbelieving, that obey not the word of God, if they're okay with you living for Christ, living the Christian life, don't leave Don't move out. You keep that thing together. He goes on. He says, for the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife. And the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Now he goes on and makes some statements here that would take time to explain, but he says, elsewhere unclean, but now are they holy. Verse 15, he says, but if the unbelieving depart, well, let them depart. A brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases, but God has called us to peace. Don't fight. Don't force them. He's saying this. He says, ladies Particularly to the ladies, if you have an unbelieving husband, he's you're living for God, you're trying to go by the word of God, and he's okay with that, don't don't leave, don't break that thing up Then he makes an interesting statement. He says, for the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife. Now there's a lot of ideas of what he means by that. This is what I believe he's saying. The unsaved spouse of a believer in the eyes of God is set apart, in the eyes of God, sanctified, set apart in the eyes of God, in ways that just regular people out there aren't. You follow what I'm trying to say? He's not saying they're saved because the spouse is saved. No, he's not saying that. He said, but they have special attention of the Lord because they are one with a child of God. Everybody follow what he's saying here? Doesn't mean they're saved, but they've got this special attention. Just like if you uh if your child's married, your child spouses. Your child's spouse has a particular relationship that others don't. That's the spouse of my child. And they're sanctified, and um I think they have opportunity to be saved, maybe that others don't And he says, if they do, if the unbelieving is not good with you living for God and trying to do right and follow the Lord's instructions, they don't like it. And they said, I'm out of here. I didn't marry no fundamental Christian. Ah, I get out of here. If that's the case, then he says, listen, don't try and force them there. You let them go. If that's what they're going to do, you can't control that. Let it go. But the point I'm trying to make here and what Peter points out is there's no suggestion that they ought to leave the unbelieving spouse. There's no instructions there at all. I know in some cults Various cults, they will teach that if you join their cult and your spouse doesn't, you divorce that cult. Or you divorce that spouse. Your loyalties to the cult, the Bible does not teach that even remotely. Now come back here to Peter and um So he does not advise the spouse to leave, the wife to leave, the unsaved husband. Let me get back here. And notice what he says here. He says that if any obey not the word of God, they may also. Now he makes an interesting statement here. Look what he says: without the word, without the Bible. About the Word of God, may be one to Christ, to salvation, to faith, by the conversation of the one I think it's interesting here. And again, this applies both ways. If a husband has an unsaved wife, or a wife, in this case, a wife with an unsavan, he doesn't advise her to nag him I wonder how many husbands love it when your wife nags you. Anybody here? Oh, I just love it. I love it when she does that. Nobody says that. He says, don't nag him to death. He's saying, don't become a woman preacher. Start preaching at him. He doesn't say that. Don't nag him. Don't try and argue him into salvation. I'll say this. I've never known anybody that got saved because somebody argued them into salvation. Doesn't work. Doesn't work that way. So he doesn't advise them to nag the unsaved, to preach at them, or to argue with them. Doesn't say, listen, you demand your rights. No, it doesn't say that. He uses that term that they also may, without the word, without preaching and nagging and fighting and fussing and arguing. Be won by the conversation of the wine. Now we use that word conversation like we're talking after the service. We're in conversation having a conversation with somebody. And that's included in the definition of the word here. But this word includes a whole lot more than just me talking back and forth with someone It means my entire lifestyle. In fact, that might be something good to put in the margin of your Bible there, my behavior, my lifestyle. That by how you're living your life They can be one to Christ. They see your conversation. He's going to elaborate on that here a little bit. How we live our life, now get this. How we live our life communicates a powerful message. People watch, people say, and I can say what I want I can talk all I want. If my lifestyle doesn't live up to what I'm saying, my words are empty. Amen or not. I trust none of us have ever been guilty of this. I hope not. But maybe we know some folks that talked Christianity, talk, talk, talk, talk Christianity Their life was anything but Christian. Anybody know what I'm talking about? He says, listen, don't you go home there. You nag and fight and fuss and preach at him You live the Christian life. The way you live your life is going to have more of a per profound impact on him than what you're saying, what you're nagging, what you're arguing about. Don't demand it right. So the word conversation means my manner of life, my conduct, my behavior. I don't know where I came across this, but years ago I came across something. I wrote it somewhere in my Bible. It says this: my talk talks. And my walk talks. But my walk talks more than my talk talks. You get that? Let me say it again. My talk talks and my walk talks, but my walk talks more than my talk talks. There's a lot of truth in that statement. And that's what he's telling these ladies. He said, listen, you live the Christian life. You follow God's structure for the home. Now let me add this, and we preached on this on Sunday morning. I'm trying to cover a lot of ground here. Scripture, I'll just be very blunt Scripture forbids a believer to marry an unbeliever. Bible's very clear on that. Scripture forbids that. 2 Corinthians 6. 14, we preached on a couple Sunday mornings ago. Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. It's a very clear instruction of God not to marry an unbeliever. Any man or woman who deliberately marries an unbeliever, knowing they're unsaved And they marry them. I'm telling you right now, that person is heading for trouble. From day one, they are heading for trouble. They're going to have a rough road Lady was engaged to an unsaved man, and she came to her preacher, sat in out in California, came to her preacher, and she said, I'm engaged to a man that's not a believer. He said, I'd like for you to marry us. And he says, he says, um, uh, he said to her, he said, Have you won him to Christ yet? And she goes, No, he won't even come to church with me. And I think the preacher said something pretty wise. He said, your influence on that man as his fiance Your influence on him is greater now than it ever will be in the rest of your life. He said, once you marry him, your influence is going to drop. Because he wants you, he's after you, you can influence him. And he said, if you're unable to win him to Christ now when your influence on his heart and mind is greater than it ever will be He said it's highly unlikely after you marry him that's going to happen. You know what she did? She got mad She goes, Well, I love him. I'm going to marry him. She went across town, found a church. Preacher didn't care. Preacher didn't care what the Bible said. Preacher didn't care about her or future or well-being. He married him. Knowing the guy was unsaved, knowing she was a believer. They got married. First preacher said about two years went by. He hadn't seen her if she left the church. She came by his office one day and said, Can I talk to you? He said, sure. She goes, you were right. It was disaster. We're divorced. Lives, dreams are shattered. Should have never married an unbeliever. Now listen, that's important to understand. That's important to understand. You say, well, how did this gal here in Peter chapter 3 verse 1, how'd she uh end up with an unsaved husband? Now, I have no idea. We are not told this is total speculation on my part But considering who Peter is writing to, these are believers, fairly new believers, that lives have been transformed and they are under persecution. They are under intense opposition. They've been run out of their homes. Many of them given uh uh lost family members, they've lost their jobs They have been run out. They are on the run from persecution because of their faith in Christ. This is what I think the scenario here is. I think he's talking to ladies who got saved after they were married. Came to Christ. They heard of the Lord Jesus. And for whatever reason, their husbands never got on board with them. Now their burden, their concern that my husband gets saved What do I do? How do I deal with that? How do I get that? How do I get my husband safe? And Peter writes and he says, don't you nag them. Don't you be preaching at them all day long. Uh now I don't know. Uh don't don't turn on every time Oliver B. Green comes on, crank it up real loud in the house, you know. Now I would leave it on if it was me. But don't you fuss at them. You make sure you're living that Christian life. You be the disciple God has instructed us to be. Sometimes salvation comes to one partner after they're married. And I think that's probably the case here. My talk talks and my walk talks. But my walk talks a whole lot more than my talk talks. Ladies, you want to have a, you want to impact your husband's life, let him see Christ in you. Husband, you got an unsaved wife. You want to see her come to Christ? Let her see Christ in you. Be filled with the spirit of God. Years ago, there was an idea, an evangelistic concept that swept through the churches, even the independent fundamental Baptist churches. And they called it this. It was called lifestyle evangelism. Anyone ever hear that, familiar with that? And initially the whole concept was this Don't tell people how to be saved. Don't give them gospel tracts. Don't get your Bible out and show them and don't verbally witness to them You just live a Christian life. Don't smoke or don't drink, don't cuss, uh, don't smoke, don't chew, don't hang around those that do. Um, you know, just uh go to church, but don't say a word about Christ. Now, I believe that's a flawed concept The Bible tells us that we are to go into all the world and preach the gospel. Go you therefore and teach all nations. Bible, all through Acts. And they went and preached the Word of God. But I want to say in one situation, one scenario, that lifestyle evangelism I think is important. And that is here with a wife of an unsaved husband. He says, you can win them to Christ without the word, without preaching and nagging and fussing with them. You just humble yourself and live a good, godly Christian life. God, they could be one to Christ even without the Word. Isn't that something? Isn't that something? Now there's a lot of questions come up, and we're going to address them as he works his way through And um, but uh uh let's let's try and get a hold of this. I believe the answer to a troubled marriage, I believe the answer to a troubled marriage is the filling of the Holy Spirit. Dying to self, letting God infill me and empower me, then living the Christian life with the supernatural power of God upon my life. God can do great things. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I ask now, Lord, that you would help us to be spirit-filled Christians. And regardless of the spiritual condition of our spouse, regardless of their conduct, That we can live a life that's pleasing to you. And God, you can empower our witness, our visible witness And other people would be drawn to Christ, particularly family members. I wonder with heads bound, eyes closed, I wonder how many would join me and say, preacher. With all my heart, tonight I'm going to decide to humble myself before the Lord and yield myself and seek for the Holy Spirit to fill me. And empower me. Now that'll affect all areas of our life, but it'll affect this area also. How many people say, preacher, I want that filling of the Holy Spirit That supernatural empowering of God to live the Christian life. God bless you, hands all around, my hands raised. Not just in marriage situations, but across the board. We need that filling of the Holy Spirit That's where we go to the Lord's Supper. And by the way, the filling of the Holy Spirit requires a dying to self, repentance, confession, repentance of sin. Holy Spirit won't fill a dirty vessel. A Holy Spirit won't fill a prideful heart. We've got to humble ourselves, forsake our sin, guilt of Christ. We're going to have Lord's Supper in a moment. Before we do, how about we make use of an old-fashioned altar to say, God, I'm a sinner. I confess my sin. I want you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. Father, bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand in the world.