Preaching tonight and um it's exciting to see the Lord work in these young fellas' lives and uh they're ready to roll. Uh Kane, you're up first. Come on up here. Let's get our Bibles out, ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Brother King preaches. Yep. I think I am. All right. Um good evening everybody. All right, please bear with me uh for this because I have about three different uh outlines for this because I redid it multiple times. So if you see me flipping around here, it's because I have a couple pages full of uh notes. So uh before we start Lord, I'd like to open up with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, I thank you for this day you've given us, Lord, that we can just uh come into your house and worship you. And Lord, I thank you for the opportunity that uh I have to speak uh to the congregation tonight and Lord I just pray that you be with me and Sam as we preach our messages tonight and uh Lord just speak through me and uh let the uh hearts of our everyone in the audience just be open to the message that I preach and Sam preaches and Lord please just be with us so we can uh so our nerves can be calm and we can preach this without having any fear and I pray all these things in your name. Amen. Alright, I've entitled tonight's message, The ABCs of a A new Christian year or messed up already. ABCs of a Christian New Year. There we go. And I only have three points, so Don't worry, we'll we'll get out in time. First off, I would like for you to turn with me to Psalms twenty-six, chapter twenty-six. Give me a minute there. And Psalms twenty in Psalms chapter twenty-six, we'll be reading from verse eight. It reads, Lord, I have loved the habitation of thy house and the place where thine honor dwelleth. The first point I'd like to talk about is A for affection. Affection is love in a nutshell. The reason I chose affection for this is because These these three points, the things that we should not forget in this new year. In this day and age we can forget a lot about anything that we We've learned from church or read out of our Bibles or had uh learned from testimonies from church. But we cannot we cannot uh forget these three things. I I feel like these are m the most important. First of all, the affection uh the affection I would like to talk about the uh How we love one another. Not just not just family members or anything, but brothers and sisters in Christ. And uh we also love, you know, our uh unsaved family members and friends and co-workers. But we'll talk about that more later actually. But we cannot we cannot just let the love stop at just our family and our friends and everything. We have to keep that affection for God. We have to love God and Jesus. We have to love what we read in the Bible We have to uh we just have to grasp what we read in the Bible and just love it with all of our hearts. If you turn with me a few pages ahead to Psalms chapter 42, It's another verse I'd like to read. Psalms forty two chapter forty two, verse one, it reads, As the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after the ogre God. This has to do with what I just said. We need to keep our hearts and our love with God too, as much as we do with other people. in our in our lives. Which uh the love of God is great. It really is. And that brings me to my next point. So we have A for affection. The next one is B for blessings. I'd like for you to turn to Deuteronomy with me, chapter eleven. Deuteronomy chapter eleven, verses we'll read verses twenty-six and twenty-seven Chapter eleven, verses twenty-six twenty-seven. Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a A curse. A blessing if ye obey my the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you this day. We um we need to think about the blessings that we've received from God, both past and present and the future. I'm sure all of you can think of a Julian blessings you've got in 2011. And I'm sure, Lord willing, we will get many more in years to come. And we can we can also get blessings from God, but we can also give blessings For uh blessing oh first I'm gonna talk about how we can get the blessings. Well, to get blessings, we need to do God's commandments as it says And like read our Bible and help others and pray every day, you know, and things like that. We can also, along with those lines, we can also give blessings. The greatest blessing we can give is we can share the gospel with unsaved folk. We can tell them about how our how Christ came down and died for our sins. And because of that, we can have a safe home in heaven and we cannot worry about hell or any of any of the things like that. that. And also uh we can receive blessings because whenever we help other people, if we're falling or we're we're in a really tough time, the people that we help they can help us back. We can build up on top of each other and just support each other. And one of God's greatest blessings is actually my next point. So we have the affection and the blessings. Our last, but certainly not least, last point is see for Christ If we turn if you would turn it to Luke chapter two, please. In Luke chapter two. Well I would like to look at verse eleven. It reads, For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. We just recently celebrated Christmas, which is a great time of year to Just celebrate, sit down, relax, and celebrate the birth of our Savior Jesus Christ. And This is a this is the ultimate blessing. This there could have been no greater gift that God could have given us in eternity. the unforgivable or unforgettable gift. Um but uh We need to realize what he we also need to realize what he did for us. What Christ did for us. He died on a cross. No, we couldn't even imagine what he suffered on the cross. And it was all for my sins, what I'm doing, what I'm my sins that I'm gonna do whenever whenever I'm twenty years old. Actually isn't that far away, but you know But and what I did whenever I was Lucy's age. But thanks to God, we Christ as this blessing, we can we have a clean slate. We're we're we're a white sheep in God's eyes. And we do not have to worry about sin or anything like that. I'm s I mean I'm not saying if we do sin we shouldn't repent from it. We shouldn't repent from it but and what we need to do with this blessing we like I said before we need to share this blessing of Christ Christ. We need to share this blessing with co-workers for younger uh people, kids at school, you know, uh our f even our family, because uh we we have some family members that they don't know Christ But it would be a it would be a blessing to see them uh get led by the Lord by one of us. And we can even we can even share this blessing with complete strangers No one's soul winning. We knock on random doors. We don't know who's living there, but this is such a great blessing. We want to share it with everyone And as that, we I would like the I'd like to challenge us. Let's this year, let's it's a new year, let's try to uh let's try to read our Bibles more and uh stick on that and let's go soul winning out more and uh and I'll admit I I started to what I dropped the ball a little early about going soul winning and reading my Bible but this year I I really want to try harder like really really harder to get all this all these things that we can do so we can get as many blessings as we can And we can save people from the sin in hell. And let me flip through here because I know I have more than that. And also with the uh with the help of uh Christ we can we can do many things. Even if you're shy, I mean the first time I preached, which I think it was a two, three years ago I I think. But before I did that, that I w it was nerve wracking and it's probably like that for stand right now. But uh But through Christ we can we can do many things. We can overcome that fear that we have of being shy or not willing to meet any new people or anything We can overcome that. So we can share this thing. Now I want to I want to end with this. Keeping all these things in mind I'd like for us to kind of keep track of what we're getting, our blessings that we get, and uh and keep our love for everyone. we have and spread spread our love. Love more people. Try to get more people into the church so that they can learn more about God. And And everything that we do would be Christ-centered. That we can we can do anything through Christ. And And I would like to end with that. So I have for you, sorry.