That's your assignment. Teach that to us. James chapter one, if you would, turn your Bibles there. Just a little follow-up, that fellow that I was mentioning that with the ministry over to Central Asia Uh it was a fascinating guy. I really enjoyed talking to him. Uh the other year when we were over there, last time we were over there, we met a fellow, Max, and um he had fled from Uzbekistan. Uh was it Uzbekistan? um or Kurzakstan, one of them south of Kazakhstan. Anyway, he had fled his country for the very reason this guy got arrested because they were meeting in a church service illegally and he wo he would be what we would call an independent Baptist, a fundamental guy. Came up to Kazakhstan thinking he would be safe there. Uh and that's when we met him. He had fled his country. He was an Al Mahdi He was working in a church, actually he started a church that Jew Adams was working with him. Um and so uh just a good solid guy, young man, what would you say, late 20s, probably maybe early 30s, somewhere in there And uh just a neat guy. Well lo and behold, Kazakhstan authorities arrested him, threw him in prison, they were going to extradite him back to the country that wanted him for meeting, starting this church illegally And there's a big fuss. Remember we are praying for that, big legal thing, and um d different uh international organizations got involved. As it turned out, they sent him out of the country, told him he could not come back, Kazakhstan did, and the only country really that I guess that they would send him to was Sweden, I believe Well this fella that I was talking to on the phone a few weeks ago knows Max personally. And he had worked with him when he was in Kazakhstan and was a part of this whole process of getting him out of the country And I said, well, how is he doing? I said, we prayed. I said we got to meet him. We prayed for him. Prayed for him. He said he's in Switzerland. He started a church in Switzerland. I said you're kidding. He says the guy is just fired up. He says you can't keep him down. Everywhere he goes, he went to Uzbekistan, started church. Went to Kazakhstan, started church, kicked him out of there, went up to Swit Sweden, started a church. And so you talk about Apostle Paul type guy. And uh in that neato, and so that just blessed my heart. James chapter one, speaking of Persecution and all this stuff fits right in with our verse tonight. Blessed, verse 12, blessed is the man that endureth temptation. For when he is tried, he will receive the crown of life which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. I've entitled it The Blessings of Endurance. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of this passage I ask, Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit, speak through me, challenge us. Lord, maybe there's someone tonight, I have no idea, God, maybe there's someone tonight that's on the verge of quitting, wanting to give up, walk away from it I pray you'd use this verse, challenge us all to stay put, stay in our place, stay true, stay faithful, and again, fill me, Lord. Speak through me, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Some of you have memorized this verse. This is one of our hundred verses that we believe every Christian should have memorized. And if you have this verse committed to memory, if you have this verse hidden in your heart and your mind, you have a great weapon in your spiritual arsenal against Satan's attacks. Because I'm telling you tonight, if Satan can get you to do anything, he wants you and I to quit. To quit on God, to quit on our ministry, to quit on our witnessing. He wants us to be unfaithful to the Lord. And this verse is a powerful, powerful tool to help us stay faithful to God, to stay in our place. To not to waver. Satan wants us to walk away from the will of God. God wants us to stay true. As I the more I studied this verse, I thought, man, alive You could do a long series on James chapter 1 and verse 12. In fact, I would love to do a long series. on James chapter one and verse twelve. But I think I'm going to break it down just into two sermons. One tonight, Lord will, and next Sunday night. Uh we're going to zero in on James chapter 1 and verse 12. I believe. I'm going to do a give you a little just a little uh exegetical studying here a little bit before we make some application. I believe this verse is actually the last verse of the first section of this chapter. Verse 2 through 12, I believe, are passages, is one passage of scripture that all fits together. I believe that if you would study this and you would take verse 12 and connect it to verse number 13, you would make a mistake. You would misinterpret what this verse is saying. Verse 12, I believe, ties in with verse number two. It is the concluding final statement of verse 2. Remember what look at what verse 2 says in Mark just a second. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse Temptations. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. Now come down to verse 12. Blessed is that man that endureth temptation. Now notice when we get to verse number 13, he uses the same word, but it's a different subject. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. This is a whole nother subject, but every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust and enticed. And so, verse 12, I'm convinced, is the final statement, the summary statement of verses ten Verses 2 through 12. It comes down through there, and this final conclusion, verse 13, begins a new subject. Now, I reason I say that is because of the word temptation That is a unique word in the Bible. It's very rare that you find a word like temptation in God's word in that In that one word has various meanings. Generally, and I say this fairly often, generally, when you study the words in Scripture, God's words have very specific meanings. And uh the English language is well known for having one word that can mean five, six, seven different things. Well that's unusual in the language of the Bible. uh the Greek language is translated into what the English is translated from. That's very unusual. But the word temptation is one of those. And It can mean uh several different things, and we've touched on this before. The word temptation in the Bible Can and often does mean what we think of. In other words, to be tempted to do something wrong, a solicitation to do something sinful, an enticement to do something that God forbids. And that's what we understand the word temptation to mean generally. And that's what it means often in scripture. And that's what he's talking about in verse 13, 14, and 15 An enticement to do evil, a solicitation to do something wrong. But it also has the meaning sometimes in Scripture of the idea of difficulties or hardships or go through a trial. And that's what verse 2 is talking about. Look again, my brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Nobody that knows their Bible even remotely thinks that we should rejoice in when we are tempted to do something wrong. Oh boy, praise the Lord, I'm being tempted to drink vodka and watch football and not pray. When I saw that up there, I thought, what in the world is doing with this? So the word in verse 2 obviously does not mean an enticement to do evil. We would never rejoice in that. And then there's another meaning for the word temptation is used in the Bible, and that means to test or to prove a person. In Genesis chapter 22 and verse 1, the Bible says this: God did tempt Abraham In other words, God was testing them. God was putting them to the test to see if his faith would respond to this trial, would see if his faith would prove true. Now, we understand the word where it says God tempted Abraham, we look at verse number 13, and it says uh Uh uh verse number thirteen says, Let no man say when I am tempted, I am tempted to God, for God cannot be tempted, neither tempteth he any man. So obviously the word tempt has two different meanings here One to test or to prove, the other is to enticement to do wrong. And then the other is a difficulty or trial. So you say, preacher, how in the world do you know What word is being applied here? How do I know what God is saying? Well, there's several ways. Particularly for this word, you go to the context. To find out what he means. Look at the context. You can cross-references verses and come to the conclusion what he's talking about For instance, let's look at verse 12. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. All right. Let's consider other passages of scripture. For instance, we are never told in the Bible to endure an enticement to do evil Is everybody with me? Y'all are looking at me like, what in the world is this guy talking about? Nowhere in the Bible does God say, oh, if you're tempted to do something wrong, if you're being enticed to do something sinful, Boy you just endure it, you just stand there and you just endure it. Uh that no, we're not told that anywhere in Scripture to do that. And that's not what he's saying here Listen to Proverbs chapter 1 and verse 10. If sinners entice thee, consent thou not In other words, get away from it, say no, resist that, put that away, don't just endure it, that temptation, that enticement. In Matthew, get this, Matthew chapter 6, verse 13, chapter 27, verse 41. Mark chapter fourteen, verse thirty eight, Luke chapter eleven and verse four, Luke chapter twenty two and verse forty, and then again in verse forty six, the Bible instructs us to pray to God that we do not enter into temptation Nowhere are we ever told to just endure it. Uh to just uh uh uh stick it through and wait till that temptation goes away. Proverbs chapter six and verse five, and we don't have time to turn all these. First Corinthians chapter six and verse eighteen. First Corinthians chapter ten and verse fourteen. 1 Timothy 6. 11. 2 Timothy 2. 22 tells us to flee from temptation When I have a temptation to do something wrong, don't just sit there and stick it out. The Bible says, get away from it Get out of the way from that. You're sitting there watching television, a ballgame or whatever, and you're watching it and you fli and maybe you flip around during a commercial and uh boy, there's something, you know it's wrong, you know you ought not to watch that, you know you ought not to listen to that, the music's ungodly, the The scenes are ungodly, the whole everything about it is ungodly, and boy, there's that enticement to stop and watch and see a little bit. Bible doesn't say just sit there and just endure that temptation. No, you turn the stinking thing off. You get away from it. I'm always told in Scripture to flee temptation. Hey, that's where some of us are getting in big trouble. We're not running away from it when we get tempted. We're saying, oh well, I can handle it, I can say no to this, I can endure this, I can I can resist this. No, you can't. No, I can't. We got to get away from it. What did Joseph do when Potiphar's wife was coming on to him? He fled, left his coat, I like this. Somebody said he left his coat, but he retained his character. Get away from it. Get away from it. That's where Christians, uh preachers, uh uh all the way down all through the church, people are falling and falling and falling and falling and falling Because we think we can handle that temptation, and we can't. We got to stay away from it. So don't come to chapter 1 and verse 12, and it says, Blessed is the man that endured temptation. Don't think for a minute That that temptation is talking about enticement to do wrong. It isn't. We're not to endure that, we're to flee it. Get away from it. I mentioned, I think, in a previous message not long ago Uh C. I. Schofield, I think it was, the author of the notes of the Schofield Bible, was a lawyer, got saved late in life, was a heavy drinker. And after he got saved in Philadelphia, he's walking the streets, and one night, uh, as he was coming home from his study and heading to his house There was a bar there, and for whatever reason that night he was tempted and enticed to go in there back to the old life that God had saved him from, and drinking and boozing And he didn't just walk by that bar and say, I'm not going to go in, I'm not going to go in, I'm not going to go in. What he did was he went two blocks over this way, walked down past it, and went just fled away from it. He said, I don't even want to be near it. Because he knew he has a sinful nature. So listen, we need to stop and evaluate what am I trying to endure? What type of temptation am I trying to tolerate? What type of temptation am I allowing there thinking I can somehow control it? No, I've got to get away from that. So verse number 12 is not an enticement to do evil. Verse number 12, when it says, Blessed is he that endureth temptation, is talking about one that endures the difficulties, the hardships, and the trials that come as a result of trying to live for God. Of living for the Lord and the hardships that come along with that. Now, here's my message: the blessedness of enduring temptation. What Christian does not want God's blessings? I do. Can I get a witness? I want God's blessing. What kind of Christian would say, no, I don't want God's blessings on my home? What kind of church worker would say, No, I don't want God's blessings on my ministry, on my Sunday school class, or my bus route, or my choir, or whatever it may be, or children's church and nursery Of course, if we know Jesus Christ, our personal Savior, of course, we want God's blessings on us. We want God's will to be done. We want God's uh the results that God intends for us to have. We want that. By the way, God's definition of blessing is very different than the world's definition of blessing. And that's where a lot of Christians get confused. And that's where a lot of your guys on TV, these yardbird preachers on TV Have taken the world's definition of blessing and injected it into and replaced God's definition of blessing, and they're teaching something you can't find in Scripture The word blessing here simply means happiness. But if you take it in the context of Scripture, you find that the blessing that God bestows on us Is the heavenly version of earthly happiness. Earthly happiness is a very superficial happiness. It is a very uh uh it is very dependent upon the circumstances and the outward situations I find myself in. In other words If I have the if I have enough stuff, or I have the latest uh MP3 player, or if I have uh the latest smartphone, or if I've got this, boy then uh if I had that phone, then I'd really be happy Why you're so sad? Oh my parents won't buy me a Camaro. I was preaching I was preaching in uh Indianapolis, when I was youth pastor in a in a in a Christian school they had there, pretty good size, suburban Christian school. And um I was preaching the high schoolers. I was preaching our own trials and difficulties. And the and the and the the third principal came up and he said, you know, we've got a kid in our school that is in the throes of depression I said, really? I was preaching on hard difficulty and trusting God. I said, really? Why? He says he's all upset because his parents won't buy him a chimera when he graduates. And he's just down in the dumps and he doesn't want to live and all that And he said, I said, Good night. That's the world's idea of what it means to be blessed. If I've got the latest gadget I have the uh the coolest tennis shoes, I've got the I've got this or uh that uh CD or the uh whatever So the world's happiness, the world's blessedness is very much dependent upon circumstances, upon having things, about being healthy, and all these things. God's definition, though The blessedness that God gives is not dependent upon what I have or don't have It is a deep down joy. It is a joy deep down in our soul. It is a peace and a joy and a confidence and a fulfillment that transcends anything this world can produce. That's what God's talking about. That's what God's talking about. Happiness, somebody said this, happiness is like the ripples on the top of the water. And blessedness is the deep spring that comes up from the depths and fills the lake. I thought, boy, that's a beautiful word picture. And God says, blessed is the man. That endureth temptation. Blessed that deep down sense of peace and joy in the depths of the soul. Regardless of what the outward circumstances, regardless of what the health may be, regardless of what the bank account may or may not be, a deep down sense of the presence of God and the peace of God and the joy of heaven In my heart and soul. That's what God promises. Notice what it does not say. It doesn't say, blessed is the man that is tempted. Doesn't say that. And remember, our definition of temptation here is difficulties, hardships, trials. He doesn't say, blessed is the man that goes through a heartache. I didn't say bless he said, blessed is the man that what? Endureth temptation. There's nothing pleasant about difficulties. There's nothing pleasant about trials, about having needs, about disappointments. There's nothing pleasant about having a broken heart and shattered dreams. Then in and of themselves are not pleasant. There's no blessedness in them, in and of themselves. But notice what else it doesn't say. It doesn't say, blessed is the man that is never tempted. Our inclination, see if you agree with this or not, I don't care if you do or not, but our inclination is, boy, it sure would be nice if I never had another trial in my life. Boy, that'd be a blessing if I never had to go through it. If I never have another heartache in my life, boy, that would be a blessing Boy, what a blessing it would be if every bill I would ever come up with the rest of my life was paid for. Oh, what a blessing that would be. Doesn't say that. Doesn't say blessed is the man that is never tempted, never faces a hardship. That's what our thinking is, boy, a blessed life would be one that's Just wonderful and easy and nice and pleasant and no difficulties ever. Oh, that would be so wonderful, God says nope What does he say? Blessed is the man that what? Endureth temptation. Fact of the matter is, every one of us are going to go through hardships. Every one of us are going to go through heartaches. Every one of us are going to have to deal with disappointments. Everyone. You know what I found out? Rich people have a tough time. Poor people have a tough time. Healthy people have heartaches and difficulties and disappointments. You know what I found out? Sick people have heartaches and disappointments. And go through tough times. Nobody in planet Earth gets through life without difficulties. So if we think that blessedness is dependent upon not having difficulties, we're wrong. Blessedness comes with endurance. The blessing of endurance. This modern-day soft-soaked self-centered health and wealth gospel. That is so prevalent. You know, I found that pretty much doesn't work in Pakistan. You tell some poor little Christian that lives in a mud hut in Pakistan that has Muslim leadership in the town he lives is threatening to chop off his arms and kill and rape and kill his wife if he doesn't recant his faith. And you tell them, if you have enough faith, you're going to live in a beautiful house, you're going to drive a nice car, and you'll never be sick. That doesn't fly. In places where there's real hardship. Am I right or wrong? It's not going to fly in North Korea. You say if you have enough faith. Boy, everything's gonna go your way and it's just gonna be wonderful and great. And just within the last six months, the North Korea executed with rifles 33 Christians simply because they assisted somebody in smuggling Bibles into the country? Don't tell me they didn't have enough faith. In fact, it was their faith that got them killed. It was their strength of their faith that emboldened them. To try and reach their fellow citizens with the gospel. It wasn't a lack of faith that caused their heartache and difficulty. It wasn't a lack of faith that put them in that circumstance. It was the strength of their faith. That put him in that circumstance. This health and wealth, soft soap, everything's about me, gospel, Jesus does everything for me. That doesn't fly in Iran. Where is that where is it where that gal? She married a Christian. She converted to Christianity, married a Christian, they arrested her. She's gonna have a I think she just had the baby. They said they would execute her after the baby's born because it where is that at? Was that Pakistan or Iran? Iraq maybe? Was it Iraq? You say, well, if she had enough faith, she wouldn't have to go through that hardship. Sorry, Benny Hinn, you're wrong. Amen. It's her strength of faith. I tell you what, I don't know anything about her, I don't know that, but I see that picture, I read those articles, I salute that gal. To stick, to endure So we need to be careful in our understanding. That doesn't fly in Pakistan and North Korea and Vietnam and Iran and China. And by the way, it's not found in the Bible either. I hesitate to say this because I really God is in control. We need to understand that. But I get the sense that there is an age of darkness coming down on this planet Earth. Perhaps perceiving the coming of Christ. Where God's people are we're just going to have to decide, am I for Christ or not? And it's going to require strength of faith, not to get stuff and to be richer. But to be stronger in my stand for Christ, to be uncompromising in my love for the Lord. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, goes through it without faith. The word endureth is an interesting word. It means this: to hold one's ground I like that. Here's a Christian, trust Jesus Christ the Savior, commits their life to live for God Dedicates their life to the Lord Jesus Christ and man, the gates of hell fight, and hardships come, and difficulties, and heartaches, and opposition Sickness and and uh and uh poverty maybe and all these things come on and they just hold their ground. I'm not going to waver. I'm not going to falter. I'm going to stay true to Christ. Endure it. I like this definition. To hold one's position, to remain. To hold fast, to refuse to quit. God give us some Christians who refuse to quit Who refuse to back down, refuse to change, just say, I'm going to stand true. Let the devil throw what he can at me. I'm going to trust God and stay true to God. I got that word and I looked it up how it's used in different places in the Bible, and it's pretty interesting. Let's do this real quick. We just got a minute or two. Luke chapter 2. Come back there with me. Now this is a whole different context, but it gives us an idea of what the Lord's talking about here. Luke chapter 2. This is where Jesus Is down in Jerusalem with his family as a young man, twelve years old And look, this is, I guess you have to be there to really understand how this come about. But his family leaves and forgets him Can you imagine that? I had some family members. They were on a trip. They had a station wagon, had a whole slew of kids. One of the kids was sleeping all the way in the back of the station wagon. And they stopped at a rest stop and they all went in. The kid was sleeping. While they were in there, the kid woke up, got out, and went in. They all came out thinking he was still sleeping, got in the car and drove an hour down the road. Little kid comes out, my car's gone. And uh so the policeman had to find them, pull them over, come back and uh get them. So that's similar to what's going on here. Uh look at Luke chapter 2 verse 23 Oh, that's not the verse I want. Luke chapter two, where the Bible says that Jesus I wrote down the wrong reference. Somebody help me out here. Grant, that's what I hired you for. What is it? Luke chapter 2 verse 43 instead of 23. Thank you. When they fulfilled the days, look at this, as they returned, the child Jesus, what's that word? Tarried behind in Jerusalem. That's the exact same word as endured in James 1. 12. In other words, everyone else, he stayed right where he was. Everyone else left, everybody else is gone, he stayed right where he was. He stayed there, he endured, he stuck there. And they came back, you know, and said, What are you doing? He goes, Don't you know I need to be about my father's business? He was enduring. He stuck there. That's I think this is what God's saying. He goes, I'll have a special blessing, a real fulfillment and joy and deep-seated for uh uh blessing on those when everything else has gone astray, they just stay true to the Lord. They just endure that temptation. Two others here I want to look at real quick. I hope I got the right reference. 2 Timothy chapter 2 You got your Bibles? We might as well use them. Second Timothy chapter two and verse ten. Let me get there. Second Timothy two ten. Look what it says. Therefore I what Endure all things for the elect's sake, that they may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. Look what Paul's saying to Timothy. He's saying, listen, I've been through, and question, has been as was Paul through some hardships? See uh boat wrecks, stonings, beatings, imprisonment, left for dead He's saying here the reason I stayed true to Christ through all of that mistreatment, through all of that difficulty, through all of that pain and heartache. The reason I stayed true to Christ was so that some people would get saved. If Paul had quit, there's a whole slew of people who would have ended up in hell. If he'd have walked away, if he would have not have endured, it would have cost a lot of people their eternal destiny. And what I want to suggest to you that maybe not the same scale, but the principle is the same for you and I. There are people that you and I have tremendous influence in. There are people who are looking to us. They know we're Christians. They know we believe the Bible. We know they know we have a burden for them. And if you and I would become unfaithful to God and walk away from it, we would have a profound negative influence on their lives. And Paul said, I endure. It's hard, it hurts, it's not the way I would do it, but I am not going to quit on God, I'm not going to back down on my faith, I'm going to trust Him and stay true because souls are at stake. Man, what a challenge. Let me ask you a question: was Paul blessed of God? Good heavens He could be in jail with his in shackles beaten bloody, and he's singing praises to God. I'll tell you what, he had a joy and a blessing this world can't give One more verse I want to go to, Hebrews chapter 2, 2, chapter 12, I'm sorry, verse 2. And wow, what a key verse this is. Hebrews chapter twelve and verse two. This part of our motto of tick for the church the first When we first showed up here, God laid this little motto on my heart, looking unto Jesus. We've clung to that little phrase all these years. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. Who for the joy that was set before him, what? Endured the cross, despising the shame. He hated He hated the shame that came with assuming the responsibility of mankind's sin. He hated that. That flew in the face of everything he was. But he endured it. He endured it so that you and I can be saved. This is such a ridiculous question, but what if Jesus had quit? I mean that that's that's not going to happen. That wasn't going to happen. But what if he would have? Where would you and I be? Where would the world be? I mean, just superficial, think about it. There would be no churches. How many hospitals would not exist that were started in the name of Christ? Orphanages. What would this world be like if Christ had not endured? I mean, we can't even comprehend that. Not even real. I'm glad Jesus endured the trials of the cross. And now he's exalted. You think Jesus isn't blessed? The right hand of the Father, every knee will bow, tongue confess? All through Scripture, those who God blessed, those who God used in a significant way, endured trials. Without exception, you can't find anyone in Scripture. They all stood fast and true. They remained faithful to God. Those who quit through Scripture, think about it. Those who quit through Scripture lost God's blessings. They became frustrated and angry and unhappy. Bob Jones Sr. said this: All failures I have met in my life were those who turned away when things became difficult. Bob Jones Sr. said that. Why quit? Why would I quit on God? Why would I walk away from trusting Him? Why would I walk away from living? Why would I walk away from serving Him? Because it's easier? Where would we go to? If we left if we walked away from Christ, if we gave up on the ministry, what am I going to do? What would I do? Would be happier knowing I failed Christ? Really I know one thing, if we quit, we lose God's blessings. If we're going to be offended and hurt over every little misunderstanding and every little trial that comes along, We will never know God's blessing. I think one of the reasons Christians are so unhappy today is because we're so easily offended. Every little thing that isn't my way and isn't this and isn't that, I get all offended. God says that's not where the blessing is. The blessing is enduring, staying true, keeping that spirit, keeping faith in God. Not in getting all upset and walking away. My one of my favorite poems in the world. My dad had it on the wall for years at the house, and may still, I was up the other week, I didn't notice it, but And I've quoted it many times here. Don't quit. When things go wrong as they sometimes will, and the road you're trudging seems all uphill, When the funds are low and the debts are high and you want to smile, but you have to sigh. When care is pressing you down a bit, rest if you must, but don't you quit Life is queer with its twists and turns, as every one of us sometimes learns, and many a failure turns about. When he might and many a failure turns about, when he might have won had he stuck it out. Don't give up, though the pace seems slow, you might succeed with another blow Often the goal was much nearer than it seems to a faint and faltering man. Often the struggler has given up when he might have might have captured the victor's cup. And he learned too late when the night slipped down how close he was to the golden crown. Success is failure turned inside out, the silver tint on the clouds of doubt And you never can tell how close you are, maybe near when it seems so far. So stick to the fight when your hardest hit. It's when things seem worse that we mustn't quit. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. Endureth temptation. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us. To be have strength of faith, strength of character, not to quit. Not to quit on what you've called us to, not to quit on living for you, not to quit on trusting you, not to quit on witnessing and praying and being faithful. Help us, Lord, to stay true, to endure, remain, stay steadfast through the difficulties of life. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, boy, the devil's got my number When he knows what to throw at me, he knows when to just get me down and get me to want to walk away from it. And you say tonight, preacher, by God's grace, I want to remain. I want to hold fast I want to endure for God's glory, and I can experience God's blessing. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, devil knows what to throw at me, he knows when to do it, he knows how to get me, uh knock me over sometimes God bless you. I'm not going to quit. I think it'd be a wonderful thing many of us kneel on an altar tonight and say, God, I'm renewing my dedication to you. I'm renewing my commitment. I'm going to stay true. I'm going to plant my feet. I'm going to be faithful. And see what God won't do, how He won't bless us. Is there someone here tonight saying, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? Looking at the crowd, most of us would claim to know Christ. Is there anybody Say, preacher, I'm not saved. I need to be saved. How about it? Any at all? Father, bless our invitation time now. Stir our hearts. Give us fortitude in our faith, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand in