One and uh you would notice verse number five. We've been looking, I think this is our third, maybe fourth message from verse five here But he's introducing, Peter is introducing to these folks he's writing to, these believers that he's writing to, he's introducing some necessary steps for spiritual growth. Nazware very aware of he's writing the folks that are been persecuted, are scattered all around. They've been run out of their communities Families have rejected them, run them out of their homes. They're paying a heavy, heavy price for their faith in Christ. And he's writing First Peter was to encourage them, to instruct them, and Help them get their feet back on the ground and get settled spiritually. They're re-establishing churches in the regions where they're at. He gives a little instruction there and and how to get these churches right and started right. And then 2 Peter he follows up and I think the emphasis, and I mentioned this last week, the emphasis as I see it in 2 Peter, is he's encouraging them to keep growing in the Lord. And I mentioned this before. I want to restate it here We cannot allow ourselves to plateau in our spiritual growth. Now how many people know what I mean by that? You just kind of get to a place where, and kind of James m kind of touched on it in his testimony, we just kind of get to the point where we begin to just assume everything's okay. We just kind of coast How many people know what I'm talking about? Has anybody been there? You just kind of coast there. And I think 2 Peter is kind of um how many people know what a cattle prod is? Second Peter is a little bit of a spiritual cattle prod to them, and he's getting them. Listen, you keep on growing You've been through it, you've stood faithful, you've paid a heavy price, you're settled now into new communities, new areas. My impression is that persecution is not as intense in these new areas where they're at And uh he says, you keep going forward, you keep going forward. And so this next several verses here, I think, are very, very important for us. To keep going forward, keep growing. Look what he says there in verse number 5. He says, and besides this, giving all diligence, and we talked about that. Don't take this lightly. You've got to apply yourself Giving all diligence, add to your faith, and then he gives this list here: add to your faith virtue, okay? And to virtue, what? Knowledge, we went through this last week, and to knowledge, temperance, that's self-control, and to temperance, patience. And the patience, godliness, and to godliness brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness charity Now I want to zero in on that first step in Christian growth. Faith is the foundation. We talked about that. Add to your faith. He doesn't say He doesn't say add faith to something. That's the beginning point. My faith in Christ. My faith in God's word. My faith in God. Now I have that in place. Now I need to add to that, and the first thing he mentions is virtue. So that's what I want to look at tonight. Father, I ask you to bless our study of this subject of virtue And I pray that we would be a virtuous church. I pray that would be an evident characteristic of our church, virtuous. We need you to help us do that, Lord. I pray that our homes would be virtuous. That our we as individuals would have would live virtuous lives. And so teach us, I pray tonight, Lord, what that means. Help us to understand it And then help us to apply it to our lives and make it part of our character, part of our lifestyle. So I yield myself to you again tonight. I yield my will, Lord, to your will. I pray my will would melt into your will for this message. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body and pray you'd just take me, Holy Spirit of God, and fill me and speak through me. And I pray we'd leave here a little more virtuous maybe than what we were when we came in. At least a better understanding of it. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now we started this last week, and I never really got to the point of the message last week. We looked at some um uh preliminary things, introductory thoughts. One of the things I pointed out last week, just to get us up to speed. was about spiritual growth, and that's what this is all about. Adding to your faith virtue and the virtue knowledge and down the list. It's growing spiritually And spiritual growth, if you remember, I said four things about spiritual growth. I think they bear repeating. One is spiritual growth takes time. It doesn't just happen overnight. Everybody understand that, right? It doesn't just happen overnight. It takes time. Say, well, I'm not the Christian I ought to be. Listen, you just stay faithful. Just keep doing what you know you should do. You'll grow. You'll grow. You'll get stronger. Sometimes I got a young man I'm working with now helping just got saved. And uh he'll say stuff, boy, I'm struggling with this and and this. I say, you just stay faithful. God will come through. You just stay faithful. So it takes time. Number two, we said that spiritual growth requires effort You can't just sit back on the sofa, drink iced tea, and watch gunsmoke all day long and think you're going to grow spiritually, right? Amen Or any other show as far as that goes. Um that was a targeted shot right there to no, I'm kidding. Uh but uh But it takes effort. If I'm going to grow spiritually, I've got to put in time and effort. Amen? Then we said, number three, we said spiritual growth requires obedience A disobedient Christian is not a growing Christian. I don't know. There's a lot of things I don't know, but one thing I do know, a disobedient Christian is not a growing Christian. I've got to obey God. I've got to do what he says. And then we said, if you remember, thirdly, spiritual growth begins with faith. Begins with faith. And so he gives this list here, and by the way, and I think I may have mentioned this last week, but there's a lot of lists in the Bible. Has anybody noticed that? It's like God is a I don't know how you are fellas, but for me, if I have the things I need to do that week, I'll jot them down. I have a little One of the calendars we use, I use it constantly, but uh I'll put down in my calendar stuff I need to do that week or that day. And I like to do bullet lists. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I just have that bullet list and I'll check them all. Check, check, check. And I think God has bullet lists. Now Galatians, he talks about the works of the flesh. Do, do, do, do, do. You have a list. Fruit of the Spirit. Da. A list. Qualifications for a pastor. Da da da. A list. Check them all. And he gives a list here that we read here. And again, I think I said this. I'm trying to pick up where I left off last week. But the interesting thing here is he begins with faith and he ends with charity. With the list in between there. The last principle, the last attribute that he says that we need to add to our faith is charity, is love for one another And that tells me this, that the ultimate end in Christian growth is to love like God loves. Charity is God's love in action. It's unconditional love in action. And I want our church, and I think we are to some extent, but we've certainly not attained, I want our church to be a church of charity. I often thought if I was going to rename a church or start a church, I would call it Charity Baptist Church. I think that's a good name. So let's look at this virtue, this uh this characteristic of virtue. He says, add to your faith virtue. Number one I want us to consider the definition of virtue. What does he mean when he says, add to your faith virtue? What in the world is he talking about? Well, the word virtue is used five times in the New Testament in one form or another. It's mentioned throughout the Old Testament. Psalms or Proverbs 31, of course, talks about the virtuous woman So the Bible, it's a good Bible word. So the word virtue, the simple definition for the word virtue is this, and you've probably heard this definition before, if you've heard much Bible preaching. The simple definition is what? Anyone want to take a shot? See if you're on the same page with me. Moral excellence. Who said that? Zach. Moral excellence. You want to write in the margin of the Bible beside that word virtue for future reference. You want to write down moral excellence That would be a good simple definition of the word virtue. Now there's a whole lot more to that word than simply moral excellence. And by moral excellence, you have the idea of doing right excellently. Being very good at doing what is right. Virtue. But there's a lot more to it. That word virtue also has the idea Of strength and courage or power. In one place in the Gospels, Jesus is pressing through the crowd And this is an interesting study if you ever pay attention when you're reading through the Gospels. Anytime Jesus was out and about, there was massive crowds around him. How many people ever noticed that? Massive crowds. And if you pay attention to what's happening, there is mass confusion. People are coming and going and pushing and shoving. And in one case, we have the account where Jesus is making his way to the home of a man who has, if I remember correctly, a daughter who is very ill on her deathbed He asked Jesus to come and heal her. Jesus is making his way. And if you read between the lines a little bit, there's pushing and shoving and he's pressing his way through the crowds. People are coming in. And a woman touches the hem of his garment. Remember that? And Jesus stops and he says, Who touched me? And the disciples are incredulous. They say, what do you mean? Who touched you? Man, but there's pushing and shoving. There's probably 40 people touched you. And he goes, nope, somebody touched me. And he says, I felt virtue go out from me Healing power. As the Son of God, as God in the flesh, he sensed that healing power that only God has Go out from him, and he refers to it as virtue. It has the idea of strength To do, has this idea, the strength and the power and the ability to do that which is good for another person. Virtue It also included in that definition how it's used other places and other ways. It has the idea of courage to do what is right. The courage to do what is good for another person. I don't know if he I'm sure most of, but not all of us, have been around long enough to know that sometimes it takes courage to do what's right. Sometimes it takes a little bit of fortitude to be able to stand and do that which is good, that which is right, that which is best. for others around me and that which honors God. And by the way, the way our world is going, it takes more and more courage all the time. To stand up and do right. But that's what virtue is. The courage, the fortitude, the determination That in spite of opposition, in spite of ridicule, in spite of uh of um uh opposition, I'm going to do what's right. I'm gonna tell the truth when everyone else is telling a lie. I'm going to be kind when everyone else is unkind. I'm going to be forgiving when everyone else is bitter. Courage. Courage. I thought of this as I was studying the definition of the word virtue, uh, with the idea of courage doing right. In spite of uh opposition and the cur courage to do right. I thought of an event that took place when I was in seventh grade Now, I don't know why this stands out, but it was a factor when I went through about five months of intense conviction leading up to my salvation. This event that took place in seventh grade stuck in my mind And was a factor. It influenced me. We were in class. I don't remember what class it was. There's a lot of things I don't remember about it. But one thing I do remember, we were sitting in there and it was uh something was going on But there was a person in the front of the class had a pack of cigarettes. And they were wanting to get that pack of cigarettes back to a person in the back of the class. And so when the teacher won't look, one person they turned back, and I'm sitting over here, I'm watching this whole thing, and uh the the person in the front that had the cigarettes would watch the teacher when the teacher turned their back They'd reach to the person behind them and say, Pass this back. So that person took the pack of cigarettes and they're waiting for the teacher not to look And as soon as the teacher turned around, then they would hand it back to the person behind them. Everybody vision picture this in your mind what's taking place. It got about halfway back to the class. It was a large class. Got about halfway back And there was a young man there, and I can't remember his name. I couldn't tell you, I can see his face a little bit in my mind. And he had a testimony of a godly Christian boy. And the one person in front of him turned back to him and said, Pass these cigarettes back to the person in the back. And he just did that. I can still see him. I'm sitting there, I can still see him. He went like this. And the person in front of them said, Come on. The person behind them said, You idiot! Setting about and before you know it, there was a whole group of kids around him all over that boy. Calling him names, saying awful things. Saying terrible things about him. And to this day, I can still see him standing there, shoulders back, back straight. I'm not doing it. I am not touching them What that is? Virtue. I was a virtuous young man. He said, I'm not touching that. I'm not a part of this. Would you agree with me? Young people, would you agree with me? That takes some courage That's hard. Everybody's giving you a hard time. Everybody calling you names, mocking you, mad at you. But he was more concerned about doing right than he was about being popular And that is virtue. The church, the history of the church, is marked by men and women of virtue. Men and women who would die before they do wrong. I challenge you to read some church history, and now with the internet, you can get some tremendous accounts of our Baptist forefathers Who by virtue stood for the truth of God's Word. And many of them were martyred, burned at the state by the Catholic Church because they dared. To give the Word of God out to the everyday people. Torture, limbs pulled asunder. Horrific, horrific, violent deaths And they would rather die than do wrong. That is virtue. Virtue. Peter says to these believers who have been very virtuous, who have stood faithful to the Lord even to the extent of being beaten and losing their jobs, run out of their homes, catered by their community. And he says, you have faith in God, you've proven your faith, and add to that faith virtue. They knew exactly what he was talking about. Virtue. Um, I think about uh and actually is talking this morning after the service. We have some folks in our church, we have a I think a good number of folks in our church that have that have and do display biblical virtue in various degrees. For instance, I want to challenge you, and I, and these people will be mad at me for saying this. But I want to challenge you to watch on a Sunday morning the folks that come in, they park their car, and they get out of their car, and they've got a walker. Or they're having to hold on to things. And they're coming into church in pain. And they're coming in. They got a little walker behind them, or somebody's holding their arm. And they come in. Anybody, anybody picturing anybody? Notice anybody? And these are folks, these are folks that have every excuse in the world To sit at home and watch church on TV. But they want to be faithful. They want to be faithful. And it's very discomfort. It's very inconvenient. But brother, I I'm telling you we got folks in our church, and I'm not trying to butter you up. If you're getting buttered up, just stick around. I'll tear you down here in a little bit. Don't worry about that. We'll get on gunspoke again here in a little bit. But um I I guarantee you, I believe, I sincerely believe, and I thought as I was studying this, I believe we got some folks in our church would crawl on their hands and knees into church to be faithful to God. You know what that is? Virtue. Virtue. I'm going to do right. I'm going to be faithful. Regardless of what it costs me, regardless of what people think, I'm going to do right. I'm telling you, our country needs some Christians with virtue again Or stand up and do right, and we're going to stand up and be faithful, and regardless of what this world says. Want to be faithful to the Lord. Having virtue is not talking about doing right. It's doing right. Having virtue is not just preaching about doing right, like I'm doing now, but it's going out those doors back there into our community and actually doing right. It's not just singing about doing right, and again I'm just so grateful for our choir. Phenomenal song this morning and the songs they sing. I love that song and revival they sing every now and then. And I thank God for it. But listen, virtue is not just singing about doing right, it's actually doing right Regardless of what the cost is, regardless of what the world thinks of us, I'm telling you, we have got to get past worrying about what the world thinks of us. So the definition of virtue, the simple definition, is moral excellence. Carry that out, it means courage, the strength, the determination to do what is right, to be a blessing to others, to help others. regardless of uh what this old world thinks or what it costs me. So number one, the definition of virtue. Second of all, I want us to consider that Responsibility of virtue. Come back to our verse here, verse number five. And he says, Besides this, giving all diligence, and he has a little word there: add to your faith virtue Add to your faith. I underlined that little word add because it's an interesting word. Sometimes just a word, we assume we know what it means. We just gloss over it. But I look them up I got looking up that little word add there, and man, there's some teaching to it. There's something we can learn from that word add. Add to your faith virtue. It means this. Get this. Furnish at your own expense. So he says, listen, add to your faith virtue. He's saying this, you are the one responsible. For being virtuous. You have to do that. You're the one responsible. You know what has crept into our thinking in a lot of ways, and it's been it's been prevalent in our society for decades now And that is this: blaming other people for our bad behavior. Blaming others for our lack of virtue. Blaming others for the absence of morality and righteousness in our lives and our actions. Well, if you were raised the way I was raised, you'd know why I stole from the store. You know why I'm a liar You were raised the way I was raised. Listen to me. I know how we're raised has an impact on us. That is tremendous influence. But at some point we become responsible for our own actions And if I'm going to tell the truth, I've got to take responsibility and start telling the truth. Add to your faith virtue. At your own expense, your own effort, you have to decide, you have to make sure this happens. If I'm a virtuous man, if I'm going to be a virtuous pastor, if I'm going to be a virtuous Christian, it is my responsibility to make my actions be virtuous. And it's true for all of us. Same thing true for all of us. Now, if a child has a parent that teaches them virtue, Parent that invests in them some training and mentoring and shows an example of virtue, that child's got a great advantage, amen or not. Listen, young people, if you've got good, godly parents, you ought to be on your knees every single day and thank God for that. If you don't have virtuous parents, you can still be a virtuous person. You've got the Holy Spirit dwelling within you, you've got the Word of God, and you've got a church that stands behind you 120%. Am I right, church? If a young person determines to do right, we're for them. Man, we're behind them. Wives? You're going to be a virtuous wife? It's up to you. You say, well, if you knew my husband, well, some cases I do know your husband. He's a knucklehead. I'll give you that. But that does not excuse you for not being a virtuous wife. Preacher, if you knew my wife, you would uh know why I'm a knucklehead. Um some of the cases I know your wife and I ain't going there no matter what. You listen I ain't touching that. No But regardless of what your wife is, it's your responsibility to be a virtuous husband. Are you with me? Now listen, God didn't call me to tickle ears. God called me to preach the word of God and challenge us to do right and myself. And it's our responsibility. Add, you, at your own expense, by your own effort, you're responsible for the one doing right. And quit blaming the Democrats. And quit blaming everybody else. I stand up. Here's the th- I learned a lesson years ago and it has helped me, and I've not lived up to it, I'll tell you that. But I learned a lesson. When I stand before the judgment seat of Christ, and I am going to, as every other Christian is, I'm going to give an account for myself. I'm not giving an account for my wife. I'm not giving an account for my kids or my parents or my church members. I give an account for myself. But how did I live? Was I virtuous? Well nobody in my family wants to do right. Well then you still do right. Nobody on the job, everybody on the job's a liar. Well, you still tell the truth. That's virtue. It's my responsibility. The responsibility of virtue. And then the priority of virtue. And this has really struck me. And I noticed this years ago as I was reading through here, many, many years ago. I noticed this, the order that is given here Add to your faith, and the very first thing he says is virtue. And then he says, knowledge and temperance and patience and godliness and brotherly kind of And he goes down the list. But the very first thing he says, and I believe by design, is virtue That tells me in Christian life and in spiritual growth, virtue is a high, high priority. In fact, and I can't, I don't have time to develop this, but um I don't believe I can have the knowledge of God that I ought to have if I don't have virtue. Jesus said, and I don't have the reference on the top of my head, but Jesus said in one place, he says, Ye shall know of the doctrine if you do whatsoever I tell you. You know what he's saying? You do right, and you'll learn what's you'll learn doctrine. Add to your faith virtue. That's priority. Doing right is priority. I'll never get to the charity at the end of the list. If I don't first of all put virtue in place, if I don't get doing right in place, very first determination for growing as a Christian is Virtue. Before knowledge and all others, virtue has to be in place. Um now here's what we do, and this is what struck me many, many years ago, and we still do it and You know, but a person gets saved, we want to disciple them. How many people know what I mean by that? Disciple them What do we do? We get a new believer, or even down in the children with the adults. I have a discipleship program. I'm going through with a couple guys right now. What does our discipleship program consist of? Well, if you're familiar with it, some of you have been through it, it consists of giving them knowledge Here's a Bible study, look these verses up, learn what these verses say. Is that bad? No But that's the first thing we do. They get faith, they put their faith in Christ, and the very first thing we do, we add to their faith knowledge We want to teach them about the Bible. We want to teach them doctrines and principles of all this. And that's good. Please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I'm not saying we shouldn't do that. But I wonder if we aren't missing a step. I wonder when someone gets saved if the first thing we ought to do is teach them to do what is right. Teach them what virtue is. Alright, you're a child of God now. You got saved. You're born into the family of God. First thing you need to do, start doing right. Start telling the truth. Stop lying and start telling the truth. Stop stealing stuff and work. Quit being a lazy sluggard. Work for your income. Now I'm not saying we should say it that way, maybe a little nicer. But um I'm awfully brave up here, but when I'm down there it's not. You follow what I'm saying? And now we need to give him knowledge, but he puts virtue before knowledge. And so I believe that's where preaching like this comes in. I think that's where Bible preaching comes in. Get them in church. Get them under preaching And get challenged to do right and turn from their old ways and put off those old robes of unrighteousness and walk in righteousness Ephesians, uh chapter the end of chapter 5 there, and he just goes through. They you that stole, steal no more. And so the priority of doing right, one of the chief characteristics, I hope you'll get this, one of the chief characteristics of a growing and fruitful Christian is virtue. I got saved and again God gets all the glory at this, but God changed my life so fin dramatically And I wish sometime, I don't know if happened, but if mom ever comes and visits, I wish he'd ask her about what God did in my life. And not I listen, none of this praise, and you know me well enough, none of this praise goes to me. God did this for whatever reason, I can't explain it. But He changed my life And we were off at hunting camp. We go up to central Pennsylvania every fall. We go up there for about a week or ten days. We go deer hunting. Now I got saved in May of 79. That October or I guess it was December, right? Thanksgiving. We went up to hunt and camp for about 10 days. Dad took us up I was a different man. I mean, nothing about me was the same. And the cook there, I forget her first name, her last name was Keller. And she went to my dad. My dad told me that evening, she came to him and she said, What in the world has happened to Denny? They called me Denny and um what has happened to him? And sh and my dad said, Well, he got saved. He's born again. God's changed his life. And she goes, he's so different. I don't know anything about this, but later. Now, again, the glory goes to God, but you know what? God changed the words I used. He changed the attitude I had. He changed how I behaved, we would sneak out. I can't go up down to the bars and s do drugs and drink Now sitting there and reading my Bible before I go to bed again, it's not about me, it's about God did. But the point I'm trying to make is this. She didn't say to dad, boy, then he sure knows a lot of Bible. She didn't say, oh boy, he sure is a man, he's uh God of Bible knowledge. No. She says, man, he's different. He's doing right when once he did wrong. You follow what I'm saying? That's the beginning point of growing. And I shouldn't have used myself, I don't mean to do that. But that's where, that's the chief characteristic of a growing Christian, they're starting to do what's right Regardless of what people think. I read about a gal, I got her I got the news article here, it wasn't too long ago Her name's Vicky. She came to California from Africa, country, uh Kenya or somewhere in Africa. She lived out in California. She was had her family. Her husband died. She was in her late 60s, I believe. Her husband died and she lost her income and she was just struggling to get by So she was going to move down near closer where her son was so he could help take care of her, but she didn't have any money. She gave all her furniture and everything away where she was living, where her husband had died. She gave all that away and she went down and she got this little apartment she could barely afford, but she needed furniture. And so she looked on, and I'm not real familiar with this, some of you might be, but she looked on a lit a Craigslist. I don't know who Craig is, and I don't know what's on his list. But she looked on those lists and apparently there was some furniture that was being given away for free. Whoever can use it. So she called the guy up and So he says, yeah, he says, um I got it. He said later he was a little worried that she would get it for free and then sell it and try and make a profit off But he went and visited her. He said, I saw her house was empty. I probably brought the furniture for her house was empty is obviously a legitimate need. And so he gave it all to her and he says, by the way, I've got some utensils, and he just loaded her up. She was there a couple days and she was arranging the furniture a little bit and she sat down and I have a picture of her sitting in the sofa. She sat down on this kind of love seat type thing, and she felt something in the cushion. And she said, I just there was something in there it wasn't right. So she got rooting around and there was a little zip, there was a cover on the cushion, and she unzipped it and reached in there and she thought there was like a broken spring or something in there. And she reached in there, she felt some paper, and she pulled out envelopes, manila envelopes. I counted, they had a picture of it, I counted about eight or ten or twelve of them Every one of them was packed full of cash. There was thirty-six thousand dollars in cash in that sofa. Now here's a poor widowed woman. Nobody in the world knows that money's there. What do you think she did? She got on the phone, she called the fellow that gave it to her. She goes, sir, you need to come down here There's something in this sofa you probably should have. The fellow came down, she laid it out, they opened it up, counted. Here that furniture was his uncle's furniture that had died. He was giving away. He had no idea that money was in there. And she says, I need to give it back to you. This is not mine. This is not right. She made this statement. It's in the newspaper article. She made this statement. God has been so good to me, it would be wrong for me not to give this back. You know what that is? Virtue. Doing right. By the way, the fellow was so grateful he gave a chunk of it back to her. And she thanked the Lord for it. How many people here know Jesus Christ as your Savior? Amen? That's faith. Now add to that faith what? Virtue. Let's go out and do right this week. Amen? Let's go out and be a blessing. Let's tell the truth. Let's be honest. Let's work hard. Let's love our spouse. Let's raise our killed children. Let's add to our faith virtue. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Help us to take heed to this instruction Peter gave to those believers many, many years ago. Our heads above their eyes closed. How many how many folks would say, Preacher, and this might be a little personal? I don't know. It's between you and God But with our heads bowed, eyes closed, you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I need to add some virtue to my faith. I need to work on this a little better. I need to be a little stronger in my commitment to do right. Any like that? By the uplifted hand, sure Probably all of us need it. It's part of spiritual growth. Maybe at an old-fashioned altar on a Sunday night in a Baptist church, kneel on an altar and say, God teach me to be virtuous. Help me. Help me. I believe God will do it. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.