Teaching type thing, maybe rather than preaching. I want to talk about sharing our personal testimony and um Uh talk about that a little bit. One thing I wanted to testify though a little earlier when we had our testimonies is something that's been a real blessing to me the last couple weeks are uh young preachers that God's raising up uh to pastor churches. I was there in Coatesville. Preacher's the young man there. He's only been there since last May. He's taken his church. He's 33 years old. I'm telling you, the guy's just doing a good job. He's teaching the Word of God, their soul in him, they're reaching new people, and that was a real blessing. And then Brother Moyer last night, just talking to him and what God's doing. That guy has a real vision for that little town of Bedford up there. And he's got plans in place. He's telling me, I think I found a bus. We're gonna s a little uh a bus. We're gonna start a bus route And uh he goes, I don't have any workers, but I'm gonna drive it and we're gonna go pick up people and bring them in and just neat to see his enthusiasm. And his real vision for what's going on. It stirred my heart. Maybe wish I was a young preacher again and uh and to get at it. But uh I you know there's a little hope for the future. We see all this dire circumstance But God's raising up folks around the country and uh doing things for God and that was a real blessing. Acts chapter four, if you would, turn there, giving our personal testimony Acts chapter 4, and I want us to notice verse number 20. Acts chapter 4, verse 20. Get my mic turned on here. This is Peter and John. And actually come up to verse 12, verse 13. I like this. It says, Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John. Now look at the next statement. And they perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men. I thought, well, I fit that bill. Anybody ever feel that way? They saw that Peter and John were unlearned and ignorant men. They marveled and they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. Peter and John had a powerful influence, not because they were really intelligent, not because they had this great education, but they had a powerful influence because they spent time with Jesus Christ. They were real close to him. Listen, we need to understand how important our personal walk with the Lord is. That is a But uh um then come down, look at verse number eighteen. I just want to pull some things out. Then the Pharisees got all worked up about Peter and John They took note, they'd been with Jesus. And then look at verse 18. It says, And they called them and commanded them not to speak at all, nor teach in the name of Jesus. I put in the margin of my Bible there, Satan's great commission. That's Satan's great commission, isn't it? Don't preach the gospel. Don't speak in the name of Jesus. Don't advance the gospel of Christ. That's his commission. But Peter and John answered and said unto them, whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken to you more than unto God, judge ye. Now look at this, this is what I'm getting at. For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. I want to talk to you about sharing our personal testimony. Let's pray. Father, I pray you'd bless and teach us tonight We want to be an influence in the world. Lord is a blessing to have little Evan come up and say, I just want to see people be saved. And God give us all that vision, that burden, to get the gospel to everybody in the world. And Lord, here's an avenue that we have, all of us have. that you can use to influence others for the Lord Jesus Christ. Please fill me with your Holy Spirit and teach us and help us tonight, I ask in Jesus' name Amen. Our personal testimony. I think the personal testimony is one of the most exciting ways that a person can share Christ with other people. Giving our personal testimony. It's one of the easiest ways to share Christ with other people. Simply giving my personal testimony. I like to make reference to the woman at the well. Remember she got saved? And she had set down her water pots and she went back into the city and she said, come and see the Christ. He's told me everything I've ever done. And all she did was run in that city. She had no Bible training. She had no m verses memorized. She'd never been through a soul-winning class. She press she never sat in a church service and heard a sermon preached She had been saved a few moments, maybe a couple hours at the most, and she goes in and a ton of people get saved simply because she told them what Christ had done for her Now that's the simplest thing in the world. A child can share their personal testimony. A shuddin can share their personal testimony over the phone or in writing a letter. It is one of the simplest, most effective ways to share the gospel. You don't have to be highly trained. I don't have to be a Bible scholar. Yet it is an effective, effective way To have other people come to know Jesus Christ as Savior. Now, what do we mean by personal testimony? My personal testimony is not me sharing with others what Jesus did for someone else Right? It's not me telling, hey, I know this guy that God did this, this, and this for him. That's not personal testimony. Sharing my personal testimony is not going through the plan of salvation with someone and saying, here's point A Here's point B. We're teaching it our soul winning class at 5 30. It's not going through a presentation of the gospel. That's not what a personal testimony is. And those things are fine I think it's good to tell folks what God is doing in other people's lives. And of course we want to be able to go through the gospel and share it with people. But telling, giving my personal testimony is simply this Telling someone else what Jesus Christ has done for me. That's all it is. And that is a powerful, powerful way. to bring other people the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, I found, I was talking, Eric and I were talking before the service. I found that most people are willing to talk about spiritual things If you go about it the right way, most people are interested, most people are willing to talk about the Lord and their spiritual life. Now, everybody has ideas out there, but think about this Every single person has a God-shaped vacuum in their heart and life. Every single person has an innate need of God. Thus, every person I meet, I know down in their heart and soul, there is a concern about spiritual things because there's that vacuum there. And if I would just be willing to engage people, if I would just be willing and maybe work out a little bit, talking to other people about the Lord Jesus Christ, about spiritual things I found that most people, if you go about it right, most people are more than glad to talk about the Lord. And I found uh we found in last this past year asking people their opinion about things. Boy, that opens doors up. Everybody likes to give their opinion. And just ask folks, well what you got a church? What do you think about this evolution creation thing. What do you think about heaven and hell? What do you think about? And uh boy, that opens the door. And if I can engage people to talk about the things of God Just open that door. I really don't have to be a Bible scholar. I really don't have to be highly trained. I can just, once I engage them, I can just share with them what Jesus Christ has done for me. And that's a powerful, powerful way of bringing other people to Christ. I have a little outline here. Let me give it to you. And I have some things I really want to encourage you to jot down. I think it will help in sharing our gossip our testimony here in a little bit. First of all, my first point is the power of a personal testimony. The power of a personal testimony. You read through the book of Acts. The book of Acts is a fascinating book And you read through there, and you know what you find? You find the disciples, you find Peter, you find Paul, just simply sharing with other people what Jesus Christ had done for them. Paul repeatedly gives his salvation testimony over and over and over. You find Paul in synagogues Telling those Jews how Jesus Christ appeared to him on the road to Damascus and how he would been fighting the Lord and killing Christians and Jesus Christ appeared to him and and uh blinded him, then opened his eyes and he saw who Jesus was and Jesus uh changed his life and gave him a new direction in life. And he's sharing that in synagogues. He's sharing his personal testimony in marketplaces, in prison cells, in courtrooms And there's amazing results. You find these hard-hearted Pharisaic being convicted when they hear Paul's testimony and they're coming to Jesus Christ being saved, you find political leaders coming under great conviction Paul stands in the courtroom, tells them what Jesus Christ means to him, what he did for him, and they come under great convictions. Come over with me, if you would, to Acts 26. Back towards the end of the book. Paul is standing in a courtroom Uh and he's test and he's uh giving his defense of sorts to King Agrippa. Of course the Jews falsely accused him of bringing a uh Gentile into the temple, uh caused a ruckus, and he goes through these series of uh mock trials really and uh he's defending himself and uh Paul as his manner was as he's defending himself works in his personal testimony. And in verse number 9 of Acts 26, he starts off. He says, he's speaking to King Agrippa. He's here in the courtroom. They're going to make judgment on him And uh he says this. He says, I verily thought within myself, Paul speaking here, that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. Which thing I also did in Jerusalem. And many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests when they were put to death I gave my voice against them. I punished them off in every synagogue and compelled them to blaspheme. And being exceedingly mad against them, I persecuted them even unto strange cities Now what's he doing? First thing we have here is Paul is giving his testimony as to what he was before he came to Christ. Man, he hated God. He hated Christians. He hated the church. He wanted to destroy them. He wanted to kill them. He wanted to hurt them. So he's giving his testimony. Then he goes on. Whereupon, as I went to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priest, at midday, O king, I saw in the way a light from heaven above, the brightness Above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me, and them which journeyed with me. Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. And I said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I'm Jesus, whom thou persecutest. But arise and stand upon thy feet, for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose to make thee a minister and a witness, both of these things which thou hast seen And of those things in which I will appear unto thee, delivering thee from the people and from the Gentiles unto whom I now I send thee, to open their eyes, to turn them from darkness to light, from the power of Satan unto God that they may receive forgiveness of sins, inheritance among them which are sanctified. And he goes on. And he's sharing his testimony. He tells King Agrippa, this is the way I was before I was bitter against Christ. I was bitter against the church. I was bitter against the gospel of Jesus Christ. But Christ appeared unto me, and I realized who he was, and I put my faith in him in so many words. And he's changed my life, King Agrippa. And now, rather than persecuting Christians, now I'm advancing the gospel. He's given me a whole new purpose in life. He's given a whole new direction in life. He's completely changed my life. Paul's giving his testimony. And look what happens. Look at verse 24. And as he thus spake for himself, Festus said with a loud voice, this is Festus, thou art beside thyself Much learning doth make thee mad. What's Festus saying here? What's he doing? He's mocking them I think he's under conviction. And he hears what Christ did for Paul, and he responds, You're crazy You've learned all this, you're completely out of your head. But come down, look at verse number 28. Then Agrippa said unto Paul, he heard his testimony, he heard Paul tell him What Christ did for him and how he changed his life, look what Agrippa says. Paul, almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. I often wondered, how different would the story, the book of Acts be if Agrippa had gotten saved? How different would the church, the development of the church, go if Agrippa had gotten saved? Paul's testimony was powerful. Here you have one of the most powerful political leaders in that region, and he is that close to getting saved. And all Paul did was share his testimony with him. Tell them what Christ is. I'm telling you, the sh our personal testimony is a powerful, powerful tool in bringing people to Christ. Now what makes our testimony so powerful? I put this down. It's powerful because it commands authority. It commands authority. What do I mean by that? I might not be able to answer all the theological questions people have, but I know what Christ has done for me. I know what trusting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, as given in the Bible, I know how that has changed my life. And I can stand before someone and I can speak with authority what Jesus Christ has done for me. And I tell you, that carries a lot of weight. I like in John chapter 9, you had the blind man, Jesus healed the blind man, and remember the Pharisees got all worked up about that And uh they're going on and they're questioning him. Uh is he is uh they're saying to the blind man, uh who is this Jesus that healed you? Uh uh uh is he of God? Is he a prophet? And the blind man stumbles and he makes this statement. Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not. But this one thing I do know. I once was blind, but now I see. And those old Pharisees could not say a word against it. And that uneducated, biblically ignorant, in many ways blind man Stymied those Pharisees because he could speak with authority and say, I was blind, but Jesus Christ made me see. And you can take the hardest atheist, you can make take the most devout evolutionist, you can take the most hardened religious cult person And you can stand with authority and say, I did what the Bible said. I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, and He forgave all my sins. He changed my life, and it commands authority. Somebody's arrested for some crime, and they declare themselves to be innocent, but the prosecutor brings a witness on stand And that witness steps up and he says, I'll tell you exactly what I saw in this instance. And that witness tells that courtroom and that jury what he saw under per under threat of perjury, he tells what he saw, he gives his testimony and what he observed, and that carries tremendous authority in that courtroom. And I'm telling you, when you and I tell other people, when we engage them, and are just simply willing to talk to them a little bit and then have the opportunity to share our gospel, what Christ has done for us, that commands a lot of authority in their minds. And they may say, Well, I don't know, I don't agree with all that, but boy, he sure has a testimony. He has something he uh he can tell me what Christ did for him. So one of the reasons it's so powerful is because our testimony Commands authority. I put this down, it's powerful because our testimony communicates authenticity You know, I've read a lot of amazing uh illustrations and I use them here in church sometimes and sometimes I'll read about a uh story about somebody and something that happens and in the back of my mind I'm wondering, you know, is that really that sounds Pretty sensational. I don't know if that's really uh that really happened that way. But when I share my personal testimony, I know it's authentic. It's the real deal. I'm not sharing some abstract truth, but I'm sharing a biblical truth that I have experienced for myself I believe that Romans 10, 13, that says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I believe that is verse is true simply because God said it. Amen? I believe whosoever calls in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that person will be saved. I believe it because the Bible's true, but I also believe it because I've experienced it myself personally. And it is authentic to me. And I can sit down with someone, maybe I'm winning souls, and I can sit down with someone. I can show that verse from Romans 10. 13. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I can save that person. Listen, that's true because God's word. But listen to me. That's true because I did that, and Jesus Christ saved me And that has a powerful, powerful truth. Not because it's something that's in the Bible, and that's powerful in itself But if I can testify to that, if I can give personal testimony that that verse has been true in my life, it becomes uh it's very authentic and it's powerful. I believe we can communicate more clearly and more persuasively to other people that which we have personally experienced. Somebody says, hey, there's a new restaurant in town. Is that restaurant any good? Yeah, I've heard it's really good. Alright, that's a reference. What about if I say, yeah, you know what? I've been there, I've ate the food, it is fantastic. Ooh, you've been there? You ate it? Yeah. It's good. Oh man, I'm gonna go. You follow what I'm saying? There's much more authenticity there. I'm speaking firsthand Oh, hey, I heard that uh be uh these Christians are crazy. No, they're not crazy. I accepted Christ became a Christian. He's changed my life. It's great. You ought to be a Christian. What? You're a Christian? Yeah. How'd you become a Christian? Let me tell you And when it's my own personal testimony telling what Christ has done for me in saving me has a tremendous authenticity there That people can relate to. So, commands authority. You see, you've seen what the gospel does firsthand? Yep, I've experienced it. Christ saved me It communicates authenticity. It's the real deal, huh? Yeah, it's the real deal. I can tell you how Christ saved me. But I put this down also. It's powerful because it connects with people individually. In our hearts, all human beings are the same. You know I found out we were down in the Dominican Republic, we've been in other countries, Kazakhstan, other places, Mongolia. You know what I found out in my little bit, a little experience traveling in missions? What I found out is human beings are the same everywhere. They just talk different languages. They're saying the same thing. They're feeling the same thing, they're thinking the same thing, for the most part, they're just using different languages to express it And I found that when I share what Christ has done for me, spiritual things that God has done for me, it connects for other people because everybody is a spiritual being. Everybody has a need for God in their life. I'll tell you what's killing folks. People are trying to live without God, and it doesn't work. And so if I can come along and say, hey, you know, Jesus Christ has come in my life. I've accepted him as my Savior, and He's done these powerful things in my life. And I share with others what Christ has done for me, something down inside their heart and soul. connects with that and boy they have a powerful influence there. Um Pat and I, think about Pat and I were visiting out on Glendale Bridge Road. Remember that atheist guy we came across there? We got talking with that guy and I'm not the greatest debater and stuff, but we tried to share what we knew and and uh we were kind of coming at him from two two angles, both shooting at him. And uh you know, finally the guy said, I don't I said to him, I said, I said, I don't believe for one minute you think that you believe that all you are is flesh and bone You know in your heart and soul there's more to you than just physical body. And he said something, well, I know there's more there than that. You know what I think that was? That is a spiritual need in his heart and life, awareness that there is something beyond himself. And when we share what God has done, when I share how the Lord Jesus Christ met my greatest need in my life The need of salvation that connects with other people. Now, whether they accept it or not, whether they respond to or not, may or may not But boy, they can relate to the fact that we all have spiritual needs. So the personal testimony, it may seem very simple. I just tell them people how I got saved. Yeah. That's all the woman at the well did Just a very simple hey come out this man told me everything and she was even exaggerating. Jesus never told her everything she ever did in her life. She was exaggerating, but she simply told them what she knew Christ had done for her And the whole crowd gets saved. It's a very simple thing. It seems very simple, but never underestimate the power of a personal testimony of what Christ has done for us. Number one, I put this, the power of a personal testimony. Number two, the procedure For sharing my personal testimony. Now here's why I want to encourage you. I almost got a pack of three by five cards. I was going to give them out to everybody to have you write this down. But uh maybe in your fly leaf or somewhere, uh what are the steps that I that could go through? in sharing my testimony that makes it even more effective. It's a very simple thing. And by the way, you can just share what Christ has done for you, as simple as it may be And uh I believe that's very uh can have a powerful effect. But if we give it a little thought and we can present it in a specific specific procedure, it may be even more effective And so let me give you three stages, so to speak, of sharing our personal testimony that I think will be helpful for you. Number one When I'm sharing my personal testimony, I want to share what I was like before Christ saved me. What was my life before Christ saved me? We saw that there in Acts 26 when Paul was talking to King Agrippa. And Festus. He said, This is what I was like before. I persecuted Christians, I killed them, I meant to do I thought to do them great harm I pursued him into prison, and he's telling him how bitter he was and what his life was eat up with anger and rejection of the of the gospel. And he spent a good bit telling what his life was like before he was saved And so when I want to share my personal testimony with them, I want to tell them first of all what I was like, what my life was like before I got saved. Now let me give you a few cautions here One is I don't want to go into great detail about the sins of my life. I mentioned this before in other messages. I made that mistake before I got saved, boy, I get into all the gory details of drugs and all of that And it wasn't necessary. It didn't help in specific situations. So I want to avoid going into the great details of the sins of my life. before I was saved. Especially I lived in a very sinful lifestyle. I want to avoid glorifying the sins before I was saved. You know, years ago it was a big thing to bring in guys and they give testimony. I was a gangster, I killed all these people, and everybody's like, wow, this guy's amazing, and he got saved. I'm uh I am ashamed. Of my life before I got saved. I'm deeply ashamed of the decisions I made and the actions I took and how I lived before I got saved. That is not something I want to glory in And so when I share my testimony, I'm going to say I want to share what my life was like before I was saved, but I want to be careful. I don't want to glorify the sin. I don't want to go in the details of it What I want to do in sharing what my life was like before I got saved, I want to emphasize of what was the characteristics that are true of all unsaved people For instance, you know my background, you know my testimony, but I can share my testimony if I do it correctly, I can talk to somebody that wasn't in drugs And they have the same spiritual characteristics as an unsafe person, maybe that never did drugs, as a person that was heavily into drugs. The same thing is there, for instance. There was real emptiness in my life. There was an emptiness there. I had no purpose for living. I was just trying to do anything I could to find purpose in life, to find uh, you know, just doing my own thing. And people can relate to that. I had no idea before I was saved whether I was going to go to heaven or hell. I had no interest in the things of God. I had no concern for the Bible. I was doing my own thing, living my own life, under the judgment of God. If I'd have died, I'd no idea where I'd go. I knew that something was missing in my life. I knew that there was something in my life that was not right. And I needed God. You know, the most self-righteous person in the world. Down in their heart, they know something's missing. Most religious person in the world, down inside their heart, they know there's something missing. And I can share my testimony with folks. Let me tell you what my life was like before. You know, there was no God in my life, there was no purpose in my life. It was empty. I was guilty. I felt so guilty for my sin. Fear was there. I have a friend of mine I went to high school with. He got saved. I haven't seen him in years. But we were friends in high school. And um we graduated, went our separate ways. He became a truck driver And I got saved at the age of 19, as you know. He had gotten saved about 20, 21, 22. He'd been driving truck for several years. Years later, I was back home and dad said, Hey, did you hear about Johnny Allifer? I said, no, what's going on? He says, he got saved. He's an assistant pastor in a church somewhere. He said, you're kidding. And uh so I looked him up and went and found him. I said, What's the deal? How what happened? He says, you know, I was driving a truck across the country. Some of you truck drivers will appreciate this. I was driving a truck across the country, I'd see these horrendous wrecks And he said, I come across a wreck and there somebody was killed in that. And he says, particularly one time I don't remember where it was, he said there was a body and they had a sheet laying over it there along the road and I went by. And he said, man, I started thinking, where will I go when I die? What if I get killed out here? Where am I going to end up? He says, you know, I saw those wrecks and I realized I needed to be saved. You know, we share with people the fact that we don't know where we're going when we we didn't know where we were going when we die. Our life was empty. Boy, people relate to that And it clicked. So number one, when I'm sharing my personal testimony, I want to share what my life was like before I got saved, emphasizing the characteristics that are true about all unsaved people. Then number two, write this down. This is the procedure. One, what my life was like before I got saved. Don't glorify the sin. Don't go into great detail about the sin. But say what my life was like before I got saved. Number two, how did I come to Christ? How did I come to know Jesus Christ as Savior? I like to I recommend including three things under this thought, how I came to Christ. One, I want to mention the person God used. To influence me to trust Christ. For me, you know who that is, my daddy. My daddy lived an impeccable testimony. My daddy was a tremendous witness just in the way he lived his life. And that had a profound influence on my life. I'd come under such conviction. And so I want to mention, maybe for you it was somebody came by your house. And shared the gospel with you. Maybe for you it was a preacher, had a revival meeting or something, a preacher preached. Maybe it was a camp. Maybe it was a Sunday school teacher. I had a Sunday school teacher when I was young, and she always tells me, you need to be saved. They're in that Mennonite church, Mrs. Thelma Felton. Kids, you need to be saved. You need to accept Jesus as your Savior. This was a little kid. I was planting seeds in my life So I want to mention as I'm giving my testimony, you know I had a Christian daddy that lived the Lord, lived for the Lord and witnessed to me and told me about Jesus Then the other thing I want to mention on how I came to Christ, I want to use I want to mention the biblical truths that were used in me coming to Christ. Hey, let me say this: if you don't have Bible salvation, you don't have salvation. Nobody gets saved apart from the Bible. And so when I'm sharing my personal testimony, I want to bring that out. Somebody showed me from the Bible. How to be saved. For me, it was reading the scriptures late at night, just on my own. Maybe somebody, maybe you got saved, somebody gave you a gospel tract, and I read in that track How that I was a sinner and Jesus died for my sin and was buried and rose again. I trust him, he'd come in my life. And so what I was like before I was saved, How I came to Christ, the person that was influential in me coming to Christ, or the people, the scripture truths that God used to bring me to salvation, and then I want to include this under how I came to Christ, the decision I made to trust Christ. I think it's important that we share with people the fact that we made a decision to accept Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. There's a whole lot of people out there that know the facts of the gospel, but have never personalized the truth of the gospel and accepted Christ for themselves. And I want to communicate that that I came to the point in my life where I made the decision to accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior Now if you can give the time and place, that's good. Now some people, like my wife, she doesn't remember the exact time. She knows it was summertime, a summer revival in their church. The preacher preached on hell. She knows it was a weeknight That after the service she went home and she got saved, but she can't give you the date. She didn't write it down. She didn't have the date. But she knows that there was a specific time and place where she accepted Christ. Now, the point I want to make in here is when I'm giving my personal testimony, I want to be sure and point out the fact that I made a conscious decision to accept Christ as my Savior. So number one, what my life was like before I was saved. Number two, how I came to Christ, the person, the scriptural truths, the decision I made to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. But wait a minute, we're not done We want number three, we want to share what my life is like since I got saved. What Christ has done for me, the changes he brought about in my life Maybe the fact, you might want to share the fact, you know, after I accepted Christ as Savior, I learned that God had forgiven me for all my sins. Boy, I had a new purpose in life. Now I have assurance. I like to say this and give it my testimony. You know, God forbid if I was killed today, I know for sure I'd go to heaven. Not because I'm better than anyone else, I'm not. But because Christ promised, whoever calls on him shall be saved. And I can share what Christ has done for me since then. He's given purpose in my life, he's given meaning in my life. There's joy there. There's peace in my heart. And what Christ has done for me since I've been saved. So what are the three procedures of sharing my testimony in a way that's effective? One, what my life was like before I got saved, how I came to Christ, the person, the scriptures, the decision. I was involved in that, and then what my life is uh like since then. Boy, God's just changed my life. And I'm not perfect, but thank God I have a relationship with God. He's real in my life, he answers my prayer, he leads me in my life. And God has done a great, great thing for me. I'm telling you, those three truths, when I share with them, knowing personally that I've experienced that And I share that with other people, that has a profound effect. Paul did it over and over and over through the book of Acts, and he saw many, many people saved. Now, let me put this, number three, real quick, personalize. My personal testimony. What do I mean by that? Don't try and imitate, don't try and get your testimony to imitate somebody else's testimony. God saves us as individuals. And you are created as an individual, a unique individual. God saved you individually, personally. Don't try and be what somebody else was. Don't try and imitate someone else's testimony. You share what Christ has done for you. And every one of us are unique, and every one of us have a unique approach, a situation, maybe we found ourselves, we're all saved the same way. But we're all unique in how we came to Christ and what Christ has done for us. And let me say this. Don't ever belittle your own testimony. Now here's what I saw maybe years ago, and maybe not so much now, but I saw this throughout my ministry. Folks maybe grew up in a Christian home. They never smoked a cigarette. They never drank any liquor. They never went to a rock and roll concert. They never went to a a dance. They never smoked pot. They never did any of those things. And they got saved. And they're just as saved as the person that got saved out of all that garbage. And here's what sometimes they'll think this, well, I don't have much of a testimony. I never did all those terrible things. I was just a good kid that got saved. Hey, I'm telling you, it takes just as much of the grace of God to save a person out of that sin as it does to save a person from that sin. Follow what I'm saying? And you can share your testimony. You know, I never did those outward things, but I was just as lost as the worst wino in the s in the gutter. I was just as lost as the prostitute in the London streets of London. I was just on my way to hell as a pre- meth uh crack meth addict uh living in the inner cities. I was a good kid As a good person, I had outward righteousness, but inwardly I was just as lost. What am I saying? I'm saying personalize it Don't compare your testimony with someone else's and say, well, theirs is more dynamic than mine. It's not the dynamics of our life. It's the dynamics of the gospel that saves people. And so make it your gospel. Don't disparage your own testimony. Don't try and imitate anyone else. So this is my challenge tonight. Let's think through our testimony. Stop and give it some thought. What was my life like before I got saved? What characterized it? How did I come to Christ? Who is the person God used? God uses people to reach people. Who was the person God used to influence me? What were the scriptural truths? What about that decision I made? And now since I've been saved, what's how's my life changed? Think that thing through Maybe get a three by five card and just jot it down a little bit and practice that. And then this week go out and try and engage someone in conversation. And ask God to help you to be able to share your testimony with somebody this coming week. Maybe it's a coworker. Maybe it's somebody you come across in the market. I don't know how God would work, but I know this. I know this is true. Right now, God's Holy Spirit is working in people's hearts and lives in our community out there. Unsaved people. He's working in their lives. And if we ask God to lead us and we simply are willing to share with others what Christ has done for us, that may be all it takes for that person to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. So my challenge is think it through for your own self personally. Think that thing through, and then this week in the next seven, eight days, Ask God to send someone across your path that you can engage and that you can share with them what Christ has done for you. Would you do that? Let's ask God tonight, Lord, give me somebody this week, at least one person, that I can share my personal testimony with. And you may be, that may be all it takes for God to use To bring that person to Christ. Hey, if they don't get saved then, maybe you're planting a seed down the road. That God begins working there, and down the road they'll trust Christ. You can't go wrong sharing your testimony You can't witness to the wrong person. One last question, real quick. Do you have a personal testimony? Do you know? You say, well, preacher, I've been in this church my whole life. I've never got being a member of a church your whole life, being in a church your whole life never got one person to heaven. You need to know that you've accepted Jesus Christ yourself personally, that you've made that decision to accept him. And if you haven't had that, if you don't have a testimony to share, then that should be of great, great concern to you. And you need to accept Christ as Savior so that you have a testimony that I can tell others how Christ saved me and forgave me. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven.