Thank you, Pastor. Well it's gonna be a Mar Mountain Lake Infinite Baptist Church. Marinara, Marinara Baptist Church. Um a lot of memories coming back here. Just uh I love this area and um I I love this church. This church has a a special place in my heart. Pastor Lethman has a special place in my heart. And uh I believe he's one of the best pastors in all of America and the world. I really do. I I love him. And uh it was uh The the reason that we left was not because of anything uh that I had against him, and I'm glad that I had his blessing uh when I did leave. And uh it the the years that we spent here um were just so precious to us. And um we we love I don't I don't love the snow, that's the only part I don't miss that Um but uh to see the faces of faithful people that are still attending this church means a lot to me. And uh a lot more gray hairs, Brother Tom Sharon and different people around here, is a lot more gray hairs I see. And uh but what a blessing your faithfulness is a blessing to me and I appreciate uh you coming out to uh hear the message tonight Tonight I'm preaching a brand new sermon. Uh I want to try this out on you. If it bombs, then I won't share it with my people. But if it's good, then uh Uh no, um this uh thought has uh it's kind of permeated in my brain for two or three years. I'm going to preach tonight. The title is The Beauty of the Prefix R-E. The beauty of the prefix R-E. You know, when a when a word, there's, you know, some of our Our uh favorite words uh as a Christian begin with the letters R E. And uh The the letters R E are special when they're put on the front of a word. You know, we are we are fallen people and And we mess up. And we need to uh rekindle the flame. And there's words like uh redeem. We love that that word redeem. We love to we'd love to sing songs that have the word redeemed in 'em. Redeemed, how I love to proclaim it, redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. We'd like the word rejoice in uh Christianity. We'd like the word relive or or uh uh uh restore, remember. Repent, repentance, reform, remind, repair, rejoice, receive, refresh, regeneration. I can keep going on and on, but some of our favorite words Our Savior is known as the Redeemer. And that don't, whenever R E is put at the beginning of a word, it's telling you that what once was is not and and we need to we need to have revival. What is revival? It's a renewing. It's a it's a finding or place that we once had uh or standing that we once had with God and we want to refresh those memories and and uh remember who God is. And so I just got to thinking a couple years ago about those words that begin with R E. And uh I could I could have twenty-five points tonight, but I don't. Um I just have a a a few points and a couple that really stand out to me The first one I want to bring to you, I don't really have a text verse per se, so I'm not going to ask you to stand, but uh let's bow our heads and close our eyes and we'll pray. Lord, thank you for this evening. Thank you for this wonderful area, Lord, one of the most beautiful places in America. Thank you, Lord, for allowing us the the many years that we have here and the many memories that we have of precious people that invested in our lives, Lord, and we invested in theirs. Thank you uh for this church, Lord, and the beacon that it is in this area. May it always shine, Lord. May there be someone willing to pick up the torch. When Brother Leatherman passes off the scene, may there be another one that will have the same zeal and the same unction from the Spirit of God. Lord, I pray that this church would always stand. I pray that you would be with my people tonight, that you would bless them through the preaching of our assistant. I thank you for all that you do for us. In your name we pray. Amen. I'm going to look at the first word I'd like to look at tonight is the word redeemed. One of our favorite words. I'm going to take my coat off. I'm not used to preaching with a coat on. I get too hot. And uh My wife tells me I'm hot, but for a totally different reason. And if Brother Leatherman warned me about this microphone, it's already fell off. The word redeem means to regain possession of by payment of a specified amount to rescue or ransom To save from sin and its consequences. You know, we all uh were born of a woman. Amen, all of us were. That's one thing we all have in common. We all have a mom. Amen. But but we are we were given to our parents by God. No one has the right to take the innocent life of an unborn child. The reason I say that is because the Bible is very clear that life is precious. And the life of a mentally handicapped kid is just as precious as the life of a brain that's fully developed and working properly. Life is in the hand of the Lord. And uh we were all born, uh, but but we were given to our parents by God, and then we were born into sin. The Bible says, wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world And death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. The only time that you have been truly innocent was When you were in your mother's womb, I believe that you were innocent, but the second you were born, you began a life of sin. And you begin a life of wandering far away from God. And some people wander far away from God. And they know exactly what they're doing. There's some people they they are just following the traditions of their parents, of their grandparents, of their friends. They're not really being outwardly rebellious on purpose, but they end up wandering far away from God. And, you know, without the help of God, his redeeming power The Bible says that it is by blood that God redeemed us. We are bought with a price, the precious blood of Jesus. Turn your Bibles to Psalms 49, verse 15. Psalm chapter forty nine and verse fifteen But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave, for he shall receive me, Selah. Isaiah 50 and verse 2, it says, Wherefore when I came, was there no man when I called? Was there none to answer? Is my hand shortened at all that it cannot redeem? Or have I no power to deliver? Behold, at my rebuke I dry up the sea, I make the rivers a wilderness, their fish stinketh, because there is no water, and dieth for thirst In Titus chapter 2, verse 14, the Bible says, Who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify unto himself a peculiar people zealous of good works. I'm reminded of a child. I have uh we have uh seven children, and uh I'm reminded of of especially the age of of Caleb You can take his hand and he'll walk right beside you and he'll do everything that you're doing. But the second you let go of his hand in the store, now he used to be uh satisfied with riding in the cart. And what wonderful times those were when they're just satisfied to ride in the cart. And then you get to the age where you go to put them in the cart and they say, I don't want to ride in the cart. The reason they don't want to ride in the cart is because the cart is confining to them and they can't touch what they want to touch and they can't do what they want to do. So you say these words, and all those parents have made this dumb mistake. Okay? I'll let you walk beside me, but you have to stay with dad. You have to stay with mom. We've all tried that, right? And it works wonderfully, right? No, what our children do, and again they they don't set out to say, you know what, my dad told me to stay beside him I'm going to rebel against I'm no. What happens is their eyes get attracted and they want they say, Boy, I have this newfound freedom. I'm not confined to a cart. If I see something I want to touch, I can just go over there and touch it And then you have to say, Caleb, come over here by dad. Come over here by dad. Get over here. Stay by dad. It's the same with when we're born. We're born pretty much innocent. We're born into sin. We learn how to sin very, very fast. And once we learn how to sin, we understand the freedom that doing our own thing, we think, it provides us a lot of freedom. And you hear teenagers sometimes, and we like to pick on the teenagers a lot, but I know of a lot of adults that have the idea that they'll just live any way they want. They don't feel like they should be confined to a set of rules. This Bible is given to us to help us. Not to chain us. True freedom is found in God's word. It's not found out in the world. And we think, well, I don't want to, I don't want that Bible is full of a bunch of do's and don'ts The don'ts are put there because God loves you. And the do's are put there because God loves you. And God has your best interest in mind And he saw us wandering one day, and he knew that that wandering would take us far away from him and eventually send us to a place called hell. And God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. We were bought with the precious blood of Jesus Christ. I belong to God tonight. He redeemed me. He bought me back. There's a story in the Bible of a Hosea who was who was married to the woman who went into whoredoms. Hosea, I was right, huh? Surprised myself. I should have just ran with it. But the second you run with it, there's somebody out there that never pays attention, that pays attention to that and they'll come up, It wasn't Hosea. That's our Bible is Amen. That's right. I don't have that in my notes, but I could go into Hosea's wife went out into whoredoms and she she ended up on an auction block And the person that raised the bid higher than everybody was her husband. You know, the day that I was on the auction block of sin, Jesus outbid the devil for my soul. The devil couldn't come close to what Jesus offered. The devil wouldn't even be able to uh he wouldn't want to give his life. Even if he would give his life, it wouldn't compare to Jesus' life. Jesus bought me back. He redeemed me, one of our favorite words. Number two, the beauty of the prefix R-E. Number two, the word revive. We love this word in Christendom. The word revive, or a word that comes from the word revive, is a word revival. In the translation of chaya means to live or cause to live, it's used of restoration to life Genesis 45, 27, and they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said unto them, and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father. Revived. Boy, just the sound of those wagons and the thought that he was going to be back together with his family, it revived his heart. Turn to Judges chapter 15, verse 19. Judges chapter 15 verse 19. Is this water for me? Yes. Praise the Lord. There's about an hour extra preaching in that glass of water right there. Judges chapter 15 verse 19. But God claved and hollow place that was in the jaw. And there came water thereout, and when he had drunk his spirit came again, and he revived, wherefore he called the name thereof Enakor, which is in Lehi unto this day. The word revive is it also speaks of rebuilding, Nehemiah 4:2, and he spake before his brethren and the army of Samaria and said, What do these feeble Jews Will they fortify themselves? Will they sacrifice? Will they make an end in a day? Will they revive the stones out of the heaps of the rubbish? Which are burned. Here's the walls of Jerusalem are in shambles, and Nehemiah wants to revive what God wanted to do in that place. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is an amazing place. And some of you that have been here for years, I hope you don't just take it for granted. There's not a church like this on every corner in America. There's not a pastor like Pastor Leatherman in every church in America. There's a lot of phony baloneys out there that are just Getting a salary and they're not really serving their people. Nehemiah saw the need for God to raise something up, and every generation needs to see the need for God to raise something up. This generation that Brother Latherman has led these many years and always going to be around We need some young people to say, you know, this these walls we're not going to allow to be torn down, and if they are torn down, we're going to build them back up again. We're going to revive this place. The thing of revival is the idea that we need revival and we need to be revived on a daily basis. It's not something where you just come down to this altar one time and you get revival and it lasts forever. That's a lie of the devil. That's why I like the prefix R-E. Think of the the uh the word rekindle. You go into your fireplace and you you build up a little pyramid of twigs and you stuff some burnable newspaper in there and you light it up and And I always love the first sounds of those twigs popping and snapping. That's almost a sign that, yeah, something's going on here. It's getting built. And as the flame gets a little bit bigger, you put some bigger logs on there and you have a nice roaring fire. Nobody in their right mind would step back and say, okay, now the fire is lit and the fire is going, I'll never have to do that again You don't do that. But you know that's the lie that Satan feeds to Christians all the time You know, if that was really true, what you said back on that revival night, if you really gave your heart to God, then why are you in the mess that you're in now? The same reason that fire needs to be restoked. The same reason that fire needs to be revived. And God sometimes has to bring the poker into our life and and poke us and Stir us around to get that fire going once again. It's not a bad thing, it's a port of life. Sometimes we as Christians, we feel like if it was real, it shouldn't go away. You're fallen people. You're sinners. I am. The idea that something should just permanently take place where I never need revival. I don't care if you're a hundred in here tonight or you're ten years old, you need revival on a regular basis. That's why you need preaching in your life on a regular basis. Say, boy, I don't like when Brother Leatherman raises his voice. You need that. I need that. Rebuilding. The word revive is also of restoration to well-being. Psalms 85:6, Wilt thou not revive us again? That thy people may rejoice in thee. Another word comes out of the word revive is the word quicken. Look at Psalms 138. 7. Psalms 138. 7. Psalms one thirty eight seven Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me. Thou shalt stretch forth thine hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall save me. If you have a habit of underlining in your Bible, you should underline the phrase, in the midst of trouble. In the midst of trouble, we have this idea: because I'm in the midst of trouble, I can't be revived. That's not true. I'm going to explain this more in a second, but God wants you to be revived no matter what your circumstances are. John O. Rice asked somebody one time, he said, How are you doing? He said, Well, under the circumstances, I'm doing okay. He said, What are you doing living under the circumstances? That's not where a Christian is supposed to live. And revival should not be It should not be, well, everything's going all right, so God's revived me. No, you can have revival when everything's not going all right. Matter of fact, you probably need revival more when things are going right than you do when they are. Isaiah 57, 15, for thus saith the high and lofty one that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place with him also, that is of a contrite and humble spirit. To revive the spirit of the humble and to revive the heart of the contrite ones. What God is looking for is humility. Admitting to God, I don't have all the answers I don't know what I'm supposed to do. Hosea chapter 6, verse 2. After two days will he revive us. In the third day he will raise us up, and we shall live in his sight. Hosea 14:7. They that dwell under his shadow shall return, they shall revive as the corn, and grow as the vine, the scent thereof shall be as the wine of Lebanon We live in a society that's looking for peace. They're looking to be revived. But they're looking in all the wrong places. Reviving does not come from pills. That's right. By the way, I make this statement a lot. I'm afraid that we have a pill happy society right now. We're living in it. There's a lot of people they think, well, I don't do marijuana, I don't put heroin in my veins, I don't snort cocaine. But if you're addicted to prescription drugs and you know you shouldn't be, you know it's out of control. It's the same thing, my friend. The Bible says be sober, be vigilant. You really only need one verse. To steer you away from drugs and alcohol, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. I'm not against all prescription medication, but when your life is controlled by drugs, there's a problem. There's a problem. It doesn't come from pills and it doesn't come from vitamins. I'm not against vitamins But if you're depending on vitamins to get you through the day and make you happy, you're dependent on the wrong thing. Supplements. Well, Pastor, as long as I drink this shake every morning, I'm not against that stuff. There's a place for it. But if that's where your source of reviving comes from, you're looking to the wrong place. You know, reviving doesn't come from vacations. You know, Pastor, if I could just get off two weeks or three weeks and go to Disney World or Disneyland or Kings of Minion or Kennywood or Six Flags or the Bahamas or Bermuda or Cancun or Jamaica or Colorado or Florida, if I could just get away. Then I could revive myself. Revival doesn't come from a place in the world. There's nothing wrong with a vacation. And when you say you need revived and you go on vacation, I know what you're talking about, but that's not if that's where you're depending on, you're depending on the wrong place. I've heard people say, Well, I need a hobby. Nothing wrong with hobbies. Happiness doesn't come from trains, planes, cars, rockets, motorcycles, bikes, cigar box, guitars. If you don't know what that is, ask Kenny, he'll tell you. Gardening, hot air ballooning, hunting, fishing, nothing wrong with these things, but that's not our source of revival. I like to get away in the woods. I find great peace out in the woods, but there's something, listen closely. There's something that my soul needs that I can't find just because I'm in the woods. People say, well, if I had more money, my problem is I don't have enough money. If I had more money, then I could revive my financial situation and I could get back on track. Do you know you have as much money as God wants you to have right now? You say, but if I had more, I'd be happy. No, you wouldn't. No, you wouldn't. Look at Hollywood. Look at Bill Gates. Look at all these look at Warren Buffett. Look at all these men have so much money they don't even know what to do with it. Happiness is not in a dollar bill. Right. And if you made fifty cents more an hour, if you're miserable before, you'll be just as miserable if you made fifty more cents an hour. If you made $20,000 last year and you were miserable, if you don't get right with God, you'll be just as miserable if you made $100,000 a year. See, we all know this, but the devil tricks us into believing this kind of nonsense. That revival is in our money. I'm going to step on some toes here. If I haven't mentioned what you're leaning on, I will in a minute. Coffee. There's been a lot of blasphemy preached in this pulpit in favor of coffee, so I'm here to set the record straight. Boy, I wish John Hamblin was here tonight. This would be great. Listen, there's nothing wrong with coffee. I don't drink it. I think it smells like dirty feet. There's nothing wrong with coffee. But you know, I hear people, they act like if they didn't have a cup of coffee in the morning, they're doomed the rest of the day. You know what that tells me? You know what that tells me? You're relying on the wrong thing for happiness. I'm not against coffee, tea, monster energy drinks Amp energy drink, rock star energy drink, venom energy drink. We're raising a generation that thinks that they can't get high unless they're drinking this stuff. Pop, Dr. Pepper, Coca-Cola, Pepsi Cola. Amen. Are you with me? Yeah, yeah, pretty much. I'm not saying those things are sin. That's not the point. The point is, is that really where you're finding your source of getting through the day is in a beverage? Vitamin water, barley green, carrot juice, Gatorade, powderade Energy gum, energy bars, candy bars, breakfast bars, alcohol Now I'm gonna step on Ed's toes here. Wine, champagne, beer, wine coolers Hard lemonade, hard limeade, schnapps, cores, but dumber, Jack Daniels, Wild Turkey, Royal Crown. Did I get it, Brother Ed? Did I nail it? I thought so. And all the other filth that pours out of a brewery? Yeah. Is that what you're leaning on? You say, Pastor, if I could just if I could just get a more comfortable recliner, then when I come home from a long day at work. I could rest in that recliner and I could feel better from resting in that recliner. You know what? You don't need a more comfortable, easy chair. You don't need a more comfortable couch. You don't need a hammock, you don't need a bingbag chair, you don't need a sleep number bed, a Simmons beauty rest pillow, a snuggie. God forbid, Brother Lederman, if we have any guys in here that wear those things I heard Brother Letman preach against onesies one time. I'll never forget making this statement. He said if I find out that my mom put me in a onesie, I'm gonna be mad at her. I remember that You know what you know what a snuggie is? It's a grown up onesie. If you look on the box, Brother Jerry, there's a guy on a bank Fishing in a snuggie. It doesn't even have feet. Slippers, toe socks Have I hit your uh your thing, your foot rubs, back rubs, pedicures, manicures, back wax, eyebrow wax, mud baths? This is what I'm saying. Listen, reviving doesn't come from those things. Some of those things, most of those things, they're not bad. You just shouldn't rely on them for reviving. There's only one thing that will revive your body, your soul, and your spirit. There's only one thing See, your body can get a kick out of taking a drink of coffee and getting a shot of caffeine and drinking a monarch monster energy drink, but it doesn't do anything for your soul and spirit Are you with me? There's only one thing, one thing that will revive your body, soul, and spirit. And and this is a problem in our churches. We're so focused on the body. And we're not focused on the soul and spirit. Here's the one thing. The sweet breath of the Holy Spirit of God. That's the only thing. Amen. N name one thing that can bring revival to a church like the Holy Spirit of God. There is nothing. There is nothing that compares You say, Pastor, are you a holy roller? Let me share this with you. Our breath That a human being breathes out. Remember Bugs Money? See, I gotta bring the sermon down where some of you live. One of Bug's bunny things that he hated was when people breathe on me. He said, Don't breathe on me. When a human being breathes, you know what we breathe out? Poison. You say I don't believe that. Well, we'll find a Walmart bag after church and we'll put it over your head and tie it. And see how long you can live under that bag. You know why? You will kill yourself because what a human being breathes out is poison. Our breath does not offer life, but God's does. You know when God formed man of the dust of the ground Man was essentially just a blob of dirt. It was a formed piece of dirt And God got on his knees and breathed into Adam's nostrils, listen closely, the breath of life. And man became a living soul. You know what we're missing in America? The sweet breath of Almighty God. See, I love Brother Jared, and I'm glad he came to pick us up tonight. But our breath won't do anything for each other. Amen. I love my wife very much. But our marriage needs the breath of God. Many of us are spending time saying idle words and doing things, and we're trying to bring about a peace and a comfort in our lives, and we're leaning on this, and we're leaning on that. Job 37, 10 says, by the breath of God frost is given, and the breath of the waters is straightened. Genesis 1, 2, one of my favorite verses in the Bible. And the earth was without form and void. And darkness was upon the face of the deep. So here you have creation. It's out there, but it's empty. It doesn't have life in it. In other words, everything is there But there's no life. Brother Leatherman, there's churches all over America that are full of people, but there's no life. I'm afraid that my church, a lot of times, there's people there and they're breathing and they're sharing what they have with each other, but there's no breath of God. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist is no different than any other church. Our preacher needs to be filled with the breath of God. Our people need to be filled with the breath of God. Listen, creation was without form and void. That word void means it was empty. Listen to what happened. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters In Genesis 2. 7, and the Lord God formed man the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils a breath of life, and man became a living soul. John 20, 22, and when he had said this, he breathed on them and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost. Ezekiel 37:9 Then said he unto me, Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, Thus saith the Lord God, Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live. Have you ever tried to explain the wind? Where does the wind come from? When we were little kids we'd look in books and it would show a cloud with a man's face in the cloud and it would show him with his cheeks puffed out, blowing wind. But wind doesn't come from a cloud. Where does it come from? You know, you can get forms of air that aren't very healthy. I could start up a vehicle tonight and you can go breathe the exhaust fumes coming out of that vehicle. It's not going to help you. But have you ever just walked out and felt the wind against your face? Where did that come from? That's the breath of God. Explain in any other way. That's one reason why I think Americans spend too much time inside. We need to get outside. And don't just go outside, give God the Creator the credit that He is due. Amen. When I go out in the spring woods, it's my favorite time being the woods. I like being in the woods anytime, but the spring woods I really love. I find myself saying over and over to myself, God, you are absolutely amazing. Amazing. The breath of God can bring life, the breath of God can bring destruction. As we've seen the tornadoes in Oklahoma and sandy hit the eastern shore last year, we see that the breath of God, what do you want the breath of God to do in your life? Do you want the breath of God to destroy you, or do you want the breath of God to bring life into your system, into your body? You know what we need? We don't need more pills. We need God to breathe on us. I'll be honest, most of your marriages, you don't need counseling. You need the breath of God in your home. We get to work and we're all drugged down and by Wednesday we call this a hump day and we're dragging around and we're depending on this energy drink and we're depending on this cup of coffee and we're depending on this and that. Listen, you need the breath of God on your life. And you ought to say, God, I need you to breathe on me. I need you to pour your power into me. I can't be the husband I need to be. I can't be the pastor I need to be. I can't be the father I need to be without the breath of God on my life. Life, please breathe on me. And there's one more word I want to share with you and we'll be done. It's the word restore. To bring back into existence or use, to bring back to an original state, to put back into a former position. Psalms 51:12 says, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free spirit. Church, this verse is for you. Galatians 6. 1. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault Ye which are spiritual, we need this. We need spirit-filled members in our church. Amen I hear people say, you know, I grew up a preacher, son, so I heard this even before I became a pastor. But I hear people say, well, we're so-and-so. Why aren't they in church anymore? And they'll go to the pastor in an accusatory voice and say, Where is so-and-so? Now they don't say it, but what they're saying is, it's your responsibility to restore them to our church, and you as a pastor haven't been doing your job. You know what God needs? He needs spirit-filled members in the ministry of restoring people, in the ministry of reconciliation. We're all called to the ministry of reconciliation. Amen. All of us. Who needs to be restored to fellowship? Well, at one time you needed it. There may be someone here tonight. You need it tonight. You need to be restored to the fellowship of the church. God has called every one of us who are saved to be spirit-filled, and God has called us to the ministry of restoring those. The Bible says, brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault. This means by surprise or ignorance or stress or temptation. You ought to keep your eyes on the baby Christians. You ought to keep your eyes on the young people, quit harping on them and be their friend. And I'm telling you that temptation was strong when you were a kid, and the devil hasn't gone to sleep since then. And the devil's after our young people. And you should watch the young people. You say, Well, I don't have any young people in this church. Well, if I was in this church, I wouldn't mind you being a friend of my kids I wouldn't mind you praying for my boys and girls. If I taught you praying for my kid, I wouldn't come up to you and say, hey, what's the idea you praying for my kid? I covet your prayers. I need people to come alongside me and Stacy and to help us with our kids. You know, kids get into trouble a lot of time by ignorance. They just don't know the power of Satan. But we who are spiritual, we do know the power of Satan. And we do know what the devil's trying to do in their heart and their life. And we should be observant. Boy, wouldn't it be great, Pastor, if we had a church full of people? That were consumed with the idea of helping people. Not consumed with the idea of nitpicking people and picking people apart, but consumed with the idea, boy, if I see a young man or a young woman or a young Christian and they're struggling, I'm gonna come alongside them, I'm gonna pray with them, I'm gonna encourage them. Amen. What a wonderful thing that would be. The Bible says, ye who are spiritual, who continue to live and walk by the Spirit. In other words, you're keeping an eye on your own footsteps. What does the Bible say? Take heed to yourself lest you fall, right? You better keep an eye on your That's how you continue to be a spiritual person. So you're looking at your own feet, but you're also aware of those around you and you're trying to help them. The Bible says, restore such and one. What does the word restore mean? By reproof, by instruction or exhortation. Everyone who can ought to help. Everyone who can ought to help. And the key is a spiritual one. Your heart's right. You're not out to reveal a secret sin in this person's life and make their life miserable. You're just there to help, period. And you're following the leadership of the Spirit of God, and you come alongside that person, you said, Listen, the last thing that I would ever want to do is bring attention to you because you're struggling right now. That's not my intention. I just want you to know that I love and I care about you very much. And I'm here for you and I'm praying for you. In the spirit of meekness, this is essential to a spiritual man, and in this lies the whole force of the cure. In the spirit of meekness. Brother, I've been there. Sister, I've been there. I know what you're going through. That's a spirit of meekness. Sometimes we get so full of ourselves we're not helpful to anybody. Brother, I see your struggle in this area. I'm not here to criticize you. I'm here to let you know I've been there. I know what you're going through. I sincerely do, and I'm praying for you. Please know that I love you. In the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, the plural is beautifully changed into the singular. Let each take heed to himself. Why? Because if I'm not living for God, then I'm of no use to anybody. I'm not going to be a good husband. I'm not going to be a good father. I'm not going to be a good pastor. I'm not going to be a good friend. Why do I need to keep myself right? Because if I keep myself right, then I can help people. It's all about helping people. And then last of all, lest thou also be tempted, temptation easily And swiftly passes from one to another. Especially if a man endeavors to cure another without preserving his own meekness. Considering thyself lest thou also be tempted. You know, the truth is some of us we know people who are hurting, but because of our spiritual condition, we can't help them. We can't help them. And if you're like me, I love helping people. I really do. My heart loves to help people. But I can't help them if I'm not right with God. If I'm not coming to them in the spirit of meekness, you know what I'm going to bring to the table? I'm going to bring my own opinions, and I'm going to end up hurting them more than if I would have just left them alone. Revive, restore. Our churches need revival. Our churches need to be hospitals where people can come in and get fixed. Amen. I believe it was Apostle Paul that said, and such as some of you were. These people coming in, we're not foreign to the sin of the world. Many of us, we know what it's like to be drunk. We know what it's like to be addicted to pornography. We know what it's like to be addicted to what the world has to offer. And God could use you so much, but you need the breath of God, and you need to keep yourself in a place to where if somebody needs your help, you can help them the way God would help them. You can be his hands. You can be his feet. You can be his voice. You can bring comfort to this world. Let's stand with heads bowed and eyes closed. Lord, you've been so gracious to us in giving us your Son, Jesus Christ. Who died as a propitiation for our sin to redeem us to himself? You have gone to prepare a place for us. And you promise me, Lord, that if you go and prepare a place, you will come again and receive me unto yourself, that where you are, there I may be also. And Lord, one day face to face, I'm going to get to see you, and I'm going to get to tell you all the things that I've always wanted to tell you, but I'm going to be able to do it with a pure heart and a pure conscience. and a pure mind and worship you the way you deserve. God, while we're here on earth, it's all about relationships. It's all about relationships. It's all about how I relate to my parents and my wife and my kids and my church and my pastor. It's all about my relationship with you, God. Please help us, Lord, to position ourselves and to keep ourselves clean and be filled with the breath of Almighty God. So that we in turn can breathe life into a soul that may be lost or a soul that may be hurting. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder if there would be one that would say, Pastor, if I died right now, I'm not positive I'd go to heaven. I hope I would. But if I died right now, I'm not 100% sure, Pastor. Would you please pray for me? Would you slip your hand up? Anyone at all? Pastor, please pray for me. I'm not positive that if I died, I'd go to heaven. Anyone at all I wonder, I'm not going to be specific, but I wonder if there'd be one here that would say, Pastor, God spoke to my heart in a very real way tonight. And with an uplifted hand, I'm willing to admit to God he spoke to my heart. Would you slip your hand up and hold it up high? This is between you and God. It's not about me seeing your hand. It's about you just raising your hand to God and saying, God, you see my hand. I'm being honest. If God has touched your heart as the piano plays, won't you come?