All right, first 2 Samuel chapter 9. I just want to read the few ver uh few first four verses of this. Um Uh there's no way in the world I wanted to cover this whole chapter, this whole event that we're going to look at in our next lessons and messages from this. This is a significant event here. uh tremendous in the life of David. But uh let me just read a few verses to get us started. Notice he says in verse number one of 2 Samuel 9. And David said, Is there yet any That is left of the house of Saul. Boy, what a question. Is there any left of the house of Saul? Why? That I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake. And there was of the house of Saul a servant, whose name was Ziba. And when they had called him to David, unto David the king said unto him, Art thou Ziba? And he said, Thy servant is he And the king said, Is there not yet any of the house of Saul that I may show the kindness of God unto him? And Ziva said unto King, Jonathan hath yet a son, which is lame in his feet. The king said unto him, Where is he? And Zia said unto king, Behold, he is in the house of Maker, the son of Amelia, in Lodibor. I want to talk tonight, and this is going to go into several messages. I'm pretty confident, but I want to begin looking at the kindness of David. The kindness of David. Let's pray, and uh we'll get started on this section. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the life of David and how it's impacted my own heart and mind as been studying this life. I pray that we as a church and as individual believers would be better Christians as a result of studying David's life and applying to our lives the principles that we see. The things he did that were worth following, and things he did that we need to avoid. So I ask tonight again, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you, I present my body anew, and I ask with all my heart that you be the speaker tonight, that you be the preacher. And that you speak through me the truths of this passage and apply them to our hearts and lives that we can be what you'd have us to be. And I ask all these things now, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Did anybody notice my whiteboard I put up here tonight? Isn't that a beautiful whiteboard? What's the main thing you notice about that whiteboard? Well now it's not blank. It's it's white. Anybody notice that? The whiteboard is white. Now keep watching this. How many noticed it? Anybody notice that? Yes. Now keep watching this. Now what do you notice about the whiteboard? What where does your eye go? Everybody close your eyes. Everybody close your eyes. Now open your eyes, look at the whiteboard. Where do your eyes go to immediately? The black spot. What if I do this? A spider. So now when you look at the whiteboard, the only thing you see is what? The spider, that black spot on there. The whole thing is white. The rest of the whiteboard is nice and clean and white and doesn't have any bugs But one little spot on there and that immediately catches our attention, catches our focus. Right? Everybody follow me Do you ever have somebody, maybe they're coming into church, and they got just a beautiful, nice iron, crisp collars, uh sky blue shirt on? And you walk up and say, boy, what a nice shirt. And as they walk up, you notice they got some Prego spaghetti sauce stain right on the side. And as beautiful as the shirt is, and as lovely as it is, where do your eyes immediately go to? That spot That's all you can see on there is that flaw, that spot, that thing that really doesn't belong there, and that's where our focus is Now, what we do with a whiteboard and a little black spot in the corner, or a nice shirt and a spaghetti stain on it, we have a tendency to do with people. Years ago I've known of this preacher. I never met him in person. We've talked on the phone a number of times. As far as I know, my personal experience with him and the most people that I know that know him is absolutely uh tremendous testimony, impeccable witness, uh reputation. But you know what happened a number of years ago? I had two other preachers that knew this guy and got somehow he came up And they made some negative statements about that fellow. And guess what? Every time I hear him preach, or every time his name comes to mind Guess what the first thing is that comes to my mind about that guy? Those negative statements. Now I have no reason to believe there's any veracity to what they said. I don't I uh as far as I know, as far as my experience is, as far as I know, the guy's a good guy, he's upright, a respectable preacher But that one negative statement, those critical statements that were made about him, just in one instant, a long time ago, in one setting Every time I hear him, that comes to mind. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody ever been there? And that's a tragedy. is sometimes somebody's testimony, somebody's life, for the overall part will be impeccable And they'll have a tremendous testament. They'll have a tremendous reputation. But like everybody, often at some point Something is said or done, and that stains our thinking about them, and we fail to see all the other good that was done, and all we can focus on is the flaw. Right? Now I said all that to say this. Oh, by the way, we s we see that all through Scripture. We have a tendency to focus on the flaws of the object. How about this? Do you ever go into a doctor's office or you're visiting someone's home and there's a picture on the wall and the picture is crooked? Anybody ever notice and man that thing's just crooked and the whole time you're sitting there, you're talking, and you're looking at that picture thinking, that picture's crooked. Anybody know? It could be the most beautiful picture in the world. It could be a lovely granddaughter or some beautiful Dr. Don Williams chalk drawing. But because it's crooked, that's all we see: a crooked picture, not a beautiful painting. Now we have a tendency to do that with people, as I said. We focus on the faults of a person. When I mention the name Jonah, what do we think of? We think of the whale, and the cause of Jonah being in the whale was his what? It's disobedience to God. We did a study of Jonah a number of years ago on a Wednesday night, and as I was studying through Jonah, you know what we found out? There was a lot of good things about the prophet Jonah. He's a great man of God on several aspects. Now, but we think of Jonah, we don't think of this great prophet, but we think of a guy that disobeyed God. When we think of uh how about Samson? His great strength, but also he had great strength, but he had weak what? Character. He liked the women. And he goes chasing after that, and you think of Samson, you think of this guy that uh was foolish with the power God gave him, the opportunity But you know, Samson, it said of Samson, if I'm correct on this, more than any other Old Testament character, that the Spirit of God came upon Samson more than any other person in the Old Testament. God used them. And so we think of people like this: Jonah and Samson. What about, what do you think of when I mentioned John Mark, the disciple, John Mark? What do you think of him? He what? Anybody remember? He quit. He went back. He followed Paul and Bar and Barnabas off on the missionary trail. It got to a little ways in and For whatever reason, he turned around and went back to Jerusalem. But you know the Bible says that you know there's a book in the Bible that's written by John Martin? God used him. Now I said all that to say this. We're studying the life of David. And we're in chapter 9. We're going to come up here in a little bit to chapter 10. Then we're going to hit a very, very dark time in David's life in chapter number 11. And I'm afraid a lot of in a lot of our minds The darkness of chapter 11, that dark time that David went into of his adultery and rebellion and lying and covering up sin, that dark time of David becomes a lot like this spot on the white wall. We think of David and Bathsheba, and we don't think about David and Mephibosheth, who we're going to study now What I'm trying to say is this. David's sin with Bathsheba is looming on the horizon. And a lot of times in our study of David, that begins to overshadow so much of what God is doing with and through David that we miss chapter number nine Which as I'm studying this, this is one of, in my mind, one of the greatest illustrations of the grace of God. One of the greatest object lessons of the love and grace and mercy of God in all of the Old Testament In David's compassion and kindness that he shows to Mephibosheth. But the problem is we know a whole lot more about David and Bathsheba than we do about David and Fibasheth. Am I right or wrong? Yeah. And so we have to be very, very careful with that. You say, well, preacher, shouldn't we study the failures and faults of these people? Yes, absolutely. God doesn't whitewash any of that And we're told in Corinthians, 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verse 11, it says, these were recorded for our admonition. The failures of Jonah and Samson and John Mark and David were written so that we can learn from that and take guard and you know learn from what not to do and and uh how to react in certain things. But we should never let the failures of these great men and these great people in the Bible don't let their failures overshadow what God did with and for them through them. And that's what I want us to consider as we go into this study of David. Somebody put it this way: there is so much good in the worst of us. And there is so much bad in the best of us that it is best for most of us not to talk about the rest of us. Do you get it? Let me say it again. There is so much good in the worst of us, and so much bad in the best of us, that it is best for most of us not to talk about the rest of us. How many times we get caught up and we get wrapped up in what somebody else did wrong, and before we know it, we turn around, lo and behold, we end up doing the same thing. Right or wrong. Y'all these guys are awfully quiet on me tonight. Listen, I'm excited to be back. Yeah, amen. And so uh but um uh we have to be very, very careful about that. So let's look at this event in the life of David If we're not careful, David's failure with Bathsheba and other failures overshadows one of, as I said, one of the greatest displays of grace in all the Bible. 2 Samuel chapter 9 is a phenomenal chapter. On the grace of God. On the grace of God. 2 Samuel chapter 9 is David, I believe, at his very best. As I mentioned at the introduction, we're about halfway into David's reign as king. And I notice, as we look at this, I back up a little bit in my study, and I said, alright, I just want to look at David from a distance here a little bit. What do I notice about it? And I think up to this point I'm noticing two things about the loves of David's life. In other words, two things it's obvious David loved. Number one, David loved the Lord. We see that in his in his bringing of the Ark of the Covenant The very presence of God, bringing that into Jerusalem so that the Lord, the love of his life, would be the very center of the life of Israel. Jesus said to his disciples, He said, Why call ye me Lord, Lord, if you do not those things which I say? David's love for the Lord, David's commitment to Jehovah, was not simply on lips and writing songs. But it was displayed in the fact that he wanted the Lord God to be the very center of the life of Israel. He wanted his life and the life of his nation to revolve around the presence of God. By the way, that'd be good for our nation, huh? Yeah, God back in the uh people say, uh, uh, would you agree with me? People say, we need to get the Bible back in school. How many people agree with that Amen. We need the Bible back in the White House. I say amen. But you tell you what, before we worry about any of that, how about we get the Bible back in our homes? Get the Lord back in the center of the home. If we were as worried about the Lord being the center and the focus and the governor of our homes We might not have to worry about what's going on down at the statehouse. Hey, how about this? Let's get the Bible and get the Lord back in our churches. Amen. And it's just horrific. I hear these stories about churches, people telling me where the Bible's not being preached, and there's no effort to win the loss. And just dead is as uh dead as a doornail? I don't know, I've I've been looked at door nails, they're pretty dead And so David loved the Lord. There's no doubt about it. He didn't want just his love for the Lord to be some songs he wrote in a book of Psalms or uh some lip service. He says, No, I want the Lord right here in the very middle. Governing everything we say and do. I love the Lord. David loved the Lord. We see that in his building and his desire to build a temple. He says, I live in a nice house of cedars. The Lord's in a little tabernacle. I'm going to build him a house. And David loved the Lord. But I'm picking up, there was a second love of David. The first one was the Lord. And the second one we're going to see here is David loved his neighbors. David loved other people. And we've seen that a little bit before when he helped the little towns where the Philistines were coming in, going to destroy him. Even though they showed no affection or loyalty to David. And over and over he'd helped people along the way. But here in chapter 9, we're going to see an act on the part of David that is absolutely Christ-like. In so many ways, in loving the unlovely, and showing compassion on those that can give nothing back in return. David loved his neighbor. What does that remind you of when we say that David loved the Lord with all his heart, soul, mind, strength, and body? And he loved his neighbor also. What does that sound like? That sounds the great commandment that the Lord Jesus said. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God and thy neighbor as thyself. David's a man after God's own heart. And a man after God's own heart is going to love others the same way the Lord loves others. Don't tell me how much of a heart you have for God if you don't love your neighbor. That's where I would say amen. What is Chester saying? If you don't love your neighbor, then you don't love God. Brother, that's Bible right there. That's Bible right there. So David loved the Lord, and David loved his neighbors. He loved others. Though he was ruthless on the battlefield with the enemies of God, he was kind and compassionate with his fellow man. I read a little article a couple weeks ago about being a gentleman. I thought, well, that's something I need to work on So I read this article about being gentlemen. It's really pretty good. Now, I won't get on go too off on a rabbit trail here, but the basic idea was this: before you can be a gentleman, you've got to be a man In other words, you've got to, if you're before you can be kind to someone, you have to have the potential of being cruel, but you do not give in to the cruelty, you show kindness instead. And that is strength of character. You follow what the saying was? David could be ruthless on the battlefield. I mean, he, the enemies of God, their heads coming off, and he doesn't hesitate for one moment. But brother, you get a little crippled guy living down in Lodibar that can't even feed himself, can't even take himself, dress himself. And here you have this warrior that can kill giants with slingshots and behead Philistines by the thousands. And yet he's big enough to show compassion and kindness to a man who can't even dress himself. What I'm saying is this, I see here in the life of David a depth of love and character that is tremendous. When I was ordained Back in nineteen, I think it was nineteen ninety one, ninety or ninety-one, I forget the year. We had a pastor brought in, I had to uh put together My doctrinal statement, it was a 21-page single-space outline of my doctrine, what I believe in the doctrines. And so we presented this. He had about 35 preachers from the Indianapolis area there all come in there. And I'd go through line by line, and they would question me on each of these lines. It took about six and a half, seven hours to get through down through that thing. I actually enjoyed it. It was very intimidating, but I actually enjoyed it. And um uh we go through there and they'd ask a question and Believe it or not, they would ask some things, this might be hard to believe, but I didn't know the answer. Um some of the questions they asked And so I ingeniously came up with a perfect answer. They would ask some, well, what do you believe about this? Or what would you do in this situation? And I'd say, well, in that situation, I'd call my pastor up and ask him, what do you recommend I do? And they all be like, oh yeah, that's a good answer. Very good. That's how I got out of not asking answers. So anyway, we had the um we had the uh ordination council and then that Sunday night We had two preachers preach my challenge. One was Brother Charles B. Holmeser, founder and director of Bible Time. He came and preached that for me. And there was another fellow, this old evangelist there in the Midwest. He was out of Indianapolis. I don't know that anybody here has ever heard of him. He's been dead for many, many years. His name was B. M. Page. He's an old short fella. He had Two hip surgeries. We're talking back in the in the eighties. He had two hip surgeries. Both the hip surgeries went bad. And so he had two canes he would walk and he would have to walk on those canes because his hips were no good. I mean just an old school uh preached against everything and anything and preached every sin you could imagine. I mean he was just old leather lung uh old uh uh hell fire and brimstone preacher. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Just those old Baptist preachers that would just rip and and tremendous power of God upon them So he preached, and afterward he was getting in his car out in the parking lot. It was late and it was Sunday night, and I went out and I thanked him for coming. I thanked him for challenging me. And I said, give me one last word of advice Just tell me something. What would you tell me? He said, Brother Dennis, he had his old raspy voice. He said, Brother Dennis. You skin them alive in the pulpit, and you love them to death in the parking lot. I always remembered that. I don't know if I've ever lived up to that, but um you know what he was saying? He was saying, listen, don't be afraid to behead the enemies of God, but you love people around you. You love the people around you. And I've I I thought that was good advice. And I thought of that when I'm studying the life of David. We must never allow our opposition to sin to jade our kindness to sinners. Listen, we're we ought to preach against sin. Amen. Come on now, talk to me tonight. We ought to hate sin, right? I read in my devotions yesterday, July 6th, I read Proverbs chapter 6. If you'll read Proverbs chapter 6, I think it's around 5, 6, and 7 in there, God has a hate list These six things doth the Lord hate, yea, seven are an abomination. And he goes down, list seven things, a proud look. And it goes down through the list there. And I thought, God help me to hate what you hate. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, hate what God hates And we ought to preach against those things, but we should never let our hatred for the things that God hates to jade our love for the people that God loves. That's what I'm trying to get at. And I see that in David. Man, he could take Goliath and you blaspheme the name of our God. I defy you. Whoa! And now he's over here taking care of this dear son of Jonathan. We're going to see here in a little bit. Let me real quickly let's get into this, and we're going to work our way through the chapter here And the first thing I want us to notice, the first thing that stood out to me as I looked at verses 1 through 4 was these questions that David asked. In fact, every verse in the first four verses has a question on David's part. Verse 1, he says, Is there yet any that is left of the house of Saul? Is there anybody out of Saul's house still living? Still in existence? Verse 2, he asks another question. How art thou Zyba? Yep, I'm he Verse 3, is there not yet any of the house of Saul? Verse 4, uh, where is he? So David is asking these questions, these series of questions, in every verse, in the first four verses. Now, the first thing I want us to consider about these questions David is asking is I want us to consider the circumstances behind him asking these questions Did you notice? He asked one question twice. Somebody look at it there tonight. I gotta get you guys involved. You all seem mortif uh mummified or something here this evening Notice there's one question he asked twice in verse 1, and then back down about verse number 3. Two or three. Anybody see what it is? What is it? Is there any left of the house of Saul? He asked that question twice. What in the world kind of question is that? Here, in just if just a short time before this, it would have been unthinkable to ask: is any left of the house of King Saul? And just a few short years before this, not real long before this, there would have been a day when they would have never dreamed of asking, is there any left of the house of Saul? What do you mean Saul was uh a powerful king. He was the first king of Israel. He was powerful. He stood show uh head and shoulders above everyone else and Everyone loved King Saul and he was popular and he was victorious and he was defeating the Philistines and he was a warrior So he was powerful, he was popular, he was victorious, but Saul had a problem. Saul was proud. And what does the Bible say about pride? Pride goeth before what? A fall. King Saul had a terrible problem with pride. And because of that pride, now David says, I can't even find any of the house of Saul. 1 Samuel chapter 15, verse 17, the prophet Samuel said to King Saul, When you were small in your own eyes, Then you were something, but you got proud, I'm putting in my own words. Proverbs 16, 18 says, pride goeth before destruction. And a haughty spirit before a fall. And this is what I'm trying to get at as I thought, why David, what a question that he would ask. Is there any left of the house of Saul? Here you have a king and a household that was the most powerful, most popular king in all of Israel. Victorious in their battles, and yet he had gotten so proud and had fallen so far, David says, Is there anybody left of it? King Saul had fallen so far it was difficult to find any remnants of his household. They were completely destroyed. As a member of a church, I hesitate to say this, as a member of a church where I received my training, was one of the was one of the biggest churches in the country at the time. This powerful ministry, bus ministry, and radio and missions reached around the world, trained thousands and thousands of people for the ministry, myself included I learned to preach there. I learned to serve God there. I learned to win souls there. And I left and the pastor there resigned. Most of y'all know what I'm talking about. Has to resign, a new pastor came in, and almost immediately that thing started falling. Then another pastor came in, went down farther, then another one. And I'm telling you, today you cannot find that church. anywhere on the map is gone. I looked up some time ago, I looked, I Googled up the church building and another group had bought it and the platform there where it had great sword conferences and great Southwide Baptist meetings and power of God with the huge choir has all been cleared up. There's about three or four drum sets and rock and roll and smoke and lights They gutted out the auditorium, and it's just a quote-unquote religious nightclub. What happened? This is what I was talking with Kathy about it. This is what I think happened I think the following pastors came in and got proud. Oh, I'm pastor of this great church. All these years, been a powerhouse. I think they got proud. Before destruction, pride goeth before a fall. And I'm telling you, we need to be very, very careful. God have mercy. I thought as I was studying this God had mercy that someday someone would come to Oakland and they would say, is there anything left of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? How many people agree with me? That would be awful. That would be awful. Is there anybody that still goes there? Is there any remnant of what that thing once was? Now we're not the biggest or best of anything, but I'd like to believe we've got God's blessings on us. I would like to believe God's doing something here. I was studying this and I thought, what in the world kind of question? Is there any left of the household of Saul? How far they had fallen, that household had fallen, all because of pride. Do you know what that means? We need to fight at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church or uh Mount Lake Yeah, what church are we? Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I was talking secretly about a church so much I couldn't remember which one I was talking about. You know what we need to fight at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church more than anything? Pride That's our number one enemy, I believe. We got to keep ourselves humble before the Lord and before one another I think we ought to never be too, hey, can I say this? We ought to never be too proud to hit an old-fashioned altar and say, Lord, I need you. I need you. I need you to help me. I need to respond in faith. So what I look at these questions David asks, leading up to this tremendous display of the kindness of God. And it bothers me. Is there anyone, is there yet any that is left of the house of Saul? Now he explains the purpose of his question. He says that I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake, down in verse 3, that I may show the kindness of God unto him. I'm trying to find somebody Still in existence from the house of Saul, I can show the kindness of God to them. Now, first thing is I notice the circumstances behind it. Saul had fallen so thoroughly, David, the king, can't find any any of the household. But then not only the circumstances behind his question, but I noticed the constraint of David's questions. And what I mean by this is I noticed what he did not ask. He says twice, is there any that I can show, in the first case, verse one, kindness for Jonathan's sake? Now we'll look at that in a little bit. I don't know if we'll get to it tonight. The second time, down in what is it, verse 3, he says, that I may show the kindness of God to them. But I notice what he does not ask, what his questions do not include. He holds back In other words, he doesn't say this, is there anyone qualified for my kindness? He doesn't say this. Is there anyone who deserves to be treated kindly? Is there anybody worthy of the kindness of God? He doesn't say this. Is there anybody that can afford The kindness of God from King David. Do you notice he didn't ask any of those things? His desire to display kindness to the household of King Saul was unconditional. Doesn't matter who they are, it doesn't matter what their condition is Doesn't matter what their past has been, doesn't matter what their wealth may or may not be, doesn't matter what their physical condition is, I want to show the kindness of God Now, here's the great thing about God's kindness. God's kindness is unconditional kindness. Do you know that God is kind to the just and the unjust? You know, God sends rain on the farmer for the farmer's crops that takes his name in vain, and he sends the rain on the neighbor farmer who doesn't take God's name in vain. Do you know it's the goodness of God that often leads people to repentance? The kindness and goodness of God? What I'm trying to say is this: God is kind to you and I, even though we don't deserve it. That's where I'd say amen, right there. And so David restrains his questions here. He doesn't put any qualifications on them Is there yet any unconditional kindness? Why? Did you know that the world's kindness and God's kindness are very different? What's the world's kindness consist of? Well, if you be kind to me, then I'll be kind to you. Anybody notice that? We tend to be that way Do you ever go to the store, you walk around? Do you ever notice most people in the store are scouring most of the time? They got a gr anybody notice that? And they just walk around, and I decided, I said, Lord, I'm going to have a smile ministry. We finally got these dumb masks off, so now it works. I smiled before and nobody knew it. When you walk around, I'm going to challenge you to do this. You go up to the store somewhere, push the card around, and God forbid that you inch out too far when others are coming. Because if you inch out too far and they have to stop, brother, you're in for big trouble Anybody and what you do is when you inch out there, look around and go like this and put a big smile on your face. And you know what I found out? Guess what they do back They smile back. Oh. Hey. Or or you know, you're you're kind of in their way, you know, you're parking there and you're trying to get on that little shelf and they're trying to get where you're parked and you're trying to Yet were their part And they're kind of going back and forth. You know what I found out? If they say, oh, excuse me, I'm sorry, I'm in your way. Oh, no, no, no, that's fine, I'm in your way. And you show kindness to them, and they respond in kindness. The world says, if you be kind to me, I'll be kind to you. But that's not God's standard for kindness. God's standard for kindness is I'll be kind to you whether you're kind back or not. And so David asked these questions, is there any? Is there any here? Now I want to real quick, so that's the questions I noticed. Now I know I'm going on here a little bit, but I want us real quick to introduce the characters who are involved in this phenomenal display of the grace of God. There's several of them listed, and let me just get introduced you to them here just very, very quickly. First of all, of course, we have David. Alright, David is the central figure, and he's the one who we're studying. But through David, we have indirectly two other characters One is mentioned by name, the other isn't. Notice verse 1, and David said, Alright, there's David, he's part of the one of the characters here. Is there yet any that is left of the house of Saul that I mean, there's Saul. that I may show him kindness for who? Jonathan's sake. So here you have David, he's the central figure But he references King Saul and he references his son Jonathan in this effort on David's part to display kindness to the offspring of Saul, the descendants of Saul. So why would Saul and Jonathan be factors in David showing kindness here? Well, real quickly, and we won't take time to turn there, but You can jot down 1 Samuel chapter 20, verse 11 through 15. David had promised Jonathan That when David would one day be king, actually Jonathan was requesting from David this promise, that one day, when David would be king, and Jonathan knew that was going to happen, he said, Will you show kindness? To my children. And David made a promise that he would show kindness to the descendants of Jonathan whenever he would be king. So he made a promise. How many people agree with me? When a Christian makes a promise, that ought to be solid. David made a promise. But not only that, if you go over to 1 Samuel chapter 24, verse 16 through 22, King Saul, when David spared his life, and King Saul realized what happened, this was in the cave of Endigai, and uh uh David confronted him about it, and King Saul said in so many words, I know you're going to be king someday And when you are, show kindness to my descendants. And David made a promise to King Saul, I will show kindness. So, David is the central figure in this whole event that's going to take place that displays the grace of God in phenomenal ways. And indirectly, King Saul and Jonathan are actors, have roles in this, in that they elicited this promise from David to show kindness to their offspring. I put this down. Men with good intentions make promises, but men with good character keep those promises. I actually have that on my desk, a little placard on my desk. Men with good intentions make promises, and we make promises, but men with good character keep those promises. Saul's dead and gone. Jonathan's dead and gone. David could have just ignored that promise and say, I'm not wasting my time, those guys. But he said, No, I made a promise, I'm going to keep it. Notice he says there in verse 1. He says, for Jonathan's sake I made that promise. I'm telling you, men with good intentions make promises. Men with good character keep those promises. Hey, what I promise today ought to affect what I do tomorrow. Amen? Somebody can promise you the moon one day, and the next day it's absolutely meaningless. Anyone know what I'm talking about? But uh not David. Now let me introduce these other guys very, very quickly. You got David, and then uh there was of the house of Saul a servant whose name was Ziba. Here we find this guy, Ziba. Ziba is a little mysterious in my mind. We come down to verse number 10, the look at the last part. It says, now Ziba had 15 sons and 20 servants. So Zima was apparently very wealthy. He had twenty servants. That's not poverty in this setting. He was a servant of Saul. Some have suggested, maybe right in Saul's household. He had served Saul very in his household, but he's very, very wealthy. He had his own servants, 20 of them. So Ziba was pretty wealthy. He's mentioned three times in the Bible. Here, as we're going to notice, we'll look at them a little bit In chapter number um sixteen, he comes up again when Absalom rebels against David Ziba comes out and is going to go with David, leaves Mephibosheth behind. And in chapter 19, when David returns, Ziba shows up again. And they have an interaction. Now here's the thing about Ziba. And you read ten different commentaries, you get ten different opinions about Ziba. I've come to this conclusion. Ziba was a man of questionable character. And we'll see this as we go through here. It's hard to discern where his loyalties are It's hard to discern sometimes when he's telling the truth or if he's lying. And a little bit with Mephibosheth also we'll see that a little bit later. So anyway, we have Ziba, the servant, probably in the very household of King Saul, a high-level servant, very wealthy. He shows up and says, Oh yeah. Uh one of Jonathan's sons lived down in uh in uh Zodibar, in Lodibar. Then we have Jonathan's son. Now he's not mentioned other than Jonathan's son, his name isn't given It says verse number 3, and Ziba said unto the king, Jonathan hath yet a son. Now that's Mephibosheth. We're going to meet him next study. In most circumstances, the grandson of a king would be a threat to the new king You follow? In fact, I'm getting ahead of myself, but traditionally, back in this time, when one king took over, he would slaughter all the offspring of the previous king So that they wouldn't rise up a rebellion against him, try and overthrow him. You follow? And so under normal circumstances, Mephibosheth would have been a threat to King David And so Ziba introduces Jonathan's son at this point. David didn't know he existed apparently up to this point. Now we'll look at him later. And then one other guy, and I'll end with this. Notice, if you would, verse 4. And the king said unto him, Where is he, this son of Jonathan? Which, by the way, notice in verse 3, he says, Which is lame on his feet. Why does Ziva say that? Why would he say, oh yeah, Jonathan's got a son down there, and uh, oh, by the way, he's lame on his feet Now, apparently, in Ziba's mind, that was going to be a factor on whether David showed kindness to him or not. Now, to be honest with you, like I said, Ziba's hard to read in my mind. Was he saying that? In order to protect Mephiboshev thinking, oh David wants to find him, he's gonna kill him. This is just a show he's putting on, and he's gonna get me to Tell him who he is and he's going to kill him. Maybe he was saying, Oh David, Mephibosheth, he's lame on his feet. He's not a threat to you. I don't know Or was he saying that to try and protect David? Maybe he was saying, listen, David, he's lame on his feet. He can't even dress himself. You don't want to waste your time with this guy. You don't want to invest all you don't want him up in your household. He's going to be an embarrassment to you. And I don't know what his motive was. For pointing out that he was lame on his feet. Ziba, like I said, is hard to read. But then we have this fella that the son of Jonathan is staying with. Behold, he is in the house of Maker. I got study and maker. He's a wealthy man. It's a very wealthy man. He helps David later on. He provides a lot of food and supplies for David when David flees from Absalom. He lives in this place called Lodibar. And what I understood about Lodibar in studying that, this was a place that was a very run-down region of the country It was it was uh in la uh one of the one of the dictionaries I was reading said it was a place of ruins It would be like maybe maybe an inner city part of the city where it's all run down and destroyed, windows knocked out. Grass is all dead, trash in the streets. That's kind of the impression I got of this place load of bar. Now Maker is apparently a very wealthy man, but he's living in a very rough area And he's got one of Jonathan's sons down there. Now, we don't know a whole lot about Maker, and I'm just making speculation here. But I tell you, my hat's off to this guy, Maker. He didn't have to take care of that Jonathan's son. But he's harboring them down here. He's keeping them safe. He's making sure he's got food to eat and clothes to wear. And he's taking care of him. And the little bit we know about Makar, I think, man, this guy has something to him that he would do that. So we got the questions on David's part, and then we have the characters, and then next lesson we'll look at the look at the kindness that David shows. Like I said, I think this is one of the greatest displays of the grace of God in all the Old Testament. When David goes down into a place of ruins and gets a man who fell and can't walk And brings him up into the king's palace. And he washes them up and he clothes them and he feeds them and he takes care of them like he's a king's son. What a lesson on God's love for us. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from this. We just got a little introduction here I pray that you would help me and all of us, and us as a church, to display to this old world the kindness of the Lord and to those that have needs. Lord, this coming week with neighborhood Bible time, going to be a lot of little Memphis chefs running around here. They don't know right from wrong. They're spiritually been handicapped. Lord, maybe we can love them. We can bring them to the King, Jesus, and see them get cleaned up. become something. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I want to say, preacher, I want to I want to be kind. I want to be a kind Christian like David. I need that. Maybe it doesn't come natural You say, I need God to help me be kind. Is there any like that uplifted hand? I want God to help me be kind. And to help people unconditionally that need help. Father, make us a kind church. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together heads