And uh see where we are here, Romans chapter twelve. There it's it's kind of a lengthy chapter, twenty-one twenty-one verses of it. And I'll I'll give you a little peek at it, uh at all of it, although I'm not going to try to deal with all of it But there are two famous verses. Two very famous verses. And it happens to be they're the first two And this is what the first two verses tell us. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy. acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be you transformed. By the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Now You could grab hold of almost any little segment of that and have a whole lot of things that need to be explored. But uh I think the key word is in verse number two, and it's the word transformed. And I want to talk to you for a few minutes about the transformed life. A lot of folks have the idea, in fact, I think a lot of religious folks have the idea, maybe they drift in here on a Sunday. And they see some things and they compare it to where they are and what they're doing, and they say, you know, I've got to straighten things up. And so what they do, instead of getting transformed, they conform. I like to express, I think their theology is maybe best expressed as monkey see, monkey do I see somebody, I see what they're doing, I will adjust to that, I will do like that person is doing. It's conforming There's not a deep conviction down in here. It's just, hey, I know that's a better way, so I I'll do that. And a lot of folks are conformers. Now, there's another similar thing called reforming, reformation. And uh that's the kind of thing probably where somebody is I mean they've really been off the deep end, they've really been in all kinds of garbage stuff, and uh and they they look around at uh some of the rest and they say, you know, these are good people over here And I see, you know, uh that guy, he doesn't beat his wife, doesn't kick his dog, you know, he doesn't cuss, doesn't smoke, doesn't shoot, doesn't drink, don't he doesn't do a lot of things. So I'm gonna clean up my act. I'm gonna clean it up, I tell you, I'm gonna clean it up And uh so he begins to try to clean things up. But he's only a reformer. He still hasn't had something happen down deep inside of him that provides a foundation. And if the folks who are motivating him happen to move away, or if uh, you know, maybe he gets disappointed by somebody in the church who maybe is unkind to him or something. And then he walks away. You know what he's gonna do? All likelihood is he's gonna go back to his smoking and drinking and cussing and chewing and kicking his dog and whatever else Very likely that he will. Reformation, so often it doesn't last. Conforming so often is a short-term solution. And uh and and none of none of it gets beyond the veil of time. None of the conforming has an eternal impact. None of the reforming gets anybody past the veil of tears and the shadows of death. It just doesn't. You say, what are you trying to tell us? I'm just trying to tell you. Those who have nothing but conforming and reforming going on are going to miss heaven by a wide margin, and they're going to wind up down below in hell. And the very simple reason is they haven't had the one thing that it takes to get people in. One thing. You know, when I talk about the plan of salvation, I don't say, well now there is a plan of salvation. Not a plan. The plan of salvation is the plan. Not something I invented, not something Pastor invented, not something Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church thought up But it's God's plan. And after all, heaven, he has full charge of that. And he has uh full say about to whom the gate is opened and closed. And uh the fact is, if uh if you and I could have stretched and behaved ourselves and done real well and got into heaven Well, uh, it seems like I read something also here in the Book of Romans about uh if we could have done that, then Christ died in vain. He died in vain if that's the case. So what the Lord did, he sent his son. To die on the cross and rise from the grave, to pay my sin debt and your sin debt, and to purchase salvation for me and for you and for everybody else. Now the question is, uh and let me back up. It's my birthday, the family, I mean they got a gift here, they got a gift there, they got all kinds of gifts, and if I look at it and say, what's in that box? They tell me, I said Hey, I don't want that. What's in that sack? I don't like that. Take it back. You know, if I if I did that, my family bit would be wounded. They'd be disappointed. They they would look at me and say, What a clod you are, and they would be right. But sometimes, because we think we can handle it ourselves, we can clean things up, I mean we've we've got our own way of doing things. We we like we we like to be inventive And so we'll come up with a scheme of our own. And after all, I think the Lord will be happy about all that. And whenever we go that route, we take that approach. We're gonna miss it. We're gonna go the wrong place. Now, the deal is there is but one way. That is the way. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. So if you're going to go to heaven, you've got to say yes to the Lord Jesus and let him in. Let him become your Savior. Trust him. With all of it. It's not a matter of saying, well, I I think I'll uh kind of embrace him, but you know, I'll help out too. No You've got to come to the place where you say there's nothing I can do that's going to get me there. I've got to lean on him entirely. He paid the whole bill And I'm going to accept the gift. I'm not going to be like the bad dad, bad granddad at the Christ at Christmas and birthday time and say no to the gifts. It's a gift of God. I'm going to take that gift. I'm going to receive it Folks, I'm telling you, a lot of folks were in church last Sunday. Maybe, you know, in some places, a lot of folks were in church. They were going through some kind of religious mumbo jumbo, but they have no clue about what I've just told you. They've never been told. Now, here's the deal. Whenever you and I do come to Christ. He he puts a new nature in us. Up to that point, all the we've had is that old fleshly nature. But whenever whenever we say yes to Christ, he regenerates us. I like to say it's regening us. And he puts a new nature in. Now the old nature doesn't die. That's why you get saved on Sunday, on Tuesday, may do something you shouldn't do, because you give in to the old nature But that new nature is in there, and the first first time that you start yielding to the old nature, that new nature is going to say, hey boy And it's going to flag you. Gonna try to flag you down and say, hey, there's a new way here. No, you don't need to go there. You don't need to do that. And all of this time God has in mind To take us from where we were to where he wants us to be, to get us out of the out of the garbage, out of the ditch, and on higher ground. All of that, and that's why this passage, if you notice, it's addressed to brethren. The people to whom this is written are already saved. And he says, be ye transformed. So what's he wanting, what's he wanting from them and from us? He's wanting us to sign on to his way of doing things. Now Verse 1, he said, you've got to present your bodies. Now I I've I've run into so many folks, it's like, hey, I do what I want to do, you know, nobody's gonna tell me what to do, you know. And they They've got this whole idea, you know, uh I mean I'm I I've got liberty in Christ so I can do whatever. A little misunderstanding there on their part. The Bible says clearly here, present your bodies. Your bodies, your hands, your eyes, your ears. Present your bodies. A living sacrifice, H-O-L-Y, holy And you know, oh that's tough, that's hard, man, I don't know. God says it's just reasonable. You've been saved, you've been justified, you've been atoned for, you've been regenerated, you're in the family of God, and God says what I'm looking for for you is just reasonable. It's not unreasonable at all. All right, so let's just present our body and say, well, how in the world am I going to do that? My hands have been doing this, my eyes have been doing that for all these years. Well, the second verse and the third verse tells us that it has something to do with the mind. Verse 2, he talks about the renewing of the mind. Kind of like re-gearing it. Reorienting it. And they get out of that third verse, and the the word thinking appears three times. You say, well, what's going on with the thinking? Now folks, I I know I've been here a bunch of times and I know I've told you this before, but I'm gonna repeat it again Your doer never does anything your thinker hadn't thought of. So if you get your thinker to thinking right, your doer will do right every time. So what's he talking about? Get your thinking headed in the right direction. So, alright, I'm saved. And and I'm starting to listen to the Lord and uh and and he's working on me and I'm and I'm wanting my my body to go in the right direction and trying to get my mind headed right Boy, it sure would be nice if I had some friends. It'd be nice if I had a mentor. It'd be nice if somebody else was kind of moving in the same direction that I'm going. Wow, look at verses four and five. He says, For we have many members in one body, all members have not the same office, so we being many are one body in Christ, and everyone members one of another. Now, there's another word in the Bible that fits over this verse. Oh, I mean it fits over it like a neon sign. And it's just six little letters. C-H-U-R-C-H. It's right over that. And here's the deal. And here's why it's so important to be in church. And I mean, when I say be in church, I mean if the doors are open, let's be there. Alright? Now, what what he what he's telling us here is We're not in this alone. This is not the Lone Ranger we're talking about. Even Lone Ranger had Todd Omen Some of you don't even know about that. But anyway, telling on myself right there. But here's here's the deal. We're not in this by ourselves There are other people on the same trail that we're on, on the same journey that we're on. They too have been saved. They too are working to uh get themselves to where the Lord wants them to be. So he puts us together in a fellowship called a church. Now remember the word church means a called out assembly. A called out assembly. But see that he's called us out of the world and he wants us to assemble. That's what it's about. Alright? And he says, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, and even so much the more as you see the day approaching, all the more important And man, I tell you, I hear people every day, every day. People say, you think coming to Christ is close? I don't know, it may be. It very well might be. But the Bible says as the day approaches so much the more. That means as things get worse and worse, which the Bible says they're going to, evil men wax worse and worse As that happens, you you and I you and I I mean we we need to hang around the church house a lot so that we don't trip up we don't we don't uh falter in the process and so that uh we we get we get to understand we're we're in this one body there's a there's a bunch of us many members and we're only one You know, it reminds me of uh when when I was pastor over in Westminster, uh we we had uh we had a softball league. uh fast fast pitch softball league and uh our our church had five teams about about twenty men on each team And uh there were six other churches in the neighborhood county that had a team of peace. So we had 11 teams. And I I played in I played in that league all the years I was there And uh you know how it is with volunteer things like that. Sometimes you'd go out to play a b uh play a uh a ball game, and as soon as you walk on the field, whoever's managing the team would say uh Our third baseman is not going to be here tonight. Now that means, I mean we we've got somebody playing third base who can scoop them up and and throw it, so I mean that's good. But he's not here So what do we do? We either do without, which if we do without, I know what that other team's gonna do. They're gonna drop the ball right in that neighborhood and beat the stuffings out of us. Or we may just say, hey, just put a warm body over there. Just stand somebody there, and maybe, maybe they'll catch one once in a while. Well, even there, we're in trouble. Now the point of the matter is, even if you're playing just playing softball, every person on the field plays a role. Every person on the field is important. Every single one. We're not all at the same level, we're not all at the same skill. We don't all bat the same average. You know, we're different. We're not the same. And church is like that. You know, we have tall people, short people, etc. , etc. , etc. We're not all the same. But everybody plays a role. Everybody. And the fact that we play that role Not only maybe it helps somebody else, maybe somebody who comes in that's really struggling, maybe we can help them. But I'm going to tell you who gets the most help when they are helping is the person who's doing the helping. That's the per you you may be a blessing to somebody, but I promise you if you get this on your heart and give your heart to it, you'll be the biggest get the biggest part of the blessing every time Now, so getting transformed, getting my thinking headed right, getting my body headed in the right direction, and getting myself involved in the local church, playing a role, doing whatever I can do And you say, well, what is it we're going to do now that we're associated? We've got a church? I'm glad you asked, because the next little handful of verses tell me. Verses number six, seven, and eight, lay out a game plan. Seven items that are the task of the church They are the task that the Lord wants us to be engaged in whenever we get ourselves transformed and we are transforming into what he wants us to be. And here the here's the list. I'll not read the verses, you can look at them there, but the list is this. Number one is prophecy And some of you know that word prophecy in the Bible can mean one of two things. Sometimes it means predicting things. But that's the lesser of the usages. Most of the time when that word prophecy is used, it doesn't mean predicting. It means proclaiming or preaching. Most of the time, as in this case, is exactly what it means. It's preaching. Now, not everybody in the church is a preacher. Not everybody ought to be a preacher. But some people are gifted of the Lord, some people are called of the Lord, some people that is their niche is to be the preacher And so thankfully we have somebody, man, we get together at church time. We got somebody who will open up the book and tell us about it and and do it with uh fire and emphasis and authority and all that. Well the second item in this list of ministries and gifts of grace they're called uh is ministry Now right here we got a little bigger term now, ministry. Wow, a lot of folks can be involved in that. I think about some folks that uh maybe they uh They they just uh decide to come a Monday or come a Thursday afternoon, two or three or four of them are going to get together and and they know the church has three or four or five shut-ins And so they go and they play a little call on those shut-ins and may they may even take a pot of soup or a basket of cookies or something But they'll go and they'll sing a song or two for them and lead them in prayer and read a Bible verse and try to encourage this person who's locked at home. That's ministry I think about the guys who go to the jail and preach at the jail. And we've got that going on all across the country. So many of our churches have that they they go as much as they will allow them to go one service maybe a month or every week or whatever And they go and preach to those guys in the jailhouse. That's ministry. Ministry. And uh I think about the people who work in the nursery when church is going on. That's ministry. I think about people who run the bus routes. That's ministry. And uh say, well, I I don't I don't have a CDL. Uh no, but I I I bet there's sometimes You just climb on the bus and somebody else is driving, you could probably help to manage some of the chaos. I mean some of the good times that's going on there. Amen You know, all right. Now ministry, that's another part of the task. And then he then he says teaching. You know, some people they would tell you I I I don't believe I could be a preacher. But you turn them loose back here with a bunch of third grade boys and girls, and they can teach them about creation, they can teach them about Jonah, they can teach them about Jesus, they can teach them about the Apostle Paul And explain it to them. They can do that. They can teach that. I remember one lady we had We we started, she had I don't know, four or five kids. I think it was first and second graders Four or five and then we had six or eight or nine or ten and about ever about every time I'd see her past her in the hall, she'd say, Pastor, I'm going to have a nervous breakdown. I'm going to have a nervous breakdown Well, it got bigger and bigger and you know, she had a classroom that was about a standard school sized classroom It wasn't wasn't too long until there was like forty or fifty kids in that classroom and we'd gotten her a helper or two and I s I saw her one day and she was smiling ear to ear and just, you know, going after it And I I said to her, I said, I said, Hey, what happened to that nervous breakdown you had coming? She said, Pastor, I'm having so much fun. I put it off. I put it off. You know what had happened She she got her heart into what she was doing. She realized she was teaching those little boys and girls some things they needed to hear. And it made all the difference, all the difference for her. Number four it it mentions exhorting. You know, there was a time back in the early days in our country when in a service like this they would have somebody preach, and then somebody else would come up and be an exhorter. Now what we do most of the time, if I preach the sermon, I do the exhorting as well. You say, what is that? When I get when I get done or when when Brother Allison gets done tonight We're we're going to give an invitation and then will come the exhorting when we say, come on folks, let's do it, let's do it. Come on, you can do it. You can do what God wants you to do. And we urge people to respond. That's encouraging them, the exhorting to do what we ought to do. And we all need somebody to urge us on. Urge us on. Some people are good at that. Number five, talking about these gifts and things we can do is giving. Aren't you glad that God's plan doesn't set a number on that to the point where that it says, hey, you gotta in your lifetime you gotta give a million dollars Or your lifetime. In your lifetime you gotta you gotta give somebody. You know, no, God laid out a plan for giving that's fair for all of us. So that whatever whatever money we make, we we can all participate on a percentage basis, and it it just it's just good. Uh and you know, sometimes sometimes, a few times I've heard somebody say, Man, I'm giving now until it hurts. I say, well, don't quit now. Go go ahead and keep giving 'cause it starts feeling good. I mean I mean it I I look I look at uh I look at my grandchildren, I look at my children, I look at my dear wife And uh and if if I said, well, you know, I've given so much, so much, you know, I've given I'm tired of giving it. If I did that, we'd all we'd say, what a lousy husband, what a what a jerk of a grandfather, and you'd be right. But we don't do that. None of us do that. If it's done, we only do it to the Lord, you know. But we need we need to learn that, hey, listen, man, we're saved, we're born again. We could never outgive him for what he does for us all the time. Giving is something we all can do to some level. And then number six is ruling You say, what is that about? Well, it's about management, not administration. And here again, that's not for everybody. But everything we do, the softball teams I mentioned, every one of them's got a manager, somebody who's in charge, and the church is no different. In fact, if you read Hebrews 13, verses 7, 17, and 24, it tells us pointedly that the pastor is the in-charge person for the local church. And he'll turn around and he'll give assignments. Somebody's in charge of this, somebody's in charge of that. I mean he's the main in-charger person But somebody else, they they got this, they're in charge of this, they're in charge of that, and and you have to have somebody managing things. Otherwise you got chaos. So, yes, ruling. And then the final one is mercy. And all of us can get in on that. Somebody somebody walks in. Homeless, ragamuffin, smelly, you know, but for the grace of God, there go I. And whenever somebody comes in that, you know, it's obvious they got problems or whatever, somewhere along the way here we need to remember we God's been merciful to us. And we can be merciful to others who are, for whatever reason, whatever problem they are, whatever headache they bring, whatever problems they bring. Our churches uh I mean we're we're not museums where we just play fancy things for people to come and just gaze at. No, no, no. Our churches are like hospitals. I know you've been you've been to an emergency room lately? You walk into an ER and there's people sitting there with broken bones and people with with uh all kinds of things that are hurting and they're they're Their families are sitting there weeping. Maybe somebody's died and whatever. And I mean our our our churches are like hospital emergency rooms And that is what the Lord wants us to do, to go out after the poor, the maimed, the hall, the blind, all of that. This is the task. Now I'm not going to do the rest of this chapter, but I I'll just tell you in a sentence or two what it's about. When you get to verses 9 and following, According to my count, there's 28 items. Little tiny statements of God tutoring us about what the transformed life ought to look like. Like the first one, let love be without dissimulation. That means no pretense. No hypocrisy. Just let your love be real. And other things like that. He says, abhor evil. That means hate it. Something's evil, don't call it good. Then he goes on to say, cleave to that which is good. Something's good, don't throw it under the bus. It's good, hang on to it, say it's good. He gives us 28 items just to tutor us in how to demonstrate the lifestyle of a godly Christian. Folks, this is just one chapter. You know there's eleven hundred and eighty-nine of them in the Bible. And every one of them's got so much stack so much stuff stacked in it that'll just help us. And in this case, he's building on the on the theme of transformation. Alright, so you got saved. You got saved. And you know, those of us who got saved when we were kids, well, maybe we didn't have as much to overcome, but I guarantee you, I can tell you Sometimes kids can have to be absolute brats. Sometimes kids can be into all kinds of mischief. So so what's going on here? When a child comes to Christ, they begin to learn about the things of the Lord After a little bit, I mean they ought to be showing some evidence that they're walking with the Lord, even as a child. You know, we get you, well, teenagers are gonna go nuts and crazy. No, not to think not to think of what we're talking about here. There's no reason for that. Just get a hold of what God says and hey, sooner we start the better. Sooner we start the better. Some folks, man, they got all kinds of stuff in their background in their life that they've got to overcome. I'm telling you, you you can go to all the rehab clinics you want to go to and you're still gonna have stuff hanging out all over. You're gonna it's not gonna you you're not gonna rehab your way into into this reality. But if you if you accept the grace of God and get that Get that regeneration taking place in you and then begin to listen to God about how He says to transform yourself. I'm telling you, you'll wind up over here one day and you look back and you say, I can't believe I w I used to be like that Thank God that I got loose from that and got where I am today. The transformed life. What a blessing, what a sweet thing. You get that working in your life? Your wife will think you got she got a new husband. Your husband will think he's got a new wife. Your kids will think you've got new parents Your parents will think you got new kids just because of getting hold of the transformed life Lord help us to get hold of it. And Lord help us to live it and breathe it. And we thank you in Jesus' mighty name. Amen.