If you got it found there, let's read it together, ready? Just a short little verse all together. Here we go. For with God nothing shall be impossible. I want to talk to you this morning about the miracle of Christmas. The miracle of Christmas. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to bless our time in His Word. Father in heaven, I thank you for the young people singing these praises of our Lord Jesus Christ, particularly his birth. And I pray you'd help us now, Lord, as we stop to consider your word and what it says about the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I ask that your Holy Spirit would take these truths here and apply them to our lives. And Lord, help us to see our spiritual condition as we really are. Help us to see us and understand what our relationship is with you. And help us to give that serious consideration. Lord, we need to hear from heaven, and so I yield my will to you, and I present my body to you, Lord, and I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and it would not be me speaking But Lord, I pray it would be your Holy Spirit speaking through me your word to our hearts and lives. Help us make good decisions. And Lord, I do want to pause and ask a special blessing on these young people. Lord, we love them dearly. and the potential that stood on this pulpit here a few moments ago to impact this world with the gospel. So we pray you'd stir their hearts also and help us. Lord, to raise them and teach them in the things of the Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Actually, everything about Christianity is miraculous. Christianity began with a miracle. They're in that manger. We're going to look at that here in just a moment. But Christianity began with a miracle, something that man could not produce, but only something that God could do. The gospel of Jesus Christ, which we are commissioned by God to preach in all the world, the gospel of Jesus Christ began with a miracle. Began with a miracle. Here's a thought for you, and I've mentioned this before over the years, but um, you know, man can produce some amazing people. This world can produce millionaires and even billionaires. I saw a little article here just a week or so ago and it had the richest billionaire, and they went through each state of the United States and who the richest billionaire was, and the wealth of some of these people is absolutely mind-boggling How wealthy some people are. Man, this world can produce some very, very rich people, produce billionaires. This world can produce some tremendous athletes. Again, just recently I saw some young people that were training for the Olympics, and just the tremendous athletic feats they can do, the distances they can jump. and uh uh and all these types of things. This world can produce some phenomenal athletes, some incredible, um uh uh incredibly wealthy people This world can produce um uh uh uh the uh this world produce what they call uh American idols And oh, everybody just loves them. And oh, they're so wonderful, and everybody just adores these people. But I tell you one thing, this world can produce a lot of things uh technologically produce some amazing uh things. I s I heard the other day we were talking somebody said and I think this is true that there's more technology in your cell phone than there was in the first rocket that went to the moon back in nineteen sixty-nine, I think it was. Now I don't know if that's true or not, but I tell you my smartphone's smarter than me. I tell you that somebody said, why do you have a smartphone? Because I'm dumb. I need a smartphone Man, the world can produce all these amazing people and these amazing technology, but I'll tell you one thing the world will never be able to produce, and that is a genuine Christian. Only God can make a man a Christian. You and I can't work it up. It's not something we develop in our life. Well, I'm trying to be a Christian. I'm working on being a Christian. No, if a person's a Christian, they're a Christian because God made them a Christian. It's miraculous. So everything about Christianity is a miracle. One thing this whole world cannot produce, and that's a Christian, as I said. Only God can make a Christian. Only God can turn a sinner into a saint. Only God can take a child of the devil and make him a child of God. Only God can take an old hell-bound sinner under the judgment of God. And turn that thing completely around and give them a whole new life and give them eternal life and secure for them a home in heaven. The church can't do that. By the way, the Pope can't do that This preacher can't do that. In fact, you and I can't do that for ourselves. Only God can save a soul. Only God can change a life. Only God can give eternal life And what God does is miraculous. What God does is miraculous. Christianity begins with Christmas And Christmas is a miracle. Everything about it. In fact, I suggest it's a two-fold miracle. Let me give you two aspects of what Christmas, the birth of Christ how it was miraculous. First of all, it was mer the miracle of God becoming a man. Now here's the problem. We've heard this so often for many of us. We've heard this that we were children. Jesus, God in the flesh, God became man. And because we're so familiar with it, we lose the significance of it. Think about this with me. God Almighty, the one that spoke this universe into existence. God Almighty, the one that inhabits eternity. I like what Solomon said about God. It boggles my mind. He said they were building the temple, they were dedicating a temple, and Solomon said about God, he says, how, and I'm putting in my own words now, he says, how can God. Inhabit a building that I have built when the entire universe cannot contain him. Now think about the magnitude of our God. Think about the immensity of our God. This universe just goes on and on and on, and we can't even comprehend the extent and the vastness of our universe, and God is bigger than the universe. Now think about what we know about God, and he became a man. He became a man. Took on human flesh. If we had time, we'd study Philippians chapter 2, where God laid aside his prerogatives as God. And he humbled himself and became a man, just like you and I, without the sin nature, of course. We call it the incarnation is the theological term. It's God the Son, Jesus Christ, voluntarily leaving the glories of heaven and taking upon him humanity. Taking upon him human flesh and all the limitations that come along with that. And he did all that, get this, he did all that so that he can be a literal sacrifice. For your sins and my sins. God that has no needs, God that is complete and self-sufficient in and of himself comes down as a little baby and held in the arms of Mary and nursed from Neri and is taught to grow and walk and develop Learns, has to eat, has to rest. This God willingly became a man. I'm telling you, the birth of Jesus Christ is a tremendous miracle. That God would become a man. God becoming a man. By the way, and I don't mean to be uh unkind, please don't misunderstand. I'm not trying to be critical. I just want to be correct as far as scripture Uh there's certain groups that teach that a man can become a god. And if we follow certain rites and we follow certain religious ceremonies that Man can become a God. In fact, our Mormon neighbors, they teach that as God is as man is now, God once was, and as God is now, man can become Now, I don't mean to be unkind. I love them dearly, but they're dead wrong. Man cannot become God. Never in the history of humanity has a man ever become God. Never will happen. Nowhere in the Bible does is it even remotely possible that a man can become God. But I tell you, on that Christmas day, God became a man. God became a man. What a miracle What a miracle. The incarnation. The miracle of God becoming a man. You and I were born to live. I don't believe. I say this sometimes at funerals. And by the way, we had a nice funeral yesterday for Mildred Harvey. I know the family's grateful for everybody's prayers. And I'll say this sometimes at a funeral. God didn't create man to die When God created Adam and Eve back in the garden there, he didn't create them so that they would die. He created them to live. You and I aren't born. God doesn't give us this life in order to die. Death is an intruder. By one man, sin entered the world, Adam, and death by sin. So death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. God didn't create us to die. God's intention for mankind was not to die. Sin came in through the deceitfulness of Satan. And now man dies. Man isn't born. Man is born to live, but Jesus Christ was born to die. The whole purpose he came was to give his life a sacrifice. Just like those Old Testament sacrificial lambs, they would breathe and raise these little lambs for the sole purpose of being a sacrifice in the temple. And Jesus Christ came to earth, was born, took on flesh, became a man for the sole purpose of offering himself as a sacrifice for your sins and my sins. I'm telling you, it is a miracle, God becoming man to offer himself to be the sacrifice and take the judgment for our sins. I tell you, I can't get over it. May 7, 1979. I trusted Jesus Christ Savior 42 and a half years ago. Something like that. Right? 42 and a half years ago. And I tell you to this day, it just boggles my mind that Jesus Christ would stand hang on that cross and take responsibility for the sins that I have committed. The things I've said, the things I've done, the thoughts that have gone through my mind, all the sinfulness of myself and Jesus Christ on that cross said, I'll take responsibility for Dennis's sins. I'll take responsibility for every deed he's done, every thought, every sin. I'm responsible. Judge me. I'll take your wrath And in my place, Jesus died, was buried, and rose again. Would you agree with me? What a wonderful Savior we have. What a wonderful Savior. And that was the whole purpose of him becoming man, born to die. And so we have the miracle of Christmas, the miracle of a God becoming a man. I also put this down. The miracle of the virgin birth. The miracle of the virgin birth. Now, the virgin birth is the method by which God became man. The method by which we have what we call the incarnation, taking on of flesh of God Actually, and we uh I try to point this out, uh, it wasn't really the virgin birth that was so miraculous Jesus' birth really in many ways was no different than any other birth as far as the physical being physically being born. The miracle was in the virgin conception Of Jesus Christ. And what a miraculous thing that is, where a child is born to a woman that never knew a man. What an amazing thing. There's a number of scriptures that teach that. And I'd like to, if you would, if you have your Bibles, turn with me back to Genesis chapter 3. By the way, I've always tried to be a part of a church that believed the Bible. I always tried to be a part of a church that not just believed the Bible, but they tried to live by the Bible. And I always liked going to church where they use the Bible. Can I get an amen there at all? Use the Bible. I love hearing Paige's turn. Genesis chapter number three, if you would come back there with me. We're going to look at a few. We're going to do a little quick Bible study here. And we're going to start out in Genesis 3. And if you would, notice with me verse number fifteen. Now the context of this passage here is Adam and Eve have sinned. They've eaten of the forbidden fruit that God told them clearly they should not do, the Satan Well it's very subtle and he got them to disobey God. And God, of course, knew about it, and he confronts Adam and Eve. And I think this is an amazing thing. When Adam and Eve sinned against God The very first thing God did was he intervened to restore that relationship. God loved Adam. God loved Eve very, very much. He created them in his image. And when they sinned and that sin separated them from God, very first thing God did was he stepped down and said, All right, we need to fix this We need to restore this relationship. Hey, I want to tell you this this morning. God loves you just as much as he loved Adam and Eve. And you and I as sinners need to be restored to God, and God wants to restore that relationship between you and him. He wants those sins cleansed. He wants our sins forgiven. So that we can be uh back in fellowship and in a relationship with God. So that's what God did for Adam and Eve And then he makes a statement, if you wouldn't notice in verse number 15, that right at first it just doesn't looks a little confusing But if you look at a little bit, we catch what God is saying. Look at verse 15. And by the way, this would be a good verse to mark somehow in your Bible or highlight in some way. God speaking to Adam and Eve, he says this, I will put enmity, speaking to Eve here actually, he said, I will put enmity between thee and the woman. Speaking to the Satan, I'm sorry, the serpent I will put enmity between thee and the woman. Um forgive me, but there's something wrong with a woman that likes snakes. I'll tell you that right now. Something wrong with anybody that likes snakes in my book, but God bless you I will put enmity between thee and the woman between Now look what he says here. Between thy seed and what's the next two words? Her seed. Huh. And it, the woman's seed, shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Now wait a minute. He's saying to the serpent, and he's referencing Eve, and he says, I will put enmity between thy seed and her seed. Now if you know and knew anything about human uh physiology, I think that's the word I want. You know anything about um uh what's the word I want Bi bi biolo biology, right? Is that it? You can tell I are a college student, you know, a go college graduate. Do you know anything about biology? Any know anything about human reproduction? The woman does not have the seed. Right or wrong? Seed is not in woman. The seed is in man. But here God says references the seed of the woman. You know what he's referencing? The fact that a woman was going to give birth In the future, he's prophesying that there would come a day when a woman would give birth to the Messiah, the coming Savior, and that Messiah would not have the seed of man. It would not be of the seed of man. That's a reference to what? The virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. The virgin conception of the Lord Jesus Christ in the womb of Mary No seed of man. You could put in your margin there beside that. If you're in the habit of doing this, you could put margin there. A reference to the virgin birth of Jesus Christ. And he would one day bruise the head of the seed of Satan, the Antichrist. And so we have a reference here to this miracle of Christmas. that a woman would conceive a child without the seed of man. If you would come with me to the book of Isaiah. If you open your Bible in the middle, you're at Psalms, and then work your way towards the back, you'll run into Isaiah before long. And Isaiah chapter number 7. Again, this is a prophetic reference to the coming Messiah. And God gave those Jews in the Old Testament, the Jewish nation, He gave them a little insight about this coming Messiah, this coming Savior. And Isaiah chapter number seven, and if you would, look with me at verse number 14, and he says very clearly here. Isaiah 7, verse 14. Therefore, the Lord Himself shall give you a sign. Alright? Behold a what? Virgin shall conceive. See, how can that be? That's humanly impossible. That can't happen. A virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. That's God with us. It's referring to the Lord Jesus Christ. Here he says an event's going to take place that is humanly impossible. It is not physically possible for a virgin to conceive. But yet God says it's going to happen. I'm telling you, it's a miracle. The conception and birth of the Lord Jesus Christ by the Virgin Mary is a miracle of God. It is not something that can happen outside of the intervention and power of God. It's not going to happen. If you would turn with me to Matthew real quickly. Matthew Chapter number one. Now I know there's some versions of the Bible that they are in Isaiah, and they won't use the word virgin. They'll put in there a young maiden. Now I'm here to tell you that is a mistranslation of Scripture. Now they're wrong You say, well, that word it comes from could be used either way. Maybe, maybe not, but Matthew tells us that she was a virgin. And so if you would, notice in Matthew chapter number one and verse number 16. Now pay attention to what said. And Jacob, it's given the genealogy of Jesus here. And it says, and Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary. Of whom was born Jesus, who is called the Christ. You notice it doesn't say that this Jesus doesn't say that Jesus is the son of Joseph. It says, of whom was born Mary. And then if you would, come down to verse number 18 and he expands on that. He says, now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise. When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph. Now, that espousal is not quite a marriage, but it's about as binding as a marriage. Today, a young couple gets uh engaged to be married. Um, they're committed to each other. They made this promise, we're going to get married. A spousal is actually a higher level of commitment Than just an engagement. In fact, you would have to go through divorce proceedings to break off this espousal. Even though they're not married, they're espoused. It's a binding agreement And so it says that Mary, when she, his mother Mary, was espoused to Joseph. Now look at this. He gets very specific. Before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. And uh it goes on, and her husband and Joseph, her husband, being a just man, not willing to make her a public example. was minded to put her away privily. He thought, my wife, my wife is with my espoused wife, my future wife is with child. His immediate assumption was what? She'd been what? Unfaithful. She'd slept with somebody. How could she be with child? We haven't been together. She must have been with someone else. This it has to be that way. Look what happens. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared on him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife. Look at this. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. A miracle. A miracle. The virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. No human father conceived of the Holy Ghost. I'm a little ahead of myself on this, but I always find this fascinating. For sake of time, we won't turn to all these references. But in Hebrews, the Bible says that God prepared a body For the Lord Jesus Christ. And if we study that passage and we study this and look, we come to this conclusion that God Almighty prepared a little tiny embryotic body. For the Lord Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit came upon Mary and placed that embryotic body into the womb of Mary. No seed of man involved in this. Just a pure young virgin girl, probably about 14, 15 years old. And the Holy Spirit of God comes upon that sweet, godly young lady. And of all the women of the world, he chooses her. The place, the embryonic body of the coming Savior, the Son of God, God in the flesh. Isn't that an amazing miracle? The God that created this, the God that spoke this into existence, is now in the form of a little embryo human body in the womb of a young girl. I'm telling you the miracle of Christmas is an amazing day. Amazing day. If you would take your Bibles and turn over to Luke chapter 1, our text for this morning And again, we have another account of this virgin conception of the Lord Jesus Christ is really what it is. Look at verse 27. Pastor Matt read this a few moments ago. And here he used the very the term right there. Verse 26 In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee named Nazareth to a what Virgin. I circled that word there. That's important. To a virgin, a spouse to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. Look down at verse 31. He shall be great. This is the child in her womb. He shall be called the son of the highest. And the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm reading verse 32. Look at verse 31. And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb And bring forth a son, thou shalt call his name Jesus. Come down, verse 34. Then said Mary. I find this interesting. Then said Mary unto the angel. How shall this be? How in the world can this happen, seeing I know not a man And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest shall overshadow thee. I like the terminology here. Very gentle, very gracious, just overshadow thee. And uh shall overshadow thee. Therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. When an event, the Holy Spirit of God comes upon Mary, overshadows her, and places within her womb. That little embryotic body of Jesus Christ. Would you agree with me? What a miracle. What a miracle. I'm telling you, this has never happened at any point before this and will never happen again. A child born without the seed of man. And by the way, that's tremendously significant for your salvation and my salvation. If Jesus would have been born of a man, just the same natural process that everyone else that has ever been born, if he would have been born just like everybody else, you know what he would have been? He would have been a sinner like everybody else. I hate to say this, fellas, but I believe our children get their sinful nature from the man. So the wives look to men, so it's your fault. It's true. We get our sinful nature from the man. For by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, and so pass upon all men. We get our sinful nature from the man. Of course, God, uh Jesus' father was not a man. Jesus' father was who? God Almighty. God is not a sinner. And so Jesus Christ, being conceived of a virgin without the seed of man, means that he was a sinless sacrifice. For our s to be paid for our sins. If Jesus was a sinner like you and I, when he died on that cross, who would he have been dying for? Himself. But because he was without sin, because he was sinless, when he died on the cross, he could take our sins on our place. You follow? You follow the teaching there? So the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ is a phenomenal miracle, but it's necessary if anybody's ever going to be saved. If these liberals, Christ denying, Bible rejecting liberals, uh if they uh if what they said was true, one of them suggests that Mary was raped by some German soldier or mercenary that the Romans had hired. If they had uh if that was true, then you and I would be lost on our way to hell. We'd have no hope of salvation I'm here to tell you the truth of the matter is Jesus is the Son of God, born of a virgin, without a sinful nature. And was the sinless, perfect, pure, complete, adequate sacrifice for your sins and my sins. The miracle of Christmas, the miracle of God becoming a man, the miracle of a virgin conceiving and giving birth to Messiah. Everything about Jesus' entrance into the world is miraculous. And everything about Christianity is miraculous. Now I want to give you three thoughts. I know what time it is. I want to give you three thoughts that I notice here in Mary and uh and then uh uh pray the Lord will play this to our lives. The first thing I want to notice in verse number thirty-four, with all this taking place, I notice the perplexity of Mary Perplexity of Mary. What does it mean if somebody is perplexed? We were talking about words. Nate and I we were coming up with words this morning. What about perplexed? If somebody's perplexed, what does it mean? Talk to me They're confused. They're wondering, what in the world? Anybody ever say this? What in the world? Ladies, you ever say it to your husband, What in the world? Because Gabriel shows up to Mary. Now I think it's much more scary and more sober than what we're talking right now. But think about this young girl, and an angel of God shows up. And he says, you're going to have a child, though you knew not a man, you're going to have a child conceived of the Holy Spirit. And Mary, I'm putting in my words, she's like, what in the world? Look at verse 34 there with me if you would. Then Mary said unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? Well, how can this be? This is impossible. How can this be? Now I want to be quick to point out, in Mary's defense, She is not doubting what the angel said to her. She doesn't say, note carefully, she doesn't say, this cannot be. Do you notice that? She said what? How can this be? You know what that tells me? She believed it She just didn't understand how this works out. Jesus said, You're going to have a child. You know a man, you're going to have a child conceived of by the Holy Ghost. She doesn't say that can't be. She says, okay, but How's this gonna happen? This isn't possible. This is humanly impossible My hat's off to Mary for not even doubting what the angel said, but simply expressing her perplexity about how it's going to take place. She's convinced that what the angel says is so. I tell you, we could use more Christians that simply believe what God says, whether they understand it or not. We might see some revival in our churches, we might see our nation turn around, we might see some homes healed, if we just believe what God says and quit worrying about how He's going to do it and just believe He'll do what He said. Mary said, How? She's not doubting God. She's not disregarding what God says and rejecting. She accepts it. She believes it, but she doesn't understand how it takes place. Now, in contrast, a few months before this, an angel showed up to John the Baptist's daddy before he was born, Zacharias. And said something not exactly the same, but similar. He said, you and Elizabeth are going to have a child in your old age. It's not a miracle. It's not a uh uh uh a virgin conception for Elizabeth and Zacharias, but it's miraculous in the sense that they're past the age of being able to physically have children And notice, if you would, come back to verse number 18 of chapter 1 of Luke, and notice how Zacharias responds. Verse number 18, the angel showed up to him, and Zachariah said unto the angel. Now the angel told him he and his wife are going to have a child in their old age. And notice what he says. He says, whereby, he doesn't say, how is this going to take place? Whereby is this going to take place? Notice what he says. Whereby shall I know this? Can I put that in my word my own words? A very loose interpretation of that? He's saying this. Oh yeah, prove it. How do I know this? Alright, you say that my wife and I are going to have a child. How do I know it? Give me some proof. Would you agree with me? That's a little different than Mary's response. Mary doesn't say, oh, prove what you're saying is true. Mary said, okay, but how how is this going to happen I'm espoused to Joseph. I've never known a man. How's this going to happen? Zechariah said, prove it. You know what happened? Zacharias lost his ability to speak and hear for nine months. God says, all right, you want proof? Here's proof. You're not going to say a word for nine months. And it guess what? It happened exactly as God said. It happened exactly as God said. So we have the perplexity of Mary. How can this be? How in the world? Okay, God, uh I'm not doubting you. I'm not uh I'm not disputing. I just don't understand, I'm perplexed Mary didn't dispute God's message. She didn't doubt God's message. By the way, she clearly understood that God was telling her she's going to have a child without ever knowing a man. She understood that. She uh I think she was aware of Isaiah chapter seven fourteen, which we read here a few moments ago. Send a sign, a virgin shall conceive. She knew that passage. All the Jews did. They were looking for the Messiah to come. She knew what God had promised. She knew what this angel said. She didn't dispute that. She didn't doubt that. She didn't reject that. She accepted that as truth. But she did not understand how it could happen. How can this be? By the way, Nicodemus in John chapter 3, Jesus says you need to be born again. Nicodemus was a good man, he was a religious man, but he was lost. Do you know you can be a church member and end up in hell if you don't get saved? You know you can be very religious. My daddy was a very religious man, growing up church Sunday mornings. He'd Believe the Bible, all that, but he never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior until 1970. You can be as religious as anybody in the world and still be unsaved. under the judgment of God. Nicodemus was a religious but lost man. He came to Jesus. He says, uh, uh good master, uh, um uh Uh nobody can no man can do these things that thou doest except God be with him. He came and he was flattering, he was complimenting Jesus Christ. Not flattering, he was complimenting Jesus Christ And Jesus cut to the chase, never addressed anything Nicodemus said, and he said, He must be born again Negemus says, huh? That's in the Greek. Huh? What do you mean, but born again? Jesus said, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of heaven. You're religious, you're lost. You need to be born in the family of God. You need spiritual life. And Nicodemus says: How can a man be born when he is old? What does he go back into his mother's womb and be born the second time? Jesus says, you don't know what you're talking about. That which was born of the flesh is flesh. But you need to be born of the spirit. You need to be born again, Nicodemus. Nicodemus wasn't doubting what Jesus said. He wasn't rejecting what Jesus said. He didn't understand. How do you get born again? How does this happen, what you're saying? I don't understand. And Jesus went on to explain that God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. The new birth comes by believing, trusting, relying on Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. May 7, 1979, 10:30 at night, I knelt by my bed, a 19-year-old punk drug addict. I called out to God to have mercy on me, and I was born again God gave me new life, eternal life. And that's what he's telling Nicodemus Mary wasn't rejecting God. She just didn't understand. Nicodemus wasn't rejecting Jesus Christ. He just didn't understand. I'm here to tell you, say, preacher, how could God save someone like me? How could God forgive me for all I've done? Listen, I can't explain all the hows, but I can tell you this: what God says is so. If God promises, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. If God promises that, I know it's true, and I may not exactly understand how it all takes place. I know a person can be saved and so far from God and living in sin, and they can come back and be restored and have renewed fellowship with God. I don't know how that all works out, but I know this: God can do it. Mary was perplexed. Not their perplexity wasn't in what the angel said, but how does this happen? If we can learn to trust God, even though we don't understand If we can learn to trust God even though we don't know how it all works out, I put it this way: mature, strong faith is a willingness to believe and trust God even when I don't understand what He's doing. Even when I don't understand. Here's a danger. There's a real danger in insisting that I know how God's going to do something before I believe it. In insisting, before I believe God, I've got to know how He's going to do this. That is weak faith. I've got to be able to come and say, God, I don't know how you can meet this need. God, I don't know how you can change my circumstance. God, I don't know how you can deliver me from this sin. God, I don't know how you can help me in this fix, this circumstance. I don't know how you can do it. But Lord, I believe you can. I believe you can. I trust you. I see the perplexity of Mary. The second thing, I see the possibilities of God. I think Luke chapter 1 and verse number 37 is one of the great promises of the Bible. It's one of the most encouraging passages. Look again. For with God, what's the next word? Nothing shall be impossible. With God, nothing shall be impossible. Will you say that with me? With God, nothing shall be impossible. Do you know that statement is made five times in the Gospels? Nothing shall be impossible. Sometimes God put it this way: with men, this is impossible, but with God, all things are possible. I'm telling you, our God is an awesome God. Our God is a powerful God. Our God is a wise God. And he tells us that nothing is impossible with him. There is not a sinner on earth that God can't save. I don't know about you. Maybe I've heard folks say, oh, I don't think God could ever save that guy. Don't you put limitations on God's ability to save a soul. Now, God will never save someone against their will, but I tell you, He's awfully good at making them willing I tell you, he can be he can back a guy, he can back some old hard heart into a corner, and they have nowhere else to look but up And God will never save a soul against their will, but he is sure able to make them willing to trust him and seek him. There's not a hard, cold, sinful heart that God can't melt. I tell you, I've been doing this for over 35 years, preaching and working people, going on 40, really. I tell you, I see some whole, cold, hard hearts. Cussing, drinking, mean, hard, hateful. That old spirit of God moves on their heart and brings conviction. And that heart melts. I've seen grown men at altars weeping, asking God to have mercy. I tell you, nothing is impossible with God. That cold heart is heart, that young person that is so far from God, raised up in a godly home taught the things of the Lord, memorized scripture, went through Sunday school, and they're out away from God, so far from God You think, I don't think they'll ever come back. I don't think they'll ever come back. I'm here to tell you God is able to reach. They could be on the farthest reaches of our universe, and God could reach them and bring them back. Don't ever give up. Don't ever give up on a lost sinner or a wayward child. God is able all things. With God nothing shall be impossible. There's no problem God can't solve. There's no need that God can't meet There's no mountain that God can't move. There's nothing impossible to God. I remember I graduated from Bible college in 1986. Now I really am a I really are a college graduate. I really I know it's hard to believe, but it's true. And um that next year is 86, May of 86. I graduated on my birthday, May 6th, by the way. May 6th uh graduated my birthday and that next February at 87 uh married my wife. I mean people are glad I married my wife. Yeah. And uh married Kathy. And uh about two months later, we got called to go to Indianapolis, got an invite from a church up there to come up and be on staff, be a youth pastor. And so wonderful And uh we're all excited. I'm never, you know, I'm Pastor Dennis. I'd look in the mirror, Pastor Dennis, I'd write it, Pastor Dennis. I was so excited. And um uh so anyway, uh we're getting ready and we're gonna have to rent a vehicle to haul our stuff. It was it was like a minivan, but uh we didn't have nothing. And uh so anyway, we're we need to rent this vehicle and I don't remember what it cost, but it was it could have been a million dollars. We didn't have the money And um I had an old stick uh vehicle. What was that car? Chevet. How many people remember Chevy Chavet? You had to shove it to get it started. Chevet I told people they'd been to say, What are you driving? I said a vet Chevette As a stick and tapping uh uh y you didn't even have your license, drivers. No, no, yeah, she did. She was very young when we got married. Um She never drove a stick shift. And so we gotta rent this vehicle. I didn't have the money. She didn't know how to drive a stick, so I'm gonna have to drive the U-Haul. She's gonna have to drive the car. So we did a quick lesson on how to shift And so if I came time the day before to move, I got to pick this vehicle up. I didn't have the money. We were praying, praying, praying. And I'm telling you, humanly, it was impossible. for me to come up with that money. We didn't know what we were gonna do. We really didn't. And about, if I remember correctly, about seven o'clock or so at night, I was no it was already dark Knock at our little apartment we were renting from the school. A lady was there and she said, God laid this on my heart to do this for you. Nobody in the world knew about our need except God. She goes, God laid this on my heart. She goes, don't you argue with me about it. God told me to do this. She handed us some money. We got and we looked at it. Anyone want to guess how much it was? Exactly what we need to pay that U-Haul. Listen, God taught me something right at the beginning of my ministry. Nothing impossible with God. There's not a need he can't meet. And you say, well, preacher, I really need a new side-by-side. Need God provides all our needs. He's able. He's able. By the way, he could give you side-by-side too. Nothing is impossible with God. Mary said, how can this be? This is humanly impossible. Lord, I believe you. It's going to happen, I'm sure. But how in the world? God said, There's nothing impossible with God. Don't you worry about it. There's nothing impossible with God. Say, preacher, if I come and trust Jesus Christ as Savior, I don't know that He'd save me. How in the world could He save someone like me? Hey, don't you worry about that. Nothing impossible with God. God fixed my marriage. My marriage is such a disaster. Nobody could. Hey, nothing impossible with God. The perplexity of Mary, the possibilities of God, and then I want to end with this: the proper response of believers. Look with me, if you would, real quickly, at verse 38. Mary says, I don't know how, how in the world, I don't know a man, how am I going to have a child? Look at verse 38 Oh, verse 37, the angel says, With God nothing shall be impossible. And then verse 38, look at Mary's response. Behold, the handmaiden of the Lord says, Lord, here I am. I'm your handmaid. I'm here to serve you. The handmade of the Lord. Look at this next statement. What a statement of faith. Be it unto me according to thy word You know what the proper response to the possibilities of God is for you and I to say, all right, God, nothing's impossible with you. Here I am. I'm yours, Lord. You do and you use me and you do to me and through me whatever it is, total surrender to a God that is good. And that loves me and nothing is impossible for, I'm yours, Lord. Total surrender. In fact, I put in the margin of my Bible, total surrender on the part of Mary. Be it unto me according to thy word. Can I give you a caution here, real quick, as I wind us down? Let's be very careful we don't claim promises God didn't make. Now you've got to be careful. There's these guys on television, and there's some preachers, quote-unquote, evangelists out there, and they've got people claiming all kinds of promises that God never made. Listen, there's no promise in the Bible that if you send a seed offering to an evangelist, that God's going to make you rich. You can't find that in the Bible nowhere. Amen. God says if you honor him and seek him first, he'll meet your needs. You know what I found happens? If you send a $1,000 seed offering to an evangelist, you know who I found out gets rich? The evangelist. That's a scam, my friends. I'm not trying to be unkind. I'm trying to be very straight up honest with you. It's a scam. Don't claim promises God never made. But I tell you, when God makes a promise, whether you and I understand it or not, you mark it down, it'll take place. God keeps his word. Whether I can understand it or not. We have to be very, very careful. We don't go around claiming promises. You know what happens when I claim a promise that God didn't make? Disappointment, delusion. Discouragement comes in because God's not obligated to keep a promise he never made. Here's another caution. Just because God can do something doesn't mean he will. Now can I be I just want to be straight up with you. God could heal every single person that's sick on this planet right now, like that. Amen or not. Nothing's impossible with him Here's a caution. Just because he can doesn't mean he will. Sometimes, sometimes it's not God's will to heal someone. Sometimes it's his will to bring them on home to heaven. Now, I don't know about you, but we got a list of folks that are very sick. In our church and associated with our church. And I'm praying every day, I'm praying God heals them. Danny and Ellie. Praying for Denise. I'm praying God heals them. And I'm asking God, and he said that we should let our requests be made known unto him with thanksgiving. And I'm asking God to heal every single one of them But wait a minute, I understand there are cases where it's not always God's will to heal them. Mildred Harvey Faithful woman of God. There's time God says, all right, come on up here. Come on up here. Just because God can do something doesn't mean he will. So what you and I need to do is say, Lord, be it unto me according to thy word. You know how Jesus put it when he was in the Garden of Gethsemane praying? He prayed, Lord, deliver me. Let this cup pass from me. I don't want to go through this. But nevertheless, not my will, but what? Thy will be done. You know what he was saying? Be it unto thy servant. According to thy word. You know what some of us need to do on this Christmas Sunday, Christmas service Sunday? Maybe some of us need to come to the Lord and say, Alright, Lord, no more my will. Be it unto me according to thy word You're all powerful, God. I know you can solve this problem, you can meet this mean. God, I just give myself to you I was reading about in uh Europe when Germany did their blitzkrieg across uh portions of your your uh Europe Just the start of World War II as they were invading Poland and nations there. And there was I read an account this week of a a father and he had a young boy And their town was just bombed to daylights. Buildings were collapsed. And there was the air raids were going off, and the Germans were coming in, and the artillery was coming down on their town. Just the civilian and his son. And they were scared to death and their b their their house had been destroyed and they were running down the street looking for a place to find cover, find safety, and there was a building there And um just as they approached the building, a bomb had hit it, it exploded, and in the front, in front of the building, in the front yard or whatever, there was a huge crater where a bomb had gone off before Eight, ten feet deep. And the father just instinctively thought, we'll jump down in there and we'll hide down in there and try to just count cover until if this thing's over. And he jumped down in that uh crater and he reached, he turned back to his son. He said, Son, jump down in here. And the boy stood there, and there's noise and smoke and fire and bombs and planes And the boy was terrified. And the father said, son, jump, jump. The boy yelled out, Daddy, I can't see you. It was dark. He was down in there with the smoke. Daddy, I can't see you. Jump! I can't see you. And finally, Daddy said, son, I can see you. Jump! That little boy leaped into the darkness of that hole and landed in his daddy's arms His daddy could see him. The little boy couldn't see the daddy. And by faith in his father's word, he jumped into a dark hole and was caught by his father. You and I are in a dark hole sometimes. Understand? How can this be How can I ever get out of this situation? How can things ever be changed? How can I ever have a pure conscience again? How can I ever be right? God says, you just take me at my word. Nothing's impossible with me. You just jump. I may be talking to someone this morning that's never been saved. You've never trusted Jesus Christ as save you, and you say, I don't know if God could save me. I'm here to tell you, nothing is impossible with God. He can save you. Jump. Jump into the arms of Jesus. You trust him. Let him forgive you. Let him give you eternal life. Let him change your life. He'll take you to heaven someday. You've got problems, you have needs, bring it to the Lord. Nothing is impossible with God. Would you say that with me again? Nothing is impossible with God Let's just believe it, whether we understand it or not. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. We thank you for the miracle of Christmas. When you came to give yourself a sacrifice that we can have eternal life, help us to trust you Even when we don't understand. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I've trusted Christ as Savior. I know I'm saved. There's no doubt in my mind. Jesus has saved my soul. I have a biblical basis for that assurance. But you'd say, preacher, I've got some problems that are bigger than me. I've got some circumstances that are bigger than me. I've got some heartaches that I don't understand how they could ever be fixed. But you'd say, preacher, I'm going to take God at His word. I'm going to trust Him. Even when I don't understand. Is there any like that, preacher? I have some needs, some heartaches, got some situations I need to just trust God with. And put his hands, God bless you, hands all around. If the truth were told, probably every one of us have situations like this to some extent. Let's come and just say, Lord, according to your word, I just give myself to you and I'm going to trust you to lead me and direct me and help me and see me through this. Maybe there's some here this morning you say, preacher, I know someone that's unsaved. I love them. Maybe it's a family member. It's a neighbor, a friend, I don't know, co-worker. But you say, I care deeply for them, and I know they're not saved. I'm not trying to be unjudgmental, but they've never trusted Christ. They need Christ. And you'd say, preacher, I'm gonna I'm going to pray, and I'm going to witness, and I'm going to believe that you can save them and that you will work in their heart. Is there any like that, preacher? I know someone May there's some say I know someone away from God. They need to come back. They need to come back. I'm going to trust God. Any like that? God bless you. We could go on and on. One last question, and we give the invitation. Is there some say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I don't know how God could save me. But he promised he would. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I can get this settled. Pray for me, I can get this settled in my heart and soul. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me that I can get this settled. Any at all? Now Father, bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. James playing the invitation.