Job chapter 42, I want us, if you would, read together with me in unison verse 5 and 6. Job 42, verse 5 and 6, if you would read that with me To get us started this morning. Ready? Verse number five, altogether. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine eye seeth thee Wherefore I abhor myself and repent in dust and ashes. Repent in dust and ashes. Job says that. Now, I'm going to make this statement again probably a little later in the message, but the fact of the matter is, Job is one of the most godly men in all of Scripture. I can't find anyone else in Scripture that is praised higher than Job for his godliness, his righteousness, and we admire him for his incredible faith in God. But here is a godly man that repents. He's repenting in dust and ashes. And so I want to look at this. What in the world, what in the world is Job repenting of? In dust and ashes. And so that's we're going to try and look at that this morning. So let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now as we study a bit this life of the man Job, the life of this man Job. And Lord, we I know I speak for myself probably about all of us that we sure could use a little bit of Job's character and his faith. And I need that. And so I pray you we can learn from him a little bit this morning. And I pray your Holy Spirit would take these thoughts and these truths from the Word of God, apply it to each of our hearts, our homes That we could be the people you created us and you saved us to be. Live the lives you intend for us to live. Experience the blessings you desire to bless us with, to be used of you in ways you want to use us. So God, I yield my will to you anew this morning. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I pray and ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit And that it would be you speaking your word through me to our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The book of Job's a unique book in that it gives the account Of the time when God put his faith in a man. We always talk about putting our faith in God. How many people ever heard me say, have faith in God? Sure, we say it all the time. Have faith in God. We gotta have faith in God. And we ought to. We need to have faith in God. But here is an A unique instance, and it's happened a few other times through Scripture, we could point out, but here in a very clear and profound way. God trusts a man. God puts his faith in this fellow Job. If you would, come back to chapter 1 with me. Now keep your place here at 42, but come back to the beginning of the book of Job. We're told a few things that take place. And these are events that are behind the scenes. As far as I know, Job never became aware of what we're about to read here. Job never knew that happened. These are behind the scenes events. These are events that are taking place in the spiritual world. Now, I hope all of us understand that the physical world is not all there is. There's more to reality than just what we can see and hear and feel and touch and smell. It's more a reality than just this physical realm we are in. There is a spiritual reality out there. There's a spiritual reality. There are spiritual beings That are just as real and just as active as you and I here in this physical realm. And there's an event taking place here that is unknown to Job If you would, notice chapter number one and look with me at verse number six. It says, Now there was a day when the sons of God, now we have reason to believe that's probably the angels. Angelic beings. They are referred to occasionally as sons of God. The sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord. That's God Almighty, Jehovah God. Notice what it says. And Satan came also among them. So Satan's in on this. Now pay close attention to the wording here. And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? And Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. Now we know from 1 Peter 5, verse 8, what Satan was doing was he was looking for people to devour He was looking for people to destroy. As a roaring lion, he walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. Satan is out to destroy people. And he says, I was going to and fro in the earth, walking up and down. The Lord said unto Satan, Now look at this: Hast thou considered my servant Job? There is none like him in the earth. A perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and pursue evil. And Satan answered the Lord and said, Doth Job fear God for naught? Hast not thou made a hedge about him and about his house, about all that he hath on every side? Thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land. Put now, put forth thine hand now and touch all that he hath. He shall curse thee to thy face. Satan says to God, of course Job's living for you. Of course he's doing all these good things. Good night. Look how you blessed him. You've given him great wealth, and you've taken care of him, you protect him, he's healthy, he's wealthy. You take all that away from him, God, and Job will curse you to your face. He's nothing but a phony And all he's doing this for you is just what he gets out of it. That's basically what Satan was saying. Now look at God's response. And the Lord said unto Satan, verse 12, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power. Only upon himself, put not forth a hand. God says, All right, you think he'll curse me to my face? You think he's just a phony? How about it? Now you can't touch him. Don't you touch him personally, but you can destroy you can do whatever you want to him other than you can't touch him You know what God was doing? God was saying, I trust that man right there to be faithful to me, no matter what you do to him. That's what God's saying. God is trusting Job to be faithful even when he lets Satan loose on us. You say, wow, that's rough. Yeah. Come over to chapter 2. So Satan does, and we'll look at it here in a little bit. Satan has at it. Man, he just wreaks havoc in Job's life Then chapter 2, look with me at verse 1. Again, there was a day when the sons of God, again, I think it's these angels, angelic beings, came to present themselves before the Lord. And Satan came also among them to present himself before the Lord. Now here we have this conversation very similar. And the Lord said unto Satan, From whence comest thou? And he answered the Lord and said the same thing he said before from going to and fro in the earth, walking up and down in it And the Lord said unto Satan, now look at this, hast thou considered my servant Job? There's none like him in all the earth, perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and showeth evil. And still He holdeth fast his integrity, although thou movest me against him to destroy him without cause. Important statement. Without cause. He did nothing to deserve what you did to him. Satan answered the Lord and said, skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life. Put forth thine hand now and touch his bone and his flesh. He'll curse you to your face. Oh yeah, all right, I took away his family, I took away all his possessions. But I tell you what, you give him physical pain, you you make him suffer physically. He'll curse you. He won't stay faithful to you. Look what God says. And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, he's in thine hand, but save his life. Job was a man that God could trust. Now I asked myself, as I'm working on this and I'm noticing this, I asked myself, I wonder. Am I a man that God could trust? If God allowed the devil to take everything from me All my possessions, my family, my own health, would I stay faithful to the Lord? Would I continue to trust Him? Can God trust me to stay faithful? To me, that's a major point of this whole book. God having faith in a man. Now the book itself, although there's a lot we don't know about this book. I like to always try and get some background or whatever. We don't know who the penman was. We don't know who recorded this down. We know God's the author. Whoever it was, they wrote down exactly what God would have them write. It was under inspiration. There's no doubt about that. But who that individual was that God used to record this event. And by the way, this is not a story. This is a historical event. It's not some bedtime story or some fable. It's an actual historical account of a man named Job who stayed faithful to God in unbelievable circumstances. But we don't know who penned it. Some say it was may have been Job. That's possible. I don't know. I'm a little skeptical of that. They've offered other suggestions, maybe Moses. Um I know this. One thing I do know is that we don't know who penned it Now, what about the timing of the book? And I bring this up because I find this a little bit interesting. What's the date? When was the book of Job penned? When did this event take place? Now, most likely, most Bible scholars, people a lot smarter than I am, they say that it was probably penned a lot later than when it actually happened. It was a historical account, but it was probably recorded many years. In some cases, they suggest many centuries after it actually happened. I don't know. But I do know this, it's considered by most Bible scholars, the book of Job, as the oldest book in the Bible My pastor, when I first got saved back home, Dr. David Auckland, Faith Baptist Church in Perkesy, Pennsylvania, great church, great pastor. He believed, and he's a very tremendous Bible scholar, he believed that Job lived before the flood. He believed that these events that are recorded here in the book of Job were pre-flood, before Noah. Now, we have no way of knowing one way or another, but I do know this. We don't have time to go into all this. I'm spending more time here than I wanted to, but there are descriptions of beasts That very much by what how they're described in the book of Job that sound a whole lot to me like pre- like dinosaurs That would have lived before the flood. And by the way, the flood was an actual historical event. Whole world. That altered the world, the the geography and the climate and everything. Talk about climate change. Good night. We ain't seen nothing And so it's very likely, and again, this is speculation, so you know, you do what you want with it It's very likely that the book that Job lived and these events that are recorded here were before the flood while dinosaurs still roamed the earth. I think that's a very real possibility. It's fascinating to think and study. But we're confident, the oldest book penned in the Bible, and Very likely could have taken place before the flood. Now, I want to jump right into this. Number one, I want us to consider Job's character. I want us to think about this man named Job that God trusted. In fact, God trusted him enough to let Satan himself loose on him Who is this guy named Job? Well, the name Job itself means a persecuted one, but it also it's a little question about the definition of his name, a persecuted one Some suggest there's the idea in Job's name of the repentant one. Repentant He's from the look at verse 1 there of chapter 1. Come back if you would. There was a man in the land of Uz. Not Oz, Uz. Say, where in the world is us? Uz is would have been in what we have modern day understand to be Saudi Arabia He would have lived in a desert area, most likely. Job was would have been a gentile. He was not a Jew. We know he wasn't a Jew for two reasons. Number one, he's from the land of us. That's a non- that's a Gentile land And number two, if we are correct, and he lived before the flood, that means he lived before there were any Jews. That would have been before Abraham. So it's a he's uh he's uh he would be what we would call in our day a gentile. Um there's no reference in the book of Job to any of the Jewish ceremonies. or to Moses or the temple or any of that. He lived long before any of that. And so he was most likely a Gentile. Now look what it says. He says, whose name was Job, we said repentant one or persecuted one. And the man was perfect. I noticed first of all he was a man of integrity. You don't hear that word much. Integrity. The word perfect here does not mean sinless. You say this guy was perfect? Well, when the Bible uses the word perfect in reference to man, it never means sinless. There is only one man that ever walked planet Earth that was ever sinless, and that was the Son of Man, who was also the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. All else are sinners. You are a sinner. I am a sinner. We're sinners. We're all sinners. We've broken God's law. We've said things we ought not to say. We've done things we ought not to do. We've thought thoughts that we ought never to think. We've said words we should never come off of our lips. We've gone places that God forbids that plea that displeases God. We're all sinners So when the Bible says that Job was perfect, it doesn't mean he was without sin. The word perfect has this idea: to be complete or to be mature. Job was mature in his faith. He wasn't sinless in his being. He was mature in his faith. He was complete. In other words, he was what God intended him to be. Paul in the New Testament rebuked the church at Corinth because they were immature. They were babes. He says you should have been mature. You should have been complete in your faith. You should have been stronger in your faith than what you really are. And Job was strong in his faith. He was what he ought to be. He was perfect. He was complete. He was mature. He has the idea of blameless, not sinless, but blameless. Nobody could come to Job and say, oh yeah, you cheated on that test. You stole that from your the, you did this. Nobody could say that. It says he was perfect and he was upright. The word upright there comes from the same word, our word, straight. He was straight. You know, it used to be a good thing if you said somebody, man, that guy there, he's straight. That used to be a good thing. Means you can trust him. He did right. He was going to do right. Yeah, he's straight as an arrow. That was Job. He was a man of integrity. He was straight. He did right. He was righteous. He was honest. He was sincere. Then it says he feared God. It wasn't that he was scared of God But he feared God. It means he had tremendous respect for God. I tell you, our country could use a good dose of old-fashioned respect for God again. Reverence, reverential fear, to reverence God Almighty, the creator of heaven and earth, the blindingly holy God of the universe, and to reverence Him Respect the God that made us. Job did. He feared God And again, I think our churches in America could use a good dose of a little bit of fear of God again Hear people use God's name in such a flippant, disrespectful, irreverent way. I tell you, God's name is holy. Job feared God. He respected God. Notice it says that he escheweth evil. Now there's a word we don't use much. What in the world? Escheweth evil. The word eschew means simply to stay away from. Avoided it. If there was something questionable going on, Job said, no, I don't want nothing to do with that. I'm going over here. They said, Job, hey, we're having a big community block party. It's going to be great. And uh there's going to be all and Job said, Ah, no thanks. He stayed away from evil. He stayed away from the things that God says, don't get involved with. I tell you, it would help all of us a heap if we would just learn to stay away from some places. Stay away from some channels on the TV. Stay away from some websites. Stay away from some people that drag us down and hurt us spiritually. Paul told the church at Thessalonica, he said, abstain from all appearance of evil. If it don't look right, stay away from it. Amen or not? Job did that. He eschewed evil. He stated it. He avoided it. He was a man of integrity. Notice in verse number three, he was a man of industry. Look at verse 3. And his substance also was 7,000 sheep, 300 3,000 camels, 500 Yoke ox, and 500 Shiasses, a very great household. This guy worked hard. He uh, brother, you don't have 500 camels and you're working, I'm telling you. You got uh how many camels did he have? Uh 7,000 sheep. 3,000 camels, 500. I'm telling you, this guy was a hard worker. He worked hard. And uh by the way, hard work is not bad. Hard work is good. I I get a day off and we're on vacation. I stay busy on vacation. I I if we have a day off like in the wintertime and I take a day, usually if I take a day it'll be Tuesday I take a day and my wife's there. And if it's bad weather out and I there's nothing for me, man, uh by the by about noon, Kathy says, Would you please go find something to do I mean I'm driving her nuts. At the end of the day I'm miserable and grouchy and and uh going 'cause I just fiddled around, nothing but I tell you we got a nice day. I can get out and do some hard work And work hard all day and produce something. The end of the day, I feel a whole lot better when I just sit around. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah. Sit around. I tell you, miserable at the end of the day, you have to chop wood and work and do it, and uh you feel a whole lot. Job was a hard worker. He was a man of integrity, he was a man of industry, uh worked hard, he was tremendously wealthy. Tremendously wealthy. And he didn't inherit it and he didn't have it given to him. He worked for it. There's nothing wrong with being wealthy if God blesses you and it's in a legitimate way. You work hard, I say, praise the Lord. If God blesses you. And then he was a man of influence. Look at the last part of verse 3. So that this man was the greatest of all the men of the East. Now the word greatest there means a great influence. I think godliness and influence go hand in hand. Godliness and respect. Listen, you learn, listen, if you and I can learn to live a life of integrity, doing right, speaking right, acting right. People will respect that. Huh? They respect uh the uh people will respect someone that has some godly character. Now they might not like it, they might not agree with you, they might think you're weird But they'll respect you. I worked at a meat packing plant. When I got saved, 19 years old was working at a meat packing plant, cutting meat. We slaughtered, it wasn't real big, we slaughtered about 300 head of cattle a day I worked the whole thing. I worked there four years. I worked from the pens all the way into the uh refrigerator building where we uh boned out the meat and broke it down. Worked the whole thing. Uh 90% of the guys there were ex-cons. I mean it was rough crowd, rough. Drinking, drugs, all that. Uh some of the guys weren't just ex-cons, some of 'em were still cons I was right in the mix. I was part of all of it. I mean, part of all of it. God saved me. I called the Lord. God came in my life and changed my life and took all that garbage away. All that filth and sinfulness. He took it all away. I mean like that. I don't know why. I don't know why God did that for me in such a dramatic way, but he did. And those guys turn on me, I'll tell you where they're cutting me all day long. And they're calling me names. There was two other folks got saved about the same time. It's about 35 folks on the floor there. A little bit bigger in the auditorium here, the floor. And uh about 35, and there was a line that cut meat, and uh about three- three of two others got saved about the same time I did. They called us the God Squad Oh yeah. Oh leather man, he got religion. Man, they gave me fits, one guy, uh Bob Uh he threatened he was threatened to beat me up. I said, he says, after work, Leatherman, after work, you're going down. I said, why? He goes, because you're getting on my nerves, man. So I mean I was fearless. So I went out the back door. And I prayed for him the whole time I went out the back door I mean they I'm telling you, they get I'm trying to get you to feel sorry for me. I mean they were they were mean to me. But you know, about a year later, I it wasn't even quite a year later, I was going to go down to Bible college. Down in Philly, there was Bible college. And so I resigned. Gave him two-week notice, I I I resigned The last day, they didn't throw any party for me, they didn't do anything like that. But when I'm cleaning out my locker, at the end of the day, it's Friday, I was clean out my locker. Every one of those guys that cussed me out, threatened to beat me up, every every single one of them came by and they'd say Leatherman Don't quit, man. You got something, man. The one fella threatened to beat me up. He came by, he shook my hand, he says, I wish I had what you got, Leatherman. I wish I had what you got. I said, you can, man. You can. I've been telling you this. Listen, I wasn't any exceptional Christian, but I tried to do right. I tried to be a testimony. You know what? Every one of those men respected me, not because of who I am, but before what God had done in my life. What I'm saying is this, godliness, righteousness, and respect go hand in hand I found out later, years later, I found out that a number of those fellows had trust got trusted Christ and got saved themselves after I was gone. I don't know why they didn't get saved when I was there, but Later on they did. Jimmy and a couple of the other guys got saved. Job was a man of integrity. He did right. He was honest, sincere. He was a man of industry. He worked hard. He was a man of influence. He made a difference in his world. Made a difference. So that's the fellow, Job. This is the man that God had faith in. And the second thing I want us to consider real quickly is his distress and his affliction. First of all, a description of his character. Tried to briefly describe Job here a little bit. Then we have this distress and affliction. Now we know, most of us, I'm no doubt, we know Job's story. There came a day when Job's world was turned upside down. Here's a man that's doing right, that is praised by God in ways no one else in the Bible is praised alike. God says these tremendous things about Job. He doesn't say about anybody else in the Bible. And yet Job's world was turned upside down. If you would look with me there at chapter 1. And look with me uh verse thirteen. And there was a day Job got up that morning just like any other day. His kids got up that morning just like any other day. There was a day when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. There came a messenger unto Job, and it comes down through here a series of events that Satan himself did to this poor man's family. His possessions. Verse 13 and 15: all his oxen and all his asses are stolen, and his servants are killed. In one day, all of them. Verse 16, his sheep are killed, his servants are killed, enemy comes in, kills all his sheep, kills all his workers. Kills all his oxen, all his asses, kills all their workers. Verse 17, his camels are stolen. Servants are killed. And then worst of all, verse 18 and 19, his children are all together. And it says Sons and daughters, reading, drinking, verse 18, wine and their eldest brothers, behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness, smote the four corners, fell upon the young men, they are all they are dead. His kids are killed. Job's response, everything he possessed, all his investments, his whole life's income, everything he gave his life is all taken away. His kids are all dead. Every single one of them are dead. Notice how Job responded, verse 20. And Job arose and rent his mantle, his clothing, shaved his head, and fell down upon the ground, and what? Worshiped God. He said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, naked shall I return hither. The Lord gave, the Lord hath taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. In all this, Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. He did right. Question: Did Job understand what just happened to him? No. He didn't know anything about this contest between God and the devil. He didn't know anything about what was going on in the spiritual realm. But he suffered. And he says, I trust God. I worship God. Blessed be his name. I am not going to charge God foolishly. I trust him. God knows what he's doing. Whew. Would you agree with me? Faith Faith. It's not over yet. You have the second round of debate between God and the devil. The devil goes and touches, look at verse 7 of chapter 2. So Satan went forth in the presence of the Lord and smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot and to the crown to his head. And he took a- he, Job took a pot shirt, a broken piece of pottery, and scraped himself with it and fell down among the ashes. Wasn't enough for Satan to take all his possessions and kill all his children. Now Satan comes and tries to destroy his body. Boils are intensely painful. He's covered with them. Imagine the broken heart the fear of all your investments taken away, and then the broken heart of your family being their children being uh killed, and then you're in this un indescribable, overwhelming pain. How does he respond? Notice what his wife said. Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? Curse God and die. He is alone. But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh. Pellas, don't say that to your wife. What? Shall we receive good at the hand of God and shall we not receive evil? Look at this. And all this did not Job sin with his lips. Faith and submission to God. Man alive, you and I complain if somebody if there's five cars at the traffic light. Right? Job's lost everything. Job's lost everything. He says, I'm not charging God foolishly. I trust him. I trust him. That's the man that God says, Satan, I trust that man. He'll stay true to me. He'll stay faithful to me. No matter what you do to him, he'll stay faithful to me. I wonder, am I a man that God can trust? Am I a fair weather Christian As long as the bills are paid, I'm healthy, I'm having a good time. Oh, yeah, I love God. God's been good to me. What if God would let Satan take all that away from us? But I still be faithful. But I still trust him. Job did. Job did. A couple of observations from this two chapters here, chapter 1 and verse 2, this deal with Satan and God and Job. First thing I notice is Satan is limited. Did you catch that? Satan could not do one thing to Job unless God let him. Job, Satan could not cross the line of God's will. God said, you can do this and no more. You can go this far and no farther. I am glad that the enemy of my soul is limited by the power and will of God. Satan can't do a thing to you and I that God will not permit him to do. And if God permits something to do, if God permits something to happen, then that tells me, according to Romans 8. 28, somehow, some way, good can come out of it. So Satan is limited. I'm glad that Satan, he's wreaking habit, but only to the extent that God lets him. Second thing I noticed is that Satan would have killed Job if God would have led him. Now stop and think with me a minute. God said to Satan, now get this. By the way, Satan is just as real as God. Satan is just as real as any of us here. He is a literal, very real, actual being. He is someplace on planet Earth right now. I don't know where he is. But he is someplace. He's not um omnipresent. He can't be everywhere. He's at a certain location. I don't know where he is, but he's very real, and he's somewhere But I find it interesting that when God said, you can do whatever you want to Job, he didn't bless him. He didn't give him more friends. He didn't encourage him. He didn't do anything positive to him at all. The only thing Satan did, when Satan can do whatever he wanted, the only thing he did was destroy this poor man. And God says, all right, you can touch his body, but don't kill him. There's no doubt in my mind, if Satan, if God would have said you can do whatever you want to his body, Satan would have killed him. But he did everything he could short of killing them to make him physically miserable. Now I want to tell you before you get uh young and old. Before you and I get too enamored with this being Satan, the devil, before we get too enamored with him, let's remember what he would do to you and I if he could do whatever he wanted to you and I. He would destroy us. He'd destroy our families. He'd destroy everything we own. He'd destroy us physically. Satan hates us, and he's looking to devour us. He is not our friend. Satan is not cool. We have certain elements in our society today. that presents Satan, some of our pop culture likes to present Satan as some cool thing and devil as some neat thing and some fad. I'm here to tell you, those people are fools. If Satan could do to them whatever he wanted to do to them, he would destroy them. They would be burning in hell right now. And they're exalting him, and they think it's cool to be satanic. It's not cool. It's foolish Look what Satan did when God said you can do whatever you want to this man. Look what he did to him. What do you think he'd do to you? What do you think he'd do to me? What do you think he'd do to these young people? They caught up in this cool Satanism going on in our world today. What do you think the devil would do to them It's only the mercy and grace of God that they're not being eaten alive by the devil himself. Job's distress. His friends show up in chapter 2. And they start out pretty good, verse 11, they just sit there quiet. They mourn with them, and Job's weeping, and they cry with them, and they don't say anything. That's a good start. By the way, if you've got someone that's hurting, sometimes the best thing you can do is just hurt along with them. Don't try and give answers to everything. Don't try and I learned to work with hospice for four years, and I found out early on the best thing to do is sometimes just go and sit with them and just cry with those who are crying. Just be there. There's a time to talk. They show up and They just sat with them. Probably the best thing they could have done. But in chapter 3, they changed. Job makes some complaints. I don't understand what's happening. Job, and man, they start jumping all over them. And from chapter 3 through chapter 37, for 35 chapters. They throw accusation after accusation after accusation on poor old Job. They accuse him of everything Their rationale was, well, obviously Job is some terrible wicked sinner, or these terrible things wouldn't be happening to him. Hey, I've got news for you. Sometimes bad things happen to good people. And just because someone's going through a very difficult time, just because someone's Going through a deep valley and trials and heartache, it doesn't mean they're living in some secret sin. And even if they were, that's between them and God. And so these guys start pouring onto Job, and Job keeps saying, I didn't do that And so for 35 chapters, Job is barraged with accusation after accusation, some of them horrific accusations. And they get to chapter 38, and God intervenes. And from chapter 38 to chapter 40, verse 2, God starts talking. And God starts asking questions. And I tell you, when God starts talking, the best thing to do is shut up and listen. Amen or not? And God steps in and says, wait a minute. And he God reveals his power. To Job and his friends, and God reveals to them his sovereignty over this whole world And God basically says to them, I'm just summarizing what God says here a little bit, but God basically says to Job and his buddies, he says, My ways are not your ways. My ways are far greater than your ways. My understanding of reality and and uh my understanding Is so far greater than your understanding. My wisdom and my purposes and my plans are so much higher than yours. You need to just trust me. You need to just trust me. You know what God is saying? I'm oversimplifying God's statement here. But you know what God's saying to them? Hey! Trust me. You don't understand it? Doesn't make sense? Trust me. Trust me. Now, for some people, that answer is not sufficient. Some people won't be satisfied with simple, you know, why does all this bad stuff happen? Well, God knows more than we do. God's smarter than we are, God's wiser than we are. Some people aren't satisfied with that, but Job was. Job said, Okay, I'll trust you. I trust you. Then we have My message, and this is just the closing, the point of my message was this, the repentance of Job. What is he repenting from? I read this in my devotions some time ago, and I saw where Job said verse 6 of verse 42, he says, Wherefore I abore myself and repent in dust and ashes. I thought, what in the world is Job repenting from? This man of this tremendous character? What in the world? Well, I think we need to understand a little bit what repentance is. The word appears 111 times in the Bible, 37 times the Bible says, now we have our preconceived ideas of what repentance is. Oh, you've got to stop sinning. Did you know that 37 times, of the 111 times some form of the word repent is used, do you know 37 those are in reference to God repenting? Most of them are God repented that this was the case. Sometimes it says, God's, I'm not going to repent from that. The callings and the callings of God are without repentance. Now, if the word repentance means to stop sinning, then we got a problem. If the Bible says that God repented, question: Does God stop sinning? No, God is sinless. He's blindingly, perfectly holy. So there's more to the word repentance than this idea, oh just stop sinning. Stop sinning. And believe in Jesus, you'll be saved. That's not what the word repentance means. If you look it up and study it, it has this idea. It has the idea of changing my mind about something. God created the world. In Genesis, I think it's chapter 11. Every imagination of man was evil And the Bible says it repented God that he had made man. Man became so wicked, God says, man, I kind of wish I hadn't made him. He changed his mind. So when the Bible says that Job repented, I repent, is Job saying I'm going to stop sinning? I've been living in sin, I'm going to stop sinning. Now, uh quest uh if somebody's living in sin, they should repent and get out of that sin. I think genuine repentance will result in a change of behavior God repented in his attitude towards the world in Genesis 11 and it changed his interaction with him. He flooded. He killed them all in a flood. So repentance, my change of mind about something, alters my actions. So if somebody repents of their sin, then uh shouldn't stands the reason that, well, if I change my mind about sin, it's evil, it's wicked, it shouldn't have any. part of my life, then I'm going to do something about it. I'm going to change my behavior. Are you with me? So what does it mean when Job repented? What in the world? Changed his mind. Here's what I put, and I gotta quit. Notice he tells us what his repentance involves. Look there at verse 6. Verse 2 down to 6, Job is speaking. He's responding to God's revelation of himself. And he says, first word of verse 6, he says, wherefore? Because of what I just said, because of what I just experienced, because of that, I abhor myself and I repent in dust and ashes. So he's telling us. So we go back up and look at what he says. What he says here is the reasoning he's repenting. Look at verse 2. I know that thou canst do everything, Job talking to God, and that no thought can be withholden from thee. I think Job's changing his mind about his limited understanding of God. Job underestimated the power of God. Job underestimated the ability of God. How in the world could God allow this to happen and somehow bring some good out of it? How in the world, and Job says, you know, I completely misunderstood your power, God. I completely misunderstood that you are able to do anything. You can take the worst circumstances and turn it around and bring some good out of it. Listen, here's what I want to challenge us on this thought. Don't ever underestimate the ability and the power of God. I think a problem with much of our independent fundamental Baptist movement, we've gotten too small of a God. We've put God in a little box and we think in our minds what he can and cannot do. I'm here to tell you, God is a lot bigger than you and I think he is. He is a lot more powerful than you and I think he is He is a He is able to do greater things than you and I ever think he'd be able to do. And we need to get back to understanding our God is a big God. Our God is a powerful God. Our God is a God of the impossible. He can take a virgin woman, young maid. And have her bring forth a child that's the Son of God. God can take a man that's been dead for four days In a tomb and roll the stone away and say, Lazarus, come forth, and he can raise the dead from the grave. Now listen, if God can do that, he can help you and I, amen or not. You say, I don't think God could ever answer this prayer. Stop limiting God. I don't think God could ever save that person. Stop limiting God. I tell you, you need to ask my daddy the week before I got saved, if you'd have asked him, will God ever save your son, I guarantee you my daddy would have said, I don't know. I'm praying he will I'm afraid he will, but man, that kid's a mess. That kid is messed up. You know what? God can save messed up kids. God can heal messed up marriages. God can change messed up lives Job said, I repent. I had you limited, God. Look what he says. He says, I know thou canst do anything. Before he didn't realize that He was a good man, godly, but he underestimated God's abilities. Then he Not only was he limited in his understanding, he was a little bit loose on his accusations of God. Now we don't have time to go back through. Job did not reject God, but he sure challenged God over and over again. God, this don't seem right. God, and he said so many words, God, what you're doing to me doesn't seem right. I've been faithful to you, I've done right. And look at me. And Job said, uh notice there in verse number three, he says, Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Because I know what I was talking about. Wherefore I've uttered that I understood not. Things too wonderful to me, which I knew not. He says, I was saying stuff I didn't know what I was talking about. Anybody ever here get in a situation and you thought you knew all about it and you're running your mouth and later on you found out you were completely wrong? I didn't even know what I was talking about. I do that on a regular basis. Job said, God, I said some stuff. I didn't I didn't I didn't reject you. I wasn't But Lord, I just didn't know I I didn't understand I didn't know what I was talking about. And he says, I don't I don't want to do that anymore. I'm not going to try and answer questions that I don't understand There's some things we don't understand. He said, God, I'm just going to trust you. And then last of all, and with this, number, first of all, he repented from his limited understanding of God. He changed his mind. God's a lot bigger and a lot more powerful than I ever thought he was. And I didn't understand. There's a lot about God I didn't understand. I was running my mouth and I I I I I I I didn't know what I was talking about And then he says he was lacking in his relationship with the Lord. And this is interesting, and I end with this. Notice what he says there in verse number five. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear. But now, mine eye see it thee. There's been a change in Job's relationship with his God. There's been an advancement, a growth, a depth in his relationship with God that was not there before. He says, now Job was a man of great faith. He was a saved man. There's no doubt about it. He anticipated the resurrection. He anticipated the second coming. He was a saved man, a man of tremendous faith. But look what he says. He says, I have heard the hearing of the air. All his faith was based upon what he had been told. That was genuine faith. It was solid in God, but it was just based on what he had been told. It was second-hand information. Job is an unrivaled saint in Scripture. No other man is praised as highly by God as Job was. But His faith had all been in what he had been told about God. Now he believed it. He acted upon it. He was an amazing man of God. But he says, now It's not just what I've been told now. It's what I've experienced. It's what I've seen firsthand. I'm going to try and explain what I'm saying. Forgive me for keep referencing this, but the night I got saved. When I knelt by my bed, I was calling on the Lord Jesus, believing that He could and would save me and forgive me, change my life. Because I was told that in this book. And that's good enough, Amen? But I had read in Scripture that God would save me, that He could change me, I would be a new creature if I put my faith and trust in Christ. And that night at ten thirty when I'm on my knees, I'm calling out the Lord to be my Savior. I was simply acting upon what I had been told, what I had heard from this book. But once I made that decision to trust Christ, now God's working in my life, and I'm seeing firsthand. What God means by what He said. You follow what I'm trying to say? I know I'm saved today not just because this book tells me, I know I'm saved today because I've seen what God's done in my life. I believe that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Not just because the Bible says it, and that's good enough, but because I've seen a heap of people call on the name of the Lord and they've been saved. I know that God can take a messed up sinner and if they'll put their trust in Christ, that God will change them and straighten them up. Why? Because the Bible tells me. But not only because of that, but now I've seen it happen over and over and over and over and over again. You follow what I'm trying to say? Job said, I always heard that you were all powerful. I always heard that you knew everything. I always heard these things about you. And I believed it and I acted on it. But now I've experienced it for myself. I've seen it firsthand. How many people here believe God answers prayer? Amen. Now let's get from the point where we believe God answers prayer to start seeing God answer prayers. You know what you've got to do for that to happen? You got to pray If I I just now asked the whole congregation, you believe God answered prayer, everyone would say, yeah. All right, let's start praying. First ten. You know exactly what Job's talking about. I heard of it. God's intervened in a tremendous way in Shirley's life with Roger. And all across the Tory, people could stand up and say, Preacher, I saw firsthand God do tremendous things in my life. I saw it. I believed it because he said that. But I experienced it. Amen or not? Can I get a witness? All wrong. And Job said, I've grown. Listen, we've got to grow in our faith to the point where we're not just hearing about it, but we start experiencing and seeing it. I'm praying for revival. Pastor Matt and I, we are begging and pleading with God to send revival to our church and churches all across the land. I preached down in Alabama last week. I preached on revival. I pray, Kathy, I pray, revive this church, revive our church. You know why? Because I've heard about revivals in years gone by. I've heard what God did back in the seventies and sixties and fifties and back in the late 1800s, D. L. Moody and It's Billy Sunday and John. I've heard about all of that. And it's God, I believe you can do it, but I want to see you do it again. How many people here have a prayer request? On your heart, you got a prayer request You say, preacher, I want to see that. I want to see God do something. Why don't you come and just bring that to God and say, God, I want to see you with my eyes. You follow what I'm trying to say. I hope I'm communicating this Father, I pray you'd help us. Lord, help us to trust you no matter what you bring into our lives, whatever you allow. Help us to hate the devil. God, help us to do right and be right. And Lord, help us to believe you to the point where we see you working in our lives. We need miracles, God, in our homes. We need miracles in our children's lives, our parents' lives. We need miracles. So we're looking to you, Lord, and we're trusting you. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need God to do something real in my life? I need God to do something. I've got a burden on my heart. I've got a situation. I need God. Any like that uplaying up laying all around. God bless you. Let's bring it to the Lord and say, Lord, I'm going to trust you. Now God may put us through a trial. God may turn things upside down for us. But stay faithful. Trust Him. And we'll see God do great things. Father, bless the invitation I ask in Jesus' name