Scripture. The nation of Israel is already in captivity. The Assyrian Empire has taken them at seven hundred and twenty-two BC. And now all that's left of the remnant of God's people is the nation of Judah, which is just the two tribes of Judah and Benjamin, and some remnants of the northern kingdom The nation of Judah though has had some of the worst kings that they ever had in their history. They've turned their backs on Almighty God, and the last two kings have been just reprobate kings uh beyond what we can even imagine They have actually set up places in the in the temple of the living God where they put the vessels of Baal and of Asherah and of the sun and of the moon. They've completely ignored Sabbath worship. They've completely ignored the Word of God, and there is almost nothing left And in 2 Kings, somebody's alarm's going off, in 2 Kings chapter 21, the Bible has told us that his judgment is coming on the nation of Judah. He said, if I I told a man what I was going to do under Jerusalem, he said both of his ears would tingle. He said, I'm going to wipe Jerusalem as a man wipeth a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down He said, I want to stretch over Jerusalem, the plummet of Samaria. In other words, God says it's not going to be very long before I put the remnant of my people into captivity. It's not going to be very long until my hand of judgment calls on them, and they'll be in captivity in the Babylonian Empire for seventy years. And so now, an uh finally a young king ascends to the throne of the nation of Judah He was prophesied for us back in 1 Kings chapter 13 when Jeroboam is offering a sacrifice there in the city of Bethel, and that no name prophet from Judah Comes up and tells him that one day there would be a king of the nation of Judah, Josiah by name, who would offer sacrifice to and burns men burn men's bones at the same altar that uh that Jeroboam is using. And so finally we get introduced to Jeroboam as we get later into 2 Kings And Jeroboam at the age of eight becomes the king of the nation of Judah. At the age of sixteen, he makes a startling decision He determines to go after all the ways of his father David and did not turn to the left and did not turn to the right. So now what's happened is the king that has been prophesied has now taken over the nation And this king that has been prophesied has now turned his heart completely over to Almighty God. He has completely surrendered himself at the age of sixteen, by the way We do a great disservice to the calls of Christ when we act like when teenagers make a decision that is not a real decision. We act like and I've been in services after weeks of camp and teenagers will stand up and they'll give their testimonies of the decisions they made at camp and let's be completely honest. Some of them are making the same announcement that they made the year before. They're giving up the same music, the same uh repro reprobate friends that they gave up the year before and went back on them. And so what happens is adults sit in the service and they kind of roll their eyes and they say, Well I wonder how long this is going to last Let me tell you something. The question ought not to be, I wonder how long this is gonna last. It ought to be how long can I help this last? This young man at the age of sixteen makes a decision that is gonna Help change the course of the entire nation of Judah and stop God's judgment from falling until he has been called to his father's grave in peace. In the eighteenth year of his reign, and now uh that took place in the eighth year, so ten years later, when he's uh when he's now twenty-six years of age, they decided they were going to repair and amend the house of the Lord They're going to get all that junk in there that the previous kings has put in there out of that. And then while they're doing that, Hilkiah the high priest makes a startling discovery. He finds the book of the law of the Lord They're in the house of the Lord. He gets everybody together and jer uh Josiah reads it to the nation. But let me point something out There are three things that ha that three things that were present in this great revival because this revival is going to be so sweeping Over the nation of Judah, then again, God is going to leave his judging hand and not let it fall on the nation of Judah until Josiah is with the Lord. Three things are going to happen in this passage, in this in this historical time. There is going to be a king that gets right with the Lord. I'm all for witnessing to our congressmen and senators and all of that kind of stuff Even witnessing to our president and our governors. There's absolutely nothing wrong with that. But we must understand this. You will not bring revival just because Because you have a godly president or a person in the House of Representatives that won't bring revival. Let me give you some history. In the year of In the year 2000, we had a Republican president, a Republican Senate, and a Republican House of Representatives. And I don't know whether you were watching very carefully back then, but we didn't have revival. I'm sorry, that was two thousand and four. In the year of two thousand and eight, we had a Democratic Senator and a Democratic uh president, a Democratic Senate, then a Democratic President and a Democratic House of Representatives, and I don't know whether you're watching or not, but we didn't have revival. Listen, it is wonderful to have chief executives and Legislators that know the Lord as their Savior that can't do anything but help our country. But I'm here to tell you that's not gonna bring about revival. But then in the ch uh and then at the eighteenth year of his reign, the word of God is finally brought back in. And oh the word of God, as Brother Fox We're gonna hit on some of the same themes by the time we're done with this message. The word of God has to It has to be brought back into our nation. It has to be brought back into our schools. It has to be brought back into our our society and our lives It is comical to me that a nation who says it's illegal to kill and to steal and to and to do all those things would have any problem at all with the Ten Commandments posted on a on a on government property. It doesn't even make sense Which one of those are you rebelling against? I'm just wondering as I'm reading them. But the truth of the matter is there's something else that has to be present And I realize there are people in this auditorium this morning other than preachers, but I'm going to allow you to listen, if you will, because some of this will apply to you, but I'm going to preach to preachers this morning in this preacher's fellowship We welcome everybody that's here, but there's one thing that has to be present before we're going to have a revival, and that's some preachers. Amen. We need some men of God that are going to stand up And that's why the timeline is so significant to me. In the eighth year of King Josiah's reign, you have the chief executive get right with Almighty God. And dedicate himself to serving the Lord. In the eighteenth year of his reign, the word of God is going to be brought out and read to all the people of the nation of Judah by Josiah himself There at the temple of the Lord. But something amazing happens in the thirteenth year of his reign. In the thirteenth year of his reign, God is going to call a young prophet by the name of Jeremiah. Jeremiah is going to preach for five solid years before he sees the very first inkling of revival. And in this passage of Scripture, I want you to notice when the Lord first speaks to Jeremiah, I want you to see the call of Jeremiah. There'll be some things that will encourage you in this message. There might be some things. that should convict you in this message this morning that I want you to see about the call of this great weeping prophet by the name of Jeremiah. Look if you will please at Jeremiah chapter one, we're going to be read begin reading in the first verse, we'll read down to the twelfth verse And the Bible says, uh the Bible says in verse one, the words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah of the priests that were in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin, to whom the word of the Lord came in the days of Josiah the son of Ammon, king of Judah In the thirteenth year of his reign. Notice the timing there, the thirteenth year of his reign. It also came in the days of Jehoiakim. This is later in the book, the son of Josiah. King of Judah, unto the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, unto the carrying away of Jerusalem captive in the fifth month. This is the beginning. This is the thirteenth year of his reign. Then the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. And before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctify thee and ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. You are hard pressed to find abortion in the Word of God, are you not? They celebrated. This is not my wording. This is their wording. They celebrated a few years ago the 52nd million abortion. With all of their political speak that their goal is to make abortion safer and less frequent, they have no problem celebrating fifty-two million babies that are dead. You don't find that here. You find God calling Jeremiah, knowing him while he's in the womb. Next it says this. Then said I, ah. Lord God, behold, I cannot speak for I am a child. But the Lord said unto me, Say not, I am a child, for thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee, and whatsoever command thee, thou shalt speak. Be not afraid of their faces, for I am with thee to deliver thee, saith the Lord. Then the word put forth his hand and touched my mouth, and the Lord said unto me, Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth. See, I have this day set thee over the nations and over the kingdoms to root out and to pull down and to destroy and to kill and and to throw down and to uh to build and to plant Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Jeremiah, what seest thou? And I said, I see a rod of an almond tree. Then said I, then said the Lord unto me, Thou hast well seen, for I will hasten my word to perform it. I want to preach it just for the next few moments on the call of Jeremiah. Let's have a word of prayer before we begin. The Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning. Lord, we thank you for the first message. Thank you for Brother Fox this morning in the wonderful job he did uh with the Word of God this morning. Lord, we ask now that you'll bless this message. We ask that you bless Brother Smith when he preaches here in just a few moments. May our hearts be attentive. open and pliable as he preaches, but for the next few moments, Lord, I pray that you'll bless as we preach the Word of God. I pray that you'll have your will and way over everything that's said and done. I pray that you'll guide and direct in Jesus' name. Amen. I want you to notice first the enlistment of Jeremiah. God comes to Jeremiah in a time when the nation has turned against God. Yes. Josiah is right with the Lord, but nothing that even resembles or uh an inkling of revival has taken place yet. One man has gotten right. The nation hasn't gotten right. There are some Some Christians or some people of the Lord that are right with the Lord, like Hilkaiah and and Shaphan and Asphanaz and a few of those that are still standing But the truth of the matter is the nation is still a godless nation. The nation is still a nation that doesn't observe the feasts or the temp uh or the sacrifices. They're not doing any of that right now And so God comes to Jeremiah and he says, Listen, I've called you before I formed you in the belly, I knew you before you came forth out of the womb. I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations He said, I have set thee this day over the nations and over the kingdoms. And then he says this, to root out, to pull down, to throw down, and to destroy I want you to notice the the enlistment of Jeremiah is into a job that nobody wants. Nobody wants. He doesn't say this. Jeremiah and Ellison, I know the nation of Israel's gone off the the gone off the beaten path a little bit. But you know that Josiah is right with the Lord And there are a few good people there. So what I want you to do is focus on the good and every now and then mention a couple of bad things that they do as you go through I want you to be popular, Jeremiah. I want people to love you. See, popular preaching is when you stand up and tell everybody all the Good that they do. And then try to mention maybe every now and then, every twelfth or fifteenth week, something that the church needs to straighten out. That's not what Jeremiah is called to do. He's called to stand up and preach to the people of God. Remember this the Hittites, the Jebusites, the Amorites, they don't have a Bible They don't even claim to worship Jehovah God. So it would be a very easy thing to say to these people that are worshiping idols that have It'd be an easy thing to for uh to say to them, you know what, I know we've got our problems, but you know, we do worship the same God How many times have we heard that over the last 50 years? We don't worship the same God at all. I'm sorry to be blunt. My God doesn't need his mommy to help him answer prayer My God doesn't save you for a little while and then you lose you. My God didn't determine before the foundations of the world that some people couldn't be saved even if they wanted to. That's not the God I serve, so I don't have the same God that they have. But they but he didn't say Jeremiah, I want you to point out, well you at least have some commandments the rest of the world, but no, that's not what he said. I want you to root out I want you to pull down. I want you to throw down. I want you to destroy. Do you realize that's what God's people need? Here is the mantra of today, even in religious circles, if we were to use the term Christendom, this is it. Well we need to preach the gospel. We need to preach God's love. Can I tell you something? I'm assuming that everybody this pastors fellowship here this morning knows Jesus Christ as their personal savior. There are two things that you know if you know Jesus Christ as your personal savior. You know the gospel and you know that Jesus loves you Oh yes we need to be reminded. Yes we need to preach it. But Jesus said teaching them all things whatsoever commanded When you read Paul telling Timothy in 2 Timothy chapter 4, he says, Preach the word, be instant in season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, and exhort with all long suffering, and here's the word doctrine Here's the truth of this book right here. If I'm gonna preach this book, I gotta do some reproving, I gotta do some rebuking, I gotta do some Pulling down and throwing down and destroying. I've got to stand up and preach. This is what's wrong with us, not what is right with us. There are churches, quote unquote, all over our country that preach nothing but what is right with us. They have interesting names like the river. The creek bank, whatever, the mud pie. They have all kinds of definitions. They don't announce themselves as a church. They don't announce themselves as Bible believing. They put a name on there that seems to camouflage what they are, hoping that you're going to wander in one day thinking, well, I was on my way to the river and walked into this building and someone preached to me. It's not how it works. The truth of the matter is, Jeremiah is called to do a job that nobody wants. Nobody wants to be that preacher that stands up and preaches rooting up and pulling down and throwing down and destroying messages. Nobody wants to stand up and be the guy that reproves and rebukes. It's easier for us as evangelists to do that. For Dr. Smith and Brother Fox and myself to stand up and just peel the varnish off the pews every now and then But here's the truth of it. It's easy to correct somebody else's kids. It's a lot harder to correct your own. You ever been in Walmart? You run in, you're gonna get you're just gonna get a quart of oil Alright, so you run back to the automotive section, all the way back in that right left hand section of the store as you walk in. So you walk all the way back there you're grabbing you're a man so you're not looking at anything else you don't care what's on that midway you don't care what cell signs are out you're in there to get one thing and to walk out. When you get back there you start hearing over the rafters of that Walmart a child. Three or four years old, screaming to the absolute top of his lungs. Kicking his feet, you know what's going on. It echoes goes through that ceiling all through there. You grab that quart of oil, you walk up to the front, you get to register four. It's the only register that they still have a cashier. Every other register is closed or one of those, you do it yourself As you're standing there in register four, you see that kid laying in the floor, kicking and screaming and uh yelling to the top of his lungs because he wants a candy bar and he didn't get it. Do you know what we say as we watch that kid laying in the floor? Whether you want to admit you said it or not, you said it. You said, uh, somebody needs a trip behind a woodshed. Do you know what his grandpa who's standing in the aisle embarrassed because this kid's screaming to the floor? You know what he says? He didn't get his nap. Why? Because it's a difficult thing as a pastor to root up and pull down and throw down and destroy when the next day you might be sitting beside them in a hospital room. When a week later you might be comforting them at their husband's graveside, when you might be counseling that very same family on a wayward child here in Just a few days. But listen carefully, here's the truth of it. Just because it's difficult doesn't mean it's not God's will. Jeremiah is called to do a job that nobody wants Nobody wants to be the reprover and the rebuker and the b throw thrower downer and the destroyer. But that's what we're called to do, isn't it? We are hard-pressed to find positive things other than preaching about the Lord. It's hard-pressed to find positive things that we can say to our congregations. To ourselves if we look at ourselves in the mirror. See, I've I've read this book a couple of times, and you know what I've never found in here? I've never found one single verse that says Richard Harper's doing a good job Not one verse says I'm good enough. Not one verse says I'm righteous enough. I do find verses where men of God stood up and said, Woe is me. For I am undone, for I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. I do find verses where men of God say, The good that I would, that I do not, and that which I would not, that I do. He said this, Oh wretched Man that I am. I do find verses where they say, I acknowledge my transgression and my sin is ever before me, but I don't find a single verse that says I'm doing a good job I don't say one verse that says I'm doing good enough. I need to be rooted up and pulled down and thrown down and destroyed. And that's what God's people need today, by the way. Notice he's called to do a job. He's enlisted to do a job that he does nobody wants to do. He's enlisted to do a job, listen to this, that nobody's going to listen to. He said, Brother Harper, if I preach that way, people might get mad at me. Yep Do you know that's why they call Jeremiah the uh weeping prophet? That's why he spends almost half of his life in prison, depending on the estimates that you read. He wasn't popular. They didn't carry him out of the service uh on their shoulders every Sunday. They didn't stop by the door as Jeremiah preached and says, Boy, oh boy, that message was a blessing No, no. Nobody even listens to Jeremiah. Do you realize Jeremiah preaches for the first five years of his ministry and doesn't see any results at all? The nation doesn't turn back to God. Oh yes, Josiah's already saved. Oh yes, there's a spiritual high priest. Oh yes, those things are in place. But Jeremiah preaches, he pulls out down, he throws down, he destroys, he does all of that for five. Solid years, nothing happens. Well, you know, if you'd preach a little bit different kind of message, you might be more popular. You know, Jeremiah, if you preached a little bit more good news instead of all the bad news, you know what? People might actually respond to your preaching. But for five years he preached to people with their arms folded, shaking their heads, wagging their tongues and their tails in him. Five years he preached and nothing happened. I'm telling you something, that's not a very uh comforting job that anybody would want. Christian preachers, listen, it's time for us to stand up and root up and pull down, even if they don't like it. The message that people want to hear is almost never the message that people need to hear. Who don't get in their cars on Sunday morning and before they drive on their way to work they don't on the way to church they don't say, Lord, please, whatever you have to say I want to be convicted. I want to be broken. I want to find myself at an altar. That's not how they pray They pray, Lord, please encourage me today. Yes, we need encouragement. This time of COVID, we need encouragement, Pastor I'm not saying that you have to wake up in the morning and I know some preachers that have done this and I don't have much good to say about them. They say, Boy, I get to get them today Preacher friend of mine got a phone call from another pastor and he said, How'd your service go yesterday? He said, Oh, it went great. I skinned the sheep really good. The older preacher said, then you don't have any sheep left. You can only skin your sheep once. You can fleece them a couple times a year, but you better feed them every day. We have to walk that line of rooting up and pulling down and throwing down and destroying the people that we love and we care for. But I'm here to say this and please don't get mad at me. Our problem isn't that we need to preach more comforting messages. Our problem is we need to preach more rooting up and pulling down and destroying messages. When we err, we don't err on the side of judgment. We err on the side of compassion. I don't envy any pastor that that fine line that they have to walk to preach those messages that confront the church member about their sins at the same time encouraging them as they go through a pandemic. Notice the enlistment. Jeremiah is called to do a job that nobody wants, that nobody's going to listen to, and that nobody's going to respond to. Can you imagine how miserable it would be at night going home after preaching exactly what God told him to preach and realizing that not one person had gotten right with God? Realize how difficult it was when every day they jeered and they mocked. The kings would say, I don't want Jeremiah. He always prophesies against me When other pre other prophets were preaching, oh don't worry about the captivity, it's not going to last long, Jeremiah was saying, you might as well plant some vineyards because you're going to be there for a while. Nobody thought he was a popular guy. Writes a whole book called Lamentations. A whole book about whining. Notice please the enlistment. Number two, the excuse. We can kind of sympathize with Jeremiah when he says, ah. Oh, Lord God. Boy, I cannot speak. I'm a child. It's kind of comical to me. This is probably the funniest excuse in all the Word of God. Because God just said to Jeremiah, I knew you before I formed thee in the belly. I knew you before you came out of the womb. In other words, God says to Jeremiah, I know when your birthday is. And Jeremiah says, I can't do this. I'm too young. Do you realize he literally accuses God of not being able to count? I'm a child. Don't you have someone older? Listen, Christian, sometimes God has someone older, but they s they've been compromising for years. So we need some of the younger guys to stand up and preach The truth is, Jeremiah makes an excuse. Don't we do that, by the way? Let me point this out. Every excuse we make, we make as if we're giving new information to the Lord. I can't speak. I'm a child. As if the Lord's supposed to say, That's right, I'm sorry. I'm at the wrong house. I meant to go to your older brother's house because you know he's a little older than you. Oh, I'm sorry, Jeremiah. I thought you were twenty-four. I didn't realize you're only twenty-one. I I'm sorry, I'm at the wrong place. We give God our our excuses like the new information Well Lord, if I preach that way, I'm not going to be very popular. As if the Lord's going to say, oh, that's right, so don't preach that way anymore. Oh, I don't like being confrontational as if the Lord's going to say I didn't know that about you. Thank you for telling me I'll get someone else to preach confrontational messages. Don't we do that? We offer God our excuse as if it's brand new information to the God who knows everything about us. Remember when Moses said, O my Lord, uh he says, I'm not eloquent of speech I'm not eloquent of tongue either heretofore nor since thou hast spoken of thy servant, but I am slow of speech and of a uh slow of speech and of a slow tongue. And the Lord said unto unto Moses Who hath made man's mouth? I knew you had a problem if you had a problem. I knew you have a problem with your confidence about your speaking before I called you, and yet here I am calling you. The truth of the matter is, Christian, we all have our excuses, don't we? We all have things we like to fall back on. We all have things that we say, well I've always done it this way. Let me tell you something. If what you've always done You're leaving it just because you don't want to be traditional and you want to be newfangled. You better stay with what's been tried and tested and proven. But what you've always done, uh if what you've always done is just based upon your own personal habits and God says, I want you to do something different, then you do something different. Notice please, number one is enlistment. Number two is excuse. Number three, his equipment. Don't you love it? And Brother Fox hit on this quite a bit, so we're not going to spend a lot of time on it. But look at verse 9. Then the Lord put forth his hand Touch my mouth, and the Lord said unto me, Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth. Do you know how hard it would be to stand up in front of a congregation and say, You need to be more faithful because I'm really faithful? How difficult it would be for you to say you need to be more spiritual and more righteous just like me. I am glad I don't have to preach like that. I'm glad I don't have to preach that you need to get right with God because I think you do, or that I need to get right with God because you think I do. I'm glad I can stand up and say you need to get right with God because God said so God put it right here. He wrote it down in black and white so that you and I can grasp it in forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. We can pick up this book and we can say to a lost person, Aren't you glad you don't say to a lost person, you know, you're going to hell because you aren't a member of my church? Or you're going to hell because you don't listen to me preach often enough. No, no. I can't stand up and say the Scripture hath concluded all under sin As it is written, there is none righteous, though not one. I can stand up and say to the lost person, not on the authority of a church, not on the authority of a denomination, not on the authority of a personality, I can stand up and say, on the authority of the word, all Almighty God put his words in my mouth. Listen, if you're preaching other s something other than this book, get a job as a used car salesman and do something profitable for the word World. If you're going to preach, preach this book right here. Whether it offends people, whether it makes them mad, whether they walk away, whether there's no one else in your congregation You can preach enough messages to get hundreds and hundreds of people in your church, but I'd rather preach to thirty people who wanted to hear the Word of God than three hundred that weren't interested in God's Word. A. W. Tozier said this, preach the word, whether it fills the house or whether it empties it The truth of the matter is God has put his word in our mouth. Jeremiah didn't have to stand up and say, listen, you need to get right with God because good old Jeremiah, this young wet behind the ears, whipper snapper prophet, thinks you need to get right. That's not what Jeremiah had to say. Praise God, that's not what I have to say. I can stand up and say, You need to get right with God because God says you need to get right with God. You need to surrender to the Lord because God Says you need to surrender to the Lord. You need to be in your Bible more because God says you need to be in your Bible more. You need to pray more because God says you need to pray more. I am so glad I'm not the authority. Every preacher in this room ought to be overjoyed that you can stand up and say, with a straight face, looking them straight in the eye, without any hesitation Or any doubt that you're preaching the inspired, inerrant, providentially preserved Word of God when you say, Thus saith the Lord. Notice number one, his enlistment, number two, quickly, his excuse, number three, his equipment, number four, the encouragement And we'll be done. This is the last point, by the way. Those want to give Brother Smith, Dr. Smith, plenty of time when he gets up to preach here in just a moment. The encouragement. Now, some of the encouragement is great Some of the encouragement, maybe not so much. Look if you will, please, at what God tells to Jeremiah in verse 8. Be not afraid of their faces, for I am With thee. Now that's a promise right there, right? That's a promise. I mean it's all through the Word of God. Remember in Exodus chapter 3 and verse 12, when Moses offered his first excuse, the Lord said, Certainly I will be with thee. When Joshua takes over, what did the Lord say to him? As I was with Moses, so will I be with thee. It's to Solomon that he says, The Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. It's the Daniel he says thou art a man greatly beloved. All through the Old Testament we find God saying to people, I'm with you The New Testament, they're in that upper room when Jesus walks in. He says, certainly I he said, Lo, I am with you all the way, even unto the end of the world. I am so thrilled that God was with all of those Old Testament prophets, those New Testament disciples, but I'm even more thrilled when I get to Hebrews chapter 13 and listen to him say to me and to you, I will never leave thee. Nor forsake be. That's a promise right there. We didn't go through a pandemic alone. We went through a pandemic with Almighty God And by the way, anything you go through with Almighty God is the best place in the world you can possibly be. Even if you're walking through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. But this promise though has a little caveat to it. And I I personally don't like the caveat. I mean it's a wonderful promise. I I agree with that. But I wish it didn't say what it says He says, certainly I will be with thee. Notice what he says, be not afraid of their faces, for I am with thee to deliver thee. If he's going to deliver you, that means you're in a mess, right? I would rather, personally, I would rather it say, I am with thee to make sure you never need delivering in the first place That'd be a promise, man. I'd love that. God doesn't promise to keep Jeremiah out of jail, but he promises to go there with him And God promises one day, I'm going to get you out. I'm going to deliver you. No trial that you face will be forever. No trial that you face will overcome you. There's not a single problem you're gonna have in your life that I cannot deliver thee from. He doesn't say, I'll deliver you if I can He said, I will deliver thee. That's a promise, Christian. Oh, I would love for it to say you're never going to face a trial or tribulation or a hardship, because I'm going to take care of that But I'm okay with I'll be with thee to deliver thee. When you do face that trial and tribulation and hardship, I'm still there and I'll get you out of it. But then there's one more promise in this passage, and we'll be done. God asked Jeremiah, What do you see? He said, I see a branch of an almond tree. In 2015, I went on my very first trip to Jerusalem, to the to to to Israel, to the what we call the Bible lands or the Holy Land. On the second day, we were driving up to Caesarea Philippi. We had about fifteen people with us in the van. I'm the tour leader and all that kind of stuff. But we had a tour guide named Menachem Now it's not Menachem, that's wrong. It's got to be Menachem like that. You have to do that to say his name. He was fluent in English, German, Arabic, and Hebrew. Alright, so this is a brilliant guy So we're on our way up to a place called Caesarea Philippi, and he begins to tell us about how the economy of Israel was saved. by the farming co-ops. And here we are driving on a road, U. S. uh sorry, Highway 1, which is basically looks just like an interstate in the United States or a major highway in the United States So we're driving in a van up a highway listening to someone give me a geopolitical speech about how co-op farming saved the nation And I have to tell you, I am bored out of my mind. That's not why I came to Israel. I want to see the garden tomb. I want to see where Jesus fed the five thousand. I want to see Megiddo. I want to see all of those places. I don't need a lecture on co-op farming. I am bored out of my mind. But I have to stay awake I'm the leader of this group. So I'm doing everything that I can think. I'm pinching myself. I'm holding my one foot about three inches off the ground. So if I start to fall asleep, it would wake me up like that I'm doing everything because I am literally nearing uh nearing being comatose while he's going on and on, droning for what seemed like hours about co-op farming After a while, I guess he realized as he's standing there holding his little microphone, I guess he realized that I wasn't the only one struggling, that everybody else was doing that that nodding kind of thing like That while he was talking. And so finally he changes the subject. As we're driving by, he says this. Does anybody know what kind of trees those are? Now, let me tell you about me, because you don't you don't know me very well. There is one tree that I can identify. It's a Christmas tree. It's in a box in my attic upstairs I don't know trees. If I'm standing under an oak tree, I can spot that I think acorns come off an oak tree. I could spot that. But I'll be playing golf, and someone I'll say, which way does the fairway go? And I'll say, Well, you want to hit it toward the sycamore tree. And I'm like The what? I have no idea. I can't spot any I guess I could spot a weeping willow if I'm going to be completely honest. But I don't know trees. I don't know flowers. I don't know any of those things So he said, they may know what kind of tree that is, and I don't have an answer, and I'm kind of hoping inside my heart that nobody else knows either, because I'm supposed to be the leader, so I guess I'm supposed to know this. Nobody on the on the little van, on the on the minibus that we were on knew what kind of tree those were. So then he asked the question. He says, Well those are almond trees. Does anybody know what is special about the almond tree? As if someone who couldn't recognize an almond tree is going to say, Well, yes, I actually know it comes from the Latin word, almondus trius, or whatever, like that That we're gonna just spout off all these little trivial secrets about the almond tree. If we couldn't recognize it, we don't know what's special about it. Am I correct? I'm sitting there, I'm so irritated, and that's the only thing keeping me awake right now. I don't want to hear about the almond tree. I don't want to hear about co-op farming. I just want to see the highlights of the nation of Israel So he starts telling us about the almond tree. He says the almond tree has a different kind of root system. It goes further in the ground than other trees. And then he says this: the almond tree is the most consistent tree in all of nature It'll bring forth fruit in a flood, it'll bring forth fruit in a drought, it'll bring forth fruit in the heat, it'll bring forth fruit in a col in the The almond tree will always deliver its fruit because it's the most consistent tree in nature. And I'm doing this. And then he said this. That's why God said what he said to Jeremiah. I woke right up Now I want you to understand something. He says in this passage of Scripture, in the Hebrew, there is a Hebrew play on words. Now please understand the Bible is I'm not saying anything about the translation, but if I said this, I rose up and looked out at the rows of corn and saw a family of rose eating my rose bushes Rose, by the way, are deer, if you didn't know that is a scrabble word. But anyway, uh if if I said that, all of those are completely different words, and if you translated them into another language, they wouldn't come out sounding exactly the same, is what I'm saying here He said, that's why God said what he said to Jeremiah. Then we turned in our Bibles. And he told us what it says in the Hebrew. Notice what it says here. He says, more verse 11: Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me, saying Jeremiah, what seest thou? And I said, I see a rod of an almond tree. The word there for almond tree is an extremely ancient Hebrew word that Jeremiah uses. It is the word that is spelled and pronounced Shekhead. It's spelled exactly the same way as God's answer. God says now it's well seen. And then this is all one Hebrew word. I will hasten to perform my word. I will hasten my word to perform it. Do you know what that Hebrew word there is? It's the Hebrew word shekhed. Spelled the same way, pronounced the same way. It has a dot over the the K is all it has. You know what happens here? God says, Jeremiah, what do you see? He said, I see shaked And Almighty God says, yep, I'm shaked. Well once you understand what this is saying here, remember the context. Here's Jeremiah saying, I gotta root up, I gotta pull down, I gotta throw down, I gotta destroy. I've been sent as a young man over all the nations. I'm supposed to preach God's word. What a responsibility to a nation that doesn't want to hear it To a nation that's not going to respond, what am I going to do? And God says, wait a minute, I'm the almond tree God, Jeremiah. I but I deliver fruit in the heat and the cold. I deliver fruit fruit in the drought and in the rain. I will always do what I say I'm going to do. If the almond tree is consistent, I'm the consistent God. I will be with thee, deliver thee. I will put my word in thy mouth. I will guide and direct your ministry. I will turn this nation back to me. I'm going to do it all. I'm not just any old God. I'm the almond tree God. I'm the Shag God of heaven. I've never let anybody down. I've never forsaken anybody. I've never walked away. I've never broken a promise. I've never said anything that wasn't true. I am on the tree God, he says. What Jeremiah does? He gets up and he goes out and he starts Preach it. And for five years nothing happens. And for five years he says, Lord, am I doing the right thing? And God says, Look at that almond tree That's me. I'm never gonna let you down one time. And then the whole nation of Judah Jeremiah sees a revival like unto which that I know that no I don't think that anybody's ever seen when an entire nation of God's people rekindle their love for Jehovah God right before his very eyes. And God says See, I'm sickhead. That's what God is. Listen, Christian, when we have to root up and pull down, we have to throw down and destroy. The almond tree God will take care of us. When they get mad at us and they don't listen, the Sheked God will say, I will hasten my word to perform it. Lord, we thank you for this morning. Lord, we thank you for our time and your word. Father, time would fail for us to thank you for being who you are, what you are. Father, thank you for being the faithful God of heaven. And Father, although oftentimes our jobs, our ministries, our callings cause us to be placed in unpopular positions. Maybe we realize that the only popularity that matters is the well done, now good and faithful servant. Father, help us to do the rooting up and pulling down and throwing down and destroying. And then that special building and planting that we get to do. Help us to do it at all times, knowing that the consistent, faithful, promised-keeping God of heaven is with us. Father, have your will and way in Jesus' name.