Continue this series um that we started back in November and I mentioned that this morning. Um in November we started it uh with a series on the seven churches here uh here and then uh in Revelation and um we looked at just a brief overview uh back in November and then um the next two services we looked at the Church of Ephesus and the Church of Smyrna. This morning we looked at the church at Pergamis. It's kind of unique, the church there at Pergamous. That's one thing we'll notice. Each one is kind of unique. The church at Pergamus there was a big city, huge, huge library and just about every type of temple you could think of. And so I I I enjoyed looking at that this morning. And I grabbed the wrong notes. I sure did Well we're going to look at the church of Pergamus again tonight. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. Uh Miss Courtney, can you do me a favor? Can you grab my notes for me Never mind. They're right here. Take your pick, which one do you want? You know it's time to clean your Bible out when you have um more things in your Bible than you do Bible Yeah. So we're going to look at the church at Thyatira this evening, and that is in Revelation 2. And it's verses 18 down through the end of the chapter, verse 29. Something interesting before we read here, and I did not know this until this afternoon. I was just doing a little bit more studying this afternoon on it And uh this is the smallest city, small more of a town really, that um um of all the seven mentioned, this is the smallest city But it has the most amount of verses. It has the longest uh the longest message out of the seven. So that's kind of interesting. Does it mean something? I don't know, but it's interesting. So uh verse 18 of chapter 2 And unto the angel of the church in Thyatira write, These things saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and his feet are like fine brass. And know thy works and thy charity and service and faith and thy patience, and thy works, he mentions works twice, and the last to be more than the first. Notwithstanding I have a few things against thee, because thou sufferest that woman Jezebel, which callth herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed unto idols. And I gave her space to repent of her fornication, and she repented not. Behold, I will cast her into a bed, and then that commit adultery with her into great tribulation, except they repent of their deeds. And I will kill her children with death, and all the churches shall know that I am he which searcheth the reins and hearts, and I will give it unto every one of you according to your works But unto you I say, and unto the rest in Thyatira, as many as have not this doctrine, and which have not known the depths of Satan as they speak. I will put upon you no uh none other burden. But that which ye have already hold fast till I come, and he that overcometh and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations, and he shall rule them. the rod of iron, as the vessels of a potter, shall they be broken to shivers, even as I received my f as I received of my father. Now I will give him the morning star He that hath an ear, let him hear with the Spirit, saith unto the churches. Let's pray, and then we'll look at uh the church at Thyatyra here in the next uh twenty minutes or so. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for recording these uh letters to these seven churches. I pray, Lord, that As we look at each one and specifically tonight, the church in Thia Tyra, Lord, that we would uh learn from their strengths, learn from their weaknesses. And Lord, this isn't to pick apart our brothers and sisters or anything like that. But Lord, it's written here for our learning, so I pray that we would learn whatever it is you have us to learn. And Lord, we love you. We thank you for loving us. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Now, as we look at the church here in Thyatira, and I think I mentioned this when we started the study back in November, one thing to keep in mind as we look at these seven churches, this isn't a um This isn't like to attack anyone, you know what I mean? Because these are ac like I I mentioned again this morning, these are real people, not actors, you know. Uh real people, uh real churches, and so there are our brothers and sisters, just like it would be wrong for us to uh, you know, insult you know, the first Baptist church of whatever, um, into like um belittle them, make fun of them, anything like that. That wouldn't be good, right? I mean that's that that that are brothers and sisters. But there are other things we can learn. Oh sure. Yeah, absolutely. And it's written here for our learnings. That's just something to keep in mind as we look at these churches. So we look here at the church at Thyatire, and again, this is the longest message to any of the seven churches there in Asia Minor. But uh the the the town was pretty interesting. You know, we look at Ephesus, it's huge, um, and then we looked at this morning we looked at uh Pergamus. These are huge, huge cities You know, I think that you know it's something compared to be like you know like New York City or something like that, you know, just a massive city, Chicago. Um but then we look here at uh Thyatara And it wasn't I mean it wasn't tiny, but it wasn't it wasn't like that status. It'd be more of like what we would call like a a a a a town or maybe a smaller city But it wasn't that that large in terms of population, but it did have a few things going for it. It was very, very, very wealthy It was uh an industrial city and a lot of industry was there. Uh they had uh uh the uh they were known for their silversmiths, they were known for their coppersmiths, they were known for pottery Um and if you had pottery from Thyatira, then it was, you know, it was top-notch. And if you had uh silver goods from the city of Thyatira, it was top notch Something kind of uh interesting is the city was located in a uh it was very, very uh very uh rich in agriculture as well. A lot of farming took place and things like that But there was um that one of the other things they were very, very famous for because of the different minerals um that they got out of of the water there, the river that flowed through there, um, was the the this purp the purple dye that they got. And they o had almost exclusive rights on it. Um very, very, very wealthy. Of course purple was, you know, very very if you you were if you were wealthy you could afford purple just for the wealthy and for the royalty and things like that And so, interestingly enough, Thyatira is where Lydia, the seller of purple, was from. And if you if you wanted to take the time, you could go to Acts 16 and look at that. But in verses 14 and 15 it talks about Lydia. She was a city of uh uh she was a seller of purple of the city of Thyatira. And so um Lydia uh came out of this church there in Thyotyra. So just to make some connection there. Um so anyway, th they were known for uh their their in industry, their silversmiths, their coffersmiths, their pottery. And of course along with that there'd be a lot of um w you know w the way they refined things then there'd be a lot of open flames and fires and things like that And you'll if you pay attention, some of that is referenced here in the letter. He mentions pottery in this letter here. He mentions uh uh flaming fire and things like that And so you can see there's a lot of references to uh specifically the the industries and stuff going on in Thy Attire. I just kind I find that stuff kind of interesting. I was talking with someone before the service Um I gotta be careful when I go through these I don't get hung up um on the on the history and and stuff like that 'cause I I like that kind of stuff. I like history, I like Um archaeology, I like stuff like that. Um but I think it's good to to kind of put ourselves into that that city Um so we can understand better what the church was was doing, going through. Um anyway, so another thing that was interesting about this city was uh it was known for its military garrison because of the location that it was It was about 40 miles from Pergamus, which was a huge city. It was about 40 miles away. And because of where it was located in Asia Minor, it's centrally located, and there was a a massive Roman uh military garrison there. So if you lived in Thyatara, chances were you were working in industry or you were military. That's pretty much uh what what they had going for them. And then there also there was some agricultural um stuff as well So if you lived in Zayatara, you're either a farmer, a smith, or j James, you'd be a James, you'd you'd be fine. Um you'd be a farmer, a smith, or you'd be mil So that took a while for people to get that. Do you notice that? That was like six or seven seconds. Yeah, like I said this morning, just assume that I'm being sarcastic. And it and it'll work out better that way. So anyway, we're moving on. One thing that was kind of unique about Thyatira. Now other cities had this, but it was very, very strong in Thyatira. They had trade guilds. And I I heard someone mention the trade guild would be similar to what we would call like a union But it was it was it was wasn't really just the union. I mean that had that aspect of it, but with these trade guilds, it wasn't just the union part of things, it involved every part of your life. So the the coppersmiths would have their trade guild, and they would have the god uh that was over their trade guild and they would worship uh that god together as a guild and it would affect not just their work but also their family and their e th their economic status and things like that. And then you would have the agricultural trade guild and you would have the the the silver and and um whatever the the different industries there would have their own guilds And in that city there is a massive temple to Apollo, which was they called Apollo the son of the gods And so that is o obviously very interesting because the Christians worshiped the Son of God, Jesus Christ. And so there was conflict there obviously. But um to to participate in one of those trade guilds to be a part of the Coppersmith Society or or to work in one of the industries, you would have to be a part of that. So if you are a Christian You had to go along with that or be you know be kicked out. You wouldn't be a part of the trade guild. So if you were going to make statements like, no, Jesus is the son of God, not Apollo then obviously you couldn't be a part of that trade guild, which means you're affected economically. Um so the persecution that took place like this morning we saw the persecution took place in Pergamus was economical, but it's also, you know, someone's dying. Here, what we s what we're seeing in terms of persecution in this city, it's it's very, very intense persecution economically You couldn't buy, you couldn't sell. I mean and the the whole city was built off of industry and you couldn't be a part of it if you were a practicing Christian. So obviously that would that put a squeeze on you. Um and the persecution there was very, very intense that way. Um So if yeah, if you were if you were going to uh be a part of one of those trade guilds, obviously the things that would go along with that And some of it's mentioned here in terms of like eating the meat sacrifice to idols and fornication and things that went along with the idol worship. then you were looked at as um someone who opposed the success of the industry. So if you don't go to the temple and partic uh partake in this worship then you're against our industry and the gods are gonna bring um judgment on our industry of sil silver mining or silversmithing or whatever. So uh that that's the way the Christians were treated So with that being said, we look here at the church, and he has some really good things. Jesus has some really good things to say about the church. Look at verse 18 again. He says, Unto the angel of the church and Thyatire write, These things saith the Son of God. There's that statement reminding Jesus reminding them that who they're worshipping, the Son of God, not Apollo, the Son of the Gods, but the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and his feet are like fine brass So already there's some references to some things going on in the city there. Verse 19, he says, I know thy works and charity. And service, and faith, and thy patience, and thy works. He mentions works first and last, and then he makes this statement. And the last to be more than the first. What he's saying is, I know your works, sir, your service, your patience, your labor, your charity, and your works, and the works now are greater than they were. This church was on an upward trajectory, on a upward path It was growing. It was thriving. Probably more members were being added. Maybe even spiritually it was growing and thriving. And the works they were doing, the things they were doing were more and more. And uh in a city like Thyatira, that's quite a statement. Because that means there's more and more people that aren't part of those trade guilds, that aren't worshiping those gods, more and more people that are uh willing to give up the economic standing and the financial security. Because they're identifying with Christ. And that's a big deal. And of course Jesus recognizes them for that. But he says, I know that works and charity, they were known for their charity. They were known for love. And and you know, Jesus said by by this all men will know you are my disciples. You have love one for another. And charity of course isn't just love, it's love in action, it's the character of love. And so they're known for that and service. So he mentions works, service, works. Service is the idea of working again. And and they're they're they're ministering to each other, to the community. Not exactly sure what all that entailed, but there was definitely some service involved. So it was a busy church. Very, very, very busy, busy church, and they were growing. They were doing more. And patient at that. Now that'd be the one I struggle with. Patience. But they had it. And so we look at this, and he gives them just a great, great commendation. But then Um and and it I I mean I see maturity there in the church, I see growing, I see good motives for service Um, you know, a lot of times we maybe will do service to get recognized or to get a better standing, but that wasn't the case. Their motives were correct. I mean they had charity and they had faith and patience Again, if we just leave it there, we would say, man, this was awesome, an awesome church. But then of course, just like we saw this morning with Pergamus here in Thyatira, he says in verse 20, notwithstanding I have a few things against thee. And again, this isn't to make fun of the the church there at Thyre Tyre. There are brothers and sisters, we're going to be in heaven with them. You know what I mean? And so we're gonna I I think again we've got to be real careful, and I'm talking myself as well. We tend to blast Christians in the Bible, but we're we're forgetting that we're gonna kinda be with them for you know ever. So um Remember that. So but anyway, we we see we can learn from it's kinda like this. I'm the middle child, right? Got two older siblings, two younger siblings. There were things I would watch my older siblings do and get in trouble for, so I learned don't do that. Okay? That's kind of how I look at this. We can see some of the the good points and see some of the mistakes as well, and we can just learn from it. So that's how we're going to approach this. Anyway. Verse 20, notwithstanding, I have a few things against thee, because thou sufferest that woman Jezebel, which calleth herself a prophetess. Ouch! That's pretty harsh, isn't it? I don't know who this this lady was or who this woman was, but but he calls her Jezebel That's not a compliment. That that's not that's not something you you name your kid, you know, Jezebel. Um and if you remember Ahab and Jezebel, she was he was a bad king, but She she was she was battered. She was rough. And so it's not a compliment. So what was she doing? Well it says here, which calleth herself a prophetess Alright, so help me out here, but prophets, Old Testament, right? Last one was John the Baptist. New Testament, the leadership in the church, pastors, elders. Not prophetesses, right? Y'all with me on you see what I'm talking about? See where I'm going with this? It's not it's not so much I mean obviously she was in the wrong. We're going to see some of what she was teaching. It was that's bad. Like she was in the wrong. But part of this is because I think there was maybe some issues in the in the leadership of the church. They were looking to a prophetess rather than to a pastor? I don't know, I'm speculating. So that's just something to kind of point out. But anyway, which call herself a prophetess to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication And to eat things sacrificed to idols. So this isn't in the city. This isn't, you know, someone in Thyatira that's, you know, tr trying to get people out of the church. She's in the church. And in the church, she's calling herself a prophetess. So she's speaking in the church. And what she's teaching them to do is to go along with the idol worship in the city. Um, again, to eat to eat the meat sacrificed to idols In and in the temple that would be seen as a form of worship. And also to commit fornication. In the temple, that would be seen as a form of allegiance to the the God of one of those trade guilds. So a little bit kind of what we saw this morning with Pergamus, uh, but but this one's a little bit different. It's someone is leading the church in that direction Or at least trying to, and we'll see here towards the end that not all of the church was going that way. It kind of to me, again, I'm speculating a lot here and I don't claim to be a you know, uh an expert Bible scholar or anything like that, but it looks like a church split kind of took place here towards the end and I'll I'll show you what I'm talking about. But we're but we look at what she was teaching them, and she was leading them to go and follow after this idol worship and commit the fornication and then also eat the meat sacrificed to idols along with that. So, anyway, moving on, verse 21, he says, And I gave her space to repent of her fornication, and she repented not. So we look at the maturity of the church, the motives of the church, they're growing, they're doing really well, but then we see that this woman has gotten in the church, declared herself a prophetess, and is trying to take the church in the wrong direction. Now all of this is taking place at the same time that they're working and working harder and harder in their service and their labor and love and their outreach and so From the community's perspective, they're probably seeing someone real busy, and maybe even within the church, it's like, yeah, we're busy, we're doing the right thing. But amidst all of that hard work and labor, there was some really, really not good stuff going on here. Right? And I I don't I mean it's it's almost eight now, so I won't go into each one of these topics. I don't think we need to do that. But we see that the prophetess is not supposed to be a leader of the church. You know, God set that up, and Randy mentioned our pastor earlier, and I'm grateful for our pastor. Um I don't I don't see where the prophetess should have ever been the you know leading that church. Um and then we go to to um you know she was leading them in fornication and idolatry I don't need to take the time to say that fornication is sin. We know it is. I don't need to take the time to say idolatry is sin. We know that's sin. But that's what they were doing. So, I think this is awesome. God shows mercy here in verse 21. He gives her a space to repent. So maybe a uh just a period of time I'm going to give you some time. You know when someone says I just need some space for a while, it's kind of what I picture here. She she was given some space. She was given some time to repent But she you know, she didn't take it from what we see here. She says she repented not. So I I don't want to get too far ahead of myself, but You might be in a sin right now and you're thinking everything's okay because there's no judgment right now. You might be in that space of repentance. You better take it while you can. Because uh that's just a space. You bet anyway. Uh we might get to that again here in a minute. But God shows mercy, God uh shows uh space there to repent, and she says, no And then in verse 22 and on down a ways here, he says, what's going to happen to her and those that follow her? He says, Behold, I will cast her into a bed. I looked that up a little bit to see what some other people said about it and basically has the idea of being like bedridden, either being sick or being uh handicapped or something like that, just bedridden. Um so there is some physical judgment that would come there. And it says, and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation. So those that were following her teachings were going to have some great problems there And uh it says, except they repent of their deeds. So again we see God's uh giving a space to her followers to repent as well. Verse 23, and I will kill her children with death. So That's pretty strong if you're going to continue to follow these this blasphemy, um, saying that it, you know, oh, it's okay, church, let's all go down to the temple. um and worship those gods along with ours, it's cool, let's go have fun. The God's gonna take that very seriously. He's gonna take that very seriously. And then we see this statement, verse 23, and I will kill your children with death, and all the churches shall know that I am He which searcheth the reins and hearts. And I will give unto every one of you according to your works. So the statements made, all the churches shall know. It's almost like he's saying, I'm going to make an example out of this. So, some pretty strong warnings here to whoever this Jezebel was and what she was teaching. in in trying to um uh push there on on the church uh in terms of fornication and idolatry and things like that So. And then we move on here, and he says this in verse 24. But unto you I say, and unto the rest of Thyatire, as many as have not this doctrine So that's where I'm saying I think there was some sort of a split here. Because it's almost like there was this church at Thyotir, which was a good church. This is where Lydia came from, remember? And so it's not like the whole church is following this prophetess. And he says to those of you that are not following her, Which means the church was split. I don't know if it's 50-50 or 90%, 10%, I don't know. But there was a group following her, and there is a group that was not. Within Thyatira. And moving on, verse 24, but unto you I say and unto the rest of Thyatira as many as have not this doctrine, and have not known the depth of Satan. So whatever this doctrine was had some something deep, it says the depth of Satan I'm I'm I'm speculating. I saw one commentary he said had to do with like witchcraft and sorcery. I don't know. But again, if you're going down worshiping in the temple, that's kind of what it is anyway. Uh you know, worship in the temple of Apollo, that's some really, really bad stuff. So there was a definite split in the church here. I'm not saying they split ways and had two different locations, but in their following, some were following this prophetess, some were not. Okay? And he says to those of you who are not, in verse twenty-four, I will put upon you none of the burden, but that which ye have already hold fast till I come. So he's saying, those of you who are not following her You keep doing what you're doing and hang on. Hold fast. I'm coming. Okay. So this is what's going on in the church and and we can see this would this would be traumatizing, wouldn't it? If you had, you know, in a city like Zyatira, nonetheless, to have something like this, an internal struggle in the church, that would be that'd be hard to go through. Especially if you're on the the right side and you're seeing, you know, fellow church members again, these are just people like us, and you know seeing fellow church members go follow this Jezebel and and things like that, that'd be hard. That'd be tough. But to those of you who aren't, you just hold on. You just hold fast. And in verse 26, and he that overcometh and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations. He shall rule them with a rod of iron and vessels of a potter and the vessels of a potter shall they be broken uh to shivers. Again a reference to the the potter pottery industry there, even as I received my father. Now we'll give him the morning star. And he he that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith in the churches. So that is kind of an overview of what's going on. We know what the city's like, we know what their economy's like, we kind of see some of the what the church is doing, they're growing. They're working harder and harder and harder. They're doing more works now than they were before, and they have patience and love and charity, all the right motives. Uh but within the church there was this struggle and Some were following Ms. Jezebel who was teaching to um she was promoting fornication and uh and idolatry. So pretty heavy stuff uh there The persecution that took place was very intense, and it was mostly economic persecution, from what I see. So, looking at this, just a few things that I think we can learn. From this. And I said we'd be done around 8, but maybe it's just a few more minutes here. One thing I want to see is this. The Lord sees everything. The Lord sees everything. He knew who in the church was following this Jezebel and who wasn't. And to those that were, there was a strict war uh warning given. You better get right, you better repent, giving you a space to. If not, this is what's going to happen. But he also saw those that weren't following it, weren't following her, and were staying faithful, and he's saying, hold on. And so Jesus is he sees everything. So we think, oh man, that is awful. She was promoting fornication. She was promoting eating this meat sacrifice to idols Now I was talking with someone about it this morning. You know, it's not much really it's really not much different now, is it? I mean we have new technology, we have things like that, but people are still having the same temptations It's real easy to just kind of, you know, in church we're serving Jesus and everything's good, but real easy to get involved in some nasty stuff on the computer when you get home. You know what I mean? It's the same thing, it's fornication. You know, and so we think, oh man, that's awful. That was in the church, and those church members were doing it. I'm just saying, Jesus sees what's going on. And he knows who's following that and who's not. He's given us space to repent. You better take it before some tribulation comes. You better get that thing right, whatever it is And I I mean I'm I'm not trying to make anyone um think they're doing something that they're not doing or anything like that. I'm just saying that God knows what's going on when you're w behind closed doors and when you're not here God knows what's going on and He sees it. So I think that's one thing we can really apply to everyone. Um whether it's uh idolatry or or fornication like it was with this Jezebel, or it could be in any number of sins, you know, it may be um well whatever. But but Jesus sees, and that's all I want to s say there, because we look at verse 18, and unto the angel of the church and thy type write, These things saith the Son of God, who hath eyes like unto a flame of fire. That's piercing, isn't it? He s he sees. And um I think I think we made the point there. Um so anyway, that's one thing I wanted to point out. Another thing I wanted to point out, and um it was kind of already mentioned Um but there's there's um a God given uh system for leadership in the church. If there's someone that stands up here and claims to be a prophet or a prophetess, that's not the the the leadership design of the church. That's not. And so be careful, because you'll get on TV, you'll get on YouTube, or you'll hear people say, oh, you know, I've got a new message from the Lord, or I'm a prophet this, or a prophetess that. That's not the church. Um that's not the way it's supposed to be, and it's not from God, because he's told us clearly in the New Testament the way leadership should be. But I got to thinking more about that and and you know we we we we we'll make that saving in regards to the church. Yeah, there's a God-given system of leadership in the church But that could be applied to any of uh the God-given um institutions, you know, government, church, family. And there's a system there, and to go against that system of leadership is not right It's not right. You know, God ordained the the home. That's some the family. That is a God ordained institution And there's a series of of um of th there's different positions, I mean. There's there's the husband, there's the wife, there's children. And to go against the God-given authority in the home, it's not right. To go against the God given authority and government. It's not right. And in the church we say, Oh, that's awful. They had this lady that came in and called herself a prophetess and The pastor's supposed to be the head of the church. Well Jesus is the head of the church, but the pastor is supposed to be the the the leadership there and yes he is Uh but but the point I want to make this evening is we ought to follow leadership wherever it is. Like in in teenagers, you ought to just obey your parents. You know, unless they tell you to go k you know murder somebody. Uh and and you know you ought to just obey your parents. And if you're not sure whether you should obey 'em or not, you probably should. You know, and and honor your parents. I was talking to my dad earlier, I don't remember if it was earlier this week, or I talked to him just about every day Um, but we were talking, I was like, you know what? I don't really see in the Bible where the whole, you know, I'm you know, I'm thirty-one now, I don't see where I'm supposed to stop honoring him, you know It's like I think we get this thing, especially y you know, as we get through high school, we're like, yeah, I'm done. I'm I'm on my own now, and it's true, but Mom and dad are still mom and dad. You're if you're eight, eighteen, or fifty-eight or a hundred and eight, mom and dad is well they might not be here anymore, but you get the point. Mom and dad are still mom and dad And I think I don't remember if it was this last Christmas or it was sometime recently when I when we saw Um, my mom and dad. And you know, dad was just kidding around and you know, me and my dad have a great relationship. And he was saying, Hey, you know I can still tell you what to do. I'm like, Yeah, yes, sir, you can. Yeah. You know. And um Uh Courtney will probably remember this. My mom and dad taught me very well, very, very well, and they taught one of the things they taught me was to be, you know, a gentleman and respectful. Um and so anyway, we went to the this we had been married what maybe a year or two. Uh last week, no, I'm just kidding. It was like a year or two. Uh we had been married. And we um took it we were living in down in Virginia still. We took a trip up um uh to Maryland to see mom and dad And we got we went to the grocery store, got a bunch of groceries and uh me and Courtney were s in the minivan sitting in the the middle two seats and mom and dad were up front. And my hands were full of groceries. And so I didn't get Courtney's door. I didn't open the door for for Miss Courtney We got home, my mom pulled me aside. Hope she's not watching this. Their church starts an hour earlier, and I think dad said they were going to try to catch it tonight. I love you, Mom. Hi mom. No, but uh mom pulled me aside and I remember her saying and at the time I'd have been like twenty five Or I don't know. I was an adult, right, I was married. And um I remember her saying, We didn't raise you this way She said, You're supposed to get the door for your wife. And I'm like, I know. Um and I should have felt bad, by the way. And you know what I said? Mom, I'm an adult. You can't tell me what to do. I'm an adult. Oh no, I didn't say that. I said, yes, ma'am, you're right. The point I want to make is Um I don't remember what the point I wanted to make was. What were we talking about? A church in Asia Minor, right? Um Oh, God given authority. God given authority. And so sure, uh, you know, um a man leaves his father and mother and leaves to his wife, and the two shall be one, but There's always gonna be that aut authority there. There's always there gonna always be your mom and dad and I think I'm preaching to teenagers right now, but really to everyone, because if your parents are living you should honor them, respect them and take their advice. You should. Anyway, but then also in government, there is a system of authority there. Different countries have different forms of government. Our final authority here is our Constitution. We ought to honor that. And we ought to uphold that and uh and live by that. So and God has it has the way our government's set up, God's allowed different people to have different roles of service here, but You know, we ought to be subject to that higher power, to that constitution. That's that's that's important. Um and then also here in the church, the other uh institution that God ordained. And the problem here in Thyatira is They were not going along with the system of leadership. They were allowing a prophetess to lead the church. At least some of them were because some of them weren't. Moving on here. And I'm just uh just about finished up. The the points I want to make are this. One, Jesus sees all we do, and I mentioned that. And there's a strong there's a strong uh uh caution here if you're gonna continue to live in that in whatever that sin is, if you have that space, you better repent. Um But the the the good news is this No matter what that sin is you're involved in, God wants to forgive you. The whole point of the Bible. We messed up, but God wants to forgive us. You know? In fact, He went to the cross, died for our sins, so you could be forgiven, have a home in heaven with Him. You say, well, I'm saved, Pastor Man. I'm a Christian. Yeah, well, when you sin, we need to 1 John 1 9. We need to confess that. We need to confess that. You say, well, I feel like I keep confessing the same sins over and over again. Well good, keep confessing them. But we better we would better change our habit on that. We better change our mind on that and repent. Might only have a small space. And so anyway, looking at the Church of Thyatira here, there's a few applications here. Um But um the whole the whole the whole point is The church there in Thyratyra really I don't think is much different than us. It's pretty easy to Especially with YouTube and things like that, to get caught up into some really weird doctrines. Let's make sure we follow the leadership in the church. Follow our pastor. You know, and that I think that would I think that'd be helpful. And if there is something we're involved in, let's repent while we have that space. So heads bowed, eyes closed