I'll be honest with you. Uh I don't know what you're gonna get exactly. I'm not really sure. But it's gonna start right up here with this picture. It always touches me when when I think about guys like these guys who were World War II vets. That that was my era. That was a that was when I was a kid. And I remember my uncle going off to war and he served in Germany and the the uh Um well the third and the seventh armored division and uh came back and uh he was you know he he made it back And uh had a drinking problem as a result of of the war and what he went through there and as as many of our our boys have suffered But uh there's just something about Veterans Day as we think about, you know, uh as we remember uh those who have you know, fought the battles and shed their blood and and some cases their life uh force. So the picture that I I did that, you know, there've been a controversy about about uh standing at attention when the flag and the national anthem was given and you know the NFL thing and it just It tears me up. I I don't understand somebody that can just spit on the flag or can burn the flag or or can disrespect the flag in any way or form. I can't I just don't understand that Not when that flags you know represents the the blood of of young men and women You know, to give us the freedom to do that very thing and and to take advantage of that and say, well, uh I can do it, so I'm gonna do it. It just tears me up So when I was thinking about the chalk drawing, I I thought about remembering the ones who did give their life. And so that's the helmet and the And uh the AK forty seven stuck in the ground there with the with the boots and the dog tags. That represents one who has fallen, one of our our brethren. Off on the right you'll see the some of those who've gone on before that are standing at attention and saluting those individuals. And then on the left you see a soldier, and I'm sorry, ladies, I didn't I didn't do a a lady soldier and I'm not it's not because I have anything against it. I just uh yeah you have so much room on here and I knew this would This would do the job. I was almost ready to put one in, but I I didn't have really enough room to put a lady in there saluting the flag. But I hope you understand that This one right here is a lady. I mean that little mark there. That that's a that's ma matter of fact there's there's eight or nine of them in there if you can s just sort of see them spread out. But then the focus. The focus goes on the missing man. Missing man formations. The first one was back in World War One. It was a British flyer that do uh did a missing man formation flight for someone one of his comrades that that that died. It kinda caught on and through the years why different ones have uh had the the missing uh the missing man formation. It's a actually that formation is a combat formation. It's where you have it's called the the finger formation, if you took your hand right hand and and put it out in front of you, you have four fingers. And this is your lead man. Here are the the the ones out front, the fingertip formation. And this is his wingman off to the left of his wing. And then off to the right is the next in command leader, and then his wingman is over here on the right. And at the appropriate time When they do a flyover, it's usually done in honor of some military man. That was the original uh uh usage of it. Uh some general or something, somebody special. But they would coordinate the flyover with a guy that was on the ground who could give the exact GP GPS where the where the gravesite was so that the planes that that flew in and they usually were the F-16s uh have been for the past uh about forty years I guess. And uh they would coordinate the the flyover and they would line up the four just like that At the appropriate time, right over the grave. The second lead command would pull up and go straight up as a picture of the departure of the one who had been killed And I've I've seen the Thunderbirds, the US Air Force Thunderbirds, and I've seen the the Navy Blue Angels do the same the same uh missing man formation It could be done different ways. One time they there was one flyover that they did it in fifty different airplanes, and then one took off. It can be done with just uh three planes and eliminating the one that takes off, they just leave an open space where his plane should be. But the missing man formation just just tells you that there's one who wasn't coming home His wife and family, or his mom and dad, or his brothers or sisters, or his friends, or relatives. He's missing. And he'll not be back again The missing man formation. Back in the book of Ezekiel. There was a missing man. And Ezekiel talks about it. If you want to turn there, it'll be in the in Ezekiel chapter twenty-two. Ezekiel chapter 22 and verse 30 it says this, and I I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge. and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none. There's another verse almost like that over in chapter thirteen of Ezekiel. Where it says, ye have not gone up into the gaps, and neither made the hedge for the house of Israel to stand in the battle in the day of the Lord. What Ezekiel is pointing out here is something that was detrimental, I guess, to the nation of Israel. Israel had been taken into captivity and and Ezekiel had been taken into that into Babylon also And he is so he's prophesying out of the land of Israel. He's prophesying in this foreign land. His job is to keep uh Keep before the nation of Israel the fact number one that their sin has brought them to the place where they were Taken into captivity uh captivity and have uh and uh uh uh have out of fallen out of favor with God. But also, Ezekiel is to keep them in mind of one thing, and that is that God was not finished with them. There was a gap. He needed someone to stand the gaps, stand the gap to stop the enemy as it floods in. I want us to look at at a few things here that perhaps uh will help us today. Because you see, we we live in a in a country that's somehow or another we've lost our vision. Somehow or another, the urgency of taking a stand for God has kind of drifted to the wayside. Searching for a man. God's looking for somebody. He's looking for not just one, but he's looking for an army of men. He's looking for young men and and middle aged men and and old guys like me that'll just stand in the gap. He's looking for ladies who will take their proper place and stand in the gap To make up the hedge to fight against evil, to fight against that which is which is uh uh invading our land Our churches today are falling by the wayside. There's more more that are going out of business than are are being started nowadays. That's tragic. Places where I used to go preach and preach for years, I'm thinking right now Of a pastor friend of mine who's going on to be with the Lord now, and his his church is going on to be with the Lord too. There's grass growing up in the in the parking lot. The building is up for sale. And the church is defunct, not even meeting any longer. And I'm seeing that in fundamental, independent, Bible-believing Baptist churches in many, many areas of our country. We need some people who will stand in the gap. People who are not afraid to take a stand for that which is right. Take a stand for for the creation. Instead of going along with the millions and billions of years of the old Big Bang theory Take the stand for uh uh masculinity instead of femininity. I'm I'm tired of men being uh what do you call it uh uh feminized? I'm telling ya. I I'm not gonna get in that 'cause it If I do that, they'll probably cut me off, so I I won't do that. Anyway, we need men who will who will see the world as God sees the world. How does God see the world? Well, he says, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world, for the love of the world is the world's enmity with God. And yet we have Christians that are are uh allowing the world to transform them or to uh conform them, I think is the proper Because in in the book of Romans it says I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, you present your body a living sacrifice, holy, except for unto God, with just your reasonable service. And Be not informed to this world, but be you transformed. And that's what we need is a people who will stand the gap and be transformed by the Spirit of God. So that they can do the perfect will of God and not be conformed to this world. Satan is good at at conforming. Do you ever notice how blackbirds stick together? It seems like those of the like mind, you know, they just start to accumulate and they just uh and it they seem to grow. I wish our churches was like that. Wish it was that simple to get a church to grow, uh, like the blackbirds do. It just seemed like they you get a few here and the next thing you know the whole yard's full, and the next thing you know why the air is full and I mean they're just all over the place. I'm saying we need some we need some some men, young men, who will say, you know, I'm just going to serve God. I'm gonna fully, wholly trust God. I'm gonna try I'm gonna see what God will do with me. We need not only God's not only searching for a man who will see the world as he sees it, but who will see himself as he sees them. You know one of the things about uh the Laodicea in church? I believe we're we're living in that in that day now. Back in the book of Revelation in chapter three, we have that that uh uh as John portrays uh uh the church age of our of the time that we're living in right now. And it's found in verse 14 It says, and unto the angel of the church of Laodicea write these things, saith the Amen, the faithful, the true witness. the beginning of the creation of God. I know thy works. Thou neither cold nor hot and I I would uh thou wert cold or hot So then, because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I'll spew thee out of my mouth. Now listen to what it says in verse 17. And then because thou sayest, I am rich and increased with goods, and have need of nothing, and knowest not that thou art wretched, you see they were having a They were having a hard time seeing themselves the way God sees them. We need to we need to allow the Spirit of God, you know, before you take communion, you're told to examine yourselves. So that you don't partake of the Lord's Supper unworthily. And that but you know that doesn't that that's only maybe once a month or whatever it is that this church does. But we need a daily investigation of our life. And we need to try to see our life as God sees our life. And the only way you can do that is to compare it with the Word of God And our life needs to be compared with the Word of God on a regular basis, constantly We need to allow the Spirit of God to search out our heart, see if there be any wicked way in us, to allow God to work and and to and to to to find the the little you know the the presumptuous sins and the hidden sins and and the little things that are back in the re recess in the and the crevices of our heart that that we don't get to a lot of times. We need to to see ourselves God's looking for somebody who'll just allow themselves to investigate their heart and allow the Spirit of God to work so that they see themselves as God sees them. See what they need to serve him. He's searching for a man who will who will see truth. In the light of God's word. I've never seen the like of people that twist and bend and screw around with the truth as they do today. Uh i uh uh it depends on what is means, or is is, as one guy said it. Uh isn't it strange how we can we see the world today justify whatever thing that they're involved with is contrary to the will of God? What we see is them justifying their actions so that it comes out that they're right and everything about the Bible or truth is wrong. We need, God is looking for somebody who will just see the truth as the Word of God points out the truth. We need to be able to see that that which God calls sin today, or what he calls sin back uh uh 3,000 years ago, is still sin today. And it's still uh still called by, you know, the the right names. Uh but isn't that that's another area, isn't it? Whenever whenever they they find that uh uh that they're getting convicted about some particular sin, they change the name of it so that it doesn't sound so bad. Well, there we go again. God's looking for a a man, that missing man. The missing man The missing man, you know, that uh has uh quit taking care of his wife and family, that's not raising their children under the nurture and admonition of the Lord. He's looking for a man who'll who'll take that that responsibility seriously and do the work that he needs to do to bring those children up in a godly atmosphere. God is just he's looking for a man that'll just say, uh Lord, here I am. I w just take me and and and let me be the piece of clay that that you'll take in your hands and and mold me into something that'll They'll bring honor and glory to you. Are you that missing man? Or are you one that's standing in the gap? I thank God for the testimony of this church. There's people here that love the Lord, and there's no question about it. They take their stand for God and they pass out tracts and they witness and they do the things that they're supposed to be doing. And then there's some who are going through the motions but down inside. That heart is just not where it ought to be. And there's still some areas that need to be swept out, cleaned out. God's looking for that man to take the right step and make things right and get right with God. The Bible says Jesus came. He was looking for a man. He puts it in a little different wording. He says he came to seek and to save that which is lost. And that's you out there if you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. If you've never trusted Christ, you're what the Bible calls the lost lost. That's that's an awful phrase. Lost. I was lost one time. I remember I'm not talking about spiritual. I'm talking about lost. I mean, I'm talking about in the woods at night. with no flashlight and uh in a strange woods where I didn't know where I was, I'm talking about lost. That was a scary experience. I was about 20 years old. I was squirrel hunting, and that that rascal squirrel He just stayed out ahead of me. I couldn't get a good shot at him. I kept following him and I kept following him and next thing you know, there I was in the middle of a forest that I didn't know anything about And it was getting dark. And I turned around to go back out the way I came. And I realized I didn't know the way I came. I was lost. My friend, you probably don't know the way you came either. But the Bible says that uh you're dead in trespass and sin. For as by one man sin entered into the world, death by sin, and so death death passed upon all men, for as it all have sinned. And that puts you and me in the same category, except for one thing. You're still lost. And I took care of that back in 1962 when I trusted Christ as my Savior. And you can do the same thing here today. You could be that one that uh the Lord found. He came to seek and to save that which is lost. Are you saved today? If you're not, then this is the time to come and allow God to do something in your life. If you're here today, and maybe God has spoken to you about being that that uh that missing man. And you want to take a take your step and stand in the gap. You want to be counted for God. You want to hold back the deluge of of of sin as best you can, then you can find a place this old fashioned altar this morning and do business with God. Let's bow our heads for prayer. Heavenly Father As we come to this portion of the service, where the Spirit of God speaks to hearts, where the Word of God does its work of dividing out and separating. And convicting. I pray that that one who has been touched will be willing to step forward and get things right with you. God, I ask you to save that person. Who needs to get saved this morning before it's eternally too late. And I pray for that one who needs to step up and be the man of the house. That woman who needs to step up And be that wife that she ought to be. That one who needs to step up and take the responsibility that you have laid on their shoulders. And I ask it in Christ's name, Amen. Amen. Let's all stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. As musicians play, God is