Chapter 2. I was out at neighborhood Bible time for our board meeting, and uh one of the big issues as a lot of ministries is is money coming up with money. It's just hurting. And uh we had to uh make some hard decisions out there. I got a letter today in the mail from Jehovah Jira Ministries, uh neat guy down out of uh Gambrilles, Maryland. Anybody know where that is? Gambrils, Maryland? And uh this guy is independently wealthy. I had lunch with him a couple years ago. God saved him later in life And uh he he told me this. He said he said God has gifted me. He said everything I touch turns to gold. He said every business I had became incredibly profitable. He said every investment I made was incredibly profitable Isn't that a problem? I just felt so bad for him. And uh anyway, God saved him and his wife, and they felt like God had blessed them in this way for a very for a reason, not just for them to live well. But to advance the cause of Christ. So he took the money that they cre uh had made and he bought a uh uh um strip mall type thing, I think you call it. Just a bunch of front stores in a very area. and paid cash the way I understood it, paid for it, and then they lease it out to stores and all the profit they invest into church planting And um so he put me on his mailing list. I mean this guy's solid. He's uh Dr. Pat Creed's one of the uh advisors, Dr. David Gibbs was COA, so I mean he's a legit guy, he's independent fundamental Baptist And they had ten churches that last year, in the last twelve months of 2012, they invested five hundred and twenty thousand dollars into ten churches that are starting starting churches. It has to be a church plant. And what they do is they make the down payments for them on purchasing property. Isn't that amazing thing? And I was just kind of discouraged that uh you know the finances were so tight, we're having to be real careful here, and Bible time has gone through it. And here's a ministry that God has raised up to help church plants. Isn't that neato? And that just encouraged me that um what the Lord is doing there and how God you know, gifts different people in different ways and and uh the Lord is just amazing, isn't he? Second Thessalonians chapter two I want to just kind of get to the point. We're going to look at just one thing here this evening. I know the snow's coming down and we probably want to get back. We want to spend time in prayer. That's the whole point of our service tonight. But look at verse number six. The Bible says, and now ye know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time. Now let me say this as we start reading this. These next several verses that we're going to read really read awkwardly. Um you just have to really pay attention. We're gonna go through and read 'em. And and and I think just on a reading it, it's like I have no idea what he's talking about But once we come back and look at what he's saying and you put it together, then it's very simple what he's saying here. It's not complicated truth. It's just worded uh a little awkwardly. So with that in mind, let's start again. And now you know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work. Only he who now ledeth will lead until he be taken out of the way. And then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan, with all power and signs and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish. Because they received not the love of the truth that they might be saved. For this cause God shall uh send them strong delusions that they should believe a lie, that they might all be damned, who believed not the truth. but had pleasure in unrighteousness. Not a very pleasant portion of scripture, not a real pleasant truth that's addressed here, but nevertheless, something God has for us. And I want to zero in on that one phrase In verse number 7, the mystery of iniquity. And uh let's pray, and uh I'll share some thoughts with you. Father, we're grateful for the Word of God, this important letter to this little church here in Thessalonica. Dealing with future events, I pray that you would give us understanding tonight. And more than just understanding what's said here, Lord, I pray that you would apply it to our lives. It would affect The way we view our world, the way we uh live our uh lifestyle. God, I know your word is here for practical purposes in our lives, so please, Holy Spirit, apply it I yield myself to you, I present my body anew. I ask with all my heart that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and make tonight profitable for us spiritually, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Of course, this whole passage here is talking about the coming of Christ. 1 Thessalonians was 2 Thessalonians, as we said over and over, is uh uh is attempt to correct a misunderstanding on the part of the church here at Thessalonica. So the whole context is future events Particularly the return of Christ, the stage of his return that we would refer to as the revelation or the second advent when he comes back to earth. So that's the whole context. As we approach the return of Christ, as each day goes by, we're a day closer to the Lord coming back, one thing's very clear in Scripture, and that's this. The world is going to get and is getting more hostile towards Christianity. Now, not only does Scripture teach that, but would you agree with me? We see that The world is coming more and more hostile towards Christianity. Now, over the years, the centuries, you know, it fluctuates Sometimes there's times of intense persecution, intense hostility. Then God will send revival and seems like it backs off and the church has periods, seasons, you could say, of of more peaceful time and quietness. and then uh for whatever reason things deteriorate and the intensity comes. But as we approach the end of the age, you're going to see that hostility more often and greater hostility and and uh and just increasing. Um the the world becomes more intolerant of Christianity. And uh we're seeing that uh in uh in our day. Uh there was a time You know, the media in particular, uh, they mocked Christianity for years, right? Uh all the little situation comedies and whatever uh the the Christians, the Bible believers, the genuine Christians, their portrayal of them anyway, they were idiots, morons, uh, you know, just people you laugh at. But if you'll pay attention, that's changing No longer are Christians being portrayed as morons and idiots. Christians are being portrayed as dangerous people. And ones to be opposed, ones that are a threat and judgmental and hateful and need to be opposed. And so the uh the attitude is shifting, the portrayal is shifting Then we look at the church. Aren't you glad you came to church? Heard his positive thoughts here tonight. Then we look at the church's condition. And um the gospel's being watered down. You know, I hear some things and read some things what people are calling the gospel and it doesn't even make sense. The Bible convictions are being abandoned left and right. The Word of God is being under attack in a lot of churches. It's just outright denied. In churches It's being distorted. We have hundreds of versions of the Bible. And then you have revisions of those versions. And then ten years goes by and they've got to revise the revision of that version. And um uh it just goes on and on and on. Uh as I said, the media is portraying Christians not as buffoons anymore, but as a real threat to society. And um Brother uh uh Mattingley was with us this past week, and I tell you one of the great things for me as pastor, and to bring these men through, like Brother Mattingley, is for me to be able to sit down with them And talk to them. These guys have been through it for years and what a blessing that is to me personally. And we were talking about some things and uh the state of affairs in the United States and the church and around the world And uh and I've had several, probably three or four in the last two or three months, evangelists that are traveling the country saying to me uh that the church, Bible believers like you and I We really need to brace ourselves for increased opposition in our country here. We need to prepare ourselves and and some of them were talking with me about, you know, preparing our young people. to uh face the fact that if they're gonna be true to God, if they're gonna dedicate their lives to the Lord Jesus Christ, that opposition that you and I never dreamed about as young people and when we were young people, they're gonna face in a in a very real basis. So um, you know, that's the word. I was reading an article about a month ago. Uh Jerry Vines was the president of the Southern Baptist Convention Uh pretty uh he would be conservative. Our position, he'd be a little more moderate. You would not call him an extremist in any way, shape, or form But he said on a radio broadcast he made the statement that he expected to see persecution uh of Bible believers within his lifetime. I looked him up on the internet and I found out he's 71 years old. And so this is not some extremist, some radical. This is a pretty moderate, I would call him a Bible believer, but pretty moderate. And he said that publicly. And so um here you have it. Uh and so this is the church in Thessalonica is dealing with this. And with this passage we read here, you know, there's some awful things uh the that the church is going to face in the in the future days. Now don't misunderstand me. I know I'm painting a bleak picture. It's snowing out, it's cold, the roads are slick, and you walk out of here saying that's the most depressing service I've ever had in my life. I'm not suggesting that God is not still on the throne. God is still on the throne. God is still good to us. And as I was going over this this afternoon, I got an email from an evangelist And he was all fired up about great things God is doing in churches across the country and souls being saved in revival-hitting churches. So, within this overall context of deteriorating circumstances, nevertheless, God is still alive and he's still doing great things in churches around. In fact Some of God's greatest blessings have been poured out on the church in times of great opposition. Some of God's greatest answers to prayer and his power is displayed sometimes. When the church is not popular, it's very unpopular with the world, but becomes very popular with God. They say the church in China uh under the intense persecution they're still under it but intense persecution was absolutely exploding uh when they were persecuting them. In Russia the church grew uh tremendously under intense persecution and hostility and opposition. So let's not leave here tonight saying, oh, woe is us. No, no, no. Let's leave tonight saying God is greater than he that is in the world. And uh in spite of all this, God's still in control. Now, let's come to our passage here. I read an extended portion. We're not going to look at all of this. There are three subjects addressed Particularly in the first few verses here that I just want to mention. We're going to look at one of them. One of the subjects addressed here is this guy, look at verse number six. He makes a statement He said, Now ye know what withholdeth, that he might be revealed in his time. Something or someone is withholding something. Look over at verse number seven. Mystery of iniquity and authority work, only he who now leteth will let Until he be taken out of the way. Now, I don't want to preach on that. I want to use that for another sermon, but I do want to, just so we know what he's talking about here. When you hear the word let, somebody's going to let something happen What do you understand that to mean? You're going to allow it. You're going to permit it. You're going to let something happen. So look what it says here. It says, only he who now leteth will let until he be taken out of the way. What does that sound like, this guy, whoever's doing the letting, what does it sound like he is doing? Uh uh. What's it sound like he's doing with the word let as we understand the word? He's allowing something to happen Yeah, it sounds like he's permitting this to take place, he's allowing something to take place until he's taken out of the way. Here's the problem The word let as it's used here means the exact opposite of permitting something. The meaning of the word has changed over the years And so we say, uh, I'm going to let my son go skiing this weekend. We mean we're going to allow him. We're going to give him permission to do that. If I used it in the meaning as it is here, it means I am hindering, I am forbidding, I am stopping my son from going skiing this weekend. I'm going to let him And so we're going to talk about that in another message. So, but keep that in mind. Some of you have been through Bible Institute, and you know what that word meant. And other of you have not had that opportunity and are therefore very ignorant and behind on uh no on teasing So, only he so there's this person that's withholding verse 6 or he's letting, which means restraining or holding back something, and then he's going to be taken out of the way. So that's one of the subjects here. Somebody or something is holding back and restraining somebody or something. That's the one subject. Second subject addressed here is the Antichrist. In verse number six, he's kind of referenced there that he might be revealed in his time. We're going to find out. I believe that's a reference to the Antichrist. Verse Uh eight says, then shall that wicked be revealed. What do you notice about the word wicked there? It's capitalized. It's talking to about an individual. And uh we'll see in a future message that that is referring to the Antichrist at that point. Then the third subject addressed here is in verse number seven For the mystery of iniquity doth already work. Oh, that is what I want to address just real briefly. What in the world Is the mystery of iniquity, and what in the world does it have anything to do with me? The mystery of iniquity. That's very mysterious. Look at the verse. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work. So whatever the mystery of iniquity is, just set that aside, whatever it is. What is this verse telling us about the mystery of iniquity? Aha. It's already in operation. It's already working, it's already in place doing whatever the mystery of iniquity does. It is already doing it. In fact, if you consider when this was written. It has been in operation for a long, long time. For the Paul is writing, this is probably. Does anybody have a date there? I'm going to guess. I'm going to guess. Sixty AD. Am I close? What's Schofield say? No, I mean old the Bible. Uh fifty-four, so I was six years old. Stokefield was six years off. And so um Yo yours says what? Fifty-one. So Ryrie was nine years old. Uh I knew it was in that range there somewhere. So Whatever this mystery of iniquity was, whenever Paul wrote this in A. D. 50, whatever, it was in place then. It's been in operation then. So this is not necessarily something that has that is a future uh it's beginning to take place in the future, whatever it is. It doth already work. It's already right now in operation. It's already active. Whatever this mystery of iniquity is. This, as we're going to see, this mystery of iniquity is a key component in the Antichrist's rise to power during the tribulation period. This is a key factor in the Antichrist's rise to power during the tribulation period, but it is already in place now. It is already in operation at this point, going on. He is simply going to tap into it. Use it, advance it, and it's going to help him rise to his influence. So, what is this mystery of iniquity? Well, the word iniquity means what? Yeah, the literal definition is a lawlessness. And the ideas that's used in the Bible means as the idea of operating outside the law of God. We could say it this way to uh uh one of the definitions I came across was to violate God's law To go operate outside the boundaries of God's law. We could say this way: to operate outside of God's word, How about this? To operate, this is a little redundant, but to operate outside God's will. Because God's word is his will, right? God's will is never contradictory to his word. His word never contradicts his will. So this iniquity is to operate is to do things or something outside of what God has said in His Word He wants us to do To live in a way that is outside the way he wants to live. To function in a way that is outside he told us how to function. So that's what iniquity is, and you can get into details and specific illustrations. You can think of them as easy as I can. And so this iniquity to operate contrary to the revealed will of God. Now the mystery. The mystery of iniquity. What is a mystery? Something that has it been revealed before or has not been revealed I love having Bible college graduates in the c in the audience. A mystery is something that is hidden or not been revealed. Okay, it's a mystery. It's mysterious. You could define it this way. Is everybody still glad you slick slid here and came? Good. You could define it this way. Something that appears to be one thing But actually is something else. How many people recognize the name Agatha Christie? I love Agatha Christie I mean not personally, I didn't know her personally. But um when I was a young teen, ten, eleven, twelve years old, I read Agatha Christie just nonstop. Uh and then there were none Remember that one? Anybody read that? Um uh Death on the Nile. That was a good one. Uh what was the Orient Express? What was uh Death on the Orion Express or something. Uh Agatha Christie was a mystery writer. She wrote mysteries And uh I loved them. And I'd just devour this thing. And you'd read, and somebody, and all the ones I remember reading, somebody ended up being killed. And then the rest of the book was you were trying to figure out who it was that did that. And everybody at some point seemed very innocent. And everybody at some point seemed like they could possibly be guilty, right? You didn't know what they really were. Until the mystery was revealed. And of course, whoever the detective was, they were the one that found out there was, I think, some French Guy or something. But anyway, that's the idea here. This mystery of iniquity, and this intrigued me. But this mystery of iniquity that is already in place, it's out here, it's functioning right now, has been for a long time It's something the Antichrist is going to tap into or use, exploit, maybe you could say, to rise up, to enable him to rise up to his tremendous authority that they'll have. It is something that is in place, but it does not appear that it is what it really is. It's iniquity. It's outside the Word of God. It's outside the will of God. It's outside the law of God. It's not the way God says, but it sure enough looks like it's inside the will of God. Follow what's happening? Um to appear, it appears like this mystery of iniquity is something that appears like it's keeping God's law. That's the mystery part of it, but it's not. It appears to be fulfilling the will of God on the surface, but it's not. This guy looks innocent. The mystery is, he really isn't. And this guy looks pretty guilty. But the mystery about it all, he's innocent as can be. And then it's revealed. And so this mystery of iniquity that he references here is to function or operate outside of the will of God, but what the whole while appearing To be in the will of God. What's another word that Jesus used in the Gospels that would be very similar to this scenario? You think of it? Somebody that appears to be in the will of God, functioning according to the Word of God, but they're really not A hypocrite. Jesus referred to the Pharisees, ye hypocrites. You're white and sepulchres Outside you appear fine, but inside you're dead man's bows. Outside of the cup looks nice and clean, boy, it looks scriptural as can be, but inside it's filthy. And that is, and the Antichrist taps into that whole mentality, that whole way of living, that whole way of functioning. And he advances and uses it to advance himself. I put it this way: the mystery of iniquity is to violate the word of God In the name of God. Other what I'm saying? It's to live outside of the will of God, all the while claiming the name of God It's a mystery. It looks like it's of God, but it isn't. Take your Bibles with me, if you would, and turn to Matthew chapter 7. And we'll give a few illustrations of this. Now, in future messages, we'll see a little bit how I believe the Bible's telling us that Antichrist uses that. We touched on it in a previous message. Look at Matthew 7. The mystery of iniquity. Verse number twenty one Matthew 7, 21. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. So here's somebody. Question: Is it unscriptural to say, Lord, Lord? No. Uh, does that sound like something being done in the name of God? Sure, absolutely. But according to this verse, are they actually doing the will of God? No. So they're claiming the name of God, but they're not doing the will of God. Look what he got look read on Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works? That's they're operating an appearance of being of God. They're operating in the name of God, but look what he says. And then will I profess to you, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that what? Work iniquity. The mystery of iniquity Appears to be one thing. Appears to be of God. Words are right. The works are right. The appearance is right. But he says it's actually iniquity. You're not doing what my will is. I got another one. Matthew 24. Come back over there real quick. Matthew 24. And verse eleven twenty four eleven And uh this is Matthew 24, 25 is all second coming. Most of this is referring to the tribulation period, the second advent of Christ. Look what he says. And many false prophets shall rise and shall deceive many. Because iniquities shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold. We touched on this before. You come up to verse 5. Many shall come in my name Saying, I am Christ, and shall deceive many. Here you have this mystery. It appears one thing, but it's actually completely outside of the will of God Matthew chapter Acts chapter 20, we won't take time, but verses 29 through 31, Paul is warning the pastors at Ephesus, and he says, Wolves shall come in. And devour the flock, and I'm putting this in my own words, I'm paraphrasing here, but they'll come in under the name of Christianity, they'll come in under the name of being biblical, under the name of God But what they're teaching and the direction they're taking the church and their influence is anything but godly, it's a mystery of iniquity. 2 Peter chapter 2 and verse 1 in particular talks about the same thing. And so, what does that have anything to do with me? This mystery of iniquity, this idea that Satan is going to, and this is what we're getting to, Satan is going to take the name of Christianity He's going to take the name of God. Can I suggest to you he's going to take the name of Jesus Christ and make it appear like he is one of Christ, that he is one of God, that he is exactly what Christianity is Christianity is he makes that appear and he uses that false pretense to advance himself and finally he blasphemes God and claims to be worshiped. And so his rise to fame is going to be a false presentation of biblical Christianity. A mystery, but it's not going to be biblical in any way, shape, or form. So what does that have to do with us? That spirit's alive today. That spirit has been alive for a long, long time. And we have to watch out. Is it possible for a church like Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to get sucked into the mystery of iniquity? My answer is yes. Not only is it possible, it happens and has been happening for a long time. It is very possible for us to outwardly put on a show that we are one thing, that we are what the Bible presents, when in reality we're anything But that. And we're violating God's word and we're breaking the thing, but boy, we put on that mystery. It appears to be one thing. In Jesus, in Revelation chapter 3, and I can't remember which church it was. But he says something to this effect. You have the name of being rich and healthy and strong, and reality you're poor and wretched and blind. They were anything but what they appeared to be. We have to, as individuals, and I have to do this just as much as any one of us does We have to be very, very diligent that our Christianity is not just a show, but it is for real. That's what we present is what we really are. And that means coming clean with God. That means looking in the mirror and being brutally honest with the person I'm looking at. And say, are and I are you actually what you're presenting yourself to be And that's a challenge. We need God to help us. We need the Holy Spirit to move on our hearts and make our faith real. And make it genuine that we are trusting God. We do live by the Word of God. We do love the Lord with all our heart, soul, and mind. Not just an image we put out there, because when we do that, we are being drawn into the mystery of iniquity. Isn't that something? Let's ask God to help us. I feel a heavy weight on our shoulders as a church here that we need God to move in our midst, challenge us, and make us real and send us A real heaven-sent revival. I'm not saying we're in awful shape, but I am saying this: that um I'm afraid I look in the mirror and what I see is far from what I feel like it ought to be Paul felt the same way. I'm not attained. So let's pray tonight. You individual, you know what God's doing in your life. I know what God's doing in my heart. Let's ask God to have his way. That we'd be the real deal. Whatever the cost, whatever the price, we know it's worth it. We're just going to come clean with God and we're going to be out and out for Christ. And uh maybe it's a matter in your own heart just rededicating yourself to the Lord. I don't know. It's can't really are you are we gonna do a dedication We'll just can't really do the invitation. We'll just uh uh as I pray, you pray in your heart and make your seat an altar, and uh you pray with me as we pray. Father in heaven. Lord, we bow before you tonight as a church and as individuals. And we just ask, Lord, that you'd search our hearts and try us and test us. Lord, show us the areas that we uh that we need to address. Lord, more than anything else, I just want to be a real Christian. Lord, we want our whole life. To be crystal clear before you, Lord, and clean and pure and right and sincere and biblical. We need your Holy Spirit to help us do that, Lord. Lord, help us mortify the deeds of the flesh. Help us to walk in the Spirit. And we're looking to you, Lord, trusting you, and asking you to help us. In Jesus' name. Amen.