Mark chapter number five and verse number twenty-seven. One verse get us started. Mark five and verse twenty-seven. The Bible says, and when she had heard of Jesus, Came in the press, now the press there is this crowd we'll talk about, came in the press behind, and touched his garment. I want to speak this morning on the touch of faith. The touch of faith. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we thank you for the Word of God. We can come to your Word and find direction, instructions, warnings, promises. Encouragement, get convicted as we read it. And I pray now as we look at this dear lady that believed That you could heal her and make her well. And she came and touched you. And that act of faith and how it changed her life And I pray for those of us here this morning, wherever we're at, whatever situation we find ourselves in, I pray you'd help us and teach us to have faith in you and to trust you. God, we look to you to help us. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and I pray that you fill me with your spirit and you speak through me. To our hearts and minds. Help us make right decisions. Help us to trust you and follow your instructions, I pray, in Jesus' name Amen. The Gospel of Mark is a fascinating gospel. It's the shortest of the four Gospels, 16 chapters If you'll read it very carefully, first chapter and the last chapter, if you read it very carefully, there's no name attributed to who the penman is. The book of Mark. It doesn't say from Mark to so-and-so. A lot of Paul's epistles he would write, and he'd put his name on there. But there's no name attributed to it, so technically it's an anonymous author here uh writing this book of Mark, penning it, I should say. However, the New Testament church right away immediately was aware of the fact that Paul, that Mark was the penman of the Gospel of Mark. Now they knew that God was the author. I always want to say this. We talk about who wrote a book of the Bible. We understand God is the author. And the New Testament church, the New Testament believers recognized right away when Mark had penned this and started distributing out among the churches, they knew immediately that this was scripture and um and that God was the author. So there's no reason to question who it was that penned this. Now Mark himself is a fascinating man He has quite a testimony and quite a history. We have more information about Mark. than we do about Luke or Matthew. We're told more about Mark, and particularly in the book of Acts, than either of those other two fellows Of course, John, we know a lot about John. We're given a lot of information there. But we have more information about Mark. He was not an apostle. He was not one of the twelve apostles. He was considered to be an evangelist. Of course, he went preaching, and uh legends have uh tremendous things, tell us tremendous things that Mark did Uh one I read suggested that he may have been the first man, may have started the first church in Egypt. Got down there and preached the gospel, folks, got saved, got a church organized We don't know that for certain, but uh there's a lot of uh of uh un uh inspired history about him out there. His mother was a believer. She lived in Jerusalem And uh the New Testament church met in her home a good bit. In fact, if you remember in Acts chapter number 12, when Peter was in prison, And uh the angel came and woke Peter up. Does anybody remember that? Angel showed up. I kind of like the way the angel woke him up. It says uh the angel smote him and smacked him upside the head, I guess, and said, Wake up And the doors open themselves, you know, miraculously. And Peter goes out the middle of the night. And he went to Mark's house The Homer Mark, and lo and behold, the church was there, and they were praying for Peter's safe release Now they had killed James, and um they were very concerned that they were going to kill Peter, and so um so Peter gets out and he goes to Mark's house the mother's house. And uh it's an interesting story. Peter is out there in the middle of the night knocking on the door Now the whole church had gathered there. They're back in the other room, probably the living room or whatever, and they're praying that Peter, God would get Peter out of jail. So he knocks on the door, a young lady named Rhoda, she opens the door, and lo and behold, there's Peter. And the Bible says she was so shocked that she slammed the door shut and went running back in and Peter sat there and he kept knocking on the door. I mean he's waiting for them to the hound dogs to come and get him, find him And she went in, Peter's out there knocking on the door, and they said, that's impossible. We're praying that he gets out of jail. There's no way he can be out there. She goes, he is. That was all Mark's house where that took place at. And so his mother was a believer, lived there in Jerusalem. A meeting place for the early church. It's possible, some have suggested, that when the Lord instituted the Lord's Supper on that Passover, it's very possible it may have been in Mark's house And so he has a great heritage there. Colossians 4:10 tells us he was a cousin of Barnabas. Barnabas, a great man of God, and so he had family there. Paul and Barnabas went on their first missionary journey, and John Mark went with them. Does anybody know what happened? The first stop on this missionary journey, what happened with John Mark? He abandoned them. He turned and went back. Now we're not given any details. We're not given any reasons or specifics other than the fact that John Mark quit. And he turned tail and headed back home. Well, we don't know nothing more about it, but we do know this a little bit later on Uh when uh uh John and uh when Paul and Barnabas are going to head back out on their second missionary journey, Barnabas wanted to bring his cousin along. He wanted to bring John Mark along. No doubt he wanted to give him a second chance And uh let's get this young man involved. Let's get let him have some experience. Yes, he quit before, but Paul would have none of it. Paul said, he is not going with us. And the Bible says the contention between Paul and Barnabas was so severe that they went their separate ways. Anybody here ever complain about Baptists not getting along with folks? Anybody ever? I have. You know what? They've been doing that since the beginning of the church. Going their separate ways Now, just, and this isn't my message, but let me just throw this out there. The Bible says there in Acts that the contention between them was so great. My Bible says in Proverbs that only by pride cometh contention. So one of those two fellows wasn't right. Maybe both. But pride got in there. Anytime you find two Christians, anytime you find two brothers in Christ or sisters in Christ, anytime you find two of God's people. content having contention one with another. There's pride involved in that in one way or another. And so John uh he left. Uh he was the subject of this contention between Paul and Barnabas, two good men However, later on, John is restored. And Paul speaks highly of him. He's back into fellowship with Paul, and God uses him a great way. And It's possible he and John and Peter were very, very close. Some have suggested that Mark, or John and Peter, uh uh John, Mark and Peter, Mark and Peter were very, very close. Some have suggested that Mark could have been like an assistant to Peter. And it suggested that humanly Mark got his information for the gospel that he wrote. He got his information from Peter Because Mark wasn't there through all those three and a half years of the Lord's ministry. Peter was. And he's very, very close. He worked very close associated with Peter. So it's possible that Peter gave him much of this information, of course, under the inspiration of God. And so you have the book of Mark, a fascinating gospel. We have four Gospels. Matthew was written to the Jews and presents Jesus Christ as King of the Jews. that he was the heir to David's throne. The book of Luke presents Jesus Christ as the Son of Man and emphasizes the humanity of the Lord Jesus Christ. The book of John, the Gospel of John, presents Jesus Christ as the Son of God and emphasizes the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then Mark comes along and he presents Jesus Christ as servant. If you read the book of Mark carefully, the Gospel of Mark, if you read it carefully, there's not a lot of sermons of the Lord's recorded in the book of Mark. Probably one of the reasons it's a shorter gospel than the others. They don't have a lot of the Lord's teaching in there. Now there is teaching and there is theology. There is doctrine in the Gospel of Mark, but not a lot of sermons, not a lot of the Lord's Teaching that he gave. It's more action. The word straightway. If you'll pay attention when you read through the Gospel of Mark, that word straightway is used often. It means immediately 41 times, I think, if I'm correct on my number there. 41 times that word straightway or immediately is used. And it has the Lord being busy It's kind of stories about him telling what the Lord did. The Lord did this. And straightway, the Lord did that, and immediately the Lord went and did this. And so the Gospel of Mark is a tremendous, tremendous gospel. I think it's a good place for a new believer to start reading. By the way, every Christian ought to read their Bible. Amen. On every day. Start out the day, end the day in the Word of God. If you're a new believer, you're just new with this, the Gospel of Mark's a great place to start, to find out. learn a lot about the Lord Jesus Christ. If there's a key verse in the Gospel of Mark, I would say chapter 10, verse 45, it says this, for even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto But to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. I've kind of taken that verse as my verse for 2022. I'm trying to I'm asking the Lord to help me To not expect to be ministered to by people, but to give myself and to minister to others. Anybody know what I'm trying to say? And not come around expecting folks to help me and be a blessing to me and do stuff for me. But I just want to give myself and give my life to be a help and a blessing to others I preached a sermon last year called Ingrown Eyeballs. And isn't that how we get sometimes it's all about me It's all, you gotta please me, you gotta serve me, do this for me. And if I don't get my way, and if it isn't what I want And then I'm not interested. And so the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. So let's look at our text here. Verse number 25, let me read it again down through verse 34. It says, A certain woman, which had an issue of blood 12 years. And had suffered many things of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was nothing better, but rather grew worse And when she had heard of Jesus, she came in the press behind and touched his garment. For she said, If I may but touch his clothes, I shall be whole. And straightway, there's that word, straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up. And she felt in her body And she was healed of that plague. And Jesus, there's that word again, immediately, Jesus immediately knowing in himself that virtue had gone out of him Healing power, that virtue, healing power had gone out of him, turned him about in the press, and said, Who touched my clothes? I like the disciple's response here. And his disciples said unto him, Thou seest the multitude thronging thee. And sayest thou who touched me? This is the way I think we would say it in our day. Are you serious? Are you kidding me? Look at the crowd! And you're saying, who touched me? And Jesus answered, and he looked round about to see her. He just ignored those guys. He looked round about to see her that had done this thing, but the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what was done in her, came and fell down before him and told him all the truth And he said unto her, Daughter, thy what? Faith hath made thee whole. Go in peace, and be whole of thy plague. It wasn't his garment It wasn't even her grasping it. It was her faith in Jesus Christ that met her need I want us to notice several things about this woman and the whole situation. First thing I'd like, oh, by the way, we don't know a whole lot about this lady. This is all we know about her. We're not given a name. Old ancient church legend says that her name was Veronica. I don't know. I don't know what basis there is for that. But I put this down. She was an unnamed woman with an unrelenting faith. And sometimes I'm glad when the Bible doesn't tell us a whole lot about someone. You know why? Because that way I can maybe relate a little bit better to her and her situation. Number one, I want us to notice her condition. Notice the condition this dear woman was in. Verse 25 again She had an issue of blood for 12 years. That's a long time. She had suffered many things, of many physicians, and spent all that she had. And was nothing better, but rather grew worse. This issue of blood in verse 25. She had an issue of blood. That tells us one she was hemorrhaging. The issue of blood means this, to flow, blood flowing freely. I was reading what physicians have commented on, just the little bit of information we're given here And they said this no doubt would have been a very painful for her. For twelve years she bled, had this uh issue of blood, hemorrhaging. They said it would weaken her body as she was in a continual loss of blood and make her vulnerable to other viruses and sicknesses. uh to be in this condition. In fact, in Matthew chapter 9, verse 20, it says she was diseased with an issue of blood. And so no doubt this continual loss of blood made her very, very vulnerable to other issues. So one thing, if we want to picture this dear woman in our mind, in our mind's eye, we want to picture her. I picture her as very pale. Uh very um uh uh her face would be uh what's the word I want drawn withdrawn uh sunken in eyes Very pale, very feeble, this dear lady. What a terrible condition she was in. So I noticed her condition, first of all, she was hemorrhaging for twelve years, very uh profusely this blood. Um uh she was uh perhaps homeless. You say where do you get she was homeless? Well she's in Israel She's among Jews, and Leviticus chapter 15 and verse 19 says that when a person has an issue of blood, they are considered unclean. And they are to be put out of the house, and they are to be put out of society. We've heard a lot of talk the last couple years about being quarantined. Well, this dear lady, because of the Levitical law and her condition, would have been quarantined for 12 years. Couldn't stay in her house Couldn't go to the market. Couldn't uh was avoided by everybody. And I would imagine she was very, very lonely. She was very, very lonely. Nobody would be around. So once she was hemorrhaging this blood, she was perhaps homeless. And she was humbled. And I get that from verse 26. It says she suffered many things of many physicians. Now look at this next phrase. And had spent all that she had. She was broke. She had no money left. Every dime. All her savings. Whatever resources she had, she had given over to the physicians who could do nothing for her. Her condition cost her all of her money. Now I don't know about you, but um it's a little humbling when you get somewhere and uh you have to say this, uh, I can't afford that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Now here's it go, this hadn't happened a long time, praise the Lord But uh I don't know, uh maybe some of y'all have experienced this, but you you go to Walmart and you got that cart and you get up there and you get that old debit card out and you stick it in there and you mash the buttons and it comes back and says Card is declined. Now, you don't have to respond, but I wonder if anybody here that ever happened to you. I tell you, that's embarrassing. It's happened to me years ago. And got all these cards just like, oh no And um you start get a little thing and start begging money around there. Anybody help me? But I would imagine this dear lady She has nothing. She's dependent on others to provide food for her. She's dependent uh on others for everything she needs. So she was hemorrhaging, she was homeless, perhaps she was She was humbled by poverty. I'll put this down. She was hopeless. This is what I wanted to get to. Verse 26. She was nothing better, but rather grew worse. The best that man had to offer did nothing for her The best that this world had, the physicians, could help her not at all. She suffered many things. It was a situation the doctors would say there's nothing we can do Society says there's nothing we can do to help you. There was no hope whatsoever. Broke and getting worse. There was nothing this world could do for this dear gal, no money. Even if she did have money, it wouldn't have made her well. Mankind, the best of mankind, these physicians, highly trained, educated, they could do nothing. She was hopeless. Can I say this? This world can do nothing to take away a man's sin. All the money in the world isn't going to give me a clean conscience. I tell you, I I I have a problem with any church, regardless of what its denomination, that even remotely suggests that if you give certain amount of money to them That therefore then your sins won't be held against you, and you can have these indulgences and you can do certain things if you give enough money. I'm telling you, that's a lie of the devil. All the money in the world can't save a person's soul. All the money in the world can't take away sin. I believe this woman's condition here is a picture of the hopelessness of sin. I thought about the prodigal son and what sin did to that prodigal son. It destroyed him, devoured all his living. And it defiled him. He's living with the pigs, eating the hus that were fed to the pigs. This dear lady, her physical condition is a picture of the of what sin will do to a heart and soul I was telling the bus workers this morning before they headed out. I remember back oh it was a couple months before I got saved. I got saved in May, the beginning of May in nineteen seventy-nine And this was probably maybe March, February, March in there, still living on ungodliness. But I was under conviction. God had been working with my heart. And uh one Saturday night, real late, is probably 11, 12 o'clock, till I got to this party, was at a guy's apartment, and um I mean it was awful. As the m as much of a mess as I was I remember walking into that apartment. It was all dark. The lights were down. The music was deafening. And just smoke and liquor and drugs everywhere. And I walked in there and I thought, I do not want to be this kind of person This is not the way I want to live. And I saw people laying on the floor just out of their heads, people getting sick. And I thought, what is happening to me? You know what was happening to me? Sin was destroying me. Just like this sickness, this hemorrhaging was destroying this lady's body. And I'll never forget it, I told the bus workers this morning, as I sat there and was engaged in all of that, they had a little baby, just a toddler, could walk in diapers, I can still see it Little baby in diapers had no shirt on. They had a bottle, a baby bottle. And they filled that baby bottle up with beer They put the little nipple on there and they were trying to get that little baby to drink beer out of a baby bottle And as wicked as I was and as unsaved as I was, I said, this is wrong. And I walked out of there, got home, and said, God, help me. God, help me. You know, I think that's the way this lady was, physically. There was no hope. I had tried. I tried everything to get out of that lifestyle. I just got sucked right back into it. This dear lady was hopeless in her condition. But here's the thing. It was her need that drove her to Christ. Are you with me? If she had not been sick, If she had not had this issue of blood, if the doctors would have been able to make her well, I don't think she would have ever sought the Lord As she did. In fact, there's another story that this is another event that this woman's experience is injected right in the middle. You have this fellow, Jarius. And he comes to the Lord Jesus Christ and he says, my daughter is uh sick at home. If you would look here at um at uh Let's see, verse number uh verse twenty-three. Uh Jarius comes and he besought the Lord greatly, saying My little daughter lieth at the point of death. I pray thee, come and lay hands on her that she may be healed, and she shall live You see the desperation in this man? I'm suggesting you, if his daughter had not been at the point of death, he would have never come seeking the Lord. And what I'm trying to say is this. Sometimes God allows us to fail. And sometimes God allows us to mess up And sometimes God allows us to have a setback and a heartache and a difficulty, and God can and will use that to drive us to Christ and to seek the Lord. How many folks have I seen come to Christ at a graveside of a loved one who died and their heart is shattered and their heart is broken? And God uses that to bring them to Christ How many times have folks come to church here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and set in these pews with uh they said they found out the doctor says they have cancer or they found out something else is wrong in their life or something is going bad And God uses that to drive us to Christ. I would imagine afterward, maybe this lady would say, Praise the Lord, I had an issue of blood, it brought me to Christ. Maybe Jarius would say, Praise the Lord, my sawder, my daughter got very, very sick. It brought me to Christ I was thinking about old Jim McRoby. Some of y'all remember Jim McRobie. His wife Nina was a charter member here. She's been with the Lord. Both of them have been with the Lord for many years. Old Jim, uh, he had no time for God or the Bible or church. Especially not preachers. Nina, I've told this before, but Nina came to me one time shortly after I was here. I was only here maybe a year at the most. And she said, Will you go visit my husband Jim? I said, sure, I'd be glad to, you know? And she goes, good. She gave me the address and everything. And she goes, oh, by the way, he hates preachers. I said, oh I can't wait. This is going to be a blessing. And I went and visited him and lo and behold, sure enough, he hated preachers. He made that very clear. And he gave me a few choice words and told me when I could come back again Which was never. I said, all right, God bless you. Time went by. I stopped by every now and then, got the same response. They found out, Jim found out he had cirrhosis of the liver. They were going to do liver transplant, but they needed to put a stent in. For some reason. And when they were putting that stent in, the doctor mis inadvertently punctured his liver, which ruins his opportunities of having a transplant. It was a death sentence Old Jim said, told Nina, would you have that preacher come by? I went by, I started visiting with Jim. Old Jim trusted Jesus Christ as Savior You know what he told me shortly before he died? He couldn't get out. He was in a in a bedridden. He bought a our very first cordless mic. So that we could have a good because I have a tendency to walk away from the pulpit and he wouldn't hear. We'd give him the C d uh the not C Ds. Uh what they had before C Ds, not eight track, cassette. What an eight-track. So he'd get the cassettes, but he couldn't hear me when I walked away from the pulpit. So he bought us our very first uh lapel mic, co-w wireless mic, and uh so he could hear it And not long before he died, he made this statement to me. I thought of this when I was studying this lady. He said this, preacher, best thing that ever happened to me was to have this liver go bad so that I could come to Christ and find salvation. And that's something. And that's the way this lady was. This condition drove her to Christ and brought her to the Lord Jesus Christ. Same thing uh with uh uh same thing uh with Jarius. Years ago I had a lady She was cheating on her husband. She was an adulterous affair. And her grown son was working. And uh something happened on the job, and he came that close to being killed. Her son. And she said to me this. She said, Preacher, do you think God was doing that to get my attention? You know what I said? I said, absolutely, absolutely. God wants to get our attention. And God will use an issue of blood. He will use an accident. He will use some failure on our part. He'll use any number of things to get us to come to Christ. As terrible as this woman's condition was. It was actually a blessing of God to get her to the Lord. You follow my thinking here. And so first thing I notice here with this dear lady is her condition. The second thing I want us to notice is the crowd around her. Again, look at verse number 27. And when she had heard of Jesus, she came in the press behind The press behind. If you come back to verse 24, Jesus went with him, and much people followed and thronged him. And then you come down to verse 31, his disciples said unto him, Thou seeest the multitude thronging thee. That word thronging and that word press there has the idea of pushing and shoving. It gives a picture of a chaos around the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think it's important for us to picture in our minds when Jesus is traveling and when Jesus was doing these miracles. the thousands and tens of thousands of people that would mob around him and they all had one thing in mind, I've got to get to him. It was all about themselves shoving and pushing and uh wrestling around. Did you ever see pictures of stores on Black Friday morning? Anyone know what I'm talking about? And they open those doors and these people come mobbing in there and climbing over each other. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And I mean just pushing and shoving And I see Jesus walking through this crowd, and there is just thousands and thousands of people all around him, and they're pushing them and shoving them around. And this dear lady comes up and she wants to get to the Lord Jesus Christ. Total chaos. In fact, the one word study I was doing here had suggested that word press there has the idea of a riot going on. The chaos all around the Lord Jesus Christ, every man out for himself. And by the way, you see that throughout the Gospels. Remember when those four fellows had a guy taken of the palsy on a bed? And Jesus was in the house. Anybody remember that? He couldn't get in. And it was so crowded. Here's the interesting thing You don't find anybody saying, hold it, hold it. There's a man here that needs to get to Jesus. Clear a way out. Nobody did any of that. It was all out for themselves. There was no concern for others. And this seems to be the way it was for the Lord Jesus Christ when he goes around and do these miracles. I mean absolute chaos, pushing and shoving and and uh and uh chaos all around them, borderline riot going on. I thought about um uh when uh uh the fellow at the pool of Bethesda And they said whenever the angel would stir the water in the pool of Bethesda, the first person in the water, they would be made well. Jesus comes by. And he says to a fellow, Would you be made well? And he says, I don't have anybody to bring me, put me in the water. And Jesus says, Thy faith is made well, rise up and walk. And Jesus heals the guy right there. Here's what I think is interesting about that. All the people that had gotten in that pool before, none of them came back to help others get in there when the water was stirred again. And even this guy that Jesus healed, I don't see anywhere where he came back to help others do that. You know what I've found? We're pretty selfish, aren't we? We're just in and of ourselves. We tend to be, look out for number one, it's me. And that's the way this whole crowd was They weren't concerned about this lady here, sick, half dead, trying to make her way through. There was little or no concern. But I'll tell you, that brings me to my third observation about this lady, her confidence She was going to get to Jesus no matter what. Look at verse 27. When she heard of Jesus, she came in the press behind and touched his garment. She was getting to Jesus. Nobody was going to keep her away. No crowd, no riot stopping her. Now I don't know how she did it, but this is the way I picture it. This is just a s I picture her, just a small little lady, just skin and bones And uh she's just squeezing in between and knocked around and backing up and pushing and making her way through there. I tell you what, you get a little lady gets determined to do something, there ain't nobody stopping her. I'll tell you that right now. And this lady is going to get to the Lord Jesus Christ. Her confidence. I notice this, she heard about Jesus. Look at verse 27. And when she had heard of Jesus. The word heard there means to hear with understanding. She heard about Jesus Christ, and it was more than just these fantastic stories of what he was doing. Something clicked in her heart and mind when she heard of Jesus. And she had, here's Jesus' term, she had ears to hear Remember Jesus saying that? Have ears to hear. In other words, he means this. When you hear about it, understand what that means. She had heard of the Lord Jesus Christ and something clicked in her heart and soul and said, he can help me. She heard of him. He can help me. I'm here to tell you, there's not a problem in the world that Jesus Christ can't solve. There's not a sinner in the world that Jesus can't save. You say, well, why aren't more people saved? Oh, I think sometimes it doesn't click in their heart and mind what Jesus Christ can really do for them. And they never seek them, and they never grasp that. Did you ever witness to somebody and they wouldn't get saved? And you're like, what in the world? Why won't you trust Christ? Anybody know what I'm talking about? It doesn't they don't see it, it doesn't click. Well it clicked for this lady. Somebody told her about Jesus Christ. I don't know who it was I don't know if they were a kid or what exact details they told her, but somebody told her, hey, Jesus Christ is healing the sick. And she heard it, she believed it, and she responded. Now I get challenged by that. We got a whole community here. Where people need to hear of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We got countries around the world where we're investing a lot of money In 2021, we invested almost $200,000 in trying to get the gospel to people who need to hear about Jesus Christ. Now, not everybody that hears is going to get saved, but I'll tell you this, some will. You say, preacher, I've been witnessing people, and uh I didn't see anybody get saved. Just keep right on witnessing, sooner or later, somebody will get saved. I'm convinced of that. And so somebody came to this dear lady and told her about the Lord Jesus Christ, and it clicked. We don't know who told her about Jesus, and we don't know what they said, but it was enough to convince her. You know what I think? I think the person that told her about Jesus was probably somebody who had gotten healed themselves. I think it was somebody that had experienced what Jesus Christ did. Maybe somebody that was blind. And they came and just told her what Jesus did for them. We have people say, preacher, I'd like, I had a fellow not too long ago, it's probably been a year or so, but he said this, man, I want to witness to people, but I don't know what to tell them. I don't know what to tell them how to be saved. You know the best thing to do? Just tell them what Jesus did for you. Just tell them how Jesus saved you. Tell them how Jesus changed your life. Tell them how you trusted Christ and He forgave you. And just tell them that. That's what the woman at the well did. Went into town, told everybody what Jesus did for her, whole place got saved. And so somebody came and told this fear woman about the Lord Jesus Christ. And we don't know who it was. We don't know specifically what they said to her. But it was enough to convince her. I know who it wasn't. I know it wasn't the Pharisees. I know it wasn't the critics of the Lord Jesus Christ. I found that people that criticize the things of God, they don't ever witness for the Lord. A person has a critical attitude. They don't share their faith. They don't witness to folks, but those that had been healed, they came and told her about the Lord Jesus Christ. So she heard about Jesus. She had faith in the power of the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 28. For she said, if I may but touch his clothes, I shall be whole. Not might be, I could be. She shall be whole. She had complete faith She pushed through the crowd. She was determined. And she said, I shall be whole. Total confidence. And by the way, she was. And straightway, verse 29, the fountain of blood was dried up. Faith in Jesus Christ. I put this down. Faith in Jesus Christ unlocks the blessings and power of God in our life. Listen, I don't know what your situation may be. You may be the best situation you've been in your life. You may be in the worst situation you've been in your life. But I know this, if we'll come and just trust the Lord Do what he instructs us to do, and we can have God's blessings on our life, and we can see God do great things. He can take the worst situation and turn it around. So her faith in his power, her faith in his power. And then, last of all, I notice her confession. Notice verse 30. And Jesus, immediately, knowing in himself that virtue had gone out of him, turned about in the press and said, Who touched my clothes? Question, did Jesus know who touched his clothes? Come on, talk to me. Yes or no? Yeah. He wasn't trying to gain information. He wasn't saying, oh, I wonder who that was. Now to be honest with you, I don't fully understand that he felt virtue go out of him. I can't fully under explain that. The healing power of God. By the way, she wasn't the only one touching Jesus. You understand that? He's being shoved and pushed, and the disciples are incredulous. What do you mean, someone touched me? She wasn't the only one that touched Jesus physically, but she was the one that touched with faith And by the way, that word touch there is very interesting. It means this: to grasp firmly and hold on to. This woman wasn't just some casual. I'm well. This was a touch of desperation. This was a touch of confidence. And the Bible says she touched him, she got a hold of his garment and clung to it and grasped it In Mark chapter 10, it tells us about parents bringing their children to the Lord Jesus Christ. And the disciples forbid them and tried to run them off. And Jesus rebuked the disciples, and he says, No, suffer the little children to come unto me. And the Bible says he touched them, same word. He touched them by bringing them up into his lap and holding them. So when the Bible says she touched the hem of his garment, it isn't just a brush or just a little uh something like that. She grasped a hold of it with full confidence that the Lord was able to save her. And so the Lord's not asking for information. Who touched me? He's giving her an opportunity to publicly confess her faith in him. Who touched me? And she came, do you see what it says there? Verse 33, she came and fell down before him and told him all the truth. And he said unto her, daughter, thy faith has made thee whole. Thy faith has made thee whole. He wanted to make it clear to her, his garment didn't save her. His garment didn't make her well. It was her faith in him individually. I had a fellow years ago. He came to me and he said, preacher, I got this little cloth in the mail. I sent, oh, it's a couple hundred dollars. I sent a couple hundred dollars, this preacher. And he sent me this cloth, and it says that if I pray with this cloth, every sickness I have is going to be made well, and every debt I have is going to be paid, and every problem I have is going to be solved How many people agree and they boy wouldn't that be great? I'd spend 200 bucks to get all that. You know what that was? You know what that's called? That's a scam. It's a religious scam. A little cloth isn't going to do anything for you and isn't going to do anything for me. But I tell you what can change our lives. and can help us through life and can save our soul. It's faith not in a garment, but in the Lord Jesus Christ. And here's my challenge this morning. Whatever situation we may have, whatever burden we have, whatever circumstance we're in, you say, preacher, it's such a mess I don't know how I can pay these bills. I don't know how I can get out of this problem. I don't know how I can and correct this marriage. I don't know how this person ever gets saved. I'm telling you there's nothing this world can meet all those needs. But we have a Savior And if we will trust him and follow what he says, he can make that which is wrong and make it right. Amen. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask. That you would help us to follow this woman's example and just come and trust you and put our faith in you, dear Lord, and not in our abilities, and not in man But our faith in you. And Lord, you promised that faith in you would make us whole, would meet our needs and help us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I've got a situation that's bigger than me. I don't know the solution, and I need God to help me And you'd say, preacher, pray with me, that God will help me. Have faith in him and trust him. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray with me, that God will help me just to trust him. Now when God instructs us to do something, do it. Follow his instructions and trust him to do what he'll do. Why don't you bring that to the Lord this morning. Say, here it is, Lord. I'm trusting you in this. You lead me. You guide me. You show me what to do. Help me. And I'm telling you, God will. God will. Maybe there's some here this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved. I'm not saved. I don't want to die and go to hell. And I want to know for sure my sins are forgiven that I go to heaven when I die. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me I need to get that settled. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know that my sins are forgiven. I have eternal life. Any at all like that? God bless you. How about it, others? Any others? God bless you And I'm praying, and uh maybe there's some here this morning would say, preacher, I got a friend of mine, they're lost. They need the Lord so bad. Maybe you could be someone in a crowd that rather than being in the way of them coming to Christ, help them come to Christ. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to be a good witness to somebody that I know is unsaved. Anybody like that, preacher, I know someone. They need Christ. And I don't want to stand in the way. I want to be a help. I don't want to be like that crowd. God bless you. Why don't you come ask the Lord to help you and lead you? Father, I ask you bless our imitation. And uh can someone run and grab Jennifer or Catherine or one of those? Oh, Virginia. Okay, thank you. Virginia's going to play the imitation And uh let's stand together, Father, bless now our invitation I ask in Jesus' name.