Say I did everything today. Ain't gonna happen. I'm sorry, it ain't gonna happen. When I was singing I th it reminded me Oh but remember the anybody see you ever see the little rascals? Do you ever see what's the guy with the hair with the cowlic? Did you ever hear him sing? That's what I remind me of. Two thirty three. I'll sing a solo. So low you can't hear it. Alright, guess I'm on Dave. Everything good? I think you guys are making fun of me actually. Thank you, Brother. Ecclesiastes two, if you would turn there. I appreciate the teens out tonight. Isn't that a blessing? They got themselves here. And uh snowy night, nothing going on, no parties or games or anything, and just out in church. I appreciate that gang. I'm proud of you. That's super And you pray for us. We are aggressively pursuing a replacement for Pastor Grant. We have a number of prospects In fact, I have Lord will I be talking to a fellow tonight after the service about maybe bringing him in. And we got another couple we're looking at. And so we really need to pray, earnestly pray We don't want to fill a slot just to fill the slot. We don't just grab some and put them in there. We don't want to wait too long either, but more importantly, most importantly, is we want God's will. We want the person that God has for us. This thing catch God by surprise. And so we're confident the Lord has a plan. But we just need to get on board with the Lord. On board with the Lord. Ecclesiastes chapter 2. I want to begin reading in verse 4. We've started this series a couple months ago. We're working our way through. Now I'll tell you right now, it gets a little repetitious. You say, oh, that sounds just like the message you preached last time And uh it's very similar, and you know why that is? Because the passage is repetitious. He's kind of keeps coming back to the same conclusion. And so uh verse number four The Bible says this, I made me great works. Now remember, this is the preacher, he calls himself. It was the king in Jerusalem, and that would be who. Solomon, we'd understand that, Solomon, and this is what Solomon is saying in this sermon, so to speak, he's preaching. He says this I made me great works. I builded me houses. I planted me vineyards. I made me gardens and orchards. I planted trees in them and all kinds of fruits. I made me pools of water to water therewith the wood that bringeth forth trees. I got me servants and maidens, and had servants born in my house. Also I had great possessions of great and small cattle of all that were in Jerusalem before me. I gathered me also silver and gold and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the province I got me men singers and women singers, and the delights of the sons of men, as musical instruments that are of all sorts. So I was great, an increase more than all that were before me in Jerusalem. Also, my wisdom remained in me. And whatsoever mine eyes desired, I kept not from them. I withheld not my heart from any joy, for my heart rejoiced in all my labor. And this was my portion of all my labor. Now look at verse 11. Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, everything he just listed. And on the labor that I had labored to do, this whole list that he accomplished, and behold, all was what? Vanity and vexation of spirit. Look at this. And there was no prophet. Now those last three words are the key to the book. What? Under the sun. I'm tired of the message, The Vanity of Selfishness. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our study in your word. And I pray that uh this would uh This that we would uh your Holy Spirit would apply this to our lives. Lord, as I study this, it just reminds me so much of America and the mentality in America right now and even in our churches. And I pray you'd help us to see beyond the sun and see you ruling over this creation and in our lives. So fill me up with your spirit. Again, I ask, Lord, and speak through me, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Solomon is bound and determined that he is going to find some sort of meaning and some sort of fulfillment. To the exclusion of God. I mean, he is, you're looking at this and you're reading this, and it's like he is relentless on going to find I uh almost saying, I don't need God And so he goes after if you remember he went after uh uh education back in chapter one, I'm gonna get all this wisdom, I'm gonna get all this knowledge, and man he just learned everything can And he had the resources to do that. He had the opportunity to do that. He could get the best education the world had to offer. And when it's all said and done, he was very, very smart, but he was very, very empty. It was vain. Now he said, I'm gonna live it up. I'm gonna have a big time. Uh whine women and song. I'm just gonna I'm just gonna live the party lifestyle. When it was all said and done, he had a big time. It was all said and done. It was empty. It was vain. Now he's starting another stage. He is just determined. That he is going to fill the gap, the God hole in his soul with anything but God. Doesn't that sound like our world? Don't believe anything, chase anything except God. Except God. Now it's interesting as we go through here, he doesn't deny God. He doesn't say, oh no, I don't believe there's no God. I don't believe there's any God. Oh, there's nothing beyond the sun. There's nothing, there's no He doesn't say that. He just says, I don't want God in my life. I don't want him to be a factor in my living. I want to be independent of God. And so he had uh Uh he's pursuing us. Now the thing about Solomon is a little something he has that you and I don't have. God had, I mean not to his extent anyway, but God had given Solomon so much God had given him wisdom. Listen up, fellas. God had given him wisdom. I mean divine wisdom like nobody ever had before or after, of course, apart from the Lord Jesus. And so God gives him wisdom. God gave him phenomenal riches. Remember when he prayed and asked the Lord? Lord said, Yes, Solomon, you asked me whatever you want, whatever you want, I'll give it. Can you imagine if God came to you and said, Whatever you want, I'll give it to you. What would you ask for? Well most people would say millions and millions of dollars. Solomon said, Man, I'm just a child. I've got this big kingdom. God give me wisdom So God gave him that wisdom, but because he didn't ask for riches, the Lord said what? I'll give you riches also And he became literally the richest man in the world. He would have been what in today's term be a multi-billionaire. He probably would have had he probably would have hired Donald Trump and fired him. He would have so much money. So he had wisdom, he had riches, he had talents. This guy was gifted His kingdom was characterized by peace and safety. He didn't wasn't distracted by wars. I mean just he was safe. It was peaceful. And God gave him popularity. He was insanely popular among his people. When they took the Gallup polls He was 100% approval rating. Everybody liked him. But here's the problem. I said all that to say this. His gifts, all these blessings that God had given him began to overshadow the God that gave them to him. You follow what I'm saying? His gifts began to replace God in his heart and life. And no longer was it the Lord who he loved. And was focused on and looking to for meaning and purpose and fulfillment in life. Now all this stuff that God gave them All of a sudden this became his God. This became what he lived for and what he loved. And what it proved to be, it proved to come up empty. Because his gifts replaced his God, he found life becoming more and more empty. It was losing its meaning, it was losing its fulfillment. So we noted in verse chapter one, he pursued education, the first part of chapter chapter two, he pursued wild living, living it up Now four four through eleven, he is m uh pursuing materialism, selfishness, uh uh s a selfish materialism is probably the term we would put it. Uh I got four thoughts here I noted from these chapter these verses I read. The first one is this, I notice his focus becomes more inward. I got looking, did anybody notice as we read down through there a couple of phrases that were used over and over and over and over? Anybody notice it? I underline them in my Bible. Look at verse 4. I, me, I, I, me Verse 5, I, me, I. Verse 6, I mean, verse 7, I me, my I, me. And it goes on down through there. And his focus on himself. Now this morning we looked at Psalms 116 and the psalmist there and he referenced himself, but it was a whole different context. It was a whole different focus. In Psalm 119, the psalmist there wasn't focusing on himself, so to speak. He was focusing on the fact that he had a personal relationship with the Lord. God was involved in his life personally. This is not Solomon saying, Oh, God's work and life. This is Solomon exalting himself. Everything is about Solomon at this point. I, me, I, I. I mean, he is self-absorbed. God's blessings on him went to his head, I guess you could say, and he began exalting himself. I put this down. When we take our eyes off the Lord, inevitably We become focused on ourselves. I think it'd be good for us, myself included, it would be good for us to stop and listen to ourselves talk sometime It would be good for us to stop sometime and listen and consider what are the subjects of my conversation. And I'm afraid, again, myself included, I'm afraid if we paid careful attention, a lot of our conversation has to do with who? Ourselves. In fact, sometimes we'll talk to people and we won't really listen to what they're saying. We're just thinking about what I'm going to say about myself on the subject they're saying. Do you ever see that? Do you ever notice that somebody comes and says, Oh, I don't feel good. Oh yeah, I'm I'm this and they'll go off on how terrible they are. And um So his focus becomes more inward here. He's got his eyes off the Lord. This is Solomon, this great man. And he's so wrapped up in himself. The second thing I notice here in verses 4 through 6 that not only does this focus become more inward, I notice that his facilities are fantastic. Look what he says here. He says, I made me great works. That phrase great works, I got I looked it up and how it's used different places and uh I came away with this idea what he's saying here. That word phrase gate great works has this idea. I made magnificent buildings. In fact the word great there has in its meaning the idea of magnificent He has his buildings that he's built and all these things he has listed here are absolutely magnificent They are some of the most amazing. Remember when the Queen of Sheba showed up? And she is, this is the queen of a kingdom, and she sees Solomon's houses and the temple and the cities he's built and the wealth of that city. And she is dumbfounded. She says, the half was not spoken of how wealthy and blessed you are. And so he builds these facilities that are absolutely fantastic, these magnificent buildings. He had the best facilities the world has to offer. Now, if you would, keep your place here. Come with me to 1 Kings, and I think we can, knowing what's happening here in Ecclesiastes, what he's saying Now we come back to 1 Kings and we see some things he's doing, and at least in my mind, I'm noticing some indicators that all is not well in the heart of Solomon. Now at the time, maybe you didn't notice it so much, but knowing how things turned out and looking back, we say, oh, there was an indicator things were wrong. 1 Kings chapter 6 If you would turn there. 1 Kings. Now leading up to this, I want to look at verse 38 of 1 Kings 6. Now leading up to it, he's going into great detail how he built the temple and just the beauty of this temple, the magnificent temple. Of this temple. Verse 38 of 1 Kings 6. Are you there? Everybody got it? Look what it says. And in the eleventh year, the month of Bull, which is the eighth month. Was the house finished? Now this is the Lord's house, this is the temple, throughout all the parts thereof, and according to all the fashion of it. Now notice carefully. So was he seven years in building it. How many years? Seven years. I circled that. Seven years in building it. Now come up to chapter seven, verse one But Solomon was building his own house. How many years? Thirteen years. And he finished all his house. To me, there's an indicator, something's not right. He's spending more time and more effort and more money on his own house than he is on the God's house. Now, you don't notice anything and say, well, it's not that big a deal. But then you come back to Ecclesiastes and you find out what's going on in his head And what's going on in his heart? And you say, ah, I see here, uh, his focus is shifting off of the Lord And on to the gifts that God has given to him. How many people agree with me? That's not a good thing. When the gifts start becoming God's to us, And we start serving the creature, the created things, more than the creator, we're having problems. We're having problems. And so his heart and soul is getting emptier and and uh uh his life is losing its purpose. He's getting more disillusioned. He's getting more frustrated. You pick that up in Ecclesiastes, and he's just frustrated. Everything is vain. It's a vexation of my spirit. My spiritual needs are not being met How many people here when you get hungry you get grouchy? Anybody here? Yeah, that's why I'm grouchy most of the time. I'm always hungry. But uh I want to suggest to you when we get spiritually hungry, we're not being fed spiritually. It vexes our spirit. We get irritated, spiritually irritated. Anybody notice this world's frustrated? Everybody's mad about something? It doesn't matter. Everybody's frustrated. Everybody's looking for something to be offended by. You know what I think that is? I think that's vexation of spirit. There's a restlessness, there's a hunger, there's a need in the soul. It's not being met, and so they're vexed. And that's what's happening to Solomon because God has blessed him so much And he starts thinking about himself and getting absorbed with all the stuff God has given, the good things. And then he's pushing God out. So his uh facilities are fantastic and you can read down through there. I I'm not gonna take time to look at all this, but he's planting vineyards and gardens and orchard. He's got trees of all kinds of fruits. He's got pools of water to water the wood. I would have went swimming in them too, but to water the wood, he's got servants and maidens, and I mean just going on here So his facilities are fantastic. His focus is on himself. The third thing I notice in verse 7 through 10 is his fortune is extreme. Look here again, verse 7. I got me servants and maidens had servants born in my house. I mean, this isn't just a handful of people. He has got a massive staff here that they are having children on his foot properties. He's providing housing for them and they're uh generations here. I had I had great possessions Of great and small cattle above all that were in Jerusalem before me, he said, Nobody had more cattle than I did. Nobody had better cattle than I did. I had the most and the best that there is I gathered me also silver and gold and the peculiar treasure of kings. In other words, things that only kings could possibly afford. And the provinces. I got me men singers and women singers and delights of the sons of men and musical instruments and all that sort. You know, they didn't have MP3 players then They didn't have CDs, they didn't have cassettes. This was before eight tracks even. And so he just got live staff coming in. And he's got folks in his house there and they're singing, they're providing, you know, instead of saying, Google play the music, he's saying, Hey you guys, play the music. You know, and and they're there. I mean this guy's got it. This is cutting edge stuff. Verse 9. I was so so I was great and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem How many folks are getting a picture here? This guy is living the life. This is incredible. Now look what he says Also, my wisdom remained in me. Now that phrase caught my attention. What does he mean? I've got all this stuff, these pools and these cattle and these houses and money that's coming out my ears And then he says, My wisdom remained in me. The word wisdom is interesting. It's not referring to the heavenly, divine wisdom that God gives us, the ability to discern morally right and wrong and the ability to discern God's will. That's not this. This is what James refers to as wisdom that is from below, under the sun. This wisdom here has the idea of earthly wisdom, being shrewd, very skilled. We might call it this having street smarts. How many people understand what that is? Street smarts He knows how to wheel and deal. In other words, what he's saying here is he's got all these riches, he's got all these facilities, but he is not reckless with it. He is using it to his advantage. He's not foolish in the worldly sense. He's not foolish with his money Can you think of anybody in the Bible that came into good money and was foolish and reckless with it? Think of anybody in the Bible that did that. How about the prodigal son? He was not his w the prodigal son's wisdom did not remain in him. He got that money and he just blew it And for he knew it he was in the hog pen. Solomon's saying, it's not what I'm doing. I know how to handle this. I know how to work this to my advantage. And so he's taking all that the world has to offer. He has all the riches the world has to offer. And he is streetwise, he's smart with it. And he's using it to his material advantage, his selfish advantage. He's not just blowing it. And then he comes down here. Notice in verse 10, he says, I kept not from thee. He didn't do much window shopping. He didn't just look at it. He said, if I saw it, I bought it. How many people how many people would like to go to Cabela's and do that? You saw it? Yeah, I I saw that. Yeah, I want that. Sh yeah, I'll buy that. Sure, I'll take that. I will tell not my heart from any joy. It was something I thought I would enjoy doing, boom, I'm doing it. Don't have to save up, don't have to wait, don't have to say, oh, I could never afford taxes. I'm taking it. He is living what I would say most people, are you listening, young people? He is living what I would say most people dream of living. I could just buy whatever I want. I could just go. I want to go marlin fishing in the Caribbean. Make me reservations. I'll be down there later in the week. I mean, whatever you think, he wants to do it. If he wants to do it, he's good to go. But look what he says here. He makes an interesting statement. And the last part of verse 10 He says, for my heart rejoiced in all my labor. Well, that's interesting because a little bit later he says there's no profit in all my labor. A little bit later he says all vexation of the spirit in vain. But here he says, my heart rejoices. I think what he's saying here is, the word rejoice means this, to be merry. I think what he's saying is, hey, it was fun. Buying whatever I wanted to buy, doing whatever I wanted to do, that was a lot of fun. And how many people agree with me? That probably is fun. Hey, I want a new bass boat? Yeah, just go. Here you go. Buy it. And he's saying, listen, my heart rejoiced in me. I was having a big time. It felt good. And no doubt? Uh how many folks if you left here, we gave everybody left here we gave you 17 million dollars. How many people would have a big time this week? Yeah, it'd be good. But, like everything else, they bring pleasure and they're fun. However, I notice in verse number 11 the futility of all of this. And when it was all said and done, and when he had everything he wanted, and he had built all the houses he could possibly dream of, and everything was exactly everything he could possibly imagine he wanted, he had it And in verse 11 he says, you know, it's all futile. Look again at 11. Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and all the labor I had labored to do, this whole list he just gave us. And behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and there was no prophet under the sun. You boiled down materialism and selfishness is empty. My experience has been is that when a person becomes selfish, they become very, very unhappy. When I catch myself being selfish, I find that I'm more frustrated, I'm unhappy, I'm aggravated, I'm short. I've seen it in others. Gets selfish and it becomes frustrating and it vexes our spirit. Materialism. Living for self Pleasure in the world, a lot of fun and games. There's no doubt it's a big time. You have a lot of fun for a while. And by the way, building these big houses and uh getting this education and and the majority of the stuff he lists here In and of itself, nothing is wrong with that. It's all fine in and of itself. But when those things replace God In our lives. When our gifts replace God in our hearts, then things start to fall apart. One thing I think I have a little uh A little authority maybe on this. It's not really the word I want. But all these years in the ministry, part of my job as a pastor. Is helping deal, helping people deal with them pushing God out of their life. And then the consequences of that and trying to help them get the Lord back in their life. That's part of my job as pastor. And so what Solomon's saying here is absolutely true. We believe it, not just because the Bible says it, but I'm convinced of it because what I've seen. When we allow the things of the don't we see that on a national scale in our country? God has blessed us. We are so rich, it's unbelievable. We are so prospered. We have the best of everything in America. And what are we doing? We're rioting in the streets. We're mad, we're killing each other, fighting. We've pushed God out and all these gifts that God has given us, all these blessings of God have replaced God in our hearts And this vexation of spirit. This is an old illustration. I've probably overused it over the years, but it fits here so perfectly, and maybe help us see What Solomon's saying, what God is saying to us. But I've told the story many times, and this is an old, like I said, an old illustration. But a little girl loved her daddy so much. You probably I'm sure you've heard me say this And every day he'd come home from work and they'd hug on each other and love on each other and it's just the sweetest thing. And her daddy wanted to do something for her that expressed his love to her. But he wanted to do it in a way that she would still love him and not love what he gave her. If he gave her some extravagant thing, then he was afraid that would take over and she would lose her love for him And so he came and he gave her a little pl he stopped at a dollar store and got a little plastic necklace, just little cheapo. You know those little plastic beads you can see through them different colors and they're different shapes And he got one of those and she came he came home, she came run up and hugged her and he said, I got something for you, sweetheart. He opened it up and she goes, Oh daddy, it's the most beautiful necklace world. She says the little girl Oh Daddy, I love you so much. You're so good to me. And she hugged on and loved him and took that thing. And then she would wear that every day and go around and show it to everybody. But he noticed something And when he came home, he wasn't quite the object of her attention so much anymore. That little necklace was becoming more and more important to her. And it started replacing Daddy in her life. And that's what he had suspected would happen. So one time he came home and she was especially enamored with that necklace. She really didn't have time for daddy. She was looking in the mirror at that necklace and getting dresses to match it and oh hey daddy and he had kind of been pushed aside. He says, sweetheart, I'd like for you to do something for me. She goes, what's that? She goes, I'd like for you to give me that necklace back. And she was stunned. Daddy, why would you why would I give that necklace back? You gave it to me. It was a gift from you to me. It's mine. He goes, I know it's yours. It's all yours. You can do whatever you want. But I would like to have it back. She goes, Well, why daddy, what are you going to do? You can't wear it. Why would you wanna he goes, Well, actually what I want to do is I wanna throw it in the fire. I just want to get rid of that thing. And she became indignant. She says, Daddy, I am not giving this necklace back to me. You gave it to me. It's mine. I'm not giving it back. And she stormed out. Next day he comes home from work, she's nowhere to be seen. She don't want to see daddy. She wants nothing to do with daddy. She wants that necklace. And the days go by and she becomes more miserable and more miserable and more miserable. So one night, week or two later, it's time for bed. They're ready to get to have devotions, and finally she comes out and there's tears streaming down her cheeks, and she said, Daddy, I miss you. I miss our hugs. I miss our love. If you want this necklace back and take it and throw it away, you can because Daddy, I I want your attention. I want to love you like I should He said, thank you, sweetheart. And he did exactly what he said. He took it and had a little fireplace there. He threw it in. And as that thing melted and burned up, she's sobbing. She came up, curled up next to her dad and he says, sweetheart, I've been waiting for this. I have something else I'd like to give you. She goes, what's that? He pulled out a beautiful pearl necklace, real pearl necklace, worth hundreds and hundreds of dollars. And he said, sweetheart, I wanted to give this to you from the beginning. But I was afraid you would love this more than you love me, and I want you to love me first of all, not what I give you. And she crawled up on his neck and crying and said, Daddy, I love you so much. I love you so much. That story reminds me a little bit of Solomon God had given them so much, but it was just material, physical stuff that would melt, eventually gonna, all that stuff that Solomon had is gone, dust, gone. And God said, I want you to love me. And Solomon missed that. And to the end of his life, he clung to that plastic, meaningless, materialistic stuff. And what God's done for you and I, He's done so much for us. I wish you could go on some of these mission trips just materially see what God has done for us, how blessed we are. And what we need to do is say, Lord, everything I have is yours, God. I want to love you. And I want you to be the purpose of my life. And I want you to be the focus of my life. And not the stuff we give us. And I think when we do that, we'll find God gives us great peace. Paul said this, I found therein, whatever state I am, therein to be content. Whether I'm rich or poor, I'm content because his purpose and his love and his focus was on the Lord. And Solomon missed that. Isn't that tragic? Let's go let's let's this week, this is Thanksgiving week, let's determine, and we're gonna have limitation here, and maybe we just want to get on our knees and say, Lord, I'm gonna determine this week to live a life of gratitude for all you've done for me. And I'm not going to allow the material things you've given me to become the gods in my life But I want to live for you, Lord. And I want this world to see one Christian that loves God and is grateful for his goodness to us. And let that be manifest in our life. Amen. From the youngest to oldest. Let's just at least one week let's make that true in our lives. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask Lord that you would help us to not get sucked into this way of thinking that Solomon did And let the things of this world just so consume our love that we lose our love for you. And our commitment to you. We're very grateful for the good things you give us, Lord. But we do not want them to replace you. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, how many would say tonight that this passage of Scripture really challenged me? To keep my focus and my love and my commitment to Christ and not to the things that He's given me. And like me, you say, preacher, I want to live at least this one week a life of real gratitude. To the Lord for his ministry. Any like that? By the uplifted hand, sure. No doubt that would be all of us. And maybe before we go to the Lord's Supper, just to place at an old-fashioned altar and just say thank you, Lord. I want to push these things out of my life And let you be the Lord of my life and not stuff. Father, bless our invitation now as we prepare for Lord's Supper in Jesus' name. Amen.