Luke chapter 7. I just want to look at verse number 9. We just read this whole event here, the first ten verses a moment ago. So I want to redirect our attention here to verse number 9. The Bible says when Jesus heard these things, that uh the things that the centurion, now remember, this is a Gentile, this is a Roman, uh a leader in the Roman army, a high-ranking uh fellow in the Roman army. And he says, when Jesus heard these things that this fellow said, he marveled at him. Hmm. And turned about and said to the people that followed him. So he hears that he hears this Roman centurion, make these statements that we're going to look at. And Jesus marvels at what this fellow says. And he turns to the people around him and he makes this statement. I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. He's saying, I am not seeing anybody with this level of faith, not even among God's people Have I seen someone with this level of faith? And that led me to give this title to the message. One thing that impresses God. One thing that you and I can do. That would impress God. And so let's pray, and hopefully we can learn some things from this. Father, I we bow now before before you as we look into these this passage of scripture and we ask, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit would be present here this morning in this service. You said of two or three gathered together that you're in the mix. We're a heap more than two or three now. And so Lord we ask May your presence be here in a very real way. Grateful for the song that was sung, that your grace is greater than our sin. And we ask now for your grace in this hour to stir our hearts, to trust you, to have faith in you, and to allow you to lead and direct us and help us and instruct us. I yield myself to you, Lord, my will. I present my body anew, and God, again, this hour, with all my heart, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me, that our hearts and minds would be open to what you have for us. And I pray you'd do for us today and our hearts and souls what no one else can do, and meet needs that only you can meet And again, we ask for your help in Jesus' name. Amen. In John chapter 1 and verse 11, we'll not turn there, but Jesus made this statement. The Bible makes this statement. It says that Jesus came unto his own And his own received him not. Jesus was sent first and foremost by God the Father to the Jews, to be their Messiah. He presented himself as the Messiah, but the Jews refused to recognize Jesus Christ One thing particularly they failed they they refused to recognize was the deity of Jesus Christ. Now, what do we mean when we say the deity of Jesus Christ? Simply means this Jesus is God. Jesus is God the Son, became man, took on flesh. We celebrate at Christmas time the what we call the incarnation, the taking on of flesh of Jesus Christ. The Jews Refused to recognize that this man Jesus that was walking among them, doing his miracles, refused to recognize that he was who and what he claimed to be, the Son of God, God in the flesh. And um they refused to receive him as their Messiah. They were looking for the Messiah. They were anticipating this coming Savior that God had promised all through the Old Testament. They were looking for him, they were anticipating him, but they refused to recognize Jesus as God and they refused to receive him as the Savior. The Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, for the most part, they record the last three and a half years. of Jesus' ministry. Of course we have in Matthew and Luke the record of his birth and we'll we'll look at that next week. The children will address that in their Christmas program. We'll read the Christmas story on New Year's Eve. And so we look at all that. But primarily the Gospels are dealing with Jesus' earthly ministry, about the time he turned 30 years old. And he begins ministering and begins performing these miracles, begins preaching, begins presenting himself as the Savior, as the Messiah, and uh and so that's what the um the gospels record. Now As Jesus' earthly ministry progressed, he started out fairly unknown, but as he's doing miracles and as he's preaching, the crowds begin to grow. And you don't get far into his ministry, and there are literally thousands, tens of thousands of people following Jesus, listening to his messages, gathering around when he would assemble, seeing the miracles. And uh so as his ministry grows, he begins to claim for himself deity More and more and more, more openly he is declaring, I and the Father are one. You've seen me, you've seen the Father. And he makes these claims that he is God, the Son of God. And He begins doing things that are evidence of the fact that he really is God He is doing miracles that only God could do. He is doing things and healing people in ways that only God could do that. And so he's claiming deity. He is doing things and performing miracles, walking on water, making blind to see, raising the dead. Things that only God could possibly do. And the more he presents his ministry, and the more he claims The more he presents as deity, I should say, and the more he claims that deity for himself, the more intense the Jews' rejection of Jesus Christ becomes. They absolut it doesn't matter what he would do, they were not going to accept the fact that he was the Son of God. Doesn't matter how fantastic the miracle would be, they were not going to accept him as their Messiah. And the more evidence he gave, the more he claimed it. He's referencing Old Testament passages to verify the fact that he is who he claims to be. And the more he presented that, the more evidence he gives, the more he claims it, the more violent the rejection of him became Which of course it ultimately culminated in their crucifixion of Jesus Christ. It's an amazing thing. A week before Jesus is crucified, the crowds are crying out, Hosanna in the highest, the son of David Eight days later, they're crying, crucify him, crucify him, crucify him. They completely rejected Jesus Christ. Now that brings us to Luke chapter 7. There's something unique here. We find Jesus is performing a miracle, not for a Pharisee, not for one of the Jewish nation, but for a Gentile. And not only is he responding to the request of a Gentile, but it is a Roman centurion, a leader, a high-ranking official In the Roman military. Now, you think racism is bad today. Brother, it ain't nothing to what it was back then They hated each other. The Jews hated the Gentiles. They hated the Romans in particular. They were an occupying power in their land. They were to the Jews' mentality was we are to govern our country. This is God has given us this nation. God has given us this land, and we don't want any foreign Gentiles ruling over the land that God has given to us. And by the way, God did give them that land, and by the way, it's still their land. And so this the intensity of the hatred in the Jewish part towards the Gentiles and the Romans in particular. And here is an official in the Roman army. The occupying nation in their land. And so there was bitterness there. And on the other hand, the Romans hated the Jews. They were a problem people. They were constantly uh be read about the the Maccabees just uh uh before Jesus showed up and the rebellion they raised up trying to run the Romans out of the country and reclaim their independence and the the Jewish nation was a problem nation for the Roman Empire. And so there was bitterness there on their part towards them and and uh hatred there on their part towards them. In fact Just an aside, the whole Jews, one of the things they were looking for in their Messiah wasn't a savior from their sins. They were looking for a savior from the Romans. They were looking for a king to set up and lead them into their independence and deliver them from Roman rule over them. And so that was the mentality. Now, with all that in mind Jesus is presenting himself to the Jewish people, the Jewish nations, their Messiah. They're rejecting him, they're fighting back. He's giving more and more evidence that he actually is the Son of God. He is the Messiah that was promised all through the Old Testament scriptures. Yet they're intensifying their hatred, their rejection of Jesus Christ. They have very intense hatred for the Romans, Gentiles in particular, Gentiles in general, Romans in particular And now here is a Roman centurion making a request of Jesus, come heal his servant. And Jesus responds. And this conversation takes place that we read here, and uh it makes he makes an amazing statement. He says about this Roman centurion, who the Jews despise, he makes this statement. I have not seen so great a faith, not even among the people of God. And he's saying that to the people following him who are Jews. I don't know. The Bible doesn't say this, but in my mind, I picture shockwaves Going through that crowd. Now the Bible doesn't tell us this took place, this is my imagination, but I can see, I can hear a collective gasp How in the world could he say that about a Roman So he makes this statement here. Now it appears, back up here a little bit, as Jesus' ministry is progressing. And again, we have about three and a half years recorded in the Gospels As time is going by, more and more people are being exposed to Jesus Christ, more and more people are being affected by him. They're gathering around. The Jews' hatred is intensifying Jesus is performing miracles that only God could perform. Remember when Nicodemus in John chapter 3 came to Jesus, he says, We know thou are a man sent from God, for no man can do these things that thou doest except God be with him. There's no denying that Jesus Christ was God. And they could see that. They could not deny it, but they refused to accept it. And the- and the rejection of him intensifies. And it seems to me, now this is my thinking But it seems to me the more that Jesus Christ revealed his deity, the more the fact that he was God in the flesh was becoming evident. The more he was reaching outside of the Jewish nation and seeing Gentiles saved. At the beginning it's not so. Remember when he sent his disciples out initially, he says, I send you only to the nation of Israel, don't go to anyone else Remember when the G the Gentile the the Gentile woman came to him, said Lord, can you heal my son? He says, I'm not sent but to the p children of Israel. She goes, Yeah, but do yeah, Lord, but the dogs uh eat the crumbs under the table. Remember those events Jesus is limiting his ministry initially to the nation of Israel. But as his deity is becoming more and more obvious, as his deity is becoming more and more evident It seems like he is reaching outside the nation of Israel, reaching to the Greeks and the Gentiles and the Romans. And he's expanding his outreach. It's almost like, it's almost like this is in my mind, it's almost like the love of God cannot be constrained to just one group of people. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. I'm glad God loves Gentiles. You may not be aware of us, you may not have given this much thought, but you and I, we is Gentiles. And so well I'm glad God loves us. I like that don't don't you love that little so I tell you, some of these little children's songs we teach little kids in Sunday school and children's church are so profound. Jesus loves the little children, all the children of the world, red and yellow, black and white, they are precious in his sight. It's like the love of God is not going to be constrained to one nationality. It's not going to be constrained to one color. For God loves the whole world. And so his ministry, his influence, his offer of himself as Savior is breaking the bounds of the Jewish nation, and it's spilling over into the Gentile world. He makes this statement. Look at it again there in verse 9. I say unto you, the last part, verse 9, I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. Did you hear what he said? How could he say that? I broke this down a little bit. The word great is interesting. This is my thinking. All right, Jesus said his so great faith. What does he mean by great? What does that even mean? You know what I found out the word great means? It means great Amazing. Isn't that amazing? It has this idea to be great in magnitude. In other words, if you would use that term great in referencing time. It would be a long, long time. Talk about great periods of time. We understand it'd be a long time. It has uh it has the idea of being great in amount, numerically. Uh if you're referring to something in quantity. It would be a very, very large amount. There's several places in the Bible where that word is used in reference to a man's riches. He had great riches. What does that mean? He means he had a A lot of dough. The guy had a lot of money. Talks about great periods of time. In other words, we got a lot of time. And so when he uses that term to refer to this fellow's faith, he's saying he has great faith. He has a lot of faith. Now, that kind of throws me a little bit because generally in the Bible, we don't refer to the amount of a person's faith. Remember when Jesus was talking to disciples, he was teaching them. He said, if you have faith as the size of a mustard seed, you can say to this mountain, be thou removed, it'll be removed. A mustard seed, I think most of us are familiar, is one of the smallest seeds there is. It's just a speck, head of a pin almost. And yet it grows into a great tree. And so generally we don't think of faith, as far as the Bible is concerned, as being a large amount. Generally, we refer more to faith being Uh we refer more to the object of the faith rather than the amount of the faith. In other words, if I just have a little bit of faith, But if I put it in Jesus Christ, I can see my soul saved. Follow what I'm saying? Uh if you're here this morning, perhaps or you're listening in by radio or something, and you say, you know, I don't know for sure when I die, my sins are forgiven, I'm going to heaven. I don't know for sure that I have eternal life. I'm not su I'm not sure that uh God has forgiven my sins. I'm concerned about that, but I don't have a whole lot of faith. If you will simply take the Bible's very, very clear, if you'll simply take the faith you have And put it in the Lord Jesus Christ, regardless of how minuscule that faith may be, how small it may be, if you'll put it in Jesus and Him alone, that's enough to save your soul. Just simply accepting Jesus Christ as Savior. And so when he says, I've not found so great a faith, as As I'm studying this, it kind of throws me a little bit because generally it's not the amount of a person's faith that's significant or the issue, it's the object of their faith. A lot of times the Bible will reference in the matter of faith not so much the amount, but the strength of a person's faith. I believe it's Hebrews says that we should exercise ourselves unto godliness. In other words, we should, the faith we have, we should exercise it. We should try it and expand it and stretch it, and that faith will get stronger. We think of strong faith and weak faith. We were talking one of our men Derek uh put him on the spot here but uh we're going on a mission trip in January and Derek's getting in on that. And um he made a statement and uh and uh do you mind if I use it? He doesn't know what I'm talking about, but um But uh he made this statement. He says, you know, I'm pretty comfortable where I'm at in my Christian life. I'm pretty comfortable where I'm at in my service and my spiritual growth. And I approached him about maybe coming on this trip, and then he says, you know, I really need to get out of my comfort zone And I don't know if I'm saying it exactly the way he did, but something to this effect. I need to stretch my faith. I need to get out where I need to exercise some more faith in what I'm doing. You know what he's saying? He wants his faith to get stronger to grow and get stronger. And so we need to exercise our faith. Sometimes some of y'all this coming year, let me just say this, some of y'all this coming year, you ought to get involved in one of the soul-winning ministries of our church and stretch your faith a little bit. You get involved. You ought to go on a mission trip. You ought to get involved in something. You're comfortable. You're doing what you know you can do and and you're comfortable with that. Your level of faith. Stretch it a little. Exercise a little. No pain, no gain is true in spiritual life. So sometimes you got to step out and you know test that a little bit and and uh so we think of faith Not so much in the amount of the faith we have, but what is my faith in? What am I trusting in? And am I developing that faith? Am I making it stronger? But here Jesus refers to this Gentile fellow, and he references the amount of faith he has. This guy has a lot of faith that he is putting in me. And then the other thing I want to look here, verse number nine, when Jesus heard these sayings, first part, it says, he marveled at him. Jesus marvels at the amount of faith that this man has, who the Jews generally would hate this guy, and generally he would hate the Jews. And Jesus, what do you think of when somebody marvel is something marvels you? It's like, right? Does this not kind of express what we think of marveling? You cleaned your room, son? How many people would marvel if your kid cleaned their room? Yeah. You're you're ready already, sweetheart? Can I get a witness? Some of you guys are afraid to say anything, me sitting right beside you, cowards. This guy makes these statements we'll look at here and Jesus marvels at it. Now I'm not suggesting Jesus went like this. Uh it probably didn't happen. But Jesus marveled at it. What is I got looking up the word marvel. And it has this idea. It has to be astonished. It almost has this element to it, but I don't think it applies here, but it almost has this element to it to be surprised. It's not what I expected. It's not what I was anticipating. Now, I don't think that applies here because what we know about Jesus Christ, he's never surprised by anything. If you're omnipotent, nothing surprises you. If you're omniscient, nothing ever surprises you. Jesus is omniscient. He knows everything. He knows the end from the beginning. He knows everything. So he knew this was coming. So he's not surprised. Listen, maybe I'm talking to someone, you failed this week in a terrible way in your Christian life. I don't know I'm here to tell you. You might say, oh God is so uh I'm sure God's surprised that I would do this. No, no, no. God knew about that when he saved you Follow what I'm saying? God knew about that. So we're not surprising God. We're not catching him off guard. We're not shocking him. But the Bible says he marveled at this man to be put in wonder. And this is where I think it comes to. One of the definitions for that word marvel was this. to cause someone to admire something. I just marvel at that. Dr. Williams does his drawings And sometimes you look at them and it's just, man, I admire the gift that God has given us. You follow what I'm saying And so I think what's taking place here is this man exercises a tremendous amount of faith and puts it in Jesus Christ. And Jesus And I don't mean to be irreverent here, but Jesus is impressed by this man's faith. He admires that, that this man would trust Jesus Christ to this extent with this great amount of faith. Now It's not surprising to find people who would marvel at Jesus. Right? You read through the Bible, and you find over and over and over again people marveling at Jesus Christ. He would do a miracle, and the people would just. How did he do that? Some guy can't walk, he's palsied and he's and Jesus says, Rise up, take thy bed and walk. And he gets up and he walks, and the people step back. And the Bible says they marveled at what just took place. There's times in the gospels where Jesus would preach a message and he makes some tremendous statements. And the Bible says they marveled at the doctrine that he spoke. Wow. What a truth. That's amazing. They marveled. There's some places in the Gospels where it says they marveled at his authority. He spake with authority. People say, Marvel, where did he get this authority? Oh, he's God. He's the ultimate authority. Supreme authority. And they marveled at that. In fact, when he's standing before I believe it was Herod, And they're grilling him and they're throwing these questions. He's there, he's all beat up, he's fixing to be crucified. This is a monkey court. This is unjust. He's set up, he's lied about, he's framed, and they're just grilling him with questions, and the Bible says he answered them not a word. And the Bible says they marveled that he would not answer the word, his self-discipline, his composure. His power to perform miracles, the dynamic truth that he would declare and preach, the people were amazed by it, by the tens of thousands. They marveled at Jesus Christ, so we're not surprised that man would marvel and be astonished At Jesus Christ and who he is and what he can do. I'm telling you, our Savior is an amazing Savior. And I know it's a term used, I think, sometimes too tritely, but the fact of the matter is our God is an awesome God. And we stand in awe of who God is and his power and his wisdom and his grace and mercy. But here, Jesus is marveling at a man. It's only two times. Only two times in the Bible does it say that Jesus marveled at what a person did. Now, one is our text here. Now keep your place. I want to show you the other one. It's in Mark chapter 6. So if you would turn back there. Mark chapter 6. Now keep your place in Luke, because we're going to actually finish up here, but in an hour or so. But in Mark chapter six I want to begin reading in verse 1 just to get the whole context. Mark 6, look at verse 1. He went out from thence and came unto his own country. That's important to take note. He's back home. And his disciples followed him. By the way, that's what disciples do. They follow Jesus, right? And when the Sabbath day was come, he began to teach in the synagogue, and many hearing him were astonished. There's a form of that word marvel Saying, From whence hath this man these things? And what wisdom is this which is given unto him? That even such mighty works are wrought in his hands Now look what they say. Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James and Joseph, and of Judah and Simon? Are not his sisters here with us? By the way, Mary had more kids than just Jesus. And all these brothers and sisters. And they were offended at him. Why would they be offended at Jesus Christ? Because he's back home. And they knew him. Well, we knew. I knew. I knew you when you was two feet to a grasshopper, Jesus. You know, I used to babysit you. And who is he coming in here talking like this? We knew him, and they're offended at him. Now look at this. And Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honor, but in his own country. And among his own kin and in his own house. You've seen it. Some kid grows up in the house, mom and dad. They changed his diapers, they gave him spankins, they worked with him and he grew up. He goes out, becomes president of a great company and people all around the world admire him and respect him and all and he comes home and he's still sunny boy at home. Don't eat like that. Good night. You look like a slob. What are you doing? Close that door, son. I'm the president of the company. I don't care who you are. You're my boy. Right? That's the mentality they have here. Now look at this. And he could do that, and he could there do no mighty work, save that he laid his hand upon a few hands upon a few sick folk and healed them. Now look at this. And he marveled because of their what? Unbelief. In Luke chapter 7, he's marveling at this guy because of the great faith he has. In Mark chapter 6, he's marveling at this people because the little faith they have. The absence of faith. So that brings me to this conclusion. The thing that impresses God Is not our intellect. God is never impressed by how smart somebody is. Nowhere in the Bible do you find God saying, I'm amazed at how smart this guy is. Now, compared to God, our smarts are dumb. Right? The wisdom of man is foolishness with God So you're never going to impress God with how smart you are. Now, does that mean you should be dumb? No, we ought to be as smart as we can. But just understand, it doesn't impress God. Nowhere does the Bible ever say that God is impressed with our abilities. God is not impressed with the gifts we have, or how good we can do this, that, or the other, or how great I am at this. And I I'm not just picking this out as illustration, but I thank God for our music here. I think we have some tremendous music here. But God is never impressed with how good somebody can sing. Now, should we sing our best? Yes, absolutely. Should we give it all our heart and do and have the best we can? Yes, absolutely. But understand That's not what impresses God. If God wants to hear some awesome singing, he's called the angels around, you know, the heavenly choir, and he can get some great singing. So there's nothing you and I in and of ourselves can do or have or present that impresses. Nowhere in the Bible is God ever impressed with how much money somebody has accured. It's not like Jesus marveled at how rich he was. It doesn't say that anywhere. But the one thing that impresses God It's not how smart I am, not how good I am at doing something, how rich I am, how big my house is, or how expensive my car is. That's not what God is impressed by. God is impressed by how much I trust Him. By the faith I put in him. He marvels on the one hand at the great faith of the centurion. On the other hand, he's marveling at the absence of faith, their unbelief. Can I suggest? I think sometimes God marvels at how much some people really trust Him. I don't know. It's between you and God. I'm not in a position to make this judgment, but there may be some folks here this morning that God is just stands in amazement at how much you trust Him. How much faith you have put in Jesus Christ to meet your needs and lead you and direct you and have your life. On the other hand, maybe there's someone here this morning that God marvels at how little you trust Him. It's done so much for you. Given you so many opportunities, provided so many ways for you, been so gracious and so merciful. And I wonder if some of us, God doesn't stand back. And just marvel at how little we are going to trust him. Really? Let me ask you a question. Has God ever done anything? That would justify you and I not trusting him. No. No. Has God ever failed us in any capacity that we would say, you know, I don't know if I can really trust them in that area. I think I need to take it into my own hands. There's no justification for that thinking. And when we don't trust God, when we don't put our faith in Him, when we are exercised according to Mark chapter 6, unbelief. It's like God marvels. What in the world? Why would you not? What justification you have for not trusting me holy? And so, sometimes I think God marvels at how little we trust him, and I think sometimes God marvels at how great some people trust him. The greatest thing I can possibly do in my Christian life is learn to trust God. Trust Him in every aspect of life. Learn to have faith in God, that He is who He claims to be. He does what He promises to do. He loves us. And I can trust him. And the more I learn that in my Christian life, the stronger I will grow as a Christian, the happier I will be in my heart and soul. The more purpose and fulfillment I'll find in my life. As I learn to trust God. It's what impresses him. It's what when we don't trust him, he marvels why in the world would you not trust me? Now I used up all my time to lay the foundation. But there's ingredients. We see some ingredients here. Of what this great faith consists of. He marveled. I have not seen so great a faith. No, not even all of Israel. He's setting him up as an illustration. He's saying votes I'm not seeing this much faith, even among you, my people. Now, I'll just fly down through here. And by the way, this man, the more I studied this man, the more impressed I become with him. This man was a great man. In a lot of ways, I challenge you to go back and read these ten verses very carefully, pay attention, and picture this man. He is he's an amazing man Let me give you, I'm just going to fly through these. I want to give you four ingredients of what this great faith is. Number one, it's compassionate faith. Look at verse 2. And there was a certain centurion there was a certain centurion servant who was dear unto him, was sick and ready to die. So here the centurion, and we're not given his name, so we all know who he is, but he has this servant The servant is really sick. In fact, the servant is ready to die. The idea is this: on the very verge of death. Now, irreverently, we might put it this way: he's circling the dream. Alright. I mean this guy he he has little or no time left. He's going to die. But the Bible says that he was dear. To the centurion. That word dear means he was very precious. He loved him very much. His faith, this great faith, is compassionate faith. It's very strange For an older of a servant to care so deeply for a servant. In many ways, for folks in that time and other ages, a servant was nothing more than a piece of machinery. It was simply an object to be used to accomplish a job. There weren't any person any relationship with them. There was any no endearment at all, no affection at all. But that was different with this guy And not only was he owner of the servant, he was the centurion. He was a man of great authority. He had sent men into their death. Generally, those guys in his position were very hardened, very callous, very cold. They didn't care about this. They have an object to accomplish, they have a war to win, a battle to win. But here he's dear. He's very compassionate. He's very compassionate. In fact, the whole goal of his faith, the whole thing that prompted this great faith, was his concern For this servant was the need of another. That made me think about faith promise. This is just a little rabbit trail. But you know what our faith promise is? We're trusting God to provide financially for us so that other people can find help, can be saved from dying and going to hell. Isn't that what faith promises? Compassionate faith. I care about others. I care about others. All through Scripture, the greater the faith, the greater the compassion. The weaker, the smaller the faith, the smaller the compassion. Listen, don't come around bragging on how much faith you have if you don't love your brothers and sisters in Christ. Don't talk about how much you love God. Don't talk about how much faith you have in God. If you don't have any heart for other people All through Scripture, it's inseparable. Faith in God, love for others. Love for God, love for others. Great faith is compassionate faith Great faith in God cares deeply for others. Number two, I notice this: it's generous faith. Look at verse 5. For he loveth our nation and hath built us a synagogue. I don't know what the cost of living was back then, but I venture to say building a synagogue was not just chump change. He invested a significant amount of money. into the Jews to build the synagogue that they wanted. It was very generous gift It was very generous giving. I think the Bible doesn't tell us this, but my impression is studying this, is he was he recognized the obvious hand of God upon Israel And he recognized that God's blessing on God's people was good for his nation. And by the way, God's blessings on the churches of America is good for the churches of America. And I want to suggest to you America needs good churches more than it needs good politicians. Because they're awfully thin and finding The hope for America is not in Washington, D. C. It's right here at 1005 Broadford Road, Oakland, Maryland, in our church and other churches like us. Across this land, when we get right with God, we'll see God's hand on America again. I lay uh maybe I'm wrong on this, you can correct me if you want But uh uh I lay the blame for M America's spiritual condition on the spiritual condition of its churches. It says, if my people shall humble themselves and pray and turn from the wigway, seek my face, confess their sin, then will I heal their land. So he saw, I believe he saw, that it was good for our nation, for these people to be successful and prosper and have God's blessing. So he messed very generously. Generously. I think it's interesting to notice the respect he had for the Jews. This is a Roman Gentile. And notice, did you catch what he said there earlier? Did you catch? Who did he send to Jesus to get him to come and heal his servant? The Jewish leaders. One, they hated Jo they hated Romans. Two, they hated Jesus. But because of his generosity, they respected him so much they were willing to do what they would not normally do. And make appeal to Jesus Christ, whom they were rejecting on behalf of this Roman soldier. What I'm trying to say is this: generosity generates respect. Nobody respects a selfish person. Nobody respects somebody just, this is mine. I want more. It's me. Nobody respects that. But you find someone that has a heart of compassion, you find someone that's very generous, brother people say, hey, you know what? I'll listen to him. And so great faith was compassionate faith, it was generous faith, the greater the faith, the greater generosity. Let me give these last two real quick. It was humble faith. Did you catch what he said? I'm not worthy for you to come under my roof. Don't confuse pride with faith. You say if a person how many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Saying, yes, I know I'm saved. Yes, I know that when I die, I'm going to heaven, not to hell. There's nothing proud about that. I've had people say to me on occasion over the years that we would talk about this, I'd say, listen, I know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven. There's no doubt about it. And they would say something like this, well, you really think you're something good enough to go to heaven? No, you missed the point completely. I'm not good enough to go to heaven. God's been good enough to me to forgive me and save me. It's not a matter of pride, it's humility. I don't deserve the least of his favors. No person that's genuinely saved thinks they deserve heaven. They know they don't. We've humbled ourselves. The whole act of salvation is humbling ourselves before God. God, I don't deserve it. I say this so often, I try to remind myself of this continually. If I got what I deserved, I would be burning in hell right now. I was going through some old things. I found a newspaper clipping of my good friend through high school, Denny Swartley. He died in his early 20s, heart attack, heavily in drugs. We were buddies all through my teen years. I'd witnessed to him not too long, just before he died, he said, no, no, no, no, no. Now I hope and pray that somehow he read that little Bible I gave him, he gave thought to what I said, and that he trusted Christ. But as far as I know, he died without Christ. You know what I deserve? Unless I'm wrong. And he got saved, but I don't know. I deserve to be right where he was, burning in hell Listen, don't come around talking about what you deserve. Don't come around talking they owe this to me. Don't say that. God has been very, very merciful to us. And great faith is characterized by humility. I don't deserve it, but Lord, I trust you. God, I don't deserve, I I'm not worthy of you doing anything for me, but Lord, I'm trusting you. To help me. Trusting you to direct me and lead me. Humility. The greater the faith, the greater the humility. In fact, the key to great faith is great military. And then last of all, I am with this, and we've got to go. It was bold faith. Lord, I trust you. Not because I'm something great, but because I know you're amazing. You're the son of God. I'm trusting you. All you have to do is say the word, and my servant will be on fine. I do that for my soldiers I know you can do this. Just say the word. Man, you talk about bold faith. You know what we want? We have this mentality. We might not say it, but we have this mentality. I'll believe it when I see it. That's not very bold faith. Old faith says, you know, doesn't look like what Jesus promised could possibly happen, but if he said it, I'm going to take his word at it. That's strong faith. That's great faith. Great faith. And it's interesting in verse 3, but we could spend hours on this. Verse 3, it says, when he heard of Jesus, he really didn't have a whole lot to go on. He didn't have any he didn't have any scientific proof that Jesus was God and all that. He didn't have any of that. He didn't even have a theological book on uh the doctrine of the deity of Christ He didn't have any of that. All he had was somebody told him that this Jesus fella is God and can heal the sick, and that was all he needed, and he put his faith in what he heard about Jesus Christ Isn't that amazing? Some people say, oh, I want you to prove that to me. Listen, if God said it, that settles it. We ought to just believe it. He heard, he heard, and he believed. He had no doubt about the power of God. God is not impressed with how smart we are, God is not impressed with how gifted we are, he's not impressed with our budgets and our possessions. He's not impressed with how much money we got in the bank or how big we are or how strong we are. The only thing God is looking for is how much we'll trust him. Trust Him. I don't know what your need is. I don't know where you're at in your life, but I'm telling you this: Jesus Christ can meet your need if you'll just trust Him. You'll just trust him. I'm talking to some folks this morning. You've been saved maybe a period of time or whatever. It's time for you to step out of your comfort zone and start trusting God in some areas on purpose. Deliberately going to trust God. Maybe this coming year some Christians say, you know, I'm going to get involved in outreach ministries, soul-winning ministries, I'm going to get involved in supporting missions. I'm going to get involved in giving of myself to serve the Lord. I'm scared to death. I don't think I can do it. But I'm going to trust God that He'll enable me to do it. I'm telling you, that's what God's looking for. We'd love to start bus routes. We'd love to, we have other ministries we'd love to do. I would love, I'll talk about this next month. I would love to start a ministry to help people that have addictions. Drugs and liquor and everything else, pornography, all of that. There's ministries that we I I'm telling you, there are people in our area that need Jesus Christ that are addicted to this junk You know what it takes? It takes faith. We need somebody that's willing to say, you know, I'll trust God. I've given my heart and life to reach other people that need Christ. And there's so many other areas. These mission trips and stuff. God marveled in Mark how little they trust him. What? And he marvels in Luke how much he trusted. Woodrow Wilson's brother, his name is Robert, he was president of Princeton University. Wow. Right? Impressive? Right. Man marvels at that. Wow, his president, his brother is the president of the United States. He's the president of Princeton University. Wow He spoke, he mastered forty-five ancient languages. That's languages that are no longer in existence. He understood them. He can read it. He mastered him. He was involved in archaeological digs all around the countr all around the world. At the end of his life, he was dying, and someone asked him, they said, uh, Robert Wilson, what was the greatest and most profound truth you ever discovered? In all your years in education and all your research. What's the most profound truth you ever discovered? He paused for a few moments. And near his death, on his deathbed, he made this statement. The most profound truth that I've ever discovered is that Jesus loves me. This I know. For the Bible tells me so. God wasn't impressed. I'm telling you right now, God wasn't impressed with him being president of Princeton University. God was impressed with the family he was a part of. God was impressed with all his education, his gifts and abilities But I do have a sneaking suspicion God was awfully impressed with a man that simply rejoiced in the fact that Jesus loves him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to have faith in you. God, I ask you would help us to simply trust you with our lives. And let you lead us and direct us. Help us, Lord, to have enough faith to obey your instructions, heed your warnings, and claim your promises. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed how many would say this morning, preacher, I find myself in a situation, I find myself in a condition where I really need God to help me. I have certain issues or whatever. And I need God's help. Much like this Roman soldier that has a servant that's dying and he cares dearly about it. I've got something in my life. I really need the Lord to help. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me trust him. That God will help me simply exercise faith in the Lord, do what he says, trusting him to meet this need and direct in the situation. Is there any like that, preacher? That's where I'm at in my Christian life. I just need God. To help me and I'm going to trust him completely. God bless you. Hands all around. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I need to learn to trust God and have faith in him. I wonder if there's someone here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven. Can't honestly say that I know my sins are forgiven. You're very much concerned about that, and so you ought to be. This morning, if you'll just take whatever faith you have and simply accept Jesus Christ as your Savior, God will forgive you and save you and give you eternal life. Has nothing to do with joining a church, has nothing to do with any ritual It's simply a personal act of faith, accepting Jesus and trusting him to forgive me and save me. Is there anything like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I need to trust Christ. I need this settled in my heart and mind. That when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. Any at all by the uplifted hand. Hold it up there. God bless you. How about it? Any others Preacher, pray for me. I need this settled in my life. God bless you. How about it? Others? I wonder if there's some of you this morning say, Preacher, this coming year, I want to step out in faith. This coming year, I want to stretch myself a little and I want to trust God. I want to put myself in a position where I need to trust God on purpose. Following his leading, getting involved in his direction. And then trusting him to use me, enable me to do what he's leading me to do. Is there any like that? I'd like for this coming year to be a year of spiritual growth, of my faith developing and growing stronger. How about it? Any like, God bless you Now it's up to us. It's up to us. Father, bless now our invitation. A lot of hands raised. You know our hearts. Help us to respond now in faith, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.