There are few positions that a man can hold that have a greater responsibility than a father. The Bible gives the father the responsibility, the spiritual leadership of the whole. The man, God, is responsible for the spiritual temperature of the whole I hate to say this, but if you would disregard what the Bible says, set aside what the Bible says, and you just looked many times in your average Christian home You would assume, by all appearances, that God had established the mother, the wife, the woman to be the spiritual leader of the home in many of our Christian homes. That's the case Many of our Christian homes, dad, the husband, has abdicated his responsibility as the spiritual leader of the home. He has handed that off to the mythes, and he is missing the point God has established us men to be the spiritual leadership in the home, to provide direction for that home, to provide an example for that family. The man Is the one going to have to answer to God for the spiritual leadership in the home? Men, my challenge right off the start this morning, husbands, dads My challenge right at the beginning of the message is this. Listen, it's our job to provide the spiritual leadership in the whole. If you've handed that off to your wife, if you've handed that off to the mother of your children, you're abdicating your responsibility before God. God has given us a tremendous responsibility to be the spiritual leaders in the home, to provide spiritual direction for our children, to provide a godly example for our family. As I mentioned in the opening statements, God had a job to do. He needed a man of integrity. That he could use to raise up a godly nation, the nation of Israel. I believe in our text, verse number 19 is one of the greatest testimonies of fatherhood in all of history. Let's read it again. I know him, God speaking about Abraham. I know him that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord and do justice and judgment. What a testimony. I got looking at that statement that God makes about Abraham as a father, and I noticed a few things that God does not say. God does not say, I know Abraham. He is flawless in his character. It doesn't say that at all. We just read a few chapters before and after, and you know what we find out? Abraham had his flaws. Abraham was not perfect. Abraham was not flawless. Abraham had his issues. And listen: even the greatest of dads are not perfect. Sometimes we paint a picture, maybe us preachers are guilty, and uh I think sometimes uh preaching to fathers and uh maybe we hold the standard a little higher because I am one and feel like an obligation there. But sometimes we paint a picture here that unless you are absolutely perfect in every way, you're a failure as your father. You do not find that in Scripture. God makes a tremendous statement about Abraham, but Abraham had his flaws. Abraham had his faults. I am glad that God can use Imperfect tools in his tool chest. I'm glad that God can use imperfect men, imperfect women. to accomplish his goal. Because it's not our perfection that makes us usable. It is God's perfection that makes him wonderful. And so I notice here he doesn't say that Abraham is flawless. I notice here he doesn't say, I know Abraham, he's rich. He's the man for the job. Now Abraham was very rich. But God doesn't need our money. God doesn't need our riches. Abraham, he doesn't say he was flawless, he was rich. He doesn't say Abraham was popular, and I've no doubt Abraham was a very popular man. Doesn't say how talented he was. But what God does reference in Abraham, when he makes this tremendous testimony about Abraham as a father, he references his integrity. He was a man of his word. Though he was not perfect, he was real. And uh uh he was a tremendous man of integrity, and God would use him to raise up this Great nation of Israel. Abraham was the right man for the job. God has chosen us as dads. For an incredible job. God has given us the responsibility to raise up children for God, to provide leadership in the home that God has established. And that responsibility is not to be taken lightly. We live in a day, I mean we'd make a big deal about this, it's so obvious, but we live in a day when fatherhood has in many circles just become a joke. In many circles, fatherhood is non existent. How many children grow up and not knowing who dad is? Many of them never even saw Dad. He's out running around carrying on. He may have Be a dad to several different families. Listen to me. God has established fathers. And children need their fathers. Children need daddies of integrity, daddies of faith That is who are not perfect, but they love God and want to do right and want to please Him. That's the man for the job. Dad, your kids need you. Absolutely need you. God has given us a phenomenal responsibility to raise up children for God. Now, I just noticed looking at this, I noticed a few things about Abraham that made him the right man for the job. And I want us to think, as Dad's particular this morning, consider yourself as we look at these characteristics here, consider yourself whether you're the man for the job that God has given you. And maybe if you fall short in some of these areas, maybe you can raise them up. Raise that up and make sure this play this is in place and God can use you. I think I went dead here, Brother James. I don't know what happened there, but maybe let's just go back to the one here. Three things I noticed about Abraham that made him uh the right man for the job. Number one, I put this down. Abraham had a personal walk with God. He had a personal walk with God. Look at verse number 19 with me. Now look at the first few statements, opening statements in this verse. God speaking here, he says, For I know him. I know him. I think we all understand the fact that God knows us. Anybody that has even a remote concept of who God is, his omniscience and his omnipresence, the fact that God is all knowing and God's presence is everywhere. Anybody that has even a remote concept of who and what God is understands that God knows us. God knows everything about us If you would, keep your place here, and I'd like for you to turn with me to the book of Psalms. And I want us to look at a chapter in Psalms I read the other morning in my devotions. And It expands on this idea that God knows all about us. Psalms 139. If you would turn there in your Bibles with me. Psalms 139. Everybody knows that God knows everything about us. God knows our thoughts. He knows our plans. God knows our secrets. God knows what's in our closets, so to speak. God knows everything about us. Look at Psalms 139, and I want to begin reading in verse number one. This is King David writing here under the inspiration of God. And he says, O Lord, Thou hast searched me and what? Known me. That's the exact same word in Genesis 18, 19, where he says, I know him. So what David is writing about is the very thing that God is saying about Abraham. And David is expanding on it. He goes, O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. God, you know me. Now look at the extent of God's knowledge. Thou knowest my down sitting and mine uprising. Thou understandest my thought afar off. Did you get that? God knows our thoughts. How many people here are glad our thoughts are not public? Phew, thank God for that, huh? But I'm telling you, though they may not be public, they are not hidden from God. Thou knowest my uh downstream moments. Thou under and he says he understands our thoughts. Here's something that's encouraging to me. He not only knows what I think, he knows why I'm thinking that. He understands the way I think. He understands the processes my mind goes through to come to the conclusions I come to. How many people here you ever had a you you you came to a conclusion, you thought something about something, you tried to explain it, and nobody else seemed to understand why you thought that way. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about My wife says, you don't understand anything I'm saying. Somebody said to be happy with your husband, you need to uh understand him a little bit and love him a lot To understand a wife you need to uh love her a lot and don't even try and understand her. Anyway God understands. God understands. He knows our thoughts. Look and he goes on, thou compassest my path and my lying down. And are acquainted with all my ways. Look at this. For there is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high, I cannot attain unto it. Listen, God knows everything about us. Everything, our thoughts, our words, our secrets. He knows the things that we do right. He knows the things we do wrong. He knows why we operate the way we do. God knows us. But that's not the issue. If we come back to Genesis, everybody knows that God knows everything about us. That's not the issue. The issue with Abraham was this Abraham knew God. Abraham knew God. And that is where the difference comes in. The issue is not whether God knows me, but do I know God? Do I understand God? Abraham knew I got looking at him and his interaction with God. And Abraham knew what God was like. Abraham understood what type of behavior pleased God. Now, granted, some of this he learned the hard way. But Abraham, he knew God. He knows he knew says God is pleased. When I operate this way, when I behave like this, that brings pleasure to God. And I behave like this and I do these types of things and I have that kind of attitude, that displeases God. And Abraham had an awareness of what it was that pleased God. Abraham understood what displeased God. Abraham knew how God received Abraham responded to sin. Abraham knew how God responded to prayer. Abraham knew how God uh reacted to having faith in him. Abraham knew God And what we need in our homes and in our country are men who not that God knows them, God knows everybody, but men who know God. Men who understand who God is and what God is like and what he expects and how God responds and how God works in our lives. Being a good father begins with having a right relationship with our Heavenly Father. I'm going to be a good father. I need to know my heavenly father. I need to know what he is like, what he is. Need to know God in a personal way. Abraham had a personal walk with God. He interacted with God. I put this down under this thought. I put, number one, Abraham was a saved man. We are told that Abraham believed God and it was counted to him for righteousness. Every child needs a saved daddy. Every grandkid needs a saved grandpa. Every man, under the sound of my voice, uh, if nothing else, you ought to be sure you need to settle in your heart and mind the fact that you've accepted Jesus Christ as your personal savior. You can be the most successful businessman in all the country. You can be the uh you can build the the the most beautiful house for your family to live in. Uh you can uh you can uh uh provide uh a tremendous uh uh uh uh uh m uh materials and whatnot for your children. You can do all that, but if you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, you are lacking in the greatest area that your children need Any daddies who are saved. You say, Well, preacher, how do I get saved? It's a very simple thing. By the way, joining Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church won't save you or any other church Being baptized won't save you. Now there's a place for church and church membership. There's a place for baptism, but it is not in the matter of salvation. The way a man is saved, the same way a woman is saved, the same way a child is saved, the same way a senior citizen is saved, first of all by acknowledging to God that I'm a sinner. The Bible says we've all b broken God's law. We've all sinned against God. Because of that sin, we're under God's judgment. We are currently now under the wrath of God, John chapter 3 tells us. But Jesus Christ loved us enough that he died and suffered that wrath of God, to suffered the judgment of God for us on the cross. He was buried and he rose again. The Bible says that we believe with all our heart that Jesus died for our sins personally and that he rose again, and if we'll call on him, if we'll look to him, trusting in him. To forgive us and cleanse us from our sin, that God will forgive us and save us and give us a new life, eternal life. We can know we're going to heaven. Every daddy ought to be saved. Say, preacher, I hope I am, I think I am, I would like to believe that uh I'm saved, I'm on my way to heaven. Listen, if you're not absolutely positively sure that you're saved the Bible way, you need to settle that. If for no other reason, for your kids' sake. So Abraham was a saved man. He was a saved man. My dad, I talk a lot about my dad. I started out the message. I thought I'm going to prepare this message on Father's Day and I'm not going to reference my dad. I made it about 10 minutes into the message. My dad has such a profound impact on my spiritual life. My daddy has said many, many times, he grew up in a very in a Christian home They went to church faithfully. My grandfather was a deacon in the church, very faithful, very active. Dad grew up and uh Bible was part of Bible reading was part of his growing up and uh church attendance and doing right and my grandfather and my grandmother were two of the most godly people I've ever known in my life Daddy was religious, but Daddy was lost. Unsaved church member. Moral, good, but never accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. And in 1970 knelt by the sofa in the basement of our home. And my dad accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. Can I suggest to you one of the greatest events in my life was my daddy getting saved. I'm absolutely convinced, now God knows, but I'm absolutely convinced in my mind that had Daddy never gotten saved, Dennis would have never gotten saved. Listen, my point is this. Your children need a saved daddy. Know that he's been born again. Know that he's trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, born in the family of God, eternal life, a new man in Christ. Abraham was a saved man. I put this down. Not only was Abraham a saved man, he was a submissive man. Now by submissive, I mean he was submissive to God. God called him to leave his hometown, pack up, and head to a nation where God would show him at the age of 75. I can't imagine that. No hesitation that we see in Scripture on Abraham's part. Abraham, I need you to uh pack up in your Heading to the promised land. Abraham, no hesitation, leaves his family, leaves the home he grew up in, leaves the area he grew up in for seventy-five years he lived there, and he heads out If you would turn over to Genesis chapter 22, just a few chapters over, to me is one of the most fascinating stories in all of Scripture. This chapter 22 just captivates me. I I try and put myself in Abraham's shoes and it just it's an amazing thing to me. Look at verse number one. The Bible says it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham. Now, don't let that word tempt throw you. God never tempts anybody to do wrong. When the Bible says God tempted Abraham, it has the idea of He was testing him. He was going to put him through a trial To develop Abraham and make his faith stronger. So the word tempt is used in varying ways in scripture. So don't let that throw you. Abraham, uh, that God did tempt Abraham and said unto him, Abraham And he said, Behold, here am I. By the way, that's a good attitude for Daddy to have. Lord, what do you have to say? I'm here. Will you give me the instructions? And he said, Look at this, look at this. Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest. And get thee into the land of Moriah and offer him there for a what? He didn't say bring him into the temple and just have the priests raise him like Hannah did and Samuel. No, no, no. Offer him for a sacrifice, a burnt offering, upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of. I'll know about you, but I'd have trouble with that. God, what are you saying? Abraham trusted God completely. And when God instructed Abraham to do something that made absolutely no sense, That flew in the face of everything he understood about God. Abraham trust God And does what he says. Look what it says. And Abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled his ass and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son. claved the wood for the burnt offering and rose up and went into the place of which God had told him. Wow No wonder God said, this is the man for the job. He will trust me, even when it makes no sense. He will trust me. Of course, you know the story. Abraham took his son. They get up there, tithe him up. He's about ready to uh to kill his son Isaac and offer him up in obedience to God, a scatter grace of God, and God stops him. He says, No, no, no, no. Now I know that you will trust me. Now I know, Abraham, that you have complete faith in God. I tell you, Abraham was an amazing, amazing man. No record of any hesitation on Abraham's part. Now stop and think about us. How many times does God ask or instruct us in His Word? Some simple little thing, some very clear instruction, something that in many ways makes perfect sense, and yet we balk at it? And we resist it and we try and explain it away and we want to uh we want to excuse ourselves from God's clear instructions. And we look around and hey, here's the thing. We do not want to follow our heavenly father's instructions. And then we turn around and get so upset at our kids because they won't follow our instructions. I'm telling you, that's not right. If I expect my children to trust and obey me, surely I ought to trust and obey my God. Trust and obey my God. Abraham, God said, Abraham, he's the man for the job. Why? Because he had a personal walk with God. He was saved. He was submissive to God. He knew what God was like. He knew he could trust the Lord that God would make everything right, regardless of what happens. Regardless of what God says, God is going to work it out. God is in control. God is going to do right. I can trust them completely and without hesitation. So the first thing I notice about Abraham that made him the right man for the job, he had the personal walk with God. I put this down. Second of all, he had a powerful witness to his family. Now this is what I was really wanting to get to in this message If you would come back to Genesis 18 and verse number 19 again, and I want you to notice a couple words very, very carefully. Genesis chapter 18 and verse number 19. For I know him, again God's speaking here about Abraham. Now look at this next phrase, and I want you to watch very, very carefully the words God uses. For I know him that he will command his children and his household. But notice that does the statement doesn't end there. He shall command his children and his household what? After him. Huh. I got looking at that and I thought, well that's interesting. Why would God put that statement in there that would command his children and his household after him? I got looking up the phrase after him. And it has this idea. He will command his children and his household following behind him. It has this idea. He will command his children and his household as they are walking in his steps. In other words, Abraham as a father did not just look at his kids and his household and say, Hey, you do as I say, not as I do. None of that nonsense. He said, in other words, Abraham lived the life he wanted his children to live. Abraham had the attitude he wanted his children to have. Abraham used the kind of language he wants his children to use. Abraham went to the kind of places he wanted his children to go to. He did not just set some standard for his kids that didn't apply to him. He goes, this is what is right, this is the way you need to live, this is the way you need to be uh behave, and you follow me. I will show you how to be a good Christian. I will be a pattern to you how to live for God. I will be a pattern to you what it means to have integrity and be a man of your word and be a man of faith and a child of God. I will show you after me And what we need in our churches and our homes are men who will set the example for their kids as to what they ought to be. Not just sending them off. Listen, I thank God. Don't please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I thank God for the children that come in on their buses. I thank God for parents that will allow us to pick up their kids and bring them in. But I'll tell you what those kids need. Those kids need a daddy who will bring them to church. And be the Christian they want their kids to be, and not just send them off and let them get some religious training, but say, No, I want you to trust God and I'll show you how to do that. After him, after him, after him. Again, I reference my father. I can honestly say, I can honestly say, I have never heard a foul word come off the lips of my daddy Fifty five years. I never heard that. I can honestly say before God I never saw my daddy walk into or out of a bar. I never saw my daddy one time, I can honestly say in 55 years, I never saw one time my daddy take any kind of liquor. And put it to his lips. Not one time. I never saw my daddy in any sort of sinful behavior. I never saw my daddy kiss a woman other than his wife. I never saw or heard of my daddy being unfaithful in any way to his marriage vows You say your daddy was perfect. No, my daddy was perfect, and I'm I'm not saying, you know, he never failed any of these. I'm simply saying I never saw it. I don't know anybody that came and ever told me about daddy being this. Now my dad's gonna get this CD and he's gonna listen, I'm gonna get a phone call. And dad, when you hear this, if I any of this ever happened, I don't know about it, don't tell me, all right? I'll none want another What I'm trying to say is this in a very real way, and you you know my dad, you've heard me talk about him for years. My dad was the kind of Christian that I want to be. I want to be the Christian my daddy is after me. Abraham commanded his children's household after him. He was what they were to be. You look at our society today. And you look at the streets of our cities are on fire and chaos and anarchy. And you say, why is that? It must be the It must be the welfare system, it must be the education system. Can I suggest to you one of the key elements missing in our society today is godly fathers Abraham had a powerful witness to his family and he was not perfect. He had struggled with his faith. He did have points of failure But he set an example. He had a testimony of somebody who trusted God. He didn't just command his example, uh his family. He set an example. Came across this little poem, and it spoke to my heart. There are little eyes upon you, and they're watching night and day. There are little ears that quickly take in every word you say. There are little hands all eager to do everything that you do. And a little boy who's dreaming of the day he'll be just like you. You're the little fellow's idol. You're the wisest of the wise. In his little mind about you, no suspicions ever rise. He believes in you devotedly. He holds all you say and do. He will say and do in your way when he's grown up just like you. There's a wide-eyed little fellow who believes you are always right. And his ears are always open and he watches day and night. You're setting an example every day and all you do for the little boy who's waiting to grow up to be just like you. God said about Abraham, he's the right man for the job because I know he'll command his children and his household after him. He'll be what they ought to be. He'll be that example. I put number one, Abraham was the right man for the job because he had a personal walk with God. He knew the Lord. He was a saved man. He was submissive to God as a Christian. Two, he had a powerful witness to his family. He didn't just tell them what they ought to do. He didn't just tell them what they ought to be. He set an example. He was a testimony as to what that ought to be. And I put this last thought down He was the right man for the job because he had prayer and worship in his home. Prayer and worship in his home. Abraham was a man of prayer. If you'll read through Genesis and read the record of Abraham from the time he comes on the scene until he dies and is gathered to his father's, the Bible says. You find that he never built a house. You find that Abraham built no permanent structures, but everywhere Abraham went, the Bible says that he erected an altar. He'd build an altar. He'd built an altar. He'd move here and he'd build an altar. And he moved there and he'd build an altar. Everywhere he went, he built an altar, an altar of prayer, an altar of worship. Abraham was a man of prayer. He was a man of worship. If you would come back to Genesis 22 there, we referenced his instructions by God to offer up his son Isaac. And of course God intervened. God never intended that he would actually kill him. Abraham, we're told in Hebrews, was convinced that even if he had killed Isaac, God would raise him back up again. But there's an interesting statement in verse number 5 of Genesis 22 They're on their way up to Mount Moriah, and he has Isaac, his son. He's fixing to offer him up in obedience to God as a sacrifice. It made no sense, but Abraham was trusting God. And then in verse 4, on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off. Alright, so they're approaching the place God had told him. And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder and worship and come again to you. That caught me. Wait a minute, Abraham, you're taking your son, your only son, the one you love. You're trusting God, you're going to take them up and you're going to offer them up as a sacrifice, and you're calling that worship? Yeah, here's my definition of worship, and I like it. To worship God simply means this, to recognize and submit to God's authority over me. By humbly submitting to him in faith and obedience. Did you get that? Worshiping God isn't coming to a church service for an hour and 15 minutes, hour and a half. Singing some songs and putting some money on the offering and enduring a fifty minute message. It's not what worship is. That may be part of it, but that's not worship Worship is coming before God and saying, God, you are the absolute authority over my life. You are my creator. You are my God. And God, in worship, I humbly submit to you and I will trust you and obey you with my life. That is worship. Abraham worshiped God. And I tell you, we need a generation, we need fathers, and I include myself in this. Our children need to see fathers Who worship God, recognize God's authority over their life, and submit to that authority humbly trusting God and obeying Him I was reading in my devotions, I mentioned in 1 Chronicles, and it goes on and on and on and on and on, and so-and-so begot so-and-so and begot so-and-so. And so and so was the father of so-and-so, and he was the father of so-and-so, and he this guy was the father of this guy. And for eleven chapters almost it goes on and just gives the list of fathers and sons, fathers and sons, fathers and sons. And for years I'd read that and I think, what is the purpose of this? Why would God put this in here? The other morning I was reading it and I realized fathers are very, very important to God. And he takes almost 11 chapters and he lists fathers by name, by name, by name, by name. Let me ask you this morning. Do you have a personal walk with God, Dad? Do you know the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? Are you submissive to your Savior? Do you live for Him? Are you setting the example? Are you the kind of Christian you want your kids to be? Do you have a prayer life? Do you worship God? Do you have a testimony to them? That's what our churches need. That's what our kids need. Now maybe you're here this morning and you're not a dad. You might be a mom. You might be a daughter, a son. But if you're alive, I can tell you this, God loves you. And God wants to come in your life and give you eternal life by accepting Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. If you know Jesus Christ your Savior, God wants to lead you and direct you and use you. And by the way, young fellows The best way to prepare to be a daddy, a good daddy someday, start living for God now. Put things in place. I want to challenge our dads to take the spiritual leadership in the home. I want to challenge every father here this morning. I want to challenge every father here this morning. Establish a family altar in your home. Sometime during the day, gather the family together, read some scripture and pray together, maybe sing a hymn. We did that for years, sing a little hymn and we'd read some scripture and we pray around as a family. I'm telling you, that is a powerful, powerful. uh thing in the home. Make sure you have a personal time with the Lord. Be faithful to church. Love God. Be honest. Do what's right. Let the Lord lead you and direct you. And you can be the right man for the job. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to use this message this morning. God, I feel in many ways I'm preaching to myself. I pray you especially challenge and convict us as dads. And we would take very seriously our responsibility to provide spiritual leadership. I pray, Holy Spirit, you'd convict us in the areas that we're not consistent in our testimony And we expect one thing of our kids and we behave another way with ourselves. Lord, I pray you'd convict us and correct that in our lives. With our heads bowed and eyes closed this morning, how many would say, preacher, I'm a dad? Maybe I'm a grandpa, great grandpa? But you'd say, preacher, God stirred and challenged my heart this morning. And I want to be a man of faith, and I want to have a testimony such that others behind can see the kind of Christian they ought to be. I want to have a good testimony. to my family and you'd say preacher pray for me I know there's areas in my life and I need help getting my testimony in line. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher pray for me. I want to have a good testimony. God bless you, hands all around. Now God speaks to us in very specific ways. And sometimes he'll touch on an area and say, all right, then this has to be adjusted. This needs attention. This needs to be corrected. Then we say, Lord, I worship you. I recognize you're right. You have the authority. I'll trust you and obey you. I'll make those changes I wonder if there's some dads here who would say, preacher, pray for me. I need to, I want to, and I need to establish a regular, consistent family altar time in our homes. I'm telling you that one thing is so powerful. And how many dads would say, Preacher, pray with me? I want to do that. One way or another, set up. A time when we have family devotions in our home. Is there any like that? Or maybe you have it and it's kind of wavered a little bit and you say, Preacher, pray with me. I need to get that in place. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around. I'm telling you that is so important. One other question is there's some some folks here, dads, moms, whatever, and you say, Preacher, I'm not sure that when I die, I go to heaven and not to hell. And you say, preacher, I need to know that God has forgiven me all my sins and that God has given me eternal life. I'm concerned about that. And you say, Preacher, pray for me that I'm personal salvation, I can have that settled. And no. That God has saved me. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. Pray for me. Any at all? Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, hands were raised for various reasons. You know our hearts, dear Lord, and help us to be sensitive and tender and let you lead and direct and bless the invitation, the altar call now, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand