2 Samuel chapter number 2, we'll go ahead and start reading here. Notice with me verse number one, just the first four verses. The Bible says, and it came to pass after this. What's the after this? What happened in chapter 1 that this is taking place after? All right, Saul's death, that was the end of chapter, that was the end of uh first Samuel, chapter thirty, uh thirty, thirty-one there. Uh but then in uh Chapter 31. But then in chapter one of 2 Samuel, what happened there? Real quick. What's that? Yeah, that that Amalekite showed up and gave his false version of Saul's death, and David lamented. um the death of Saul gave that eulogy, a tremendous statement there. So now that's what took place. Now verse 2 begins, and it came to pass After this, Saul's dead, he's paid his eulogy, and all those things are there. So this is a new chapter, as we said last week. This is a new chapter in the life of David He's turned the page, and here he is, a significant chapter in the life of David. Came to pass after this that David inquired of the Lord. I underlined it in that in my Bible. Say Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah? And the Lord said unto him, God answered his prayer, Go up. And David said, Whither shall I go up? And he, God, said, unto Hebron. So David went up hither, his two wives also, Ahinoam. the Jezreelitis, and Abigail, Mabel's wife, the Carmelite, and his men that were with him did David bring up, every man with his household, and they dwelt in the cities of Hebron And the men of Judah came, and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. And they told David, saying that the men of Jabesh Gilead were they that buried David. Verse 4 says, They anointed David king. Is this the first time David's been anointed king? No, Samuel anointed David King when he was a young man at the instruction of God. But that was, and we're going to talk about this in another message in a couple weeks, but that was a private anointing. That was not a public anointing, though people knew it wasn't that public. This is now a public anointing. Now they want everybody to know, David, we are recognizing God's anointing by anointing him ourselves. But what I want to notice here is the beginning of verse number one, and it came to pass after these things that David inquired of the Lord. The thing I want us to notice here is that David did not immediately Run back to Jerusalem and say, all right, I'm the king. I'm on the throne. Where's the crown? He didn't immediately do that. He waited And that's my message is the patience of David. I tell you, I couldn't wait to preach this message. The patience of David And uh let's pray together. Father in heaven, we ask now that uh you would bless our study of your word and the life of David. I pray, there's a lot of things in David's life, of course, that we would uh one to learn from and to avoid. There's some things there, but sure is a lot that we can learn from and emulate. And I pray that that would be true tonight, that uh what we observe here about David would be something that we could all incorporate into our character, our lives, and um and learn from David on this. So please fill me with your spirit is my prayer again tonight. I yield my will to you. Present my body and ask with all my heart that you would speak to us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Tim Souza, the young preacher, he's down in South Carolina now, I think. He traveled in Bible time years ago And uh I had helped train him. This was back, we're talking the late 1980s, I believe. And uh he made a statement that caught my attention. I just read it recently. He made this statement He said, God only blesses the person that you are, not the person that you pretend to be. Did you get that? God only blesses the person that I am, not the person that I put out there I pretend to be. King Saul was a pretender. King Saul was concerned over and over. We read in the life of King Saul that he was very concerned about what both people thought of him. When God rejected him for his rebellions, which is the sin of witchcraft, and his stubbornness. Uh when God rejected him for that, he pled with sa he pled with uh the prophet Samuel that he would honor him in the eyes of the people. He was pretender. He wanted to appear to be something. And God dealt with King Saul not for what he presented himself to be, but God dealt with him for what he really was. For what he really was. Now David was far from perfect. We saw that, and we're going to see that some more. None of God's great men were perfect. But I believe in studying David, David was genuine. He was sincere. What you saw was what you got. And God blessed David for what he was. For the person he was. And um I thought that was interesting here. Now uh uh Saul is dead. God's dealt with him. God said this day was coming, and uh now Saul is dead, Jonathan uh is dead also. Saul's actions, Saul's condition affected his son, and um Jonathan is dead. And now David is free to return back To his people, to his nation, uh without fear. He couldn't go back before Saul was pursuing him. And uh there's something to this, and maybe in a future message, I think it's interesting That once Saul is dead, David is no longer fearful of the army. Remember, Saul was out there with thousands of highly trained men, military elites And uh Chase and David, but when Saul is removed, now those fellows are no longer a threat. There's a little bit of fussing going on later in chapter two, we'll see, with some of the uh some of the fellows, I think uh Abner there and some of them uh were were a little contentious to begin with, but David could return home in safety And um I make four observations from these first four verses. And we're not going to look at all of them. We're just going to look at the first one tonight But I noticed four observations. I'll share them with you now. The first one I see is what we're going to talk about tonight, is the patience of David. As I said, he doesn't go running in there. The second thing I notice in verse number one is the prayer for direction David, before he acts, before he makes a move, he stops and he inquires of the Lord. How many of you agree with me? There's a great lesson there. To stop and pray before I make a decision, before I make a move. We'll look at that, Lord will, and maybe next Wednesday night. And then I notice in verse 2 and 3, David I notice the participation, participation of David's family, his household. He doesn't act on his own, he brings his family with him. Uh he brings his servants and all of their household with him. And the lesson there is, and again we'll spend a little time on that later, uh, but I think the lesson there is when we make a move for the Lord or a significant change in our life We ought to have our family on board with us. It's one of the things that uh is an issue with missionaries when missionary senses God's call to the mission field is one of the first questions, one of the first concerns is, is your wife on board with you? Does she agree with you? Are you on the same page? Because if not You're going to have problems, and we've seen that over the years in some cases. And so I see the participation of his family, a very wise move on David's part. They are they're included, they're a part of of the decision he makes here. And then as we mentioned as we were reading the scripture, the public anointing of David, which was very important that that took place in the eyes of the people uh for his pos for him to be king would be um uh authenticated would be in the eyes of the people. And so four things there. The one I want us to notice, as I said, and I could not wait to bring this message. the patience of David. Notice it says here it came to pass after this that David inquired of the Lord He knew that he was anointed by God early on, and he was going to be the next king of Israel. That was clear. Although he struggled with his faith there for a while, we noted, but there's no doubt in my mind. It was clear in David's mind what God's will was for his life, what was going to take place. Someday, David is going to be king of Israel. And there's no doubt in my mind that was clear in David's mind. Now as we said, he struggled a little bit there with Paul running with Saul running them all over the place But that was clear and that was settled. And now the circumstances are all in place. For David to go back to uh Judah and claim the position that God gave him uh to be king. So here's what I'm I'm trying to s set the stage here a little bit. David's mind is clear. I'm going to be king. God declared it. God anointed me. All the circumstances are in place. Saul has been removed. The army is no longer a threat. The door is open. I can go back there. But the interesting thing that caught my attention was this. David was in no hurry to go back He doesn't just go rushing in there. He doesn't uh just uh go marching back, he takes his time How many people here ever had a situation and looking back, you wish you had taken your time a little bit before you acted? Yeah. Probably all of us would have something like that. David learned one of the most important principles, I believe, in the Christian life. And he's acting it out here. He's acting on that principle, and that is this. He learned the importance of the of waiting on the Lord. Waiting on the Lord. I've said this a thousand times over the years. I have never regretted waiting on God. And David learned that. And of all times, now is an incredibly important time for David to learn to wait on the Lord. Now, you got your Bibles, everybody, you got your Bibles with you? Let's look up some verses. Go with me, if you would, to the book of Psalms. And I just want to look at some verses here, and I want you to pay close attention when we look at these Psalms, and you're going to see what I'm getting at here in a bit. Go first of all to Psalms chapter 25, if you would. Psalm chapter twenty-five, and look with me, if you would, at verse number five Psalm twenty-five and verse number five. Lead me in thy truth And teach me, for thou art the God of my salvation. Now look at this last phrase. On thee do I what? Wait, how long? All the day. Alright, so he's in no hurry. Look at verse 21, same chapter. Let integrity and uprightness preserve me. Why? For I what I wait on thee. Come over to chapter 27, if you would. Psalm chapter 27, and look with me at verse number 14. Great verse. I have this one underlined. I have it bracketed, highlighted in my Bible. Some of us might have it memorized. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Then he repeats it again for emphasis. Wait. And then he makes this says statement. Wait, I say on the Lord. Now I don't know about you, but I see David emphasizing this. This is something He wants to be very, very clear, get across very, very clearly to those who he is speaking to, he's addressing, wait on the Lord Be of good courage. He shall strengthen the heart. Wait, I say on the Lord. Can you hear the emphasis in that verse? Now look over, if you would, uh chapter 37 And uh verse number seven, again, great verse. I got it underscored and marked highlighted in my Bible. 37 verse 7, rest in the Lord, and now look how he words this next statement and wait what Patiently for him. Threat not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who wicked uh bringeth wicked devices to pass. How many people here ever watched the news recently and fret yourself? Over what people are doing. He tells us here, don't do that. Wait on the Lord. Arrest in the Lord, and then he says, wait patiently for him. It's one thing to wait, it's another thing to wait patiently. I don't know about you. I have a hard time. You probably picked this up right here. I have a hard time waiting in lines at Walmart Anybody here have and especially, I know you've heard this a thousand times, you get in that ten items or less, and everybody in front of you has 11 items. Oh right. I'll wait. But uh I have a hard time waiting patiently. David says, listen, you rest the Lord. You wait, but you wait patiently. Can I get a witness? Not just Walmart, but other places. Wait patiently, wait patiently. All right, we're not done yet. Look at verse 9 For evildoers shall be cut off. All right, that's good to know. But those that wait on the Lord, they shall inherit the earth. Come over to verse number 34 of chapter 37. Wait on the Lord, keep his way, and he shall exalt thee. to inherit the land. Let's go to two more passages. Chapter 40, Psalms, chapter 40, verse 1, classic here. Again, I've got these underscored in my Bible. Now this is past tense. He's testifying. I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of a miry clay, set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings. And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto a God. Many shall see it and fear, and shall trust in the Lord. Now, did you notice that from the second half of verse 1 all the way to the end of verse 3, all of that is the result Of David waiting on the Lord. Did you catch that? He said, I waited patiently. He said, I waited patiently for the Lord, and as a result of that All these things took place. I wonder, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but I wonder how many blessings of God we miss because we get impatient. Because we all worked up. We've got to wait for something. We've got to wait. And we miss these blessings of the Lord. Look at all that God did for him. He says, It's because I waited patiently on the Lord. I waited patiently on the Lord. Then one more I want us to look at, chapter 52 and verse number 9. Now there's something I kind of reference through these passages. I'm going to see if you noticed. Psalm 52 and verse number 9. I will praise thee forever, because thou hast done it. Look at this. I will wait on thy name. For it is good before thy saints. David said that you and I, that when he David said when he waited on the Lord, it was good for other people around him. It helped other people around him. Do you ever get around someone that was impatient, all worked up, mad, carrying on, all patient? And how does that affect you? I get worked up I get edgy and aggravated if I'm around somebody that's all aggravated and edgy. And David said, you know what, sure is good for other people around me for me to be patient For me to just wait on the Lord just before that helps other people. I think it would help the home life. Amen? Sure helped the home life. Be a little patient Learn to wait on God. Help the church life. Good church. Waiting on God. Waiting on God. Boy, this building project, we're learning to wait on God. And I'll wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. Now, here's the thing. I kind of mentioned it. I didn't mean to. I was trying not to, but I did. Did anybody notice who the penman was In every one of these Psalms I just quoted, David, David, David, David, David, David, David. Of course, God's the author and God moved on him what to write, but I'm suggesting to you God used the lesson, at least at least part of the lesson he learned here in our text tonight, God used that to prepare his heart and mind to record for you and I these lessons, these principles that here we are 4,000 years later, we're studying to apply to our life. Isn't that something? So what David is learning back here in 2 Samuel chapter 2 is what he's learning, what's being incorporated into his life, what's becoming part of his character. Is spilling over into God using that to record the eternal word of God He's preserved for you and I here today. What I'm trying to emphasize is this: the importance of patience The importance of learning to wait on God, the importance of being patient and letting God work things out. David learned not to lean on his own understanding. He did that earlier, didn't work out so well. But he's learning to trust God with all of his heart. Trust in the Lord with all his heart. He's learning to wait patiently on the Lord's leadership. Here's one. He's learning to wait patiently on God's timing. I have no problem with God's working in my life. What I get frustrated with is God's timing in my life. I want God to do it and I want Him to do it when Right now, I don't want to wait on God. But I found it's a whole lot better wait on God's timing. God is never late, seldom early. He's always what? On time. So just wait on him, just trust him Oh, when's God going to answer this prayer? Just wait on him. His timing, his timing. And so David learned to wait on patiently on the Lord's timing. Patience is what I want to talk about tonight. Patience is one of the most important virtues in life. We've heard that, we know that, we understand it in our heads. But I want to add this. You've heard the statement, patience is the greatest virtue. Anybody ever hear that statement? Sure. That's very well known. Everybody agrees with that. But let me modify a little bit. Not only is patience the greatest virtue, I think patience is one of the most difficult virtues to learn. Difficult. Patience doesn't come easy. I pray for patience. I want it right now. I gotta learn it. It's one of the most difficult. Take your Bible, if you would, and come with me to James chapter number one. You can't hardly preach on patience and not reference James chapter one. Difficult. Patience is a very difficult virtue. Now I've come across a few folks, maybe you could think of someone, I've come across a few folks who seem like they were naturally patient. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It just seems you ever meet someone you say this about a man, nothing rattles them. You ever meet somebody like that? I mean they are just calm and cool and collect Probably, I can't answer for everybody, but I venture to say there's probably a reason that they are that way. Look at James chapter 1, and let's uh verse number 2, 3, and 4. My brethren, now here's the toughie. We preached on this not too long ago. Counted all joy. What's that next word? When, not if. Count it all joy when ye fall into diverse temptations. You could put in the margin of your Bible trials there, adversity, difficulties. That's what he's talking about. When you fall into diverse temptations, now the next statement is emphatic. Knowing this, not guessing or hoping, or maybe knowing this That the trying of your faith worketh what? Patience. The trying of your faith. Not the ease of our faith, not the comfort of our faith, not the What's the opposite of trying? Testing? The opposite would be soothing of your faith. It's the trying of your faith that worketh patience And he says, but let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire. It means mature, complete, wanting nothing. Patience is tough. It's learned, it's developed by the trying of our faith, by adversity, difficulties, hardships. If you see a patient Christian, you see a Christian, and you say that Christian is awfully patient You could, now I don't recommend you bet, but you could probably bet on the fact that they've been through some trials. They've been through some difficulties They've had the trying of their faith. And so patience is one of the most important virtues, greatest virtues in life But it's also one of the most difficult things. Here's what I notice in the Bible. The Bible deals with life, particularly the Christian life, as a long-term endeavor. We think of Christianity as a sprint, you know, a short little thing, zing, just take off and run. But it's really not that. When I was in Uh junior high school, I think maybe ninth grade, some around there. They got the grades all divide up different now than when we were young And um but um uh I think it was like seventh, eighth, ninth grade, somewhere around in there, I ran on cross country track team. I know you can look at me and tell that obviously he was a runner. Huh? Yeah, amen. And I ran that thing. And you know you know what I found out When you're gonna run that marathon, that race, that cross country race, you gotta think long term. You gotta think long term. You don't just because you're in the lead the first fifty yards doesn't mean you're in the lead You've got to pace yourself. You've got to think ahead. And I think the Bible teaches us in various places throughout Scripture, we've got to look at the Christian life as a long-term thing. Praise the Lord. Day by day, day by day. We say that often. I do what I do need to do today. But God's working in long term. It's long term. It's lifelong. And so let's think about this thing of patience. My first thought tonight, very quickly, is this. The definition of patience. Did you ever stop and try and define what patience is. I do a lot of word studies. I study words. That's my life almost. Patience How would you define patience? Somebody they don't know what patience is, and you're going to explain it to them. How would you define patience? Somebody talk to me. Waiting. So there's a little more to it than just waiting. Here's a patient person. What does that mean? It means they're Calm would be part of it, I think. Anybody else? Here's a patient person. I know it's you're not used to thinking. Relaxed, tolerant? Anybody else? I know what you're thinking, you're thinking he's going to tell us anyway, so why should I bother? Here's what I come up with. This is from Webster's 1828 dictionary. Means he defined it this way: To suffer affliction Pain, toil, and inconvenience with a calm, unruffled temper And then he kind of expanded on that, and he said, to suffer affliction, pain, toil, inconvenience, look at this. Without murmuring, fretfulness, or irritation. Sounds pretty good to me, right? To sit there and wait. I'm not ruffled. I'm not getting worked up. I'm not irritated. I'm not fretful. Just patient. Uh another somebody else put it this way. The ability to wait without irritation. Very similar. I put this down. I kind of took what these guys were saying And uh put this down. The ability to wait with contentment. I'm content with waiting. That's pretty I think I think that's the best definition everybody came up with with really. Contentment. I'm waiting, but I'm just content. Aren't you aren't you in a hurry? Yeah, well uh here's one, brother. Uh waiting in traffic. And I was downtown Oakland. There was three cars in front of me at the stop sign. It was just terrible traffic, Jim. And uh Well, Kathy and I used to joke, we moved here from Denver, just outside Denver, Boulder. Brother, you talk about traffic. And then uh, of course, I grew up in Philly We come here. And man, Oakland was crowded today. There was at least 15 cars down there in front of sheets. But to sit there and wait But to be perfectly content. Wow, that's that's a challenge. So the definition of contentment might boiled it down to the ability to wait with contentment. I'm not irritated, I'm not ruffled, I'm not getting worked up, I'm not murmuring, just contented, waiting with contentment Generally, it has the idea of being optimistic. Oh, here's another definition I found. This one was interesting. Optimistic or hopeful endurance. I'm waiting, but I'm very optimistic. It's going to work out. It's going to get there. We'll eventually get there. It'll be alright. If you ever get worked up and somebody's with you and they and they Usually the wife to the husband gets all worked up and their wife's saying, Honey, it's gonna be fine. Don't don't worry, it'll be all right. Just calm down Now, fellas, see how many guys got guts. Anybody been there? Yeah, a few fellas. Others are liars. But um I can say it, my wife's not here, but uh It'll be alright. Just calm down. That's patience. They're saying, be patient, be patient. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that was patient? Of course, you always think of Job, the patience of Job. Now he did pretty good, uh, but he did struggle You'll read through Jobs. He he he was patient, he was waiting on the Lord, but uh he fretted a little bit. In fact, I was just reading the other day uh where he said he wished he'd never been born But I won't have to go through that. Now I'm not I'm not trying to talk bad about Job for Pete's sake. Good night. I can't imagine in the situation he was in But I thought of Job, can you think of somebody else in the Bible that was very patient? They didn't get worked up, they didn't start saying things they regretted saying, or uh throwing things around or going on. Alright, Joseph is one that I thought of. Uh Noah was twenty 120 years building the ark. Of course we don't have any records, so we assuming he was very patient there. Uh who'd you say? Lord J Jesus, we're going to get to that. But I thought of Joseph. If you study all the injustices that Joseph faced, And all the the we would the world would put it this way, all the bad luck that befell Joseph. And you know, I look through that, I can't find one place where Joseph gets worked up I can't find one place where he's hollering and screaming, throwing stuff around, cussing anybody out. Uh he's just patient. He don't say a word when they put him in The pit, his brothers. You don't hear anything there. There's no record of him being sold. Uh the only place I can find is when he's in the prison in in Egypt, and the two butler and the um um The the the but the butler and the baker. Where was the butcher? He won there as the butler and the baker. Um The only time I can find where he was, it might have you could call with impatience, he said, listen, when you get up there, tell Pharaoh that I'm innocent, that I've been down here. That's the closest thing you can find to impatience on his part. So patience is the ability to wait With contentment. Contentment. Just be at peace. How many people say, I'm not there yet? I'm not there yet Yeah, yeah. So number one, my first thought tonight is the definition of a patience, and the more I understand what it is, the more I realize I am woefully lacking in that department The second thing I want us to consider in the little time we have left is the acquiring of patience. Say, well, preacher, how do I get patience? Well, I put three down. There's perhaps others and not, and I'll say this right up front. I am not an expert on patience, to say the least. I'm a student of patience, maybe. I'm a patient of patience. But number one, I put this down. To acquire a patience. How do I develop patience in my life? I put it this way. Number one, I need to change my view of my trials Or I need to change my assessment of the trials I go into. Are you still in James there? You still got your Bible open at James? Look what he says here. Count it all joy. When you fall into diverse temptations, why in the world would I count it joy to fall into diverse temptations? What in the world? Well, the reason is knowing this That the trying of your faith worketh patience, works out, develops patience in my life So what God is telling us here in James, what God is telling us, hey, when that trial comes, when that temptation, that affliction, that difficulty, when that comes, you've got to change your perspective of it. You gotta see it as not as something out to destroy me and ruin me, but it's out to develop me and make me stronger. And I think when I get to the point, now this is this is easier preached than practiced. So when I get to the point where I can see a an affliction, a heartache, a disappointment, and I can s I can say, you know I'm going to count this joy because this will develop patience in me, and that patience will develop spiritual maturity and strengthen my faith. You follow my thinking? But if I view that trial, if I understand this passage correctly, if I view that trial, that disappointment, that uh heartache As an enemy, as something bad, and uh I get angry at it and I get frustrated, then I'm not going to learn to be patient and my spiritual development will be um uh uh hindered and I'm not going to be as strong and mature in my faith And so if I want to learn to be patient, if I'm going to develop patience, I've got to view, I've got to change my assessment of the difficulties, the things that come in my life, and try me, and try my patience. And try my faith. I gotta view them as joy. I gotta view, I gotta assess them as, all right, this is something God's doing in my life. Make sense? And so if I want to acquire patience, I've got to change my view and my assessment of my trials. Trial, in and of itself, is bad. But a trial in the hands of God is a tool to develop me and strengthen me. Number two, I put this down. I put three down steps, things we can do to acquire patience. Number one, change my assessment of my trials. Number two, yield to the Holy Spirit. Go over to Galatians chapter five real quick. Galatians chapter 5. We preached on this just recently also. I thought it was interesting. Joy and patience are very closely linked in the Bible. Galatians chapter 5 and verse 22. In fact, I'll go so far to say this: when you and I are impatient, we're probably not very joyful. Right? You find an impatient person, you generally find somebody who doesn't have much joy. Patient person, on the other hand, look at this. It's a free It's a fruit of the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 22, Galatians 5. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. What's that next word? Long suffering. Gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. Long suffering. Anybody want to try and define long suffering? Patience. It means to suffer a long time. In other words, to put I've been putting up with you for a long time. Don't look at your spouse. What he's talking about there is patience. One of the fruits of the Holy Spirit is to be able to be in a situation that's uncomfortable, a situation maybe that in and of itself is unpleasant. But I'm able to be in that for a long time and yet have all this fruit of the Spirit. Be patient. Be patient. I don't know about you, but that's encouraging to me. Because a lot of times I feel woefully inadequate to develop patience in and of myself. My wife says, you got to be patient. I am It's hard to work it up. But if I can just say, you know, I'm going to put this whole thing in God's hands I'm just going to trust the Lord, put this all in God's hands. I'm just going to yield myself, God. This is your will. I'm going to die to self. I'm going to get myself out of the picture. My will out of the picture. Not my will, but thy will be done. The Holy Spirit can fill me. And then the Holy Spirit produces that patience. I don't have to try and somehow work it up. I just yield to the Lord. I put it in God's hands. It's a matter of faith. Humility is a key ingredient in patience when I humble myself and die to self and say, not my will, thy will be done, and the Lord can fill me with this. spirit and uh produce that fruit in my life. And then I put this one down. I must pattern myself after the Lord Jesus. This is what Dale referenced here. In Hebrews chapter number 12, verse 1 and 2, it says he says that for the joy that was set before him, Jesus endured the cross. Let me read it there. Romans chapter 12, verse 1. Wherefore, seeing also we are encompassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, I think he's referring to Hebrews 11, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience. The race that is set before us. And then he says, this is how you do it. Verse 2: looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith Who, for the joy that was set before him, what? Endured the cross. He was patient. He endured the cross, despised and shame, sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Jesus didn't enjoy the cross. He said, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, unless not my will, thy will be done. He was yielded to the Lord. And he very patiently went through all that mistreatment and all that physical pain and torture and murder, killed him. Most horrific death you can imagine. And yet, not a word of complaint. Not a word of discontentment. Patiently endured that because he knew what was on the other side. And I tell you, when you and I, listen, when you and I get irritated for some little thing we got to wait on, I think it would help us heat. So we just stop for a moment and think back what Jesus Christ did for us. And the patience he displayed and think, man, you know, this really isn't much. This really is not something to sacrifice my spiritual growth over, my spiritual development So, how do we acquire this patience? So I'll change my view of trials, yield to the Holy Spirit, pattern myself after the Lord Jesus, and let me real quickly, you guys are being very patient, let me give you my third thought on patience, the fruit of patience. What do I get out of this if I'm patient? Well, number one, it develops our faith. We already looked at that in James. Makes me stronger. I see how God worked this out. I see how God, in his timing, uh brought some good out of this and and uh accomplished his will. I see how God used all of this and so Uh man, I have greater, stronger faith in God than the next time a trial comes, I remember, you know, he got me through that last one I wait. I'm just going to wait on God. I'm just going to be patient. Let him be lead me in and direct me in his timing. And then lo and behold, God comes through again. Boy, my faith is even stronger. And so one thing it does is it develops our faith when we learn to practice patience. Number two, it develops our spiritual gifts. I think very seldom are spiritual gifts discovered and developed in a brief period of time. It's usually over a lengthy period of time, just being faithful to the Lord, waiting on God, young person or a person gets saved. And they say, well what a what what a what is God uh what's God going to do with me? Well you just wait on the Lord, trust him, walk with him, trust him. God's timing, he'll lead you, he'll direct you Paul gave a very strong caution to Timothy in 1 Timothy chapter number 3 and verse 6. He's talking about the office of the pastor, the bishop. And he says, one thing you should not allow happen is do not allow a novice to hold the position of Esther, of the bishop. Lest he be filled with pride. And I think one of the aspects that he's saying there is that young person needs time to develop their spiritual gift, to develop their spiritual strength and maturity, it takes time. One thing about the Christian life, it takes time to grow People grow at different rates, but it is a lifelong endeavor, and um when we learn to be patient and we can Learn and develop our spiritual gifts and it enables us to develop. Number three, let me go through these quickly. I put this down. It deepens our relationships with others. If we learn to be patient with another person, our relationship with them is helped. Anybody agree with that You're always impatient. That person, I'm impatient with, I'm patient with. I'm not gonna I'm gonna have a very shallow relationship with somebody if I'm very, very impatient. And I learned to, you know, take things with a grain of salt and take things calm, just calm down and uh listen to them, get to know them, give it time. If I'm patient with somebody, I learn to understand them a little bit. I see where they're coming from. Here's the thing in our society, and with this social media, a statement's made and everybody blows up and reacts and Don't even give it time to find out what in the world is the story behind it, what in the world took place. Just be patient. See how it play see how it plays out. Deepens our relationship. I put this down, develops our sympathies. We learn to be patient with other people. We tend to be more compassionate. More compassionate. You know, somebody has a little idiosyncrasy or somebody something irritates you or you get impatient with somebody about something. You know, a lot of times there's a reason they're that way. A lot of times there's something there that's that's hurting them, something they're struggling with. And if I learn to be patient with that person, over time maybe I'll say, oh, okay, now I understand why they struggle with that. And you get on the elevator and sometimes I mentioned something along these lines recently, you get on the elevator and somebody there, uh, and man they just look stern and angry and you think they're grouch You never know, they might have just gotten the report that they have terminal cancer. A person at Walmart that is in that's just rude and and something going on. Now there's no justification for being rude or unkind, but I wouldn't venture to say there may be a reason. Their spouse may have just left them last night. They're trying to do their job and work and their heart is broken. And we learn to be patient with people, we tend to learn to empathize with them a little bit and be a little more compassionate towards them. I found patient people are generally very compassionate people. It develops, I put this one down, develops positive attitudes. It gives us time to see God come through. Oh, this is terrible. Everything's terrible. Well, just be patient, wait. See if God comes through and then after a while develops more of a positive attitude. I put this one down. Develops a healthier mind and body. Cheerful heart doeth good like medicine, we're told in Proverbs, doeth good like medicine. When I'm impatient, I'm usually not very cheerful. Right? When we're cheerful, it's better for us physically and healthy. Uh I heard a preacher years ago on the radio about well, I think I was out in Colorado somewhere, I forget where we live, in Indiana maybe. I was listening to a guy on the radio, and he told the story of a guy that was sick and was terminally ill. And they gave him so long to live. And he got reading his Bible and he read in Proverbs, a cheerful heart doeth good like medicine, and he looked up the word cheerful, and it had the idea of just laughing, just belly laughing. So he got all the slapstick comedy he could find, the old time stuff, three stooges and um Laurel and Hardy and all this, and he just watched that every day and he would get laughing. The preacher said, That guy got laughing. And he would just belly laughing on the watching these guys just cracked up. And you know what? His body started to improve. And the preacher said that over time That uh he his health improved enough where what they thought was going to kill him, didn't. Now I got news for you. Eventually something's gonna get us, all right But what they said at the time, and the point he was trying to make is if we can maintain a cheerful countenance, if we can maintain a cheerful heart, it's a whole lot better for us physically and patience Enables us to do that. And then let me give you the last one here. And this one's important. Patience will diminish foolish actions. Foolish actions. Some of the stupidest stuff we say and do, some of the most hurtful stuff we say and do, we do it when we're impatient with somebody. And we'll say something, we'll react in a way. It's all because we get worked up, we're not patient with them. And how many foolish decisions have been made and foolish actions taken? Because we failed to wait on God, we failed to be patient. David's learning here to be patient All the circumstances. David, the door's open. March back there. God's anointed you king. That is clear. You go back there. David says, hold it, hold it, hold it. Let's just wait a minute. Let's just take our time. I'm gonna wait here a little bit and I'm gonna pray. Make sure this is the right timing the right way. Patience. I was reading about Adurnairam Judson. How many people recognize that name? And an iron judson was seven years on the mission field before he had one convert. Seven years. He left England. Uh he left everything. He came to the uh Papua New Guinea, I think it was, and uh um and uh uh He got there and uh worked and worked and worked seven years, not one convert. Therefore a while they threw him in prison. For preaching the gospel. He's translating the Bible in prison in their language. And um one of the fellow prisoners, or maybe it was one of the guards, came to him And they said, uh, well, Mr. Adonairam Judson, you come here with your gospel and your God. How do the prospects for the gospel look now? He's in prison, no converts. He made a tremendous statement. He said, the future is as bright as the promises of God. Isn't that a great statement? And he was patient. By the time he left, souls were saved, churches were started, the Bible was translated into their language, but he was patient. He was patient. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to be patient. Lord, we know it's not an easy lesson to learn, it's not an easy virtue to develop. But God, you've given us your Holy Spirit. You said that one of the fruits of the Spirit is to be long-suffering. And I pray you would teach us to be yielded to you. See our trials and difficulties from your perspective. And then Lord, just to pattern ourselves after the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would like me uh would join me in saying I need God to help me develop my patience? How many like that? Goodness. Certain certainly do. Who in the world wouldn't be that way So maybe we just need to uh look at our trials differently. Uh maybe we need to learn to yield, die to self, humble ourselves, just yield to the Holy Spirit. Lord, you take over. Then maybe we need to just remember what Jesus Christ went through. And pattern ourselves after him. Father, bless our imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand