Ephesians chapter number five with me, Ephesians five. And I'm looking at the crowd tonight. This doesn't look like a big trick-or-treating type of crowd this evening, but um I haven't done this for a long time. I spoke on the subject of Halloween. And I just felt like um Uh something would be a helpful thing this evening. And so uh I trust uh God can use it and help us. A little behind getting set up here. Let me get things in place Ephesians chapter five. I'm going to read begin reading in verse number six. And if you would follow along as we go down and I think we'll be able to take the truths we present tonight and make it um uh applicable to our lives and uh how it fits in with us. But notice verse six of Ephesians chapter five. By the way, I appreciate Kathy at the piano today Did a good job. That's a blessing. Jennifer's is it Caleb Jacob is uh very s Jackson, the littlest, is very sick, having to have breathing treatment. So keep little Jackson in your prayers, but appreciate Kathy at the piano today Verse 6. Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Now look at his statement in verse 7. Be not ye therefore partakers with them. For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness. and righteousness and truth, proving what is acceptable unto the Lord. Now look at verse 11. And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light, for whatsoever doth make manifest is light Therefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise Redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Wherefore, be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is Uh Halloween and the Christian. Where does this event fit in our lives? Let's pray. And I'll just share some things with you I trust to be helpful. Father, bless our study tonight. Lord, it's becoming Uh I I've believed this for years, Lord, but it's becoming clearer in my mind how sinful this world really is, our own hearts really are. And how out of place the children of God are in this world. So help us to live by your word. Help us to perceive things and understand things in light of the truth of the Word of God. And I ask you to bless us, Lord, I pray, and fill me with your spirit. Again, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Halloween on its surface. I know when we were little it wasn't an issue Uh we grew up in a fairly conservative home when I was real small, went to a very conservative uh church, a different denomination, but Uh mom and dad would dress us up and send us out on Halloween, go out trick-or-treating. When I got a little bit older, I know this is hard for you to believe, but we when I got a little bit older, we would go out the night before Halloween. And uh it was called um uh mischief night is what we called it. How many folks ever heard of that? Or I think someplace they call it devil's night and all that type of thing. Anyone know what I'm talking about Uh it's hard to believe, but we would go out and uh we would soap up windows and teepee houses and do all those types of things How many folks are shocked and amazed that your pastor as a young teenager would do that? Thank you very much. Two men two liars in the back. Um So it all looks like innocent thought. Oh come on, preacher, the kids dressing up like Miss Piggy and going out and getting uh gifts and stuff and uh what is all of that? But if you Take a closer look at Halloween. There's a dark side to it that uh I think a lot of times we just don't really give a whole lot of thought to. I found this out a number of years ago, and initially it surprised me, but now it's become very obvious. Halloween, according to the financial world and the uh the business world statistics is the second most popular holiday of the year. The most popular as far as buying things and investing money into it, of course, is Christmas. But Halloween comes in number two. That's interesting. What is it About Halloween that makes it so appealing, that makes it so popular. Hollywood views Halloween as a cash crop time of year If you'll watch the advertisements carefully, and I don't necessarily recommend it's a great thing to do, but if you will, you're going to notice about September, October, Hollywood starts pumping out some of their big uh investment b high dollar movies and they have to do with horror and gore paranormal activities Which is just a fancy way of talking about demonic, whether it's actual or um uh um not active, what's the word I want, whether it's actual demonic activity or portrayed. These are huge, huge money-making subjects for the for Hollywood. They have figured out there is something in the nature of man. That is morbidly attracted to the darkness, to the violent To the satanic. There's something in the nature of man that captures our imagination. Hollywood's picked up on this And it has it has portrayed itself, it has manifested itself in this holiday we call Halloween. Now I'm going to give a few introductory thoughts. First of all, I don't think uh there's nothing wrong with having special holidays. There's nothing wrong with that. I like Christmas. Amen. I like it. Uh we like decorating a little bit and we have we'll talk about that when it gets Christmas. I like Christmas. I like giving presents and I like getting presents. Uh I like birthdays. Can I get a witness? Yeah, hardly anybody ever goes by and doesn't know when my birthday is. I want people to know when my birthday is. I like birthdays, I like going to birthday parties, I like uh special holidays, I like Fourth of July, I love having our big picnic and decorating and doing all that stuff. I there's nothing wrong with special holidays. So, number two, this second thought, in every activity we do, now there's nothing wrong with having a special day. Alright, having a special day on October 31st. There's nothing wrong in and of itself. But the second thing we need to consider that every activity we do, there's two issues we need to keep in mind. Number one, what is our motivation? Why am I doing this? According to First Corinthians chapter ten and verse thirty one For the child of God, for the person that's been saved, whether I eat or drink or whatever I do, I'm to do for what reason For the glory of God, that's to be my motive. In anything I partake in, whether it's eating or drinking I'm to do that for the glory of God, to exalt the Lord, to give an accurate impression of the Lord So if I'm engaging in a in a holiday type thing, a festive type thing, my ultimate motive behind that is to bring glory to God. By the way, that's to be the motive for everything we do here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church This is the body of Christ. So we get up to preach a message and I I have to constantly keep a check on myself. What is my motive for preaching that message? To draw attention myself Or to draw people's attention to the Lord Jesus Christ. Of course, the motive is the Lord Jesus Christ. Same thing in our Sunday school classes, same thing on the special music, all of it. And so we could go off on that But everything we do is to be done for the glory of God. You cannot, it's possible to take a good thing And do it with a bad motive. Would you agree with me on that? It's possible to sing a good biblical Christ-honoring song, but with a bad motive. Right? To exalt myself. Can I since we're preaching against something sort of tonight, can I just get some stuff off my chest? Can I gripe a little bit? I don't care whether you agree with what say it's okay or not. But uh you know what irks me These uh country and western guys will sing about drinking and adultery and carrying on, then they'll tack a little hymn on at the end of their concert, and somehow that makes everything right. That's balloony. Uh what is the motive behind that? It's possible to take something good and have a bad motive behind it. And to stain it. So uh uh so what there's two things I have to consider. One, what is my motive behind this? And here's another one that's important. What is the message I am communicating Through my involvement in this. This is an old illustration. You know what the how this is going to go when I as soon as I start it. But there is anything is there anything wrong with me drinking a Coca-Cola No, there's nothing wrong with that at all. I can go to uh Walmart, go up and get a six pack of coats, sit out in the parking lot, drink a Coca-Cola. There's nothing wrong with that. I can sit in the in the church fellowship back here, drink a c uh Coca-Cola. It's not communicating anything negative. What if I would go down to um uh Long Branch Saloon and sit at the bar. Park there, drive in, bands playing. I assume they have a band. Ed told me they do. And um Uh there's a band playing there and uh I sit at the bar and uh I'm drinking it would that be something uh would be good? No. Why? Because of the message I'm communicating The appearance of evil, exactly. And so I have to stop and consider. There's nothing wrong with having a holiday. If I'm going to engage in anything, I need to consider two things. One, what's my motive for getting involved in it? And number two Is it something I can do for the glory of God? Number two, what message does this communicate by me getting involved in this? By me partaking in it Listen to 1 Corinthians 8 verse 9. Take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. In other words, a question, can a person uh can uh can a person go and drink a Coca-Cola at Long Branch Saloon, drink a Coca-Cola there, and uh come home and get killed if they're saved, do they still go to heaven? Sure. Sure, I I have liberty. I can do that. It doesn't affect my salvation. I have liberty. But wait a minute, could that possibly be a stumbling block to someone else? Absolutely Absolutely. So I need to consider what I'm doing here. Is this could this cause someone else to stumble? Brother George mentioned it, 1 Thessalonians 5:22. Abstain from all what Appearance of evil. God says we should be very, very careful that what we're doing doesn't even look like it's something wrong. And so, uh, number one, nothing wrong with special holidays. They're fine, Christmas, all that. And can we do that for the glory of God? Uh can we have a patriotic holiday for the glory of God? I think absolutely Number two, is it uh I must consider two things. What's my motivation? What's the message behind it? Uh number three, here's the third thought by way of introduction. Uh we have a very direct command Concerning the works of darkness. Look at verse 11 of our text that we went to this evening. Look at this. And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness. But rather, in other words, he's saying here, all right, here's something that's associated with spiritual darkness. Don't have fellowship with it. But then he says, don't say neutral about it either. But rather do what? Reprove it. Now, what does it mean to have fellowship with an unfruitful work of darkness? Well, the word fellowship there means to be a partaker in. To be involved in it. We talk about having a fellowship meal. And I think really we've uh we modern Christians have done that word fellowship a lot of disservice. The biblical definition of fellowship and our understanding of fellowship are two very different things. In the Bible, when they had fellowship, it meant they were serving the Lord together. They were all involved in whatever that service was. For instance, track month. We get a busload of people, we go out. That's biblical fellowship. We're all involved partaking in an effort to do something for God. Or even on a broader scale through the whole month as people take tracks and we're working in a concerted effort To get as many gospel tracts as we can to the lost people. That is biblical fellowship, being involved together. So he says, don't have fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness. Don't be involved in that. Don't partake in that. But rather reprove. And the word reprove there, and it brings this out all through this passage of scripture. It has the idea of bringing light to something. Shedding light on something, exposing it. So he's saying, listen, don't get involved in the unfruitful works of darkness, whatever they are. Don't get involved in them. Don't be a f partake in fellowship with that. But rather shed light on it. Expose it for what it is. The word rebuke there, do you ever have something, a concept, and you really you weren't following what they were saying, they said, hey, shed some light on that for me. Anybody ever familiar with that phrase? I need you to shed some. Let me shed some light on that. In other words, uh let me see it for what it is. Let me understand it. And that's what he says. These unfruitful works of righteousness of darkness, we as believers are to shed light on it. Expose it for what it is. And so we have a very direct command concerning the works of darkness. Rather than joining in and taking part in spiritual darkness, we're to expose it and rebuke it. Now, I put this down. Rather than Christianizing a celebration of darkness, a celebration of death A celebration of fear, we are to rebuke it. We're to spread shed light on it. For instance, and we'll get into what Halloween's all about and you know what it's all about. But for instance, when I was um uh down in Tennessee We had a huge bus ministry down there. I've talked about it before. They bring in 1800 kids, average 1,800 kids on the buses a Sunday morning. Can you imagine that? Ran 42 buses when I was there Uh I drove a bus in the morning, Dorn's morning church, got back home, swallowed um lunch, wolfed it down, hopped back on the bus, ran it out Sunday afternoon. Brought in another several hundred kids, preached to them, ran the bus home, got back just in time to go to church Sunday evening. That was our Sunday. The guy that was in charge of the bus ministry, 42 buses, however many workers it was, three or four hundred workers in the bus ministry, he got a great idea. He said, we're going to build a haunted bus route. And uh we're gonna go down these alleyways and the church had all this property, we'll do all this. He never cleared it with the pastoral leadership. He is cooking on himself. And so they made this little Halloween haunted bus route, and we bring the kids in, we preach to them. And the whole motive for all of this was to win the kids to the Lord That's what we were trying to do. We were bringing them in. And uh when they started promoting this, I thought, you know, I got a bad feeling about this. And uh anyway, we took the kids down a little alleyway. Do you remember this? You weren't there then. Praise the Lord. She'd have been scarred for life. And um, worse than she is. But um Why do I say that? I don't know. And uh we're taking this buses down and they got this stuff hanging and these dead bodies come. Ugh And uh these ghosts and all this stuff and the kids, ah, you know. We had um the we had these little black kids down there in their house, you know. It was hilarious. And um uh and scared the daylights out of those kids. And afterward, I got thinking, I don't think that was a good idea. You know what we were trying to do? And by the way, the pastoral leadership found out about that and they put the kibosh on that. That never happened again. You know what we were doing? We were trying to take some works of darkness, death and murder and violence, and we were trying to Christianize it. With the idea of winning people to the Lord. And I came out of that with this conclusion: that's not right. That's not biblical. You don't take the works of darkness and try and Christianize them and make them an evangelistic tool. What you do is, according to my the passage here, you rebuke it. You expose it for what it is. You compare that whole mentality with Scripture and see how it matches up. The most important thing in a Christian's life is this. To glorify the Lord Jesus Christ. It's the most important thing. And I would put second right up there with that is to obey our God. Say, oh Brother Latherman, the most important thing in the world is to win souls to Jesus Christ. I agree with you, that's very important, but I never disobey God in order to win souls. I never do something that does not glorify God in order to win souls. Listen, if we're going to make winning souls the number one priority, then What don't you think selling beer, having a an Oktoberfest beer, we could get huge crowds out and witness to them. But you know what that would be? That would be disobedience to God. And so, um I learned some things. Now let's look at Halloween real quickly here, and you're going to be amazed at how quickly we look at this. Number one, I want us to consider Halloween's history. And for many of you, this is nothing new Halloween is a religious holiday. It really is. It's not a patriotic holiday. It's not a neutral just uh it's not like Veterans Day or uh it's not like Memorial Day or Labor Day. It's a religious holiday And it was first celebrated by the Druids in pre-Christian England. How many folks ever heard of the Druids? The Druids were priests in the pagan religion. This has become more and more popular all the time. They were the sorcerers. They would often sacrifice human beings. Supposedly, these pagan priests called Druids, supposedly, they were able to summon storms up. And of course in Wales and Ireland and England that whole islands there, of course, uh they were uh storms were a big factor in their existence. And supposedly these druins had these powers that they could summon storms and they could put curses on people. They could kill people by casting certain spells On October 31st, in the pagan religion of the Druid, in the pagan religion, October 31st was called a vigil of Samhain. Samhain was the god of death. False god, of course, doesn't exist. But they worshiped this god of death, this god of darkness. Me, in studying this, I came to the conclusion that Samhain, they were worshiping none other than Satan himself. The God of death, the God of darkness. Come on. October 31st, the Druids oversaw this worship. What happened was how this came about was in the pagan religion, they worshiped the sun as a god. And of course, as it got into fall and the sun, the earth axis tilting, the days got shorter. And they perceived in their mind that the sun god was losing power. Because the days were getting shorter, and the god Samhane, the god of darkness, was gaining in power. Because the days were getting shorter, the nights were getting longer. And so they wanted to appease this God of darkness, this God of death. And so they established this holiday to appease the uh Sam uh Samhain. And they viewed that day as the day when those who had died the previous year would rise from the dead under the power of this God of darkness, and they would haunt the living. This was the pagan understanding. And um uh and so what the Druids instructed the followers to do, and this developed over hundreds of years. What they instructed the followers to do was they would paint themselves hideous, and they would wear these hideous masks, of course, nothing like we have today. But uh these hideous masks and all that, and they were to wear them as the sun set on this 31st of October. The purpose of wearing these masks was twofold. One was to, first of all, one of them was to scare off these evil spirits. These folks that had died previous in the year, their souls would come up out of the grave. And the people would wear these hideous masks, and the souls of those who died would see them and ah get away. They'd float away, I guess. The other purpose was to confuse the evil spirits. And they would see them in all this hideous makeup, and they would think, oh, that's one of our evil spirits. Don't bother them. That's one of us. And so they had this in their imagination they would wear these things to scare off the souls of those who had died and confuse the evil spirits and thus try and have some peace. The chief aspect of this vigil of Samhain that was October 31st. Are you still with me? Is this interesting? The chief, I don't care if it's interesting or not, I'm going to preach it whether you're interested or not. The chief aspect of this visual of Samhain was this. The Druids would take a prisoner of war that had been captured that year, or a criminal that's being held in prison, or some low-life type person. And they would torture and kill them in a very violent way. And they would observe very carefully how they died. And depending on how long it took for them to die, or how much they writhed in pain, or if they were quiet and just died quietly, they had all these factors, and that was supposedly an indicator Of what the next year was going to be as far as their crops and how prosperous they would be and whatnot. And there were certain characteristics they looked for in the death of these poor souls. And uh to determine whether they were going to have a good or bad future. So, October 31st. I mean, we're talking back BC. Uh, we're talking back a long time ago. Forty-seven years after Christ, 47 A. D. , Rome, Great Roman Empire, conquered England Of course, Rome at that point was pagan itself. So they this didn't matter. It wasn't a factor. It was just now a new political entity ruled England, Wales and Scotland and all that, Ireland. And um uh Rome took over here. Of course, in three hundred AD, uh the Roman Emperor Constantine Declared Christianity to be the official Roman religion. He had solved some ridiculous vision and had all his army baptized. Now they're all Christian. That was the beginning of the Roman Catholic Church. It was when church and state were united. Well, for that was 300 A. D. In 500 and 600 A. D. , late 500, early 600 A. D. , Pope Gregory Said, he didn't say these exact words, but he said, you know what guys? There's a bunch of those druids and pagans up in England, those islands. We need to send a bunch of folks up there and Christianize those folks, those pagans. And so they send a bunch of uh uh monks, I guess, and different Catholic missionaries. And they went up there and instead of converting the pagans to Christ, And this has become Catholic practice over the years. Instead of converting the pagans to Christ through the biblical gospel, All they did was took what the pagans were doing and Christianized it. They were impressed with the power that the Druids had over their people. They were impressed with the organization of their religion and the effectiveness of what they were doing. And so they said, listen, we're not going to change what they're doing. We'll just make what they're doing Christian. And so instead of October 31st, instead of it being The vigil of Samhain, it became all saints, Eve. All saints that have passed away. And so they simply gave Christian names. as quote unquote Christian names and Christ Christian symbols to a very pagan pagan practice That continued on. Roman Catholic Church declared October 31st to be a holiday celebrating the death of the saints. And you know what influence that had on the Druid practice? Making it all Christian, knew what influence it had? None. Jewish just kept right on doing. You can call whatever you want. This is what we're doing. And they kept right on doing what they're doing. And so in night in 1840, You have this huge influx of Irish Catholics to the New World, United States of America. And um All these Irish Catholics are coming into New York City and spreading throughout, and they are introducing to the United States of America this idea of an all Halloween's Eve. All Saints Eve. Did you know that that was initially forbidden by the leadership of the United States government? When they first started introducing this, the government said that's not a good thing. We don't want that part of our culture. But it became so popular and it became uh so ingrained into the Irish Catholic practice that finally any opposition to it just faded out By the 1900s, it became extremely popular. And by to our day and age, now it is absolutely eat up with witchcraft And all this stuff, which is direct descendant of the Druids practice back in BC days. And so that's Halloween's history. It is a religious holiday. The Catholic Church, as they tried this all around the world, simply, rather than converting people to biblical Christianity, simply Christianize their practice and let it go on. They've done that with voodooism down in the Jamaica, down in there. They've done it down in South America and other places around the world. They simply Christianize the pagan practices that are taking place. Give them Christian names Now, my second thought is this. What does Halloween honor? Now stop and think about it with me for a minute. What is it about Halloween? What is being honored in this? What is being that we've always taught in Bible college, you get what you honor. The Bible says in Proverbs, the wicked walk on every side when the vilest of men are exalted. So what is Halloween exalting? What is Halloween praising? What is Halloween celebrating? Well, a number of things. Fear. It's a big factor. Would you agree with me on that? Is everybody still with me out there? Alright, good. Fear is a big factor on uh uh Halloween. Hollywood plays up on that Do you know the Bible says that we've not been given a spirit of fear, of power, and of love, and of sound mind. We learned this morning, the Bible's very clear, we're to fear God. Reverence him. But Halloween plays up on these the fears of man. Darkness. Halloween celebrates darkness. Do you know that God is light? And in him is no darkness at all? Why would we want to have anything to do with that which has nothing to do with God? That's a good quote. Um uh it's a celebration of fear, it's a celebration of darkness, it's a celebration of death Death is not of God. The wages of sin is death. For by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin. It is never, I've never been able to grasp the idea from a Christian perspective why in the world people would want to put tombstones in their front yard. Why in the world would you want to put skeletons on your windows? Now, if you have these at home, I'm not mad at you. I just think you're a knucklehead. Alright? But uh in Christian love, I think that. Um uh I never understood why you'd take mangled mannequins and have like their heads half cut off and blood all over them. What is it about that that's so appealing? I tell you what's so appealing. It's the sinful nature of man is intrigued by that. It's a celebration of fear, darkness, death. It's a celebration of the devil. How many demonic movies are there on TV at Halloween time? How many things to celebrate? You can't go to a uh a department store with selling Halloween masks and not find outfits of the devil. It's a key factor. Now I was kind of reviewing this this afternoon. I got talking to my wife. We do talk, believe it or not. Uh all day long I've been saying you and I have been talking. My tongue has been cut off this week, so it's mostly been her talking, but we talked. I forget what I was we were talking about. I was going over the oh uh the celebration of the devil. Now stop and think with me. The devil is the enemy of God. There's nothing good about him. There's nothing entertaining about him. There's no positive aspects that you can spin concerning the devil. Now, this is what we got saying. I suggested her. I say, can you imagine with me? Now bear with me. You have a daughter, a young daughter, let's say. And some sicko kidnaps her and holds her and molests her and mutilates her over an extended period of time Let's say for sake of illustration, then he kills her. And this guy goes out and he gets away with it. Then, for sake of illustration, imagine your family members and people you know wearing masks. Of this guy that did that to your daughter. And laughing and dancing and having parties. And acting like they're the guy that did that to your child. How many people would be repulsed by that? You know, that is exactly what's happening when people dress up and act like and celebrate the devil. He is a murderer. He's a liar. Every sin that is committed by mankind, every hurt, every tearshed, every sorrow can be traced back to the devil's influence on mankind. Now, why in the world would we want to celebrate anything that has anything to do with the devil? He has hurt, he has killed, he has maimed, and yet We think it's cute. Well we'll dress up and act like him and look like him. And we're gonna decorate our house with things of the devil. You know what that would do to the heart of a mother whose child had been treated that way by someone, and then the whole world celebrates him? Whether mockingly, he said, Oh, we're not serious. I bet it's be serious to that mother. I bet it's serious to our God. So, what does Halloween honor? It honors things that are in direct opposition to our Lord and Savior, everything you and I hold dear. The Bible gives us forbidden practices that are closely associated with Halloween. Deuteronomy 18:10 forbids enchantments. Having charms, casting charms or spells on others. Hypnosis is condemned by scripture. If I understand the Bible correctly. Witchcraft, Deuteronomy 18, Galatians 5. Any type of practice dealing with evil spirits. How many people are familiar with the term Wicca or Wiccan? That's a fancy modern civilized name for good old-fashioned witchcraft. That's all it is Um uh by the way, 25, 30 years ago when I was getting started in the ministry, nobody knew what Wicca was You talk about Wicca, I'd preach the teens, I'd met this lady that was a Wiccan, and that's what I learned about it. I was witnessing to her. I'm using the term lady very loosely there. And um uh and I started preaching, that's Wicca! And all the teens would say, huh? They had no idea what it was on. Now it's TV shows. Now they're stars. Uh the Bible forbids that. Any sort of witchcraft, pantheism, this worship of Mother Earth. Sorcery. Did you know the Bible term for sorcery? The word it comes from is pharmaceutical. It's where we get our words pharmacy, drugs from. I am convinced, now I can speak from experience here, I am convinced that drug abuse is a form of satanic activity. I'm talking about people uh I'm not talking about legitimate medical uses. I'm talking about drug abuse. I'm talking when people take acid and they go on these trips, I am convinced that they are opening themselves up to satanic influence. I think Satan and the devils of Satan use drugs to manipulate and destroy people's lives. I'll tell you what is absolutely abhorrent to me. Is this idea of legalizing marijuana? That's the most ridiculous thing in the world. We are opening ourselves up, uh even more so than what we already are, to demonic influence. That is insane. If we're going to do anything, we ought to outlaw liquor. So, anyway, witchcraft, sorcery Uh divination, Jeremiah twenty-nine, fortune telling, Ouija boards, hey, horoscopes I don't get the newspaper. If I did, I would cut out the horoscopes and throw it away. That's garbage. Predicting future, cards, tea leaves, tarot cards. A friend of mine in Bible college, Charlie Young, he was he's we were talking, he says, Yeah, he said we had a fortune tower in our town, and I was gonna go in and witness to her. He said, I prayed and prayed and prayed. He said I went in there, he said I had to sit there and wait. There were some people ahead of me. He says I was going to go back there and witness to her. He said I got to the door and she goes, That's twenty dollars, please. She goes, well I just want to talk to you. $20. So he thought, well, $20 to witness to her. So he gave her $20. He sat down. He said, before I could say a word, she read his palms, did this little thing, and told his fortune. He walked out of there. I said, I never got a chance to witness to her. I said, you knuckle ahead. I said that in Christian love also. Horoscopes. Necromancy. You know what necromancy is? The Bible forbids it. It's communication with the dead. It's using mediums and channelers to channel those who have already died. Listen to me. Somebody goes to one of these folks, and I if I understand correctly, I think I saw an advertisement. There's a show on TV now that's honoring this woman that's a medium. And she's some big thing. There was a guy, uh Edwards, uh, some years ago, would talk and communicate with people's dead family members. Listen to me, can I tell you what that number one, that's forbidden by God Can I tell you what I think that is? I don't think they're talking to that dead person all. I think they're communicating with devils. I really do. The Bible is very clear. If that person that died is unsaved, they're in hell. They can't get out of there. If they were saved, they're in heaven. They can't come back from heaven. God forbids all of that. And all of this is associated with Halloween and celebrating charms, magic spells, astrology. Magic, violence. Psalms 11:5. God hates violence. My soul hates violence, God says. Gore and horror and death. You get what you honor. The second most popular holiday in the United States of America is a holiday, a religious holiday that is devoted to death. Darkness, demonism, and all that's associated with it. Say, well, we just dress up like Snoopy. I'm telling you, what you're trying to do the exact same thing the Catholic Church did is Christianize something that there's nothing good about it. Now, what's the real horror? Say, oh brother Lemon, if he finds out our kids went trick-or-treating, he'll hate us. No, I won't. I love you. I'm proud to be your pastor. I'm glad you're here tonight and I love you dearly. I think you make a mistake, but I'll tell you what grieves my heart even more than that. Isn't so much Christians letting their kids dress up like Snoopy or Miss Piggy. I think what the real horror is As Christians, not that Christians are celebrating Satan, but that Christians won't celebrate Jesus. You follow what I'm saying? So, well, I just don't get involved in that. Listen, you may you may never have anything to do with Halloween, but if you don't live for Jesus, you're failing just as much. Does that make sense? You follow what I'm saying? The real heart is Christians not celebrating Jesus with our lips and with our lives. Here's my point. This is what I want you to take away. Devil doesn't care whether you celebrate Halloween or not. He could care less as long as you don't obey Jesus. As long as you don't live for the Lord Jesus Christ. But does the devil have a plan for my life? His only plan for your life and my life is that we don't live God's plan for our lives. He didn't care whether you're a drug addict. He doesn't care whether you go out and worship the devil or not, just as long as you don't worship Jesus. I got thinking this past week when my tongue almost it. Next this coming Wednesday is October 31st. For hundreds and hundreds and thousands of years, Satan has captivated the hearts and minds of fallen mankind on this night. The Bible says in Romans, overcome evil with good. Rather than having a party of Christianized Halloween What if we would have the biggest prayer meeting that we have all year long? Halloween night, October 31st. What if we would have the biggest crowd out praying for God's power on our missionaries, God blessing our soul-winning efforts, God purifying our hearts and minds, praying for the fear of God to fall on us? What if we would take that night And overcome Satan's influence on the world with prayer to God in the house of God. What do you think of that? Now we're going to come to the Lord's Supper. And we're going to stop and remember the price that Christ paid for us. And I'll be very honest with you, I don't want the devil to have a part of that. And I want to take a strike back at the devil with overcoming it by doing good. Would you join us this Wednesday night and have a prayer meeting? A prayer meeting where God's people come together on the night that all that nonsense is going on. And let's see if we don't have the presence of God here in a special way. Let's ask God to search our hearts before we come to the Lord's Supper. Say, well, I haven't done nothing with Halloween. No, but if we haven't done what God tells us to, we're not in much better shape. So let's ask the Lord to search our hearts, try our hearts before we come to the Lord's Supper. Father in heaven, we live in an old simple world, Lord. There's a real spiritual warfare going on. And I pray you'd help us to have discernment and spiritual maturity about us that we would love you. We would fear you And we'd live for you clear and bright testimonies that this whole world would know that you've done far more for us than the devil's ever done for anybody. We want you to be glorified in our lives, Lord. I pray you bless our invitation. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Gaki's going to play a few verses of invitation. Maybe God spoke to heart, or maybe you just want to kneel at an altar before we take part in the Lord's Supper, and you just want the Lord to search your heart and try you. As she plays Why don't you slip on out, find a place in old fashioned order, and say, God, I do want you to search my heart. God, I want to come to the Lord's Supper clean and pure and right. Maybe the Lord's dealing with some area of your life that isn't satanic. Good grief. But it isn't spiritual either. It isn't godly. You want to come and do business with the Lord.