First Peter chapter number three, look at verse number one. The Bible says, Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands. That, for the purpose of, if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives Now, he goes on, explains how this can take place, how this takes place. While they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear, Whose adorning, this is speaking to the wives, whose adorning, let it not be the outward adorning of plaiting of the hair and wearing of gold or putting on of apparel, but let it be the hidden man of the heart. in that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. For after this manner, in the fashion he just described here, for after this manner, in old time the holy women also who trusted in God adorned themselves with that meek and quiet spirit. They adorned themselves, being in subjection unto their own husbands. And then he illustrates, verse 6, even as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. Whose daughters ye are, as long as ye do well, and are not afraid with any amazement. I've entitled it, and again, we've been looking at this. This is our third time visiting this. Um I've entitled it The Wife's Witness So let's pray together. Ask the Lord to teach us from this. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our study of this portion of the scriptures. We work our way through 1 Peter. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will, present my body anew. And pray you'd be the preacher tonight, you be the Holy Spirit, you be the one that speaks to our hearts and challenge us, instruct us, and help us, and direct us. So again I ask for the filling of your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Paul or Peter has been dealing with the subject of submission. We've been pointing that out. He talked about submission to the government in the end of the previous chapter, or about the middle really. And then that led on to submission to, as a Christian, submitting to their masters. To us it would be our employers to some extent, the principle would apply, and how to be submissive to them, even if they're unjust, even if they're not fair or unreasonable. He says, listen, you do what they say. You submit yourself as the servant to the the masters. And then he used Christ, if you'll remember, he used Jesus Christ as an example. How Christ submitted to God, even to the point of dying on the cross for our sins, and what that produced. Was salvation available, forgiveness of sins, for all of us. And he's stressing the importance of the submission in Christ doing that and what that did for the world. Then get to chapter 3, and he continues that subject of submission and applying it to the position of the wife in the home. And we talked about the makeup of the home and God's design and structure for the home, and it's a good thing. And uh if we operate and function as God said, it's a good thing. And then uh we pointed out, if you remember, I'm trying to quickly get to where I want to say tonight, we pointed out the pat uh the pattern for the wife submission. In verse number one, the first part he said, likewise, after talking about Christ's submission to God the Father, likewise, in the same fashion, after the same manner Wives, submit yourselves your own husbands. So we had the pattern of the wife's submission, and then in this case, he gives the purpose. of the wife's submission. Notice there in verse 1 again. He says, likewise you wives, be in some subjection to your own husbands, that, for the purpose of, in order that If any obey not the word, now what does he mean when he says, if any obey not the word, what's he saying about that particular husband? They're what? They're not saved. They're unsaved. They don't believe the word of God. They don't believe the gospel. And so the purpose of the wife's submission here, as he describes it and and um uh develops that thought, is the whole purpose is here's a dear lady. Trusted Christ as Savior, no doubt. Most likely the scenario is she got saved after they were married. An unsaved uh uh a young man or a young lady should never marry an unsaved uh woman or guy, right? Amen. We already talked about that. So most likely she's trusting Christ after they got married. He did not. And he says, ladies, be in subjection to your own husbands, and order that If they're not saved, look what he says. They may, if they obey not the word, they may also, without the word, be won by the conversation of the wives, by the lifestyle, the conduct of the wife. Now, I just want to back up here, and just I don't think I mentioned this before, but when he says that they may they obey that any, if any obey not the word, they may be one without the word He's not suggesting that they can get saved without the Word of God being a part of them getting saved. Nobody gets saved without the Word of God. Amen? What he's saying is that they can get saved without her speaking a word, without her nagging at them and preaching at them and going on by her conversation will bring them to the point where they believe the word of God and trust God. You follow what's saying there? So I got looking at that again for tonight and I thought, well, I just want to make it clear. He's not suggesting people getting saved without the Bible without the Word of God, but without her um nagging and preaching on him. How many fellows would love to live with a lady that just nagged you and preached you all day long every morning and Anybody? No. How many ladies are like a guy? I better just quit and just stick to the notes. So the purpose for the wife's uh submission was for in this case of an unsaved husband And how she can win him to Christ. Again, not by hounding him and nagging him and preaching at him day in and day out. But he goes on and develops it by her lifestyle Now that leads me to fresh ground here tonight. By the way, I would imagine a marriage to an unsaved spouse would be something very difficult. That would be very difficult. A lot of heartache. A lot of difficulty there. And so he's addressing that situation and how to deal with it. And that leads me to my third point in the message. The first one was the pattern of submission. The second was the purpose of her submission. Tonight I want us to notice the purity of her submission. Look with me, if you would, at verse number two. While they, the husband that does not obey the word, while they behold your chaste conversation. Coupled with fear. Then he develops that. Whose adorning, the wife's adorning, let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting of the hair, wearing of gold, putting on of apparel But let it be the hidden man of the heart, and that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which in the sight of God is of great value. It is possible Listen to this. It is possible for a wife, a woman to preach a wordless sermon That has such an impact on her unsaved husband's life and heart that it would prompt him to turn to Christ. That's what he's saying. Now, I believe this principle. He's talking to the wife with an unsaved husband, but I think this principle applies in reverse. If there's a husband with an unsaved wife. It's possible to preach a what I'm calling a wordless sermon based on what he says here and win that unsaved spouse to Christ. By our conversation, by our behavior. I see two aspects of the wife's behavior that can have an impact on her husband. Number one, her pure conduct The purity of her submission, number one, her pure conduct. And I get that from the first part of verse 2. While they behold your, look at these two words, chaste conversation. Now I got looking these words up and that word behold there caught my attention. That word means to observe. They behold your chaste conversation. They observe it, has this idea of watching very carefully Now maybe uh you have a Christian home, but anybody here ever work with or interact with an unsaved person and you just knew that they were watching your every move very carefully. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah. You worked out in the world, you had a job out there, and you're trying to be a witness, I'm telling you, those unsafe folk are welcome. That's what he's talking about here. They're watching you. There in the home, that unsaved husband, that unsaved spouse, that doesn't obey the word. They're watching. They behold They're watching very attentively. In fact, I thought this was an interesting, the word behold has the idea to capture the attention of Hmm. So here's this believing wife. She's trusting Christ. She's trying to follow him, live for him, be that Christian disciple that God wants her to be. Here's this unbelieving husband. He doesn't care about that or the Bible. He doesn't obey the word. He just does whatever he wants. And she, because of her pure conduct, she got her husband's attention He's watching. He's beholding. Huh. There's there's something there's something different about Isabel. Well, what in the world? That's the idea there. Jesus would say often, when he was going to make a profound statement, he wanted people's attention, he would say something like this: Behold! I say unto you, what was he doing? He's saying, I want your attention. He'd be capturing their attention. And he's saying this, and by the way, this principle applies not just to a believing wife and unbelieving husband. But this principle applies across the board. When we live like God intends for us to live, people notice It catches people's attention. So her pure conduct is going to catch his attention while they behold Your chase conversation. Now that word chaste, I think we probably know what that means. It means to be undefiled, to be pure, to be sacred. That has the idea of sacredness to it. It means to be innocent from sin. A chaste conversation. And then that word conversation, I think we understand what the Bible term conversation means. We use that word today to mean just talking back and forth, having a conversation. I was talking with some folks in the lobby there before the service. We ever had conversations going back and forth. But it's a whole lot more than that when the Bible talks about our conversation The Bible is talking about our lifestyle, our manner of life, our behavior, how we conduct ourselves. And it's interesting that God uses the word conversation to describe, to address our conduct. Our behavior. You know what that tells me? That tells me that how we act conveys a message about us How we behave conveys a message about us. Did you ever get around someone, the way they talk, the way they behave, you walk away and think, that guy's a sketchy guy. How he acted, how he talked, how he behaved himself, communicated something about him, what he is. And he's saying to these dear ladies, listen. You don't need to be preaching at your unsaved spouse. You don't want to be nagging them. You have a pure submission, a pure conduct. He's going to communicate powerful, powerful message. Now that phrase chase conversation means a whole lot more than simply she's not committing adultery. That's what we think of chase, somebody that's pure. And they're not committing fornication. It's a whole lot more than that. Well, I'm not cheating on them. Well, that's wonderful. I'm glad. But it's a whole lot more than that. It means I have a pure conduct, a innocent from sin conduct. Chase conversation a whole lot more than simply not committing adultery. It means every aspect of my behavior is quote-unquote sacred It's separated unto the Lord. Every aspect of my conduct, my conversation, my behavior, my lifestyle is separated unto the Lord. Everything I'm doing is unto the Lord. Is unto God, I'm doing this for the Lord. That's the idea behind this. They behold your chaste conversation. You are sold out to Christ. It's not just lip service. It's not just a show. I put it this way. I live the same way at home on Monday as I act at church on Sunday. You talk about revival in the homes. We get people just to be as good a Christian at home as they are at church. We might have revival in our homes. And that's what he's saying. That's what he's saying. How we live our life is noticed by others. How we live our life has a powerful influence on others. I like Acts chapter 4, verse 13. I wanted to go there, but for sake of time, let me just give you the reference. Again, Peter and John, and the Bible say that the Pharisees, the enemies of Christ, They're persecuting them. They're going to throw them in prison. And the Bible says that they took notice of Peter and John. Listen to this, that they had been with Jesus. There was something about their way they acted. It was something about their conversation, their conduct, their behavior. That brought to the Pharisees' minds, they're hanging around Jesus. They're hanging around Jesus. You know what they had? They had a chaste conversation They had a chaste conversation. And again, this applies not just to a wife with an unbelieving husband, this applies to a husband with an unbelievable wife. This applies to a parent with unbelieving children Children with unbelieving parents? I'm telling you they're watching. They're watching These young people in here and and we're going to start running the buses. These young people get saved. God starts changing their life. I guarantee you mom and dad are watching. They're paying attention, conversation, chase conversation. And Peter's telling them and says, listen, that is how you win that unsafe spouse. By pure submission, pure conduct. Submitting. Oh, by the way, and I thought I wanted to bring this up at some point in our study of this. Submitting, a wife submitting to her husband, I've heard over the years, I've read and I've heard Where uh fellows would say something like this, a preacher would say this, a wife needs to submit to her husband no matter what he what he requires of her. Says if he wants you to go out to the nightclub Saturday night with him, go out drinking, rocking and rolling and dancing, I've heard this. They say, you do what he says. I disagree with that 100%. A wife's submission to her husband never usurps her submission to God. How did Peter put it? It is better to obey God than what? Man. That unsaved, whether it's an unsaved husband with a Christian wife or an unsaved uh wife with a Christian husband or it's a unsaved child uh saved child with unsaved parents. You've got to be careful, you've got to be wise. But if they're asking us to do something wrong, watch some nasty stuff on TV. Go out to some parties, brings home a bottle of liquor, and says, Listen, we're going to drink it tonight. We're going to have a time. Listen, you obey God rather than man. He is not even remotely suggesting that her submission to her husband usurps her submission to God. Now, you've got to be careful there with that. Don't take that and twist that and make it, well, you know, I just don't like doing that. You need to make sure there's a scriptural principle being violated. Alright? And so her pure conduct, her pure conduct. And then I notice in verse 2 down through verse 4, her pure character. He goes beyond just her chase conversation. Look there at the last part of verse 2. He says, coupled with fear. Now, he's not saying here that she should be afraid of her husband. Now, let me just throw this out. It's not directly what he's addressing here, but let me just throw this out. No wife should ever have to be afraid of her husband. She should feel safe around him. She should feel secure around him. She should feel protected around him. So he's not saying here, you need to be afraid of him. No, no, no. That word fear there means to be respectful, have a respectful attitude. And I think it means this. It means that uh it means that she takes her actions seriously. She's not afraid of her husband, but she understands that the salvation of his soul, she is a tremendous influence. On whether this guy gets saved or not. And she understands that my conduct, my behavior, my chase conversation needs to be taken very, very seriously Because this literally could have an impact on where this person spends eternity. In other words, don't be flippant about it. Takes her role as a wife and her responsibility to live pure, she takes it very, very seriously. How many people agree If I'm sitting down with someone like James and I did Thursday night and we're sharing the gospel and someone is on the verge of trusting Christ and there's an issue, I ought to, as a soul winner, take that very, very seriously. Amen? Ought not to be horsing around, playing around. This is the point where a person's going to make a decision where they end up in heaven or hell. And the soul winner needs to be fearful. Needs to respect the importance of what's taking place. And I think that is what he's talking about here. You've got an unsaved husband, in this case You need to do that with fear. You need to conduct yourself with a respect, understanding the responsibility of following these instructions here because of what the effect it may or may not have on the unsaved spouse. So the word fear there, pure character, but then he comes down here. He makes some interesting statements. Everybody still with me? Everybody doing all right? Look what he says. Who's adorning, talking about the wife, whose adorning, let it not be that outward adorning of the plaiting of the hair or the wearing of gold or putting on of apparel So he's talking about her character, and he's saying this, this adorning. The word adorning there is an interesting word. It means the arrangement of decorations. My wife loves to decorate. I mean she's got it all decorate. I walked in the the bedroom, I think it was yesterday or today, and the the decorations on the wall. I said, where'd my hunting thing go? And she put up there a picture of the boys and I with the fish. And that's the idea of this adorning, to arrange decorations. And what he's talking about adorning is her body. Arranging. You know that our jewelry and uh I don't wear jewelry, but uh jewelry and uh clothing, that's all decorating our body as part of it. Anybody know that Plating of the hair, putting a little I like the little girls they come in and have a a little hair thing and it has a little little uh flower stuck on it, you know what I'm talking about? They're decorating themselves And so he says, listen, you need to take this responsibility very, very seriously, having this chaste conversation in a way that will impact your husband so that he comes to Christ You need to take it seriously. And listen, don't misunderstand. It has to do with what you are, not just how you decorate yourself. And he goes, he elaborates there. He says, let it uh who's adorning Let it not be that outward adorning, outward, the external adorning of the plating of the hair. The word plating means to braid or weave. So fixing the hair up, putting braids in your hair and fixing all up, and um I never even tried that. But um uh you know it's uh fixing the hair up. So he's saying, listen, uh uh don't trust in that outward adorning your hairdo Then he says the plating of the hair or the wearing of gold, that would be what? Jewelry. Wearing of earrings and uh you know, necklaces and bracelets and anklets and whatever jewelry a woman wears. He said, that's not what we're talking about here. And then he says, the clothing or the wearing of gold or putting on of apparel. This is the outward adorning. Listen, uh by the way, he's not necessarily, I'm a little ahead of myself, he's not suggesting, before you get the wrong idea, he's not suggesting it's wrong for a woman to fix her hair Alright? It's not wrong to plate your hair to uh braid your hair. Do you weave hair? Is that I don't know. It's what uh it's not wrong to fix your hair up. It's not wrong to wear jewelry. Nothing inherently wrong with that. Some groups take this and say, oh you shouldn't a woman should wear any jewelry. She should always just keep her hair up in a on a knot in her head. And um, you know I'm out of my league here, alright? Um And uh so he's not saying that's wrong, and the reason we know that is the last issue he deals with is the wearing of apparel. Listen, we want you to wear apparel. So we know he's not saying this is all wrong. This is what he's saying. He's saying that's not what you depend on. That's not what's going to change his heart. You can fix your hair up as fancy as you want, but if you live like the devil, you're not going to change his heart You can wear the fanciest jewelry in the world. You can wear diamond rings and pearl necklaces and uh and uh what are those things they wear uh uh meters? What's it called? It's like a little crown they wear across the crown What is it? What is it? That thing So you can wear all that jewelry all you want. But if you're not living for the Lord, you don't have any Christian character about you, you're not going to change his heart and mind for Christ. You follow what he said Wear the fanciest clothes in the world. I got thinking about that. What we wear, what we wear outwardly, will appeal to the flesh. But what we are inwardly affects the soul. Again, I wish we had time. In Proverbs chapter seven, I read this morning in my devotions. There's a tragic story. Solomon says he's looking out this window, and he sees down on the corner late at night, there's a young man. Anybody know this story? There's a young man, and there met him a woman With the attire of a harlot. She was dressed like a harlot. And she appealed to his flesh, but she certainly didn't win him to the Lord. Now now we ought to drink there's nothing in the world dressing nice, nothing wrong world, uh, you know, fixing your hair and wearing nice jewels. Nothing in the world wrong with that, but you need to know that how you appear is not going to change the heart and soul of the person It's how I act. It's my conduct, my behavior, my character. It's what's going to get past the flesh into the heart and soul. So not the plating of hair, the wearing of gold, and putting on of apparel. But verse 4 he goes on and says, but let it be the what? Hidden man of the heart. What that means is what I am at the core, what kind of person I really am And if what I am at my very core, my very core of my being, is is chase And separate unto the Lord and committed to Christ and innocent from sin, I have my very character That's what's going to make a difference. That's what's going to make it. Listen, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we can squawk and scream and holler all we want, but if we're not living for God uh for sincerely from our heart, we're not going to have much impact on our community. The inner man. That's where it has to be That's where it has to be. You can look like a Christian all day long, but if you don't got a Christian heart and soul, you're not going to have much impact in this whole world And we ought to look like Christians, but it needs to be more than skin deep. Hey, let me put it this way: our Christianity needs to be more than what's hanging on our body. Follow what I'm saying? Needs to be what's in our heart, what we are. The hidden man of the heart. I put it this way, you can put a bow, tail, you can put a bow on a pig's tail You can put earrings in a pig's ear and put a dress on a pig's body, wash them up, spray it down with perfume, but it's still a pig. And Xander thought he was gonna kiss one. Didn't he? It's close. I think you agree with me on this one. In the home and in the marriage, in the home that confines the privacy of the home and then the intimacy of a marriage. That's where the real you is most visible. Right? And the home is the hardest place to fake Christianity. And the home and in the marriage is the most difficult place to be superficial in my Christianity. That's what's the in the home and in the marriage, that's what's in here. That's where it comes out. We can put on a show, we can pull in the church parking lot, oh how I love Jesus, oh bless God. Oh, we love the Lord. Amen. You get home, and it's just you and her, you and him. That's where Chris real Christianity comes out. Are you are you following what I'm saying? I know what I'm saying is true. That's what Peter's saying here. I can dress up all I want, but what I really am, that's what's going to make the difference. And then he says, a meek and quiet spirit, and I'll end here. Even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which in the sight of God is of great value. That means controlled actions, controlled emotions. Meekness is, it means it has the idea of control. In other words, not flying off Spouse says or does something that rubs you the wrong way you don't like, man, you fly off on that. That's not meekness. That's flesh. He or she does something like this, no, no, no, a meek and a quiet spirit. That's what's going to make a difference I never knew anybody that's come to Christ because someone flew off on them. Got mad and yelled through stuff at them. I never knew anybody's come to Christ. Tranquil, not easily upset, not provoked, a meek and squiet spirit. He says it's incorruptible, it can't take that away from us That unsafe spouse can't take away that meek, quiet spirit. It's incorruptible. It's highly valued by God. God is not impressed with our fancy apparel. God is not going to use a corrupt spirit, no matter what you cover it up with. Spirit has to be right. That's what God will use to reach others. That inner man. And then last of all, this is what I end with. I notice the power of the wife's submission And he talks about Sarah here. He mentions here women who adorned themselves with this meek and quiet spirit. They trusted God, and they had a powerful impact on the world. Thank God for godly, genuine Christian women and the influence they have had upon this old world for thousands of years. And he uses Sarah as an example there. Listen. Now I'm talking to the ladies, but it applies to all of us. Listen, ladies, you get a hold. of this genuine, meek, and quiet spirit, this godliness, this chaste conversation that comes from a right innermost man, comes from a right heart That is a powerful, powerful thing in this old sinful world. He's talking to the women here. And God highly values that. God highly values that. As I said, he used Sarah as an example. Finishing up this section, studying it, you know who I thought of? A woman that's outward apparel was not what was used to bring others to Christ But what she was, you know what I thought of? I thought of the woman at the well. Now again, we don't have time to look at it, but let me just tell you what happened there. Here's a woman at the world. Well, she's a pretty loose-living woman. She'd been married a number of times. She's living with a fella. And she meets Jesus. And after a brief conversation, she believes that Jesus is the Messiah, and the dear gal gets saved. And she sets her water pots down. Now she's coming out to the well with water pots. I don't know, they carry them on her head or back. I don't know how. She had more than one And she sets them down. After she gets saved, she sets them down, the Bible says in John 4, and she goes back into the town to tell everybody what just happened. What she just experienced, what she just found out about. And the Bible says, and I'm abbreviating here a bit, the Bible says they all got saved. They came out and they all got saved. Now let me ask you a question. How do you think she was dressed going out with a bunch of water pots to the well to call back a bunch of waterpots? I doubt she had jewelry on much I don't think she was in a fancy dress. I don't know if her hair was plaited or not. But I noticed one thing I did think. She didn't run home and say, wait a minute, I gotta get I gotta put fancier clothes on, or I'm not gonna be able to win anybody of Christ. No, no, no. It wasn't her fancy clothes, it was her changed heart And she went back and they said, and I'm reading into it here a little bit, maybe, and they said, there's something different about this old gal. Let's listen to what she says. And all she did was just brought them back out to Jesus. Just brought them back out to Jesus. I'm not picking on anybody individually or personally, but here's the question I have. How's your nagging worked out? Really really really want them over, huh? Fellas, you're badgering your wife and belittling your wife. How's that working out? That's really making her something, huh? No, no, no. Peter says, God tells us. He says, no, no, no. You just be a good, godly Christian from your heart. And I'll use you to make a difference. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us, Lord, not just in the home here. It's a very specific situation that's being addressed. Lord, I pray you'd help us apply this truth, this principle in our whole lives as we interact with an unsaved world. Lord, we want to look our best. We do want to be sloppy. Lord, more important than that, we need to be filled with the Spirit. We need to walk with you and be for real. And I pray you'd help us to do that. And Lord, weed out any insincerity or any falsehood about us. Weed that out. That we can be sincere and chase any inner man so that you can use us. I wonder, heads abound, I suppose, how many would say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart tonight? Holy Spirit challenged me. Be for real. A witness from within my heart. Any like that? Holy Spirit's challenged me. God bless you, hands all around. It's what an old-fashioned altar's for. Come and say, Lord, here I am. Change me. Do what you need to do. Help me. Father, bless our mutation, I ask in Jesus' name