Uh we've got the trio gonna sing for us. The line of So confirmed Jesus will happy that I says I raplado And I never die for me and I would use over and I shouldn't be wondering. No, you can shout out the body, no one didn't die, and we can see everyone in my word. Amen. Amen. Very good. Appreciate that. It's good to have Brother Chip in the service. And the ladies too. Good to have them here. Psalms chapter 12. I'm also I'm going to read a portion of scripture from 1 John. You don't need to turn there. But uh just As I was looking over uh re reading over the notes here during the service, um this verse came to mind. I want to inject it at the beginning But if you would turn to Psalm chapter 12. Good to have our brother from uh down in Baltimore back up again. God bless you. We're glad you're here And uh I always say it's it's great testimony when folks are on vacation and they're faithful to church. And uh not just Sunday morning, Sunday night, and uh Wednesday night all the services, that's a good testimony of our church, and we appreciate that And uh we don't take vacation from the Lord, do we? You're in Psalms chapter twelve. I'm gonna read to you just to uh begin the message tonight, and before I read that, I d uh I just want to make a few statements. One, I am not a Bible manuscript scholar. Alright, so I don't claim to be a scholar on all the manuscripts throughout history and the role they play in uh the issue we're going to be discussing. I do know what I believe. I believe I have sound reasons for that, but I'm not a manuscript scholar in any sense of the word Second thing I want to say is I didn't always believe what I do now and since I've been pastor and since about nineteen eighty-nine, eight, nine eighteen eighteen, nine nineteen 1990, 1989, in that area there, I came to the conclusion concerning the Bible that I hold to now. Um I did not for many years uh after I was saved, I used the new Schofield Bible. I used the New American Standard Version. I was taught and I believed at the time that The New American Standard Version was the most accurate version of the Bible available. I was never told any different. That's what I was taught my first year or so in Bible college. Throughout my Bible college years, it became more of a more an issue as I grew in my Christian faith and got more involved in ministry and whatnot. I became aware of the fact that uh the various versions and all these things were an issue And for a period of time I was on the other side of the issue than what I am now. In 19, uh it was like 1990, I guess, 8990 I really began questioning my own position. The church I was in at the time did not take a strong position on the King James. It's what they used, but it wasn't an issue. They didn't make an issue about it. And uh I began to seek my ordination. And in the ordination, the process that that church pastor went through was is that I was to put together my own personal doctrinal statement on the major doctrines, what I believed and why I believed and be able to defend them. He said it doesn't have to be long, just a brief outline. We present it to the pastors from the Ordination Council. They'll question you and then we'll go from there. My brief outline of my doctoral statement ended up being 22 pages outline, just outline. And in the process of about nine, ten months that I was preparing for that and putting that together I really began to study the issue of God's word, all the various translations, now there's a couple hundred, I understand, translations out there. And what exactly is right, what exactly is the truth? As I studied that for myself, I came to the conclusion that what I'm going to teach and preach for the next few Sunday nights, next four or five Sunday nights, that is the conclusion I came to. In the years since then, it's been what, 90, uh, 20 years since then, all my study, all my preaching, all my reading has simply reinforced that the conclusion I came to is the correct one. And so I'm saying this to say this. I'm not a manuscript scholar. I do not believe I could go into a Bible college and teach a class on biblical manuscripts. I would not be able to do that. Much of not most, borderline, all of what I'm going to be teaching, I've heard and learned from others I believe it to be true. I've studied it with the scriptures, what they had to say, and so but what I'm saying is very little what I'm saying is going to be original with me, but it is exactly what I believe. 1 John chapter 4 in verse 1, just listen to what it says. This isn't the message. I'm just injecting this Says this, beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirit, whether they are of God. Because many false prophets are going out into the world. Now there are several things in this verse that are pertinent to what we're talking about. We are not just to swallow everything that comes along in the name of Christianity, in the name of God We're not just to swallow it and assume it's okay. We're to test it. We're to try it. We're to compare it with Scripture and find out, is this really of God? There are many false prophets. Now, this was written back in the early days of the New Testament church. If there were many false prophets then, goodness, what is the situation today? And so we are to use discernment. We are to take the things that are presented to us and compare them with Scripture. Do they line up with Scripture? If they don't line up with Scripture, then they are not of God. And by the way, you as an individual Christian, as a church member, are to do that with my preaching. If I get up here and start preaching things that are not defended by the Bible, something's wrong. Right? And so, try the spirits. Whether they are of God, because many false prophets are going out into the world. Alright, here we are. We are in the 2011, the 400th anniversary of the printing of the King James Bible. The King James Bible has been for hundreds of years the Bible, as Brother Ron said. That was the Bible We were in I want to say it might have been Colorado. It might have been Indianapolis or Colorado. I don't remember where we live. We were out in Solwin in one time. And uh I believe my wife was with me And uh we visited a trailer, I I don't remember where it was, but I remember it was a trailer, it was this elderly lady, um She was probably el an elder lady, probably 55, somewhere around there, a very elderly lady. And uh Joy wasn't paying attention to that. But um And I began witnessing to her and talking to her a little bit and uh got the opportunity to share the gospel. She goes, yes. And for whatever reason, I don't know why I did this, I don't normally do it, I said, do you happen to have a Bible? I had mine, but I said, Did you happen to have a Bible that I can show you from the Bible how to know your sins are forgiven and when you die you're going to heaven She reached down beside her seat there and she goes, I've got this Bible, a couple folks came by from the Jehovah's Witness, and I've got this New World translation. She goes, is this, would this be okay? And it was just, Lord, I don't know why I said this. I never said it before, never gave it any pre-thought at all. I just said, well, would you happen to have a Bible that your grandmother used? She goes, oh yeah, there's a King James Bible back in the bedroom. And she sent her little granddaughter, said, go back there and get grandma's Bible. And she brought it out and it was King James Bible. And I said, I don't know how you feel. I said, but uh, let's stick with grandma's Bible, okay? And she says, I think that's a good idea. And so, I'm trying to remember why I just told that story. I'm not a manuscript scholar. But I am a student of God's word. And I believe that I have, as many of you do, an understanding of what the Bible teaches about the major doctrines that are significant in Christianity And the doctrine of the Bible being one of them. Now, look with me, if you would, at Psalms chapter 12 and verse 6. Says this. Now pay close attention. The words of the Lord are pure words. As silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. Now look at verse 7. What's verse 6 talking about? What's the subject of verse 6? The Bible, God's Word. They're pure words. They've been tried, tested, proven to be so. Now look at verse 7. Thou shalt keep them. What's the them referring back to? God's word. The words of the Lord. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord. Look at this. Thou shalt what? Preserve them from this generation forever I do know what the Bible says. And the Bible here in other patches we're going to look at, not all of them we're going to look at, many others besides what we look at. Tell us that God has preserved his word for us. I'll try and explain what that means. I'll try and Communicate that and lay the basis for our future studies on this subject. So let's have a word of prayer real quick and we'll get into this. Father, help me, Lord, to uh uh be true to your word Above all, I pray, Lord, that through me you would teach us the truth concerning the inspiration of your word, the preservation of your word, and what it means for us today. I yield myself to you. I ask you to fill me with your Spirit. Be our teacher. Lord, we believe that you, the whole person of the Holy Spirit, are the author of this book. So surely you can teach us and show us what the fact of the matter is here with this. Help us, we pray, Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. The Bible, I mentioned this this morning. The Bible is our final authority. The Bible is our source of understanding of all that we hold dear as Christians. For instance, and I've said this before, but just to refresh our minds, we believe that Jesus is God in the flesh. Amen? It's part of our doctrinal statement. It's the deity of Christ. How why do we believe that? Where do we ever get the idea that Jesus is God in the flesh? From the Bible. Exactly. That's where we get that doctrine, that teaching. And we're convinced of it. And if somebody comes and challenges our understanding and our con our faith in the fact that Jesus is God in the flesh, we appeal to the Bible. And we look to the Bible and look at teaching from Scripture to defend the fact, to present as the basis of our faith that Jesus is God in the flesh. Where do we get our understanding of the atonement of Christ, that Jesus died for the sins of the whole world? Where do we come up with that? From God's Word, the Bible. We don't get it from archaeology, right? We don't go to the historical writings of man. We don't look up We don't look up uh uh in in uh um in uh monasteries and find old manuscripts and come up with the conclusion that Jesus died for the sins of the world. We go to the Bible for that doctrine. Where do we get the idea of the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit? Where do we get that concept from? Bible. It's very simple. The basis of our faith is not complicated. We believe what the Bible says. Now, here's where the problem comes in. Christians, for the most part, genuine Christians for the whole part, believe what they believe, what they believe is based on the Bible about the second coming, the deity of Christ, the atonement. uh creation, all these things. Our faith is based squarely on what God says. We base our future, our hope, everything we believe, we base on the Word of God. But here's the problem. You have some Christians, some in Christian circles When it comes to the teaching about the Bible, they set the Bible aside and said, we're going to go to archaeology and come to our conclusion about what the Bible is. Now, why do we do that? Why isn't our understanding and our doctrine about the Bible based on the Bible, not on ancient manuscripts? Why do we do that? And a lot of people do that. So what I want to do is I want to say, what does the Bible say about the Bible? What does the Bible teach us about the Bible? Our doctrine of the Bible comes from the Bible. Now you have many quote-unquote Bible scholars. And they will go to ancient manuscripts, and there are ancient manuscripts, and these definitely are pieces of history, undeniably. Portions of Scripture that have survived hundreds, sometimes thousands of years, that have scripture on them. I'm getting way ahead of myself. Some of them differ. You'll have one ancient manuscript as a portion of Isaiah and it'll be worded one way, another ancient manuscript has a portion, the exact same portion of Isaiah, and it'll have different wording And they look at that and say, ah, see? And they'll interpret those manuscripts in certain ways. Now, the basis, I'm getting away from my notes and I need to get back to it, but the basis of our understanding of Scripture is not some scholar's interpretation of ancient manuscripts. The basis of what we believe about the Bible comes from the Bible. Does that make sense? So, the Bible is our authority on the Bible. It's called this. Another preacher, I don't know who this was, I read it somewhere in my studies, used this term, and I liked it. It's called the logic of faith. The logic of faith. And um that's what we're talking about By the way, this this as I prepared for this the last month or so and refreshed my mind and did a lot of restudying again. This reminds me, in a lot of ways, of the issue about creation versus evolution. The evidence of the beginning of man, whether it's interpreted by an evolutionist or interpreted by a creationist, all the evidence is the same It's all there. It's how you interpret it. It's almost identical with the Word of God. The person that believes God has preserved his word, and we have it today in the King James Bible, and the person that believes that God did not preserve his word and every version in the world goes and there's varying degrees between those two. It's all, for many of them, they all have the same manuscripts It's just their interpretation of them and the conclusions they come to. Whereas I choose to begin with the Bible What does the Bible say about it, and does this manuscript evidence, does it match what the Bible says And I suggest to you, I'm not a Bible scholar, but I suggest to you, there's a great host of highly educated Bible scholars who say, you know, what the Bible says about itself, I can see that in the manuscript history So, but we begin with the Bible. Alright? It boils down to really an issue of faith Now, I have two thoughts tonight. I'm just going to throw them out there, and this is all basis of things we're going to teach and preach in the future. Number one, this is the first Statement, the thing we need to understand. The Bible teaches us that the Bible is given to us by inspiration. How many people have heard that term, inspiration, before? If you've been around Bible preaching much at all, you've heard inspiration. The Bible is given by inspiration. This is the inspired word of God. Turn with me, boy. Now keep your place here in song because we're probably going to end up here, but turn with me to 2 Timothy chapter 3. 2 Timothy chapter 3 Now if you say, boy, we're gonna walk out of here tonight, I'm gonna know why we hold to the King James, that you're not gonna have that tonight. You have a basis for it, a good understanding, but that's not where you're going to walk out tonight. Look at 2 Timothy chapter 3. Are you there? Look at verse 16. Notice the wording very carefully. Every word's important. All scripture is. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. How much scripture? All scripture, every word, every verse, every chapter, every line, is given by inspiration of God. This verse, in my mind, as I study this passage and I read this, this passage is telling me the process. God used to give his word to man. All scripture, here we have it, all scripture Is given to man by inspiration. Through inspiration is how God gave it to us. Now, somebody tell me. You've been around preaching and teaching up, you've been in a Bible institution, you should know the answer to this if you pass the test. What does the word inspire mean? Or the word inspiration means what? God breathed. The interesting thing is to inspire is to breathe in. Comes from the same word we get to inhale. To inspire, if you breathe out, you are what? Expiring. You're exhaling So when the Bible says all scripture is given by inspiration of God, I think we need to take that is it's simply given as the words of God. Breath is necessary to express words. You follow what I'm saying? Some guys I was reading, and they make a big deal about inhaling and exhaling and all of that. I really don't think God inhales and exhales. You follow what I'm saying? I think what he's saying here is God has breathed his word to us. Now the question comes up, and at this point you're saying, what does this have to do with preservation? I'll tell you in a moment. How we find out that we got God's word through the process of inspiration, through God breathing it to us. Now the question comes up, how did he do that? How did he give us his word through the process of inspiration? How did he give it to us? 1 Peter. Or 2 Peter, turn over there real quickly, gives us a little insight as to how God gave his word by inspiration. Now, some folks might say you're oversimplifying this, and in some people's minds maybe, but I want to understand how this works. 2 Peter chapter 1, look at verse 20. 2 Peter chapter 1, verse 20. Knowing this first. That no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. In other words, nobody has their own little secret corner on understanding the Bible Right? Anybody can figure it out. No, excuse me, I don't mean to be offensive, but no Catholic priest can say, I understand the Bible, you don't He has no private interpretation. Anybody can come to Scripture, study it, and learn, and the Spirit of God teach them what the Bible says. So that's what he's saying here. Now look at the next verse. For the prophecy, what's that next word? Came, prophecy of the scripture, came. It got to us. Remember Timothy? All scripture is Given by inspiration of God. Now he's saying it came to us. He's telling us how God inspired it The prophecy came not at any time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were what? Moved by the Holy Ghost. In other words, this is how God gave us his word. The process of inspiration works like this. Now, here is where I want I would like Andy. to come up here, if you would. Sorry, I didn't mean to wake you. Um no he wasn't sleeping. Andy, you're gonna sit not yet. You're gonna sit right there and you are in this case at this moment in time you are Moses How about that? I thought he'd look a little better than that, but uh How all right, Moses, we understand, was the penman of the first five books of the Bible. Genesis, X, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. That's called the Pentateuch. Bible term, Pentateuch, first five books of the Bible. Moses was the one that wrote that down. It was given to Moses according to Timothy. How? By By inspiration. God gave the first five books of the Bible to Moses through the process of inspiration. And the way that worked, according to Peter, was the Spirit of God moved. Upon Moses to have him write down what God wanted him to write down. I didn't give you anything yet, so don't get ahead of yourself. Now that word moved there is an interesting word. That helps us understand how this all took place. The word moved means to be driven along It is used in the book of Acts where Paul was in the storm towards the end of the book, and it says they threw everything overboard and they just let her drive. And in other words, the wind, they just put the sails up and just let the wind blow it wherever it would. That's the idea of the word move. The Spirit of God moved upon men. God moved on there mind, God affected their thinking so that they would write down the very words God wanted them to write. So Moses is sitting there one after Israel's out there murmuring, complaining, and he didn't have anything to do. And all of a sudden he decides to start writing stuff. And God, the Spirit, moves on his mind. He says, I think all right, in the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. And the earth was without form and void. Waters were upon the face of the earth and deep, covered the deep in the darkness, something to that effect. And he began writing down, God was moving on his mind. Upon him what he should write. How many people say, oh, I can understand that. That's how we got the Bible That's what inspiration is. It's not any more complicated than that. Now there's some other questions that come up along those things. How did God move on their mind? The answer most of the time is we have no idea. I don't know how God prompted Moses to record the first five books of the Bible. Some people teach that it was done by dictation. Uh It's kind of like the idea where the boss calls in the secretary, I want to dictate a letter. And he begins saying what he wants to say, and she's writing down verbatim. There are some places in the Bible where that took place. Where God honorably spoke to Jeremiah and said, all right, now you're Jeremiah. Jeremiah. Write these words down. And Jeremiah wrote down exactly what God said. He's a tremendous actor, isn't he? Sometimes it was dictation. It was the voice, God spoke directly to them. Sometimes in the Bible it came through dreams. Can you think of any portion of Scripture that was given to us through a dream? Peter. Well, yeah, part of Acts. Actually, Luke wrote that. He was recording about Peter. But what about portions of Daniel? Or God had the dream and recorded that. So sometimes they had a dream. Go to sleep. And he has a dream, and he wakes up. That was of God. And so he writes it down. Man, he's tremendous. Sometimes, as he said, it was an audible voice. Sometimes it was through visions. Can you think of any portion of Scripture that was given, revealed to the writer through vision? Revelation, almost the whole book. Portions of Ezekiel. So have a vision. That was a boring vision, but um all right, so he has a vision and he sees this thing and he writes down exactly what he saw So the Spirit of God is moving on him, influencing him, prompting him to write things that God wants written down. That is what inspiration is. In a very basic form, God moving on them to record down the very words God wants us to have. Now, to be honest with you, a lot of times we have no idea. I think sometimes perhaps in the case of Moses, perhaps Samuel wrote much of the historical books. Penned much of that. I think in a lot of those cases, they were just writing things down. Whether they knew God was prompting them to do that or not, I don't know. My own personal feeling is some of the New Testament books, particularly epistles, I'm not positive that Paul knew he was writing under the inspiration of God I think some of you were just writing a letter to the church at Thessalonica. He was concerned for him. But God was moving. God was putting those thoughts in his mind. What to write down, the very ones. Do you know Paul, you're Paul right now, do you know that Paul you got more hair than Paul did, but um do you know that Paul wrote a lot of letters that we don't have in the Bible? They were not given by what? He was writing them, no doubt they were good stuff. No doubt it was great stuff, but it wasn't God moving on him to write down scripture. So, in its most basic form, that is what inspiration is. Now, think about it, and you don't have to act all these out, but over a period of 1,500 years. Over forty generations, more than forty different authors Penmen, kings, peasants, farmers, politicians, fishermen. In a variety of places, in deserts, in palaces, in prisons. In homes, in three different continents, Asia, Africa, and Europe. Three different languages, Hebrew, Greek, and Aramaic. This book was given to us by inspiration of God. Over that period of time, 40 plus author, uh penmen, 40 plus different generations Various continents, three different languages, and it all fits together like a puzzle. Perfectly. Now think about that for a minute. It's like the thank you, Andy. You did a very good job. He deserves a hand. He deserves an Emmy for that. An Emmy or an Ethel or one of those things. Now think about this. It's like A guy takes a piece of wood, he planes it off, makes it flat, and he carves a piece of a puzzle out, and he puts it up. Forty years later, another guy in a desert that's a king takes a piece of wood, flattens it out, carves a piece of puzzle, and he puts it up. And people do that over 1,500, 1600 years in all different backgrounds, all different levels of society, various continents, and when it comes together, it all fits together beautifully. And makes a beautiful beautiful picture. That is exactly what we have in the Bible. Books written hundreds, thousands or more years apart. By as different people as you can imagine, and yet it all comes together beautifully. That is inspiration. God moving on these people at various times, in various places, in various settings, moving upon them through various ways. For them to record down exactly the very words God once said. Now that's inspiration. Now here's the question That was 2,000 years ago. The last book of the Bible was given by inspiration. It was finished with John, no more. God was done revealing. I'm sorry, Joseph Smith, you're wrong. God was done. Now here's my question. Where What about those manuscripts that Moses wrote it down on? And Paul and Amos and Jeremiah What happened to the paper that they wrote it on? And they went out and distributed. Eventually, what happened to it? The paper in ink deteriorated. The message that was recorded had to be what? Had to be copied if it was going to go on So here's my question. What God gave initially by inspiration Did God just leave it up to man to pass it on through history accurately? Was it just up to man to do the best he can to make sure that what God gave by inspiration is passed on accurately to future generations? And our answer is emphatic no. That is where the teaching of preservation comes in. Preservation means just what it sounds like it means: to preserve something. Psalm chapter 12, verse 6. Did you notice how what the wording there? Words of the Lord are pure words. As silver tried in the furnace of earth, purified seven times? Thou, who's doing the preserving here? Thou Shalt keep them. God is the one. O Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this generation, from the generation that received it, for till when? Forever Genesis, Examitic is Numbers, Deuteronomy. God moved upon Moses where's Moses when you need him. God moved upon Moses. And uh he writes, records the very words that God once written down. And the Bible says that God from that generation preserves them forever A couple hundred years go by, and uh you have David writing some psalms, maybe a thousand or so years go by. You have David writing Psalms and then Isaiah, and then you have Luke writing the book of Luke in Acts, and you have Mark And you have Paul and you have John and you have Peter. And from the moment God inspired uh the words and moved upon these men to write down these inspired words God immediately preserved them from that generation forward. He did not leave it up to man To keep God's word accurate. What would happen if it was just up to us? You would have exactly what we have in these manifold versions. That's what you'd have. All you have in these versions is man's attempt to do what God has already done. And man is going to fall short of the glory of God every single time. Man, that's good. I just thought of that. That's pretty good. Um I like my preaching. But anyway That's why they're so long. Um Look, I want to show you something real quick and I got it quick. Good grief. Uh come over to look at Psalm thirty-seven. This stirred my heart. When I was preparing for my I came across this in my studies and I haven't gotten over it yet. Psalm 37, look with me at verse 28. At a page of Scripture references here I could give you, but I won't. Look at 37. What verse did I say? 28. 37, 28. For the Lord loveth judgment, and forsaketh not who? His saints. Who's being talked about here? Saints. Saved people, yeah, saints who are saved people. He forsaketh not his saints. Look at this. They are who's the they? The saints are what? Preserve forever. Exact same word. God uses the exact same word to talk about the assurance of salvation. That he uses to tell us the preservation of Scripture. Question, can we lose our salvation? Emphatic no. We are kept by the power of God. We are preserved. God preserves his saints. Does that Bible lose its inspiration? No. It's the same word. He preserves it from this generation forever. That stirred me up. That cleared it up in my mind. God has preserved his word just as surely, with the same terminology, he describes preserving his word as he does describing our assurance and the security of our salvation. He's preserved it. The infallible word, given by the breath of God, has been and continues to be preserved to this day and forever. The supernatural preservation of God's inspiration Means that we have today a Bible, exactly what God wants us to have as when he first gave it to Moses and all the authors. He has preserved it for us. Now that raises a lot of questions What about translating to another language? Different words are used God preserves his word, and that'll come up in another subject. But there's another idea that comes to my mind. I end with this. God moved upon the men. They wrote down exact words God wanted them. God has preserved that word for you and I today. We have in the English today. We have the very words that God wants us to have. That means we have, let me stick to my notes here. That means the Bible has been kept from error in translation. But also this, the Bible is fresh in its application. And this is what I mean Let's go back to Moses. He's gone. He's out chasing Israelites somewhere. He wrote down what God moved on his heart and mind to read. He decides to read it. Huh. That's like it was written today. It was written today. God just gave it to him. Right? And that's as fresh as if it was written today. Duh, Moses, what are you, blonde? I just gave it to you. Of course it's written today. Did you ever read the Bible? You say, man, that passage is like it was written for me right today. Anyone know what I'm talking about? That is preservation. God keeping that thing fresh and applicable and alive. Scripture, all scriptures give embrace for God. The word of God is quick and powerful Sharper than any two. So what's that word quick mean? It's alive. It's inspired. It's kept alive. And it applies to you and I. So if what I said is true, if I took so long to say is true, Then we ought to do what the Bible says. If that really is God's word and He's preserved it for us, we better do what it says. Amen? We better not mess with it We better do what it says. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I trust, Lord, that this will help us understand the significance, the power. preservation of your word. And I pray in the coming weeks we'll see how it applies to us and why it's so important that we're careful about how we handle your word and watch out for changes. all these things. Our heads bowed eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I need to I need to give God's word more attention in my life. In reading and obeying and trusting and following the instructions there. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I really need to give more attention to God's word. God bless you. A lot of hands. Father, bless our invitation. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.