I like it. I like it. Very good, kids. We very good. Excellent. Well, praise the Lord. Like to hear more from them, huh? To get them back up here again. James chapter number four, if you would, find your Bibles and turn to James chapter four. Two antennas met on a roof and uh they fell in love and got married. And uh the ceremony the ceremony wasn't much, but the reception was great. That one was pretty lame. It's funny when the boys w were at home I'd say tell jokes like that in church and they just roll their eyes, you know. And they come home, they say, Dad, that was the lamest joke. That was so dumb But then during the week I'd hear them telling other people the same joke. So James chapter 4, verse number 5. If you could back me down just a little bit, Dave. Verse number five, the Bible says, Do you think the scripture sa Do you think that the scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? It's a question he's asking. It actually fits in context with the verses leading up to this passage right here. If you remember, verse one says, Whence come wars and fightings among you Come they not hence, even of your lusts. Here's that word again. That war in your members, ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have, and cannot obtain, ye fight in war. Sounds like they're pretty frustrated, huh? Trying to get something. They can't get it. And they're fighting for it and and uh uh warring for it. Uh you fight in war yet you have not because why You ask not. A lot of our problems are a result of lack of prayer, isn't it? We just don't pray. We just don't ask God for things. You have not because you ask not. You ask and receive not Because you ask him this, that you might that you may consume it upon your lust. Your motives are wrong. You're selfish in what you're asking. And God will uh that will hinder our prayer life Then last week we looked at verse 4: Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God? We need to be very, very careful about our relationship with the world. Trying to fit in and be a part of this world system. If we are, the Bible uses some strong language. He says we are spiritual adulterers and spiritual adulteresses. We are the enemy of God If we're friends with the world, if we want to fit in and become companions with this old sinful world, whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. Sounds to me like God wants us to not be friends with the world and he wants us to be friends with who? Him. He wants our affection. He wants our attention. He is jealous. For our love and affection. He does not want us to love the world, which brings us to verse five. Do you think that the scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us Lusteth to envy. I've entitled the message The Jealousy of the Spirit. The Jealousy of the Spirit. Let's pray. Father. Bless now our time in your word. Again, it seems like the weeks just fly by, Lord. And here we are, another Sunday night, finishing out the Lord's Day, going into a new work week. And I pray that the things that were said and done today, the songs sung and the fellowship and the actions we've taken, the offerings we've given, and all that's transpired today, I pray you'd bring it to a head tonight. And that our hearts would be stirred, our focus would be fixed on the Lord Jesus Christ as we begin this new week. I pray our hearts would be tender and pure. Lord, as we go into the Lord's Supper, I pray you would use that time to reignite our love for you and uh realign our love for you that it would our love for you would be supreme As we look at this verse here, consider a few thoughts from it. I ask that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me, challenge all of us. I pray we can leave here humbled and encouraged and revived and uh blessed, Lord, I pray, in Jesus' name, amen. First four or five verses there. First three or four verses, he's talking about warfare, fighting and warring, desiring, lusting, and not obtaining But reality, the greatest war ever fought by man was not fought on land, sea, or s in the air. Greatest wars fought by man have not been fought with weapons, tanks and guns and swords and and uh and uh cruise missiles and um uh fighter jets and um uh bombers and torpedoes and uh and uh submarines It's not what the greatest war being fought is uh has been used. That's not been the weapons. It's not been fought between nations. I want to suggest to you tonight the greatest war that's ever been fought. has been fought has ever been fought by man has been fought in the heart and soul of individuals. That's where the wars begin. The weapons of our warfare are not carnal. They're not physical weapons. We don't fight this war that's in our heart and soul. We don't fight it with guns and grenades. If you would take your Bible and turn with me, and we're going to look at a number of verses. We're going to try and do it pretty quickly. But if you turn back to 2 Corinthians and chapter number 10, I want you to notice what the Bible says about this, these weapons that are used in this greatest war that's ever fought. James in verses 1, 2, and 3 says, you fight in war, you desire to have it, you cannot obtain. You're fighting and you're fighting and you're at war. The war is within your own heart. The war is in your soul. That's where the problem is. And notice ver chapter number t uh ten of second Corinthians, look with me at verse number three. For though we walk in the flesh We do not war after the flesh, for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through what Through God, to the pulling down of strongholds, casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalted itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. Here you have this internal war, this conflict going on. The battle really is in the mind, for the heart and soul of mankind, and it's through the Lord that we fight this. Our weapons are not carnal, but they're spiritual weapons. Uh the young people just sang a tremendous song that's taken from Ephesians talking about our our armor uh in this spiritual war and buckling up with the uh the belt of truth, the the girdle girdle about with the truth And so the consequences of this war, this fighting that goes on in the heart of man are devastating. The battle is really over whether we as Christians are going to live by this law by the world's values or we're going to live by the Lord's values. That's what the battle is. That's what verse number four was all about If we're friends with the world, if we're companions with the world, if we have the same mindset of the world, this world is ruling us. We're living by the world's values. The battle is that we want to live by the Lord's values, biblical principles and values. The battle is to whether my heart is going to be ruled by my own sinful nature or whether it's going to be ruled by the Holy Spirit. In fact, the very salvation of a soul we're praying tonight for souls to be saved. Praying for Crystal and uh uh uh uh husband and then uh somebody's mother-in-law and others were praying for souls to be saved. It's a spiritual warfare. The salvation of a soul is a spiritual battle I remember the night I was saved, and this, I mean, it's just in my mind, it it sounds strange to tell it, but I'm telling you, the night I got saved, there was a spiritual warfare going on for my soul. I know it And I sensed even before I trusted Christ. I knew there was a battle going on for my soul. I knew there was a warfare going on And so, uh, the the battle for our soul's salvation and then the battle for our life and who's gonna control us and who's gonna rule our lives. So I said all that to try and set up the stage here back in James chapter 4 and verse number 5 Where he says this. He's talking about this warfare going on. He's talking about friendship with the world and enmity with God and this conflict, this spiritual conflict taking place. And then he makes this statement in verse five. Be honest with you, as I study this, I tried to grasp what is he saying here. And in verse number five, he says, Do ye think That the scripture saith in vain. Now, we stop right there. We know that the Bible doesn't say anything in vain. Right? I want to just say something for the sake of saying it. And so he's making a point here. He he's asking somewhat of a a silly question. To make a very clear point. Do you think that the scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us Lusteth to envy. Lusteth to envy. I think what he's doing, he's addressing a key component in you and I having victory over worldliness. How many folks here? We're just a small crowd tonight. Let's we'll we'll do uh we'll do um group therapy. All right. We'll just we'll we'll share. How many how many folks tonight, now be honest, how many folks tonight ever at some point in your Christian life, something going on out in the world, you know it wasn't of God, you know it wasn't biblical, but something goes on the world comes up with That uh uh you know it's not scriptural, you know it's not of God, but there's something in your nature it appealed to your nature. Come on now. Uh about half of you are being honest This whole world has an appeal to our sinful nature. And uh it draws us there. And one of the ways to have victory over that worldliness being drawn into the world and its values and And uh its pleasures and all that. One of the key components is addressed here in verse number five One of the keys at being at peace with my brothers and sisters in Christ, which he was talking about earlier, warring and fighting with one another. One of the key aspects of getting along with my spouse or my co-worker is another person in the church. Maybe somebody have a they have a Personality that just clashes with me, and you say, I want to get along with them, I want to be a good Christian, I want to have a testimony with them. I think verse 5 is a key component And us getting along. I thought about uh when I worked with uh Brother Charles Holmescher, the founder and director of Neighborhood Bible Time, worked with him on staff there for three years. And he would often say to the young evangelists come in, you know, you've got 45, 50 young preacher boys, there's going to be some clashes. They're going to butt heads sometimes. Not sometimes, often. But they're coming out and they want to serve God and they want to do right and they're trying. Brother Homer used to often say this. I heard him, I don't know how many times say this to young men There's no reason in the world why two spirit-filled people can't get along. Same Holy Spirit's in me as in that uh as in my brother that I'm clashing with. Same Holy Spirit's there. There's no reason the Holy Spirit of God can't enable us to get along. I believe that's what verse number five is addressing when it says, Do you not think that the scripture saith in vain, the Spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? What he's addressing here is my relationship as a Christian with the Holy Spirit. Now here's my question, and this is what we're going to address in the message. Uh how uh let me let me ask this first. How many folks here tonight you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. That's no doubt the vast majority of us, if not all of us. Let me ask you this question. What role, what role does the Holy Spirit of God play in your life? When you make decisions this coming week, when you act in your behavior this week, what role will the Holy Spirit of God play in the decisions you make? What control? Let me ask it this way. What control, how much control does the Holy Spirit of God have over your life? Over my thinking. Does the Holy Spirit come into play at all? Do I give that any even any thought? The Holy Spirit. Does the scripture say in vain the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? No, the Bible doesn't say that in vain. It's a very important principle the Bible teaches, that the Holy Spirit of God lusteth to envy. It's very jealous over our attention, very jealous over our affection. Very jealous of what we are committed to, what we're devoted to, the Spirit of God. Now I got looking at this verse and I was been working on it the last a couple weeks and I'd look and say, do you think the scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? And I looked all over the Bible and I cannot find that quote The spirit that dwelleth in dwelleth in us lusteth to envy. I can't I found out that is not that quote is not in the Bible. It's not there. I thought, well, what is he quoting? Do you think the Spirit saith in vain? And he makes this statement? Actually, what's taking place here is he's not quoting any particular verse. He's not quoting any statement made in Scripture. What he's doing, he's referencing a teaching that is given throughout Scripture. And he's basically saying this. Do you think that what the Bible teaches about the Spirit that dwells in us lusting the envy, do you think that's in vain? And so that kind of threw me for a little bit. I couldn't find that verse, and then as I studied it and began to realize He's referencing a general teaching in Scripture about the Holy Spirit. Now two thoughts tonight. I want to give these to you as quickly as I can. Number one I want us to consider the indwelling Holy Spirit. Notice it says, do you think the scripture saith of me, the Spirit that dwelleth in us? Now I studied that a little bit and looked at that, and I've come to the conclusions he's referring to the Holy Spirit of God that dwelleth in us. The word dwell there means to inhabit, to live within. Um, Sarah and Joe got married a few weeks ago. They got them apartment, I understand, and they are dwelling in that apartment. They've moved in. That's where they live And he's talking about here the Holy Spirit of God dwelling in us. The Holy Spirit of God living inside our bodies. That just amazes me. I'm going to remind you of a couple things that's important to understand. It's important to understand that the Holy Spirit is a person. He is not just some force. The Holy Spirit is a person. How many of you agree with me that God the Father is a person? Sure. He thinks, He has intellect, He has will. He communicates, he has emotions, God can grieve. How many people agree with me? Jesus Christ, the Son of God, God the Son, is a person. Of course we understand that. And in the same way, the Holy Spirit of God is a person. Now I was tempted to take time and just go through scripture, but I'll just throw this out to you The Holy Spirit is presented in Scripture as having intellect. He can think. The Holy Spirit as a person has intellect. He knows things. Of course he has perfect knowledge. It's being equal with God. The Holy Spirit has emotion. Do you know You and I, through things we say and things we do, we can, and no doubt often do, grieve the Holy Spirit, grieve him, make him sad Sometimes in the context in Ephesians, by the way we talk, the harshness of our words towards a brother or sister in Christ who is indwelt by the same Holy Spirit, that harshness grieves our Holy Spirit. Our disobedience to God grieves the Holy Spirit. Our love for the world and the things of the world grieves the Holy Spirit. So the Holy Spirit is a person. He's God, equal with God, one of the persons of the Trinity. He's God, but he's a person. He has emotion. He has intellect. He has a will. He leads and directs us. But here's the thing that amazes me, and I've said this often over the years as your pastor. The amazing thing to me is when I trust Jesus Christ as my Savior God Almighty, in the person of the Holy Spirit, moves into, indwells my body. Think about that. I just asked a few moments ago how many of us are saved and we know it. Every one of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, think about this with me The Holy Spirit God, Almighty God, the God that spoke this universe into existence, that powerful God, right now, as you're seated in this pews, as I'm standing here before you, that God. And the person of the Holy Spirit is inside our bodies. How many folks that amazes you? I'm sure I was taught that early on in my Christian life But for whatever reason, uh I had a doctrines class in Bible college, and we studied this and we looked at the scriptures, and I came back to my dormitory and uh my apartment that I was in, and uh I absolutely dumbfounded. That God Almighty is inside my body, dwelling in me, the spirit that dwelleth in us The Holy Spirit of God. What an amazing, amazing thing. I want to show you a few verses. I want you to take my word for it. Come back to the Gospel of John. We'll look at these real quickly, but I want you to notice them. And if you happen to have a blue Bible highlighter, you could highlight these verses, or if you found one or anything, or if you gave it back, then you'll have to use something else But uh these are exciting verses. John chapter 14, what a great chapter John chapter 14 is. I want you to turn there, I want you to look at this And if you got something to mark your Bible, these would be good verses to mark your Bible. John chapter 14, and uh look at, let's start off at verse 16. And I, this is Jesus speaking. He says, I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter. Now this probably isn't that big a deal. This is just my own little thing, but I I kind of I got the feeling the word comforter, I I got the feeling that's the personal name of the Holy Spirit. I think that's the name That God has given to the Holy Spirit, the Comforter. God the Father's name is Jehovah. God the Son's name is Jesus. And I think the Spirit's name, this is just me, but I think it's Comforter. What a cool name. He shall give you another comforter. Look at this, that he may abide with you for how long is forever? When does forever end? Does it say that the Holy I'll give you the comforter, and he'll abide with you until you sin? Is that what it says? No. He'll abide with you when? Forever. He will not leave you. Now listen. It's important that we understand when we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, we do not, cannot lose that salvation. We have the Holy Spirit of God, He feels us And he will abide with us forever. I put in the margin of my Bible there eternal security. I underlined that phrase, that he may abide with you forever. In the margin I put eternal security. But now look at verse 17. Even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him. But ye know him, this is talking about the Holy Spirit. Now look at this last phrase. If this doesn't stir you up, uh if this doesn't stir you up, you your your mix is solidified or something, huh? That doesn't make sense. But anyway, for he dwelleth with you and shall be what? You know what Jesus is saying? He was telling his disciples at that point there's coming a day when the Holy Spirit of God, the Comforter, is going to be with you and He will dwell in you. It's going to be in you. How many people remember the day you got saved? Remember that? That very moment, that split second that you accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. The comforter, the Holy Spirit of God, the third person of Trinity, boom, took up residence in your body. You say, well, I didn't feel it. I didn't feel anything. And now it's a spiritual thing. He's a spiritual being. And he moved in our body. Now, let me show you another verse. That doesn't have you stirred up. Come to Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8. And verse number nine. I don't know this for a fact, but I'm pretty confident that there are some churches in our community, and I'm not trying to be critical, I'm just Making a statement, there are some churches in our community, I would venture to say, that at the end of the preaching, they gave an invitation, perhaps, and maybe at their pews or at the altar, there was folks praying that God would give them the Holy Spirit. They were asking for the Holy Spirit. Now if a person is saved, listen carefully. If a person is saved, they've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. You do not have to ask God to give you the Holy Spirit. You already have the Holy Spirit. Now let me show you from Bible from Scripture. Look at Romans chapter 8 and turn with me if you would to verse number 9. Verse number nine says, But ye are not in the flesh, he's addressing believers here, saved people, ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the spirit of God dwell in you. Now look at this last statement. Now, if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is what? None of his. In other words, he's saying, if you don't have the Holy Spirit, you're not saved. If you are saved, you do have the Holy Spirit. And uh it's important to understand, listen. Every one of us here tonight that's accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, we're saved and we know it. Listen, don't you come and think that I have to ask God to give me the Holy Spirit Don't let somebody at work come by and say to you, you say, Oh, I got saved out at Mountain Lake. I was thinking this week, um uh there was a fellow I was knocking on doors over in Loch Lynn. I knocked the door, the guy came to the door, I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman. As soon as I said that, he was, I heard about you. I thought, oh brother, here it comes. He is my friend told me about you and your church. I said, okay, I hope it's good He goes, he told me that if you go out there to Mountain Lake, they're going to preach the Bible and they're going to try and get you saved and baptized. I said, well, put her there, buddy. That's what he said to me. I'm trying to remember why I was telling that story. But you go to work and um you tell somebody at work, one of your co-workers, something you say, I went out to Mountain Lake, I got shaved Uh and they say something like this to you say, well, did you get the Holy Spirit? You need to come on out to our church and we'll help you get the Spirit. Listen, don't fall for that. The moment you got saved, God already gave you the Holy Spirit. In fact, if you don't have the Holy Spirit, you're not saved. That's what Romans 9, what Romans 8 says. And so the Holy Spirit indwells the believer. The moment I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit of God, Almighty God. And the person of the Holy Spirit moves in and does not leave me ever and dwells my body. Let me go to one more verse. Boy, this is a powerful verse. 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Come over there with me. Here's the problem, a lot of Baptist churches are scared to talk about the Holy Spirit. Charismatics have kind of taken that and kind of and twisted it around and and uh what the bible teaches, I'm telling you, we don't have to be afraid of the Holy Spirit. I thank God for the Holy Spirit He dwells within us. He seals us. He keeps us. He leaves us. He convicts us. How many people are glad the Holy Spirit convicts you when you get messed up? Sure. Glad he don't leave me alone. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Look down verse number 19. I like when the Bible starts out like this. What? What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is In you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own? For ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's Paul's addressing the church at Corinth, and we're work teaching our way through this in Sunday school, and he goes, What? Don't you guys even grasp this? Your body is the temple of the Spirit of God, the temple of God, and the Holy Spirit dwells in you. He's in you Now I don't want to get I'm I'm awfully bad about this. I don't I don't want to get anybody mad. I'm not trying to pick on anybody. I'm I'm not I don't have anybody in particular in mind. But this is one of the reasons I don't get tattoos. How many people are glad your preacher doesn't go out and get tattoos? Amen. Told one time about getting a little teardrop right here, but No, I didn't. One of the reasons I don't is this. Well, several reasons. One of them is this. This body is not mine. This body is the temple of the Holy Spirit of God. Now listen, you know, if you if you have some, you know, that's that's between you, Lord. There's nothing we can do about this point. If you're contemplating getting a tattoo, I urge you, don't do it. This is the temple of God. This body is the temple. That would be like in uh in the Old Testament they had the tabernacle. Remember tabernacle, we studied that and they built that, and God was very, very specific what w how it was supposed to be and all that That would be kind of like going in, getting some spray paint, and putting a heart with an arrow through it and saying mom on the side of the tabernacle. You know what would have happened? You've been struck by lightning. Remember Uzzah touched the the uh the Ark of the Covenant? God killed him on the spot. Man, that's sacred stuff. That's the temple of God. And here we're told that this body is the temple of God. Now I'm not saying God's going to strike you dead if you have a tattoo, but I am saying this, you ought to think that through a little bit. Are you with me? I'm you'll think that through a little bit. Be careful about that. And now today, you know, they're altering their bodies and altering the appearance and all that, and some of it's just hideous. And I look at that and I think, that's the temple of God. What are you doing? You need to accept Christ and then understand that your body is the temple of God. And so the Spirit of God moves into us and indwells us. And we have this amazing, amazing truth of salvation. God Is in my body right now, I like to say this, this massive chest you're looking at. How many people ever heard me say that before? Anyway, um but it's true. You get home tonight, you look in the mirror, you look at yourself, and inside that body, you're looking the reflection of that body, you're okay, inside that body is the Holy Spirit of God, the most powerful being in existence. Dwells inside you and I. That is amazing to me. That tells me several things. Tells me I'm never alone. Wherever I am, Spirit of God is there. Never alone. I might be in a cave, but I'm not alone. Spirit of God is there I might be out on the road driving a truck and my heart broke or whatever, fearful. Spirit of God's there. I might be in a crowd, might be teaching a school class. I got the Holy Spirit of God there. Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee, whithersoever thou goest. And as a believer, I've got the Holy Spirit of God dwelling in me. I am never, ever alone. Not if I'm saved. So that means I'm never learned. That means if the Holy Spirit is doing me, that means I'm never inadequate. Paul emphasized this, and we're going to see it in Corinthians in Sunday school. Paul emphasized this. He says, not that we are sufficient of ourselves. But our sufficiency is of God. And what he's saying is, you and I are never going to be up to the test. We're never going to be everything we need to be all the time. But we have a God that indwells us in the person of the Holy Spirit, and He is adequate for us. He is our sufficiency. And thank God for it. The indwelling Holy Spirit. He dwells within us. Remember the Holy Spirit. I like I like this story. I was out in Gorman. Uh how many people remember Daniel Kitchen? Remember Daniel Kitchen? He was my first song leader, just teen boy. He led my singing, Nancy and the gang And uh we were we had he uh uh I don't know what it was, he had the afternoon free, it was weekday, probably skipped school. And um but uh anyway I said let's go out, we're gonna go out to Gorman, we're gonna go to Solwyn, and so we went out there and I try to each week, get out a day or two and knock on doors. They're out there and knocking on doors. We got this one big house and knocked the door and this lady came to the door and uh I introduced myself and this is Daniel and we gave her some of our literature. Chris Literature there and it was obvious right from the start this lady was drunk. I mean cooked. She was pickled. She was wasted. She was drunk. And so, I mean it was obvious. And so we're talking a little bit and I said, Well th I said, um, something to the effect, do you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven and something like that And she says, let me ask you a question. I said, okay. She goes, Do you have the spirit? I said, well, as a matter of fact, I do. I said, back in Philadelphia, 19 years old, May 7, 1979, right after Laverna Shirley went on, I went through and told her my testimony, how I got saved. I said, the moment I trusted Christ the Savior, the Spirit of God moved into me She goes, Well, I got the spirit too. I don't know why I said it. Without even thinking, I said, ma'am, you have a spirit, but you don't have the Holy Spirit. And man, she got mad, she's home at sheet, she threw it at me, get off my property, and ran us out of there I said that to say this. The Spirit that dwells within us, we must never forget it is the Holy Spirit. The Holy God. Our God is so holy he cannot look on sin. And it's the Spirit, the Holy Spirit of God, that dwells within us. God does not want us to sin. His Holy Spirit rebels against that. His Holy Spirit convicts against that. It is the Holy Spirit of God that lives within us. So we have the indwelling Holy Spirit. He says there in James. What? Do you think that the scripture saith in envy, the Spirit that dwelleth in us? Lust at the enemy. We have in us the Holy Spirit. Now the context here is wars and fightings and worldliness and this battle going on for the control of my life and who's going to control me, whether the Lord or the world, whether I'm going to be at peace. And that's the context. And he says, the scripture, do you think the scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth within us lusteth the envy? So my first point was this, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Second point is this I get from this verse is the desire of the Holy Spirit. He uses two pretty strong words here. Lusteth to envy. Now, as we pointed out before in the earlier messages, the word lust there is generally has negative connotations. We think of it in a sensual way. But the word itself simply means to intentionally desire something, or to very intently pursue after something, or to long for something very strongly. I really, really want that. I really desire that. And so the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth. He has an intense desire. He has an intense longing. He is pursuing something. The Holy Spirit of God. And he lusteth to what? What's the verse say? He lusteth to envy. Now again, like the word lust, the word envy generally has a negative connotation. You think of something, you think negatively of envying something, but the word in and of itself is not bad. And the concept to envy in and of itself in the right context is not a bad thing. It simply means to jealously guard something. To desire, I like this definition, to desire the exclusive affection of A husband and wife are in in a very real sense, in a very biblical and good sense, often are envy, envy their love. I want my wife's exclusive affection. I exclusively want her attention. I want to share it with some other guy. And envy, that's the idea here. To jealously guard something. And the Bible is presenting, the Bible presents God as a jealous God. He said that to the nation of Israel over and over and over and over. I'm a jealous God. I don't want you worshiping false gods. I don't want you in love with the things of the pagans and the Philistines and the I want your affection. I want your attention. I want your love on me. That's what verse 4 was about, friendship with the world. And so the Holy Spirit of God's desire His jealousy, he is jealously guarding and desiring our affection that it would be on him and on the Lord and not on the world. Our God is jealous of our devotion. God does not want us devoted to anything other, anything above him. In fact, Jesus said in several places, he said, and I have to explain this, but he said something to this effect that if you don't hate your father, mother, brother, sister, your wife, your children, your own life also you can't be my disciple. Now he's not saying we should go and choke our spouse or we hate him. I hate you. I come home. I love God. I hate you. It's not what he's saying. The idea is this, that our love and our devotion and our affection for God is so great, it's so out, it's so supreme. Over any other love and affection I have that it comes across that I don't love them. You follow what I'm saying? And we've preached on this before. In fact, I suggest to you who have said this often, I know it's true. Until I love God like I should, it's going to be difficult to love my spouse like I should Until I love God like I should, until He is the supreme love of my life, it's going to be difficult to love my kids the way God wants me to, or anybody else, or anything else Anything that draws my affection away from the Lord grieves my Lord. He is jealous of our love. God created us to love him. The first and greatest commandment is thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength Not some, not part, all of it. He lusteth the envy for all of our devotion, for all of our affection, for all of our love. What we want to do, oh yeah, I love the Lord. But this and that and the other and the Holy Spirit of God that dwells in us lusteth the enemy. No, I want all your love. I want all your affection. God gave his son. God gave his son for Pete's sake. To save you and I from sin and hell. And he says, I want you to love me. I want you to be devoted to me exclusively. That is what I lust for. That is what I am envious for. Your love and devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ. God allows no room. No room for any rivalry in our relationship with him. That's the same way you and I would feel about our spouse, right or wrong? We don't want any room for rivalry. I enjoy saying this sometimes, but uh, you know, God should not be number one in our life. If the Lord is number one in our life, that means something is what? Number two. And that implies competition. That implies rivalry. Our love for the Lord shouldn't be number one in our life. Our love for the Lord should be the center of our life, and every other relation should should revolve around and be governed by my love and devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ. Not a list going down, but Christ the center, every other relationship governed by that. Much like a wheel, uh a tire in the the hub in the middle of a wheel. Everything that wheel does revolves around that hub being in the place there. Everything of my life must revolve around my love and devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ. That is what the Holy Spirit lusteth for. That's what he's envious. He wants to be the center focus, the supreme. object of our affection and our love. Everything else. But when we get that out of whack, then the Spirit of God lusteth the envy. He wants that, the desire. God wants our love and devotion to Him to supersede any and all other loves, even good things. If I begin to love something even good in and of itself more than I love the Lord, or in place and my devotion to something replaces my devotion to the Lord The Spirit of God lusteth to envy that be back. And that's what verse 4 and the previous verses are talking about. Friendship with the world, getting that devotion, affection for things other than the Lord out of whack. And the Spirit of God. He says, do you think the scripture says in vain that the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth the envy? No, it doesn't say that in vain. God doesn't want you loving the world. God doesn't want you loving even good things more than you love him. Become weights. My family, even a church and a ministry can replace the Lord in the life of a Christian. I love Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I don't know if it comes through or not, but I'm telling you, I love this church. I love the people in this church. I love serving God in this body. I love it. But I have to be very, very careful that it does not replace my love for the Lord Jesus Christ. Does not supersede my love for the Lord Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit of God lusteth to envy. That He has all our love. I was thinking, I've been thinking recently about Mike Stubler. I know we I don't mean to build him up like some sort of super Christian, but I'm telling you that guy was something else. That guy was something else. He got saved. Boy, he grew. You all know the you all that were around. He grew, strong testimony. He called me up one time. It was about a few months before hunting season and Tom knows what I'm gonna talk what I'm talking about when I start saying this. If he's awake. Oh yeah, Tom's awake. Okay. I was I can't help it. It's just I pick on him. I don't know why. He said, Pastor, I get a question. I said, okay. He would do that. He'd read something in his devotions. Preacher, what does this mean? I'd try and figure out what he meant. He said, I got a question. I said, okay. He goes, God's really been dealing with my heart. He says, I think I'm going to sell all my hunting stuff. All my guns, all my camo, and all of that. He goes, I'm gonna stop hunting. Now he was an avid hunter. He was very good. He was an avid hunter. And I said, Mike, are you okay? Well this is before he got sick. I said, is everything on it? He says, yeah, yeah. And he says, don't misunderstand. I don't I'm not saying it's sin or it's wrong or nobody else should do that. But this is what he said to me He said, but I'm just afraid it will interfere with my relationship with the Lord Jesus. I said, Mike, you know, whatever God's leading you to do, I support you 100%. I said, that's not a bad thing. I said, even something good and innocent is hunting or fishing or whatever, ball game, whatever Can very easily replace the Lord in our hearts and lives. And we need to be very, very careful about that. He goes, Well, I don't think it's sin, and I'm not trying to tell anybody else what they should or he said, but for me It's a danger that it'll interfere with my walk with God, and I don't want that to happen. You know what he was telling me? The Holy Spirit that dwelt within him lusted to envy for his affection and his devotion. And he says, I don't want anything else to replace that. Old Brother Mike followed through. He sold his stop and he put all this side. He says, I want to live for Christ and Christ alone Now I'm not he wasn't saying and I'm not saying that it's wrong. There's fine baseball and games and all that. That's fine. It has its place. But I tell you this, the moment we start putting that in place of the Lord, the Spirit of God is stirred up The Spirit of God is greed, and he lusteth the envy. What I believe this verse is saying is God wants every bit of our heart, our love, our devotion. He does not want to share us with anyone or anything. He deserves it all. And when Christ is the center and he is the focus of our love and our affection, you say, well if I if I love the Lord just with all of that, then how's that going to affect my family life? I tell you what When the Lord is where He's ought to be, where He ought to be in my affection and devotion, everything else falls right into place. Everything else is all right into place. Do you think the scripture saith in vain? Do you think it's just saying that? That the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth the envy? No, it's not saying that in vain. God wants your love. God wants my devotion supremely, exclusively. And it's up to us. Is it the Lord or is it me? Is it Christ or is it the world? And he's challenging them. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us tonight. To understand and make a conscious decision that we will and we do love you with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind. And I pray that would be true of us as a church as a whole, but also true of us as individuals. And in our homes, Christ would be the center. Our homes would be devoted to the Lord Jesus. Our ministries, the focus of our ministries would be devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ. Not to a man, not to anything else, but the Lord Jesus. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say tonight, preacher, I can see some areas of my life where God might be a little bit jealous of I can see some areas in my heart where some things other than the Lord are pushing the Lord out, and I don't want that to happen. I want it to be exclusively Christ. All in all, the Lord Jesus Christ. How many would say, preacher, that's my prayer. I see some areas that need attention. I need some areas that I may need to adjust. And rearrange, and you'd say, Preacher, pray with me, I need God's help in this area. God bless you, hands all around. How about it? Others? I can see some areas Now maybe you say, you know, as far as I know, my heart is focused, my heart's on the Lord, I'm devoted to Him, I think things are in place. Praise the Lord for it. Let's pray that we keep it that way and we stay yielded to the Lord. Would there have happened to be someone here tonight say, preacher, I'm not sure that I've been saved? I don't know that I've ever trusted Christ that my sins are forgiven. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to have that matter settled in my heart. Is there any like that at all tonight, Preacher? I'm not sure that I've ever been saved, and I want that settled in my heart. Father in heaven, bless me our invitation as we go prepare for the Lord's Supper. I pray you'd stir our hearts, challenge us, search us, try us. That every single area of our heart and life is yielded to you, in love with you. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed