Here. If um you remember, there was uh back in November, I believe it was, was that November when you guys went on that trip? Was it November? Yeah, November. Um Pastor was gone for a couple weeks there, took a group down on a missions trip to the Dominican, and um we started a series. And uh we already knew that he was going to be gone for a few weeks in February on a missions trip. And so I talked to Pastor about it, and he thought it was a good idea, uh, have a um a nine sermon series that that we started. So last time we looked at three different sermons on that, and now this the next couple weeks we're going to finish that series. That's the goal, that's the plan. And the series is, of course, on the seven uh churches in Revelation in chapters two and three of the book of Revelation. And so just to kind of uh review and refresh to get our minds back into that, because that was a couple months ago. Um Of course, just a few th just a few generic things about those churches. We noticed that they were actually real places. You know, there's different theories on what those churches represent for us today and things like that. And um don't really want to get into all of that. Um I just want to look at them as uh As it as it was written then. They're real churches, real places, they existed. Sure, there's similarities to our our our churches here now, and we can share uh we have some similarities between the church at Ephesus and the church at uh Thyatira and some differences and you know just you you get the point. Um the point I want to make is we just want to look at each church individually of these seven churches and then draw application from them. That's the goal. So with that being said, we saw that this was written by the Apostle John And while he was on the island of Patmos, he was uh sent sentenced there and um he he had to live out the rest of his life there um in exile on that island He referred to himself as the disciple whom Jesus loved. That's who John was. He of course penned the Gospel of John, first, second, third, John, and then of course this book as well. When we look at Revelation, most of the time what we think of is end times. And that is the bulk of the book, no doubt, but there's this brief little period here at the beginning, chapters two and three uh where he gives a special letter to uh these seven different churches. We saw that all of these churches were um an ASA minor uh modern day Turkey. And we had a map pulled up then. I didn't want to go through all this again because I don't want to take up the whole service to to just review again. But We could see where all of those churches were. And to this day you can go over there and the sites are excavated, some better than others, and you can see some remnant of the Christian influence there in these cities and things like that. It's pretty cool stuff. We noticed that during this time the the Roman Emperor was the Emperor Domitian He was the the brother of Nero and he wasn't any better than Nero. Nero is famous for his persecution of Christians Um uh, you know, and and it was just awful what he did, but of course uh Domitian wasn't any any better. And there was an intense persecution. Some of these churches faced a little more persecution than others. The one we're going to look at today, of course, there was a pretty intense persecution. We'll look at that. One of the men will look at Antipas. Of course, he gave his life for Christ there in Pergamus. uh but there was there was great persecution throughout the Roman Empire um at that time. So um but anyway, just moving through here John has it has uh this vision that the Lord gives him, and he's talking about in in chapter one, of course, the the things he sees in the seven stars, the seven candlesticks. We won't go into all that again But the the point is, he says, um, that these these churches specifically God calls out to John and he has a message for each church individually So the book is given to all of us, of course, and then these were given specifically to those churches, but of course we can learn from them as well, and they're given for us, and we can pick up some similarities and um draw application from them. And then after we looked at that, we looked at the first two churches that that were written to. The first one mentioned was the church at Ephesus And again, I won't go into all of that all over again. If you want to know about the church at Ephesus, you can go back into November online and you can get a recording of that And um we looked at their strengths, their weaknesses. They're known to be a hard-working church, the church at Ephesus, um, but there are some things that the Lord had against them as well. And then the next church we looked at was Smyrna. And of course there was intense persecution there in Smyrna. And again, if you want to look at that, you can go back to November. online and uh listen to those if you want the whole series. So anyway, today we're looking at the the the church at Pergamos and this is the third uh church that is addressed uh there in Asia Minor and he has a letter to them. Um one thing to keep in mind as we look um at all of these different uh local churches that were meant uh that were addressed is to realize that there are they were real places, real cities, real problems, real people, real churches Um like where the church in uh Mountain Lake Park, you know, where the uh there's the church uh an accident or the you know, there they're actual Churches, actual local bodies of of believers that met there. They had their pastors, they had their um they had you know they had their struggles, they had their good points. And each city was different, obviously. Some of them uh some of these cities were port cities, trade cities. Uh the one we're looking at today was known for its library. Um so they are all different, they're all unique And and I I got to thinking about that, you know, we all you know there there's a lot of churches we go to h even here within the our own state, within Maryland, and also within the country. But if you go to this church And you go to a church um maybe in California, it'll it'll be a little bit different. But but there's some things that are s there's some things that will be different, but there's gonna be a lot of things that are the same. You know, there's there's churches in California that well I won't say they're just like our church, because they're different, mm, but when it comes to fundamentals, what we believe you know, conviction standards, things like that. They're they're they're just like us, you know. And um so anyway, that's that's kind of how I view these churches. You know, they're in a different time in history. But I think we would get along with them in a lot of ways. Some ways maybe we wouldn't, and some of their faults, maybe some of our faults. I don't know. But uh what I'm trying to wrap my head around here, what I kinda want us to wrap our heads around, is that these are actual People that really live really really real people. Remember those uh those w was that Ford or Chevy that had the commercials that said um real people, not actors? You know what I'm talking about? That implies that actors aren't real people. It always cracked me up. But anyway, these are real people, not actors. Okay. So looking here at the church at Pergamus. Verse 12 of Revelation 2, and to the angel of the church in Pergamos write. Now we saw Previously, and again, if you want to go back and look at it, the angel is referring to the the the the elder, the pastor of the church. So he's writing here to the church at Pergamos, and these are the things he's going to say. Now if we were to look And sum up what the church at Pergamous was within maybe just a sentence or two, it would be probably something like this. A good church with a little compromise, that's kind of what the gist that I would get out of it. A good church with a little compromise And we'll dig into that this morning. First, I want to talk about the city of Pergamos itself. We'll look at the church here in just a second, but to put us in the set the setting of the city of Pergamus. It is known to be one of the best or the most well excavated, I should say. It is excavated very well. And it's it's known for that. You can gain a lot of information just by going over there. You can gain a lot of information by just doing a quick internet search on it But the the city was excavated very, very well, and there's a lot that's preserved uh from that time frame, from that period of time. And uh it w it it was known Then for its commerce and for its library, the people of Pergamous would pride themselves on being very, very educated Uh the library there at Pergamus was known to have over two hundred thousand books, which that's a lot. Two hundred thousand, especially then. That's a lot of books. And so there was a a great access to um to knowledge and to to to literature and things like that. And the people of Pergamos were very, very educated and they they prided prided themselves on that. So, um and then the other thing they were known for was their commerce. Some interesting things about the city Uh in two thousand two hundred BC, uh of course this was before Christ and all that, two hundred years before Christ That area, now known as Turkey, Asia Minor there, was ruled by King Atlas. And that's when Rome was in the middle of its conquest of the world And this king Atalus uh struck a deal, a peace treaty with Rome, and Rome allowed him allowed them to have control over that peninsula, but they they would get along and things like that. But anyway, uh fast forward a few decades and this guy's grandson, Adelus III uh got kinda mad at some things and just gave the peninsula to Rome. It's like here you go, have have Asia Minor. And that's that's what happened. And so, of course, uh that was a good day for Rome. And so there was a lot of things that went along with that. But That being said, the Roman influence here was very, very great, but also the Greek influence was very, very great. So it was Uh I've heard people describe it doing some studying and stuff like that. It would be described as a very Greek city under Roman control. A very Greek city under Roman control. And so you can kind of put your your mind in that. I just want us to be in the setting of the city here before we look at the church. Something else that you would notice right away. And if you went over there today even and looked at the excavated sites There was a temple or an idol or a god for just about anything you could think of. It was just overrun with idolatry And that was the way of life uh for the the the the common citizen of Pergamus. And and and j like I'm I I mean it just about any any aspect of life you could think of, there was they had a God for that. And so, for instance, there was a temple to Zeus there, the Greek uh god who was king of the gods. And so there was uh there was also the temple of uh Dionysus, which was the god of wine and and revelie and and uh the god the goddess uh uh Demeter, however you pronounce that, Apollo, Athena, uh goddess of wisdom and Um then there was also um some other weird like healing cults and stuff there. Um and there it was just the the I don't want to get too much into that because that's all real dark and stuff, but the point is is Idolatry was a way of life in Pergamus. And if you did not partake in that lifestyle, you you were an outcast. Like Like you were weird if you didn't partake in that kind of stuff. Everyone there went to the various gods. um and worshiped there and had put gave their allegiance to the various gods, including Caesar, he had a temple there. And and that was just kind of expected to be part of society. Again, with it being under Roman control during the time of that emperor Domitian, if you did not participate in the worship of Caesar Y you you lost some privileges as a citizen, and of course, to the point of of death even for some, as was mentioned uh by this this man Antipas that gave his life um in the church The point I want to make is it was a very, very spiritually dark place. Now, if we look at our text, it says just how dark it is. Look at verse 13. I know thy works and where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seat is. That kind of gives us a picture of how dark this place was. Satan's seat. Now God God is omnipresent. He's everywhere. Satan's not. Satan is somewhere right now. Okay? So I don't know if that's what this is saying. Is that's where the devil was hanging out? Or that's where Satan was? I'm I'm not sure. There's a bunch of different um uh if you read different commentaries and look at different opinions, some people refer to the the um the um the temple to Caesar, the way it was laid out it looked like Satan's seat or uh they would refer to maybe even Zeus was Satan's seat I don't know, but I know that it was a really bad place. Okay? It was a really spiritually dark place. And then actually Satan's seed is mentioned here twice, again later on, a few verses later But it was rough. And if you wanted to be a sold-out, dedicated follower of Christ in this city, it was gonna cost. It was gonna hurt. um worth it, obviously. And of course that might be easy for us to say because I haven't gotten um executed today for being a Christian But but that is something they face there. And and there's that is something that a lot of Christians aro around the world right now are facing We got it kind of easy here. I don't think that anyone's coming in with a sword today to to kill us. Now that was that was their reality. The the the the persecution was wasn't just economical persecution, although it included that. It wasn't just social standing, although it included that. They they were in danger for their lives for being a Christian. And of course when they didn't show up at the temple the Caesar to give their allegiance to him, people knew it. Um so that's just something to keep in mind. It was a very, very um tough place to be a Christian in terms of persecution and things like that. Now to my knowledge, beyond this chapter, uh I could be wrong on this, but I don't think that Pergamis uh the church at Pergamus is mentioned anywhere else. in the Bible. Um and the g the Lord applauds them on some things here. And but then also he has some problems with them and we'll look at both. So One thing that the Lord praises them for is their their practice, their works. He says, I know thy works. Now Works imply doing things, correct? So that means they were an active church. That would be a tough place to be an active church when you're worried about Dying. When you were worried about losing your property, which a lot of them did. They lost their property, they'd have it seized, they wouldn't be able to participate in commerce and even simple things like banking. They couldn't do that. So they were under they were under great persecution, but they were still active. People were getting saved. The church was was growing. And uh there I I mean I guess if if if they'd be here today, they'd be running buses. You know, they'd have programs, they'd have outreach and things like that. Uh they were a very, very active church. They were working, and the Lord applauds them for that. He says, I know thy works even Where Satan's seat is. Keep reading. That holds fast my name and has not denied my faith. That's a big deal. To be able to be in that culture and not deny the name of Christ. And that's probably why Antipas gave his life. And we will keep reading through this verse here. Even in those days where an Antipas was my faithful martyr. Who was slain among you where Satan dwelleth? He says it again. So in this wicked, idolatrous city that's just that it's has all the temple worship of all these pagan gods, Greek and Roman, and all the stuff that goes along with that. Just an awful society in terms of spiritualities is awful To not deny the name of Jesus was a big deal. To say, no, there is only one God. That's a big deal. To say, no, we're not going to recognize this plurality of deities. It's Jesus. You know, and there might be the temple they would go to for healing. They would recognize Jesus as the healer. And rather than going to Zeus, they would recognize Jesus as the king of kings. That's a big deal. No, Jesus is the source of wisdom, not this God. And to only recognize Jesus in this society, that's a big deal. And we ought to applaud that. The Lord applauds that. He says, I know thy works, even where Satan's seat is. They're holding fast the name. When I think of holding fast to something, I think of like a tight grip on something. They were holding a tight grip on their faith and they weren't going to let go. And they knew what had taken place in their life. And I think we can relate with that. You get you got saved, you trusted Jesus, you're saved, you know what took place in your life. That's something they're holding fast on to. And that's a good thing. So that that they were working hard, even in Satan's seat. And Antipas even gave his life for. I don't know how many other Christians did, but definitely we know there is at least one. And so then that would be hard. If we it picture picture this church right now in that setting. And, you know, the Lord's writing a letter to us, and, you know, I know you're living in a tough spot, and even Evan, he gave his life, he died for the faith. That'd be kind of tough coming to church the next Sunday and we know this guy was just murdered for his faith. But they still held on and they still held fast. And I think that that's something good So uh their their works their their works were there even in the bad place and um their people were very very very very faithful. Well that being said, verse 14, um things change a little bit. With all of that going on, you would think, man, that's We can't say anything bad about them. They're holding on to the name of Christ. They're they're holding on to their faith. And um in an awful place at that. Even to the point where one gave his life for the Lord. So verse 14, though, he says, But I have a few things against thee. Man, what could that be? Right? Man, they're they're not denying Christ, they're holding on to his name, and I mean doing everything like textbook, but but not quite. And so let's look at these things real quick. My plan is to was to share with you the positive notes, then the then the negative notes, but then at the end here I'm hoping we can just draw some practical things for for the church here. So, are the few things against thee, because thou hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balaam Who taught Balak to cast a stumbling block before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit fornication? So he gives a list here of things he has a problem with. And then also in verse 15, he talks about those that hold to the doctrine of the Nicolaitans. So what are these doctrines he's referring to? Well, the first one he mentions was Balaam. He says that thou hast there them that hold to the doctrine of Balaam. Now Balaam, this if you remember your Old Testament, this is in Numbers chapter 24. I'll just briefly tell what happened here, and then we'll explain what this means. But what was going on is uh the Moabite king in Numbers chapter twenty-four um encouraged um the people to marry uh the those that uh were not Israelites because they wanted them to worship There are gods along with that. And the idea was to have this blend of worshiping God with worshiping other gods as well. And also in 2 Peter, the way of Balaam is mentioned, and then in Jude, verse 11, it talks about the error of Balaam. The best way I know how to explain it is this. The doctrine of Balaam is a doctrine of compromise. A doctrine that says, yes, we're Christians, yes, we're sold out to Christ, but we can do this stuff too. Okay? Now put that in context of where they were in Pergamus. They didn't want to maybe completely be cast out of society. They were holding fast to the name of Jesus. They would say, no, there's only one God. There's only one King. It's Jesus. But we might as well get along a little bit just so we don't, you know, we can have we can have both. We don't want to get completely kicked out of society. We don't want to look like we're weird or something like that. So we'll we'll we'll do both It's a doctrine that says you can be a Christian without being sold out. You can be a Christian and serve Jesus, but kind of still do what you want to do in the temple, the other temples and things like that. So he mentions some things specifically here. Um he says in verse uh fourteen But I have a few things against thee, because thou hast there then behold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balaam to cast a stumbling block before the children of Israel. That's what we're just saying. To eat things sacrificed unto idols, and to commit fornication. Okay. Eating meat sacrificed to idols you'll see come up a few times in the New Testament. Sometimes you see, oh, it's no problem as long as you don't offend your brethren, and I'm summarizing, but sometimes you see, oh no, don't do it. Okay. Well, what this is referring to when it says they're eating the meat sacrificed to idols is the things that went along with the idol worship. You know, Paul's like you buy in the marketplace, okay, whatever, as long as you don't offend anyone. But if it does, then don't do it. But if you're going down to this temple of whatever or whatever that deity or whatever that god or goddess is And you're eating it there and per as a way of participating in that worship, there's a problem. Because it's not just the act of eating a ribeye steak, it's saying I'm doing this in the name of Bill in the Blank. And then the next one here, he says, eat things sacrificed unto idols and to commit fornication. Okay, well, fornication is always wrong. Fornication is always sin. But when you're committing fornication in the temple to whoever, well now you're taking it a step further and you're doing it as an act of worship to whatever that god or goddess was. So what was going on here is they were sold out Christians most or some of the time. It's a doctrine of compromise. It's a doctrine of we can have both. Do we hear things like this today? Yeah Have you ever heard someone say, Well, I'm a Christian, I believe Jesus Christ is my Savior. That works for me, maybe it doesn't for you. Well, what we're doing is we're opening up the gate there. Saying, well, this works, but that's okay too. That's a doctrine of Balaam. That's a doctrine that says we can have both And there's a problem with that. And Jesus says here, I have someone against you because of that. And I'll get to the applications here in just a minute, but that's something we need to be really careful of. We don't want to be Christians, but also be worldly. We don't want to be followers of Jesus sold out on Sunday, but then Monday participate in the The the lifestyle that goes along with what Pergamus was going through, the the you know the the goddesses of of of wine and revelie and and uh the the the deities to wisdom and healing and all the all their other deities that they had. We don't want to participate in that Monday through Saturday and then be Christians on Sunday. Either there's a problem with that. One verse that's coming to my mind is a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. That's just one that's coming to my mind there. So he's saying, here's the good point. I know you're working hard, your works, it's in a hard place, you gave your life for Christ, but here's the problem. And I I wrote this down. And um I did this is not original with me, I got it from um a commentary I was looking at. The problem with the church at Pergamous wasn't that the church was in Pergamous, but that there was too much Pergamous in the church. And so that was a doctrine that they were holding to, it was a doctrine of compromise. So in anyway, and then the doctrine of the Nicolaitans is mentioned. Which thing I hate. And there's I've tried to do some some digging on this and there's a lot of different opinions, but we know that it was a doctrine that was against scripture. So again, bringing unscriptural things into the church. So now, all that in mind, we see what the city looks like. That'd be a rough place to stand for Christ, but they were standing for Christ most of the time. That there is some compromise not just in the church but also throughout the week and things like that. So, what are some things that we can apply to us today? Like I said with the Ephesus and Smyrna, then also with this one and the other churches we're going to look at. There's a lot of similarities but and that we can learn from. There's a lot of differences that we can learn from We need to figure out what their good points were and try to emulate that. We need to figure out what their weak points were and take that as a warning and to not do that. So, one thing I'm getting out of this is a life of devotion does not necessarily mean a life of ease. If you make up your mind that you're going to be sold out for Christ, that is not a guarantee to an easy life. If anything, it might mean the opposite. But it's worth it. It's worth it. He that hath an ear, uh the last verse for this church, I mean, he that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches, to him that overcometh. Well, I give to eat of the hidden manna. It's a ref the manna that's a reference to what God's provision in the Old Testament, right? And um going on though, and we'll give him a white stone And in the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it. What in the world is that? A white stone with a name in it? I did a little digging on this one. What a w when they would when there would be a big banquet or a big um uh A big banquet or a big party or something like that. A big event where um you know high high elevated guests or guests of position would be invited to Their invitations would be on a piece of marble and they would engrave their name and the the the event into that marble and then deliver that plaque, that little piece of marble, and then you would then take that to the banquet and present that as your invitation So I think what's going on here is this. Look at verse 17. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches, to him that overcometh. If we can get through this, it's worth it. If we can overcome that, yeah, there's there's persecution. Yeah, there's a lot of temptation to just go along with the world the rest of the week and we'll still serve God on Sundays. But if you can get through this, there's something good coming, and this is it. An invitation with your name on it. Listen, I I know that there can be some tough trials, and Christians all around the world have it a lot harder than we do here. But we still have trials. There's still temptations, sure. But it's worth it because we've got an invitation with our name on it. And it's not just a random invitation with our name on it. It's special to us. Look at verse 17. Which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it. I know personally that I have this invitation, that my name is written on that stone. I know for a fact I got a home in heaven. I am convinced of that And I can I can I can go to Scripture and see that whosoever shall call upon the Lord shall be saved. I know that's a guarantee. It's like it's etched in that piece of white marble, my name is on it I'm getting into the invitation. I mean getting into the banquet. I'm getting into the party and I'm looking forward to it. It's gonna be fun Yeah, right now it's a little trial, there's some trials here and there, and sometimes there are really big trials, and yeah, there's temptation and there's pressure from the world, but it is worth it. Yes, it's it's worth it. And I'm excited to get to heaven. It's going to be fun. So a life of devotion does not necessarily mean a life of ease. Antipas was a faithful martyr. There may be friends, there may be coworkers, there may be bosses, there may be neighbors, there might be an entire society that attacks you. For your stance for Christ, but who cares? Because you've got that invitation to heaven and you know you're on your way if you've accepted Christ as your Savior. I find that very exciting. Another practical application that I think we can draw from this is this A little compromise is still a big deal. Look look at verse fourteen. But I have a few things against thee. You know, normally in our mind a few, that's just a little bit. That's not that big of a deal. You know what I mean? Um if something just costs a few bucks and it's not a lot of money, it's just a few bucks. You know That could be a lot of money. I don't know. You get the point though. It's just a few. You know, it's not that many. It's not that much. But here he makes a big deal out of a little bit. A little bit of yeast or a little bit of leaven changes the whole thing, right? A little bit of pergamous getting into the church is a very big deal. A little bit of compromise is a very, very big deal. This was a church that was serving the Lord in a rough area. And surely, surely, God would understand if they just compromised a little bit, right? No. No, no, no, no. It doesn't matter the temptation, it doesn't matter the opposition. A compromise is still a compromise. Now, how would I apply that to myself? Well, I'm out I'm out and about during the week and I'm not in church and there's no one else really around and you know it's been a stressful day. I'm just gonna I'm just gonna watch whatever I feel like on TV I'm not bringing it into the church or anything. I just feel like feel like relaxing a little bit. Okay? That's a little compromise in my conviction. That's a little compromise in my standard. See, this isn't, he mentioned the doctrine, the Baal and the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, but it's not just what you're bringing into the church, it's what the church is doing throughout the week. A little bit of compromise is a big deal. A little bit of change is a big change. Yes, it's a big deal. The Lord does mind if we just have a few of the world's philosophies. If we just have a few of the world's standards, yes, the Lord minds. None of our standards should look like the world's, none of our philosophies should look like the world's. Nothing that the church at Pergamous was doing should have looked anything like the rest of the city of Pergamous. Nothing. Our standards, our beliefs, from the way we can conduct ourselves, our manners, our convictions, should look nothing like the world's. They should look like the Bible. And with that in mind, what is the standard for what's right and what's wrong? Look at verse number Verse number twelve, when he introduces it, he says to the angel of the church with Pergamus, write, These things saith he, which hath the sharp sword with two edges. Hebrews 4 12 says, the word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing and dividing of sunder's soul and spirit. If you look at verse number Um number I lost my spot there. Oh, 16. Repent, or else I will come unto thee quickly and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth. This is Jesus' word. This is God's word. What is the standard for how we are to conduct ourselves, not just in the church, but throughout the week? It's the sword that comes out of his mouth. It is his words. Which are sharper than any two-edged sword. It is said that uh the governor of that region, the Roman governor of that region, one thing he prided himself on was that he had the power of the sword. In any trial that was brought before him, he would give the thumbs up or thumbs down as to whether or not the sword would be presented to that person. And so there's some uh historians, church historians and stuff that believe this is how Antipas was was was martyred, was by the sword. But what's sharper than the governor's sword is God's word. And we need to care more about What God has to say, we need to care more about how God says to conduct ourselves and His Word rather than being fearful of the pressures of pergamous. And of our society. So, um a little change is a big deal. God's word is the standard. It's not the culture should not define what is right and wrong. The politicians should not define what is right and wrong. The classroom should not define what is right and wrong. My emotions, my opinions should not define what is right and wrong. It's God's Word where we get our definition of what is right and what is wrong. So Um that's kind of w what the church there was was was struggling with and these are some applications here. Sometimes uh bad things happen to good people, right? A life of devotion doesn't mean a life of ease. In fact it might mean the opposite. Secondly, small compromise is still a big deal. It's still a compromise. Next thing I want to point out here, and I'm getting close to being done, but uh verse 16, it says, Repent, or else I will come quickly and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth. Now I don't want God to fight against me. Kind of scares me a little bit. I mean you think you got some some problems when you you have a little bit of persecution from work in terms of just someone making fun of you? Wait till God starts working against you. I don't want that to happen, right? That that that should terrify us. But the way it's worded, it says this Repent, or else I will come unto thee quickly, but against them with the sword of my mouth. The word repent means the change, right? The change of mind It results in a change of heart and a change of action. Okay? So that means that there's something that needed to be changed. The thing, of course, that needed to be changed was these the doctrine of Balaam and how they were worshiping the other idols too, even though they really believed Jesus was Lord and their faith was in him, they just kind of went along just to compromise and made everyone happy Okay? Um we gotta fix that. That's what that word repent means. It means change. We got what the way we were going needs to change and we need to go this way. That's what the word repent means. And with that in mind A point I think we can get from this is repentance is a good thing. If you realize that you're wrong about something, if I realize that I'm wrong about something, Whether it was a belief, an opinion, an action, something I have been doing, and I read from God's Word, which is sharper than any two edges sword. That's what was referenced here. I read something from God's word that shows me that I was wrong. Well then I better change that. And that's good. That's healthy. Some sometimes it it's hard to kind of swallow that pride and say, I was wrong. But it's a healthy thing to do. And if not, it could cause even more problems. So repentance is good. Wrapping up here, and I've kind of already mentioned this, but it's all worth it. It's all worth it. Hey, listen. Life is hard. Um it's harder for other Christians in other places, sure. We have brothers and sisters be all over the world being martyred, being executed just because they're Christians. But we still we still have some issues here, don't we? I know of people that have lost their job for their faith. I know people who have been disowned by their family because of their faith. That's not fun. I I mean there there's there's some real real trials that we have that we face. And there we can be tempted to just, you know, we're human. You know, ask, is it, man, is this worth it? Well the answer is yes. We talked about it a few minutes ago, that white marble stone that you would get with your name engraved on it, that was your ticket into the banquet, into the high-level festivities. As cool as that was, how much cooler is it? And how much more exciting is it going to be when we're done here and we get there and our name's in the book? And we walk in to heaven. I mean I'm just ah I'm excited. I don't know what it'll look like when I don't know what it's gonna look like when I get into heaven, or I don't know and you know we get a little bit of description from the Bible on that, but I know this, it's gonna be pretty awesome. Um there's some people there that I've wanted to meet. One person I'm really looking forward to meeting is my dad's dad. He died right before I was born. I never got to meet him. I'm really looking forward to this. I'm kind of excited about meeting Grandpa Trees. I'm really excited about that. There's some others like that. I'm just looking forward to meeting. There's some people that have already that I was close to that have gone on. Some people from here that have gone on recently. And I'm I'm kind of looking forward to that. But most of all I really am looking forward to seeing Christ. You know, I just I just want to see him. Spend some time with him. You know, I don't know exactly what all that's going to look like, but I know it's going to be pretty awesome. And I know that when I see Christ and I'm in heaven, Marriage supper of the Lamb, we're gonna value oysters, it's gonna be great. I know this. Oh yeah, deep fried. Yeah, oysters too. You know we're having oysters, right? Because the gates are pearl, not pearls. It's like big pearls. That's a big oyster. Yeah. It's gonna be awesome. And I know this, that when we're up there and we're eating oyster stew with unleavened crackers, I guess, I don't know. And we see our Lord, we reunite with family members and all this and meet Habakkuk, that'll be cool. You know, what's your name? Hang oh that this could be cool, right? I don't think we'll be really paying much attention to you know, I didn't get that promotion because You know what I mean? I think it's gonna be worth it is what I'm saying. And and that that that that's the encouragement that I draw from this. So when you're tempted to give in to the way of Balaam, when you are tempted to go along with the doctrines of the world and the lifestyles of the world And try to marry that to your relationship with Christ, don't do it. It's not, who cares? 3,000 years from now, you're not, it's not gonna matter. Just do what we're supposed to do based off of what God's Word says. If you want to be a Christian, then be a Christian. Now, with all that being said, I'd have to mention this. The way you get your name graven on that marble invitation is not by separating and being good and keeping the the the the world out and things like that. That's not how you get the it your name written in the book of life. The way you get that name written down is by putting your trust in Jesus Christ. And if you're here and you don't know if you've ever done that or there's some doubts, you have never placed your trust in Christ. Not your trust in works, not your trust in a church. But you realize, no, I'm a sinner, but I know Christ died for my sins. He suffered my health for me. And I want to trust him like I would trust a parachute jumping out of an airplane. Actually trust him more than that, because Sometimes those don't always work. Look up something comical. We'll go back to when they were first trying to invent the parachute. Never mind, don't do that. It's not funny. It was sad. But um I forgot what I was saying now. The point is this. Point is this. It's all worth it. You sit you stay close to the Lord. You do what you're supposed to do. When we get to heaven, it You're not gonna it's it's gonna be worth it. It's gonna be worth it. And if you're here and you don't know Christ as your Savior, you need to take get that taken care of and get your name written down there. So when you when when your time comes, you have that invitation. You have that marble stone with your name on it. So heads bowed, eyes closed, and we'll look around for just a moment. Just a few questions to ask real quick First question is this, how many say, you know what, Master Matt, I'm I'm not sure that I have that name graven on that stone if If some let me say it this way, I'm not sure that if I died right now, I have that home in heaven. But I'm very concerned about that. If I died right now, I'm not sure that I'm saved. But I'm concerned about that. Would you pray for me? If that's you, could you just lift your hand up? Just lift it up real quick, put it back down. Pastor Matt, I'm not sure that I have that home in heaven, but I'm I'm I'm concerned about that. Just lift your hand up, put it back down. Next question is this. You know, I know I'm saved, Pastor Matt, but to be honest with you, like some of them there at Pergamus, I'm kind of going back and forth a little bit. Oh, I'm a Christian. I believe Christ died for my sins, but sometimes throughout the week some of the world tends to slip in. And I just kind of go along with it. That's you, say the Lord's dealing with me about that. Could you just slip your hand up? Pastor Matt, pray for me. Hey, my hand's up too, by the way. Pastor Matt, pray for me. God's dealing with me about some things. Amen. You can put them down. Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh giving us this book of Revelation, and specifically this morning the the church there at Pergamous, I pray that Um you would you would uh deal with us there according according to that, Lord, according to your word. And um Lord, I pray that we would take these these warnings. Um As we stand to our feet, if the Lord's dealt with you in an edge