The Bible says, likewise, important word there, likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands. That if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wise. While they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear. I've entitled the message, and again, we're not actually not going to get through this tonight. I want to just kind of lay some groundwork. And then we'll look at this, but I've entitled it The Wife's Witness. And he's addressing here, and I'm kind of jumping the gun a little bit on my message, but he's addressing here A wife that is a believer, that's trusting Christ as Savior, but she is married to a man who is not a believer. He's unsaved. And how does she respond to that? How does she uh uh function as a wife in a marriage where the husband is an unbeliever? And he gives some tremendous principles here, very practical principles here. And I want to say this, and again I'm way ahead of myself already But I want to say this, the principles that he gives to these dear wives that have unsaved husbands and how they can win them to Christ, that principle applies If you reverse the situation, I think the husband can that's married to an unsaved wife, he could apply these same principles, the same practice to an extent And see the same effect. And so though he's addressing a wife here, I think it applies both ways. So let's have a word of prayer. And we'll look at this, at least get started here on this. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would bless our study of this passage of your word. Lord, we want to understand it and we want to be able to apply it to our lives, and we need your Holy Spirit to do that, Lord. And so with that in mind, I want to just yield my will over to you. I don't want my will to be a factor in in giving this message tonight. And I yield my body to you, Lord, that you could fill this body with your Holy Spirit and use my tongue, my gestures, use me to communicate this. to each of our lives, whether here in the service or on over the air, listening in, however, I pray you'd help us get a hold of this. And Lord, maybe there's a dear wife somewhere That this these truths would encourage and maybe give some direction in her situation, or maybe a husband. And so, Lord, we ask you to help us and help us to be sensitive In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. Peter has been dealing now, as we work our way through this letter, he's been dealing now with one of the, I believe, one of the most important characteristics in a successful Christian life. In the victorious Christian life, I think one of the most important characteristics, I guess is the word I want, is this, is that of submission. You can't study the Bible much and find out, not come to the conclusion that having a submissive attitude is vitally important if I'm going to be a growing, victorious, Christ-honoring Christian. I must be submissive. Now having said that, having said that that's one of the most important characteristics in the Christian life, I want to quickly add this, one of the most difficult. It's one most difficult. I don't know how you are, but I've something down inside my sinful nail law of nature that just rebels at the idea of submitting. Can I get a witness About three people, uh the fact of the matter is our very sinful nature resists This very idea of being submissive. It goes against our human nature. Our human nature is to resist and to rebel. In fact, that mentality is one of the reasons we live in a fallen race, one of the reasons we're a fallen race If you go all the way back to Genesis and early Genesis, in fact, you go back into Isaiah and look at the fall of Satan. And Satan's whole fall from heaven was rooted one in pride, but that pride manifests itself in rebellion. And we don't have time, but you go to Isaiah 14 and read very carefully God's account of the fall of Satan, and you find Satan saying, five times, he says, I will I will, I will. That is not the f that is not a submissive phrase That is rebellion. That is resistance to the authority that God had over all creation. And he brought that down into the Garden of Eden, and he very subtly and very satanically, tactfully. Convince Eve and then Adam to resist God's will and rebel against God's will. Yea, hath God said, Shall not eat of any of the fruit of the Garden of Eden. He responds, no, we can, and I'm putting my own words, we can eat uh of all the fruit except the one tree. And he says, God knows that If you eat that fruit, you'll be as smart as God. You'll just be God. God's mistreating you. God's holding out on you. God's not being fair to you. They rebelled and resisted rather than submitting to God's will. So I want to submit to you that submission Is so important in the Christian life, but it is so difficult because it goes so against our grain. Now come back and look at verse 3. This whole section here, starting about the middle of chapter 2 All the way down into chapter 3 here, he is dealing with this subject of submission. And in verse 13 through 17, we already looked at it, but he dealt with submission to government And he talks of several verses there. He addresses that. Then in verse 18 through 20, he addresses submission to masters. Now that would be in our modern day, we would apply that to employers, perhaps And in fact, he goes on: not only are we to submit to our masters, quote unquote, but we're supposed to do it even if they are unkind. Even if they're unreasonable, even if they're unjust, and it brings suffering and makes it difficult for us, he says you still need to submit to that. Then in verse number 21, he picks up the sufferings of Christ and he uses that as an example for those that are suffering under unjust stewards. He says, Christ suffered For us, and what that produced, and how it brought about salvation and forgiveness of sins. And he uses Christ as an example of suffering. Now We get to chapter three and that sub or uh use Christ's example of submission, I should say. And you get to chapter three, and he carries that subject now into the home. Into the home. What likewise That connects this verse back to the previous statements, back to the previous verses. Likewise. And he's dealing with the submission of the wife in the home. Now There have been two extremes throughout history, two extremes, Concerning the structure of the home and the wife's role in the home. Let me say that again. Throughout history, there have been two extremes On what the home, the structure of the home is like, and particularly what the wife's role in the home is. Now we go back into the Greek and Roman days, ancient Greek and Roman days And the first extreme was this, is that the wife was really nothing more than an object in the hole. She was considered to be the possession of her husband. He might have some cattle, he might have some horses, he might have some uh you know, sheep or whatever, and he had some wives. And that was literally what the attitude was, the structure was of the home in ancient Rome and ancient Greece, and even that got into uh the Jewish uh setup there uh in uh ancient days. For she had no right, she had no say, she had no life, she was simply the possession of the husband, and he could do what he wanted just upon a whim One article I was reading about the wives' role and the position back in the ancient days, and they just went down a list of leaders within Rome and within Greece and how they treated their wives Uh just uh the smallest infractions. Uh in some cases, they take their life They would treat them horribly. Now, there were some that had that attitude, the wife is my possession, but they treated them kindly and lovingly. But there's horror stories And that is a distortion of God's structure for the home, the wife's role in the home, in some uh in some uh Muslim countries within Islam. There's some of that mentality and practice even to this day. And so that's one extreme where the wife has no life. She's almost not even a person. She's just a possession, an object to be owned by the husband. But there's another extreme, and we see this more in our day, and that is this, that there is no structure to the home That is there is no hierarchy, there's no roles that either the husband or the wife plays within the home. It's just an open forum. It's just There's no structure there. There's no roles to be filled by either the husband or the wife. No God-given roles, no God-given responsibilities, and it's just a hodgepodge Now I want to say this. Both of those extremes are unscriptural. Both of those are unbiblical. By the way, it's kind of interesting. We have more information, we have more information about marriage today than ever in the history of the world. There are more books. There are more conferences, there are more uh podcasts and and blogs and seminars On marriage in the home than there ever has been in the history of the world. And I want to suggest to you, our homes are in as bad or worse shape than they've ever been in the history of the world. So just having more information doesn't make a home what it ought to be. And there's 10,000 ideas and theories out there. In fact We live in a day now, it's just incomprehensible to me how the home is so distorted and twisted, even what is defined as a home anymore in marriage. And so both of these extremes are unbiblical, are unbiblical. And uh even among Christians There are uh uh I was reading several statistics, and this goes back many, many years, but to this day, as of today. The statistics of divorce and domestic abuse and um separation and problems in the home, there is little difference in the statistics between the unsaved world and those who claim to be saved. Now I don't know about you, but that to me is tragic. Something's wrong. Something's wrong In my mind, I kind of touched on this not directly this morning, but in my mind, Christians ought to be distinct from the world. We as Christians ought to be able to set up to the world, say, hey, this is the way God designed it. This is the way this is the function This is the way God, this is what God blesses, how God uses it. But you look at the statistics, and we're not showing that to the world. We're not much different than they are in this regard. And so, in spite of all the information, in spite of all these uh opportunities to get information on marriage, we still have a problem with it. God is the one that designed marriage And it designed marriage to operate within a specific structure. Now, in some circles, this would be considered an awful, awful thing But the fact is it's Bible. Let me give you some, a little bit of the structure that God has established for the home. Now I'd venture to say most of us, we understand this clearly and we believe it. But God, first of all, designed and structured the home to be one man and one woman for their entire lives. Amen or not? That's God's structure. That's God's design from the beginning. I created male and female, and uh and uh they're one woman one man, uh one woman uh together for life. That's God's design, that's God's structure. The husband, God designed the home, the marriage in particular, where the husband is given the responsibilities of leadership. And I use that word responsibilities deliberately. Some men look at their role as the head of the home, quote unquote. They look at that as some sort of privilege. For their gain. I can't find anywhere in the Bible where that's considered a privilege. I find over and over it's considered a tremendous responsibility on the part of the husband. And so God has designed the home, one man, one woman, married together, poor life. He's assigned to the husband the responsibility of providing leadership in that home and providing some oversight there. And the wife we designed, created her, and designed her in a supporting role. And the two working together towards a common goal With a man the one providing the responsible providing the leadership and the wife working along in a supporting role for that. I hope you see what I'm trying to get across here. It is a direction. We're working towards the glory of God. We're working towards fulfilling the will of God. We're working towards reaching the world with the gospel. And the husband in the structure of the home is giving the responsibility of leadership, and the wife is given the responsibility of the supporting role as we go forward in serving the Lord and bringing glory to God It's not this way at all. It's not the husband up here and the wife and uh boy No, no, no, you've got your eyes on the wrong direction. We're looking under Jesus and we're pressing forward for Jesus The husband given the responsibility of leadership, wife given the responsibility, role, supporting role, and working together. Does that make sense? That's God's structure for the home It's not a competition. It's not lording it over or being a doormat. It's working together, working together. Ephesians puts it this way: submitting yourselves one to the other. So we go forward and try and fulfill the Lord. So one man, one woman, married for life, the husband, responsibility of providing leadership, he's the quote unquote head of the home. The wife is in that supporting role. And by the way, he structured the marriage in the home to be patterned after Jesus' relationship with the Father. Now, if you would, keep your place here and come back to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Now, this is where I think it gets very interesting. First Corinthians chapter eleven. Did you ever eat chili and then try and preach? 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Now we looked at this in Sunday school. We fought our way through 1 Corinthians. We looked at this probably been a while ago. But look at verse 3, 1 Corinthians 11, verse 3. And I think this will help us a little bit, get a right perspective on all of this. But I would have you know Now look at this. That the head of every man is Christ. How many people understand that? Say, yeah, I believe that. I can see that. The head of a man is Christ. But read on. And the head of the woman is the man. That's where some would say, well, I don't know about that. But wait a minute, look at the last statement he makes. This is where it helps us get a right perspective. And the head of Christ is who? God. See, I thought Jesus was God. Jesus is God. It's talking about Christ the Son of God. And God the Father, and God the Father's role within the Trinity is head of Christ. Now let me ask you a couple questions. Is Christ inferior, is God the Son, Jesus Christ the Son of God, is He inferior to God the Father? No, he said we're equal. Absolutely equal in power and authority and and uh and and every aspect of the Godhead. So he's not saying here that God is Better than Jesus, God is more important than Jesus. He's talking about the roles and the responsibilities that each have. And that is included in the husband having the responsibility of providing the leadership, and the wife providing the responsibility of providing the support, supporting role And working together, just like Jesus Christ and God work together. I don't know about you. I don't see any competition in that setup, do you? I see two beings, God the Father, God the Son, understanding their roles in bringing salvation to mankind within the Trinity. And working together beautifully, and he says, Paul says, boom, that's the husband-wife relationship right there. The husband-wife relationship. Question: Does God the Father enjoy any more privileges than God the Son does? No. Jesus isn't being left out of anything. He's not missing on anything. He's not being denied or insulted or diminished or in any way. If God the Father has the role of the head of Christ, God the Son. It's two areas of responsibility. And Paul says that's the structure of the home. That's the structure of the marriage. So one man, one woman together for life, husband, responsibility providing leadership, wife, supporting role. Um par uh patterned after Jesus' relationship with God the Father, the Son of God, uh and God the Father, their relationship, that marriage is patterned after that, but it's also patterned after the church in Jesus Christ, go to Ephesians chapter 5 with me. I'm saying I'm getting I'm going somewhere with this. Ephesians chapter five and verse twenty Well, verse 22, he's making a statement similar to what Peter says. This is Paul writing under inspiration to the church at Ephesus. Wives, submit yourselves under your own It's interesting, he has these little words there, unto your own husbands. Now what's that last phrase in verse number 22? As unto who? As unto the Lord. Let me ask you a question. Is it demeaning? Is it demeaning for me to submit myself to the Lord Jesus Christ? No. So that role that God has assigned in and of itself is not demeaning. In and of itself, it's no different than me submitting to the Lord. It's the same structure. Now look, he goes on, and he and he says, and he and he applies this to the church. Look what he says there in verse 23. For the husband is the head of the wife. Alright. But look look what he says. Even as Christ is the head of the church, and he's the savior of the body. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ. So let wives be to their own husbands in everything. Huh. He's using the structure of the church's relationship with Jesus Christ and saying the church is a pattern of that patterned after that. Read on. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church. All right. There's the husband's role and responsibility. And gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word. Look at this. That he might present it to himself, a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing That it should be holy and without blemish. Huh. He's taken the the the responsibility and role that God has given the husband and the responsibility and the role that God has given to the wife within the structure of marriage. And he's saying that is a picture of Jesus Christ in the church. And he elaborates on it even more. Look down here at verse number 32. This is a great mystery. This wife and husband responsibilities. This is a great mystery. But I speak concerning what? Talk to me. Christ and the church. Nevertheless, let every one of you in particular so love his wife even as himself, and the wife see that she reverence her husband. Listen, there's more to this marriage arrangement than two people just trying to get along for the rest of their life. It is a picture to the world, is it a representation? Of the church's and Jesus' responsibilities and relationship one with another. And we distort that we distort this We're distorting that picture, that that pattern that's been given to us between the church and Christ. Everybody following with me? You say that sounds wonderful, preacher, that's just great, but that's not the way it works out. You know what the problem is? The problem is sin entered into the world. This is God's structure. This is God's plan. This is God's setup. And if there wasn't any sin, would you agree with me? If there wasn't any sin, man, this has worked beautifully. Jesus, the Son of God, and God the Father, they fulfill that structure, those roles perfectly because they don't deal with sin. The husband and the wife. We've got a sin nature. We've got something within us that rebels. Say, I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm gonna do it my way. I'm gonna carry it out my way. I'm gonna lean on my own understanding And so sin comes in, and man messes it up. And there's a whole heap of teaching and preaching in the Bible that is simply given to us because addressing this problem of sin. How to deal with it and how to function with it and how to overcome it and how to deal with it once it happens. That's much of the Bible. It's given to help us and teach us and direct us how to deal with this sin factor that has entered into our world and into our marriages. And um so that's where we're at. So if you would come here to 1 Peter. And he's addressing here, and I I don't think Peter is necessarily addressing the wife's role Just in and of itself. He's not just saying, all right, wife, this is your role, so you know, your role in the marriage. And then verse uh five, he gets over there, or verse seven, I should say, then he addresses the husband's role But if you'll notice, he takes, and again, I I don't want to joke about this because this is deadly serious. He takes one verse and talks about the husband's role, but he takes six verses and he addresses the wife's role. Now, on the surface, you look at that and say, hey, what's that about? But he's addressing, I believe, a very specific issue. Now let's go back to the whole purpose that 1 Peter was written. He's writing who are the people that Peter, the immediate audience of this book Who is he writing to? We say it almost every time I start a message from here. He's writing to who? He's writing to the church. He's writing to believers. But what is their unique situation? Intense persecution. These dear believers are for the most part new believers, young in the Lord. And they have faced intense persecution. They have lost jobs. Families have rejected them. Some of them suffered physical abuse, violence. Some have lost their lives simply because of their devotion to Jesus Christ. And some ladies got saved and their husbands did not. And so I think that is what he's hearing in on these dear ladies who have trusted Christ. And accept and been born again. And here they're married to someone, hey, they're married to someone who is fundamentally different than what they are. Anybody see a problem there? Anyone see a challenge? Yeah. And he's writing to these dear ladies within this structure of marriage that God has given. And he's saying, here's what you need to do. Here's what you need to do. Now that's the introduction. And I see four things here. That he gives to the wives that are married, that are in this structure, this setup that God designed, and yet their husband does not see things the way they do. is fundamentally different in his very spiritual makeup than what she is. He says, how do you deal with that? How do you deal with that? Now I'll give you a little sneak preview. We're probably not going to get to this next week because next week is I love my church Sunday and I'm going to do something different. So it's going to be two weeks we'll get back to this. But basically, we're going to see here, he tells her, you be a really good wife. You'd be a really good wife. Now that's the Cliff Notes version of it We'll come back and look at it. Father, I ask you'd help us to understand, God, that you have in every aspect of life, you have Structure things, you have designed how we are to function, how we are to work. Physically, spiritually, mentally, and even in the family, you have a structure, you have a design And Lord, we hate it that we're sinners. I think I speak for us, Lord. We hate it that we're sinners. We wish so badly and we long for the day when we don't have to deal with the sin nature anymore. But until then, God, we need you. We need you to help us. Holy Spirit, we need you to help us trust your word, follow your directions. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would like me would say, preacher, I hate the fact that I'm a sinner? I hate that. Any like that? Oh, I wish I didn't have this whole sinful nature. But we do. Someday we won't. But we do. How many along with me would say, preacher, I want the Holy Spirit to help me deal with this sinful nature and be able to function as God designed me to? Is there any like that? That's what I want. That's what I want. Let's just ask the Lord to do that. Now, if there's any unsaved you've never trusted Christ, you need Christ as Savior. There's no doubt about it. And we invite you to come and trust Christ. Father, I ask you to bless our invitation. Stir our hearts, Lord, in every area of our life to trust you and follow your leadership and want your will to be done. In Jesus' name.