Psalm forty verse eleven is what we want to look at tonight. And um the Bible says th this is David, of course, writing this under the inspiration of God. God stirred his heart. And he says in verse 11, Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O Lord. Let thy loving kindness and thy truth continually preserve me. Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O Lord. Let thy loving kindness, thy truth continually preserve me. I just entitled, for lack of creativity on my part, I just called it the tender mercies of God. And so let's pray and ask the Lord tonight before we go to Lord's Supper, just prepare our hearts, search our hearts, and if there's some decisions we need to make, if there's some adjustments in our thinking, our attitudes, our actions, before we take a little part of the Lord's Supper. Let's ask the Lord to address that in this message and help us. So let's pray together. Father We do bow before you, and I'm so grateful for Psalms chapter 40, all the scripture, of course. God, what this has meant to me for all these forty-seven years now, just about And as we're working our way through here, I pray you're dealing with our hearts. I pray that your word is not coming back in our lives void. But it's being accomplished. What your will is and what you instruct us here is being accomplished in my heart and life and all of us and and us as a church as a whole. And so I ask again this evening as we look at this little verse here. That you would take it and apply it to our lives and address us, Lord. Confront us if we need that I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. Father, with all my heart, again I ask that you would fill me with your Spirit. It wouldn't just be me talking, but it would your Spirit dealing with us and helping us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We pointed out that there's um there's a notable change takes place in this chapter We start out, David is praising the Lord for being delivered from the horrible pit, the miry clay. Rejoices. He's praising God. His feet have been set on a rock God established his ways. In other words, he's got things together. He's living for God. He's in the will of God, and he's progressing. And then, if you remember, we noted as he winds down his praise there for what God did for him, then begins to prophesy about the Lord Jesus Christ. And we know in verses, I think it's nine and ten there, verses six actually through eight, we know he's prophesying the Lord Jesus Christ, because Hebrews chapter ten tells us he is. And so this is the Lord Jesus Christ. So his praise is he's rejoicing in the Lord for what God was done for him. Then his his attention is redirected to the Lord Jesus Christ, the coming Savior, and what he's going to do, fulfill the will of God, pay the price for his sins. And now he becomes a little introspective here. And if you remember, last week we noted a very uh uh I think a significant observation. Not just in David, but in many, many of God's great men throughout Scripture. And that was this, if you remember. The closer, it seems like the closer David gets to the Lord the less impressed he is with himself. And we noted that on a number of people throughout Scripture. Isaiah, we saw it in Isaiah's life. We saw it again here in David. We saw it in Paul's life. Peter. And I found that to be true in my own life. I heard a preacher say years ago, a good man, he's on our radio, he's with the Lord now, he's on our radio, but I heard him say it uh live years ago, he was in a meeting And he said, the older I get as a pastor, he said, the less qualified I feel to be a pastor, the less adequate I feel to be a pastor. And I think what he was expressing, and he's a he's a tremendous man of God, I think what he was expressing is what we noted here in David. As he was growing in the Lord and getting closer to God, God using more, he felt he was less and less impressed with himself. And I found that true in my own life. There was a man uh down at Highland Park Baptist Church, and I didn't know the man personally, but attended there for years. And got to know him just on a superficial level, I guess. But he was a great man, a good man. He witnessed, he'd be out in the city. I'd see him around the city giving out tracts And by all accounts very, very faithful to the Lord. But that guy was at the altar all the time. I mean, every service he's at the altar. When I first showed up, I was a fairly new Christian I thought I'd see him at the altar. And this is a big church, 6,000 seat auditorium, packed. And he's at the altar. I thought, man, this guy must be messed up. You know, he must be have all kinds of sinful issues. And as I got to know him a little bit, I found out the exact opposite was true. And I think I'm wondering if maybe in his heart and life he was close to the Lord, and when he got close to the Lord, he became less and less impressed with himself. And things that maybe when we were farther from the Lord that didn't bother us, little attitudes, little habits And when we weren't real close, Lord, they really didn't bother us. Then we got closer, Lord, suddenly the light of God's holiness, the presence of God, we experience more and more. Suddenly we look and see, wait a minute, this this is more serious. than I than I considered it. Are you with me? So I think that's where David is at in this psalm as he's working his way through. And he gets here to verse number 11. And let me read verse 12 also. We're not going to look at verse 12 tonight, but they tie together. He says, withhold not thy tender mercies from me, O Lord. Let thy loving kindness and thy truth continually preserve me. We'll talk about that preserving him. Look at verse 12. For innumerable evils have compassed me about. Mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up They are more than the hairs of mine head, therefore my heart faileth me. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me, verse 13. O Lord, make haste to help me. So we talked about that this morning. Do you see? Do you notice a change in the tone from the first few verses? Wait a patience of the Lord he kind of me, delivered me, brought me up out of a horrible pit. set my feet upon a rock, established my goings. Blessed is the man. And now he's saying, God, Nick, my iniquities have compassed me about. What's changed? I think he's getting a clearer view of the Lord, and in so doing, he's getting a clearer view of himself. And he's not very impressed. And that's probably true for most of us. Let me put it this way, Jesus Christ is everything to the Christian. I'm nothing. I'm just an old sinner. That for some reason, and what's true for me is true for all of us. And for some reason, we're just old sinners. Some of us are young sinners, some of us are older sinners than others But we're just sinners. And for some reason, Jesus loves us. He cares about us. Enough to give himself to die for us. What a savior. What a savior. So David is getting a little introspective here. We'll look at verse 12, Lord will next week in a little more detail. But in verse number 11, I see three things. I usually see three things in a verse, and I see three things in this verse. The first thing I notice is David's conversation. Now to understand what I mean by that, you almost have to go back to verse 5 and all the way through the end of the verse, verse 17, is actually David talking to God. It's a conversation David is having with God. Look at verse 5. Many Many, O Lord my God, are thy wondrous works which thou hast done, thy thoughts which are to usward, they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee. Who is he talking to there? He's talking to the Lord. He's talking to God. And all the way down, you follow it all the way through here, all the way to the end of the chapter, the rest of it is David in a conversation with God. Now, in this case, it's pretty one-sided. I got looking at this, where does God respond to anything David's saying? And we don't have any record of God's response, although No doubt at the time when David was actually talking to God, I'm sure God was responding to him, but it's not recorded for us. And so we have this somewhat uh one-sided conversation where we have a record of David doing all the talking to God. So it's a lengthy conversation. He goes on pretty long talking to the Lord here. It's a one-sided conversation. And it's a very personal conversation. Again, we noted in verse 12 there. He's opening his heart to the Lord. He's being very honest with God I looked at this and studied. If you'll read it carefully, I don't see anywhere where David is trying to whitewash himself or somehow impress God with who he is and how great his faith is. He's just being honest. He's very personally, brutally honest about himself to God I think one of the most, I'm convinced that one of the most important factors in our relationship with the Lord is you and I spending time with God. We emphasize that so much. Just talking to God When's the last time you just got alone, just you and God, for any length of time, you just talked to Him? You just told him what's on your heart. You just told him what you're struggling with. You just told him what you're grateful for. And you just talked to God. It's a powerful thing. It's what the Lord wants. Having a conversation with God, interacting with the Lord. Our daily quiet time, and we we really need to establish that. Listen, if you don't have a daily time or you get alone with God with an open Bible, if you don't have that, you really need to get that established. It's very difficult to grow in my faith. It's very difficult to know the Lord if I don't ever spend time with Him. I don't ever communicate with Him. I don't have any conversation with Him We need to talk to the Lord, and by the way, we need to listen to the Lord also. Let Him speak to us. Let me ask you a question: How does God speak to us? Through his word. Through his word. That's his word. He speaks to us. And so I look at this, and David is taking a good bit of time. He's talking to the Lord. He's in this conversation with God, and he's being brutally honest. He's just being open. And um that's so important in our Christian life that we spend time with God, that we be open. We mess up, and apparently there's something going on here, verse 12, there's something going on in his life. And he just brings it to God. Just tells the Lord, this is what it is, Lord, I need you to help me. We preached, again, as I said, we preached this morning, God, I need you to help me. And um I think that's good for all of us. Just get alone with God. God, I need you to help me. This is where I'm at. This is what's going on. And if you know, if you're on top of it tonight, and man, you'd say, I've never been close to the Lord ever before, man, praise the Lord for that. There's joy in the presence of the Lord. We can rejoice in that, but we need to spend time with God. David was a, I believe David was one of the reasons he was a great man of faith In fact, Acts tells us, we pointed this out many times, Acts tells us he was a man after God's own heart. How do you become a man after God's own heart? How does that happen? Does it just happen? No, there's something had to take place. There's something in David that he developed. In his relationship with the Lord, that produced in his heart something that mirrored the heart of God. If I'm going to be a man after God's own heart, or a lady's going to be a lady after God's own heart, or a teenager is going to be a teenager after God's own Heart We have to know the heart of God. Does that make sense? Everybody with me on that? I'm going to be after God's own heart. I need to know what God's heart is. How do I get to know what God's heart is like? I talk to him and he talks to me. My wife and I met down in college several hundred years ago we met down there back in the previous millennium. That sounds bad. Previous millennium. And I saw her, I was, I I think I haven't told this for a while, but um Uh I had gotten to school early. I traveled Bible time as evangelists got back to the school a little early before classes and so they hired me on to mow grass around the campus there. And I was mowing grass and um This beautiful girl came out, brought me some iced tea out of there was a uh some housing, student housing there. She came out brought me iced tea. And I thought, huh And so I was mowing grass and then later on I saw her in the um bus meeting, it was a big bus meeting. There's like three hundred people working on the bus ministry, so they have bus meeting every Saturday morning. It's crap And I look across and wow, there's that gal that brought me iced tea. Huh. And guess what we started doing? We started talking. I talked to her and she talked to me. We listened to each other. You know what? After a while we got to know each other's heart Got to know how each other thought. We got to know what we were like because we couldn't converse with each other. We had conversations, spent time together. That's the exact same thing it is with God. We spend time with Him. We talk to Him. Listen to Him. Let Him talk to us. So I see this great conversation here. That David is having with the Lord. The closer he got to God, the less impressed he was with the Lord. But he talked to God about it. He told God about it. The second thing I notice here First is David's conversation with God. Then I notice David's request to the Lord. Again, look at verse 11, and it's a two-fold request, really. He says, here's his request. This is the middle of this conversation he's having with God. He's talking to God. In the very middle of it, he says Speaking of the Lord, withhold not bow thy tender mercies from me, O Lord. There's request number one Then he says, Let thy loving kindness and thy truth continually preserve me. There's request number two. So as he's talking to God, he says, God, there's two things I'm asking, I'm requesting from you. First, withhold not thou thy tender mercies. I got looking at that little phrase, and you know how I am, I like to look up every word. I got looking at the little phrase, withhold not. The word withhold, when he says, the word withhold has this idea to restrain back, to restrict. He says, withhold, don't restrain your tender mercies. Don't restrict them. Withhold not. Um when I uh I was trying to get a word picture of what this this word here of the ideas so I can grasp what he's talking about a little better. And when I was out when we lived in Colorado, there was a lot of irrigation out there. Even just in the town, they would have little irrigation ditches from the water came down out of the mountains, the snow melt came down. It's very, very important. For the vegetation, the yards, and of course the farmers did it on big scale. And so we had a little irrigation ditch came down behind the office, behind Bible time, was where I was on staff there And periodically we would have to brother Homeshire would have us go out there's three of us on staff, he'd have us go out, and that water was constantly coming down the one irrigation ditch, but on the edge of our property He had a permit, you imagine you paid a fee or whatever, and you could dig away a little bit and that water would run down into the yard and irrigate the yard. Everybody picture that in their minds And so that water is constantly coming down, and when we opened it up, that water would flow into the yard and irrigate the yard, water the yard, and we'd had a certain amount of time, I guess I don't know exactly how it worked out, but then we'd have to go back and we would plug up. that flow of water into the yard. That's what the word withhold has the idea. It's flowing, it's flowing, it's flowing, and then withhold it, I plug it up, I turn it off. Basically turn the spigot off. David's saying to God, Lord, don't turn the spigot off on your tender mercies that are flowing into my life. God just brought him out of a horrible pit, whatever it was. I think we get a little idea later on. We'll kind of pick up a little God showed him great mercy, tender mercies, and getting him out of that miry clay, getting him back on his feet and getting some direction in his life, stability and consistency in his walk with God. He says, God, your tender mercies have been pouring in. They've been irrigating my soul. God, don't cut it off. Don't turn off your tender mercies. Now, what are tender mercies? Tender mercies, it's a fascinating word. You know, words fascinate me, and this is a fascinating word. The word tender mercies has the idea of deep compassion. Of sense here's the idea. Of sensitive, tender, sensitive mercies or compassion kindness. Very sensitive. Sometimes we are kind to people, not because we have a lot of compassion for them, but just because we want to be polite, right? I'm going to be nice to people, you know, kind to people, just I have no idea who they are, and I I really don't have any feelings for them at all, but I want to be polite So be kind to them, right? Everybody there? How many people are polite sometimes how many people are kind sometimes even when you don't want to be? Or just being polite That's not what the idea is here. Robin's not kind if she doesn't want to be. She's not going to be. She don't care. I heard you say that back there. You all know I can see you out there, right? You know that, right That's not what this word is here. It's not just being merciful or kind or compassionate just because I'm a nice guy. It's tender mercies. In other words, there's a heart behind it. I care about this person. The word tender means what you would think sensitive. I burned my wrist here the other day, right there. You can see it's a little red. I I burned it. Oh, thank you very much. You guys aren't very tender merciful to me. And it's tender if I t just touching it down, it's it's sensitive to the touch. Tender mercies are mercies that are easily affected, mercies that are easily ignited. I care about them. I'm sensitive to their needs and their situations, their concerns. And it touches my heart, and I want to show mercy, I want to show compassion, I want to be kind and help and be a blessing. And David says, don't David's saying, God, you've cared about me so much and you've been so kind to me and you've shown me so much compassion and mercy. Sensitive because you because you care. Lord, don't cut that off. Whatever he did, I don't know. Something happened. Verse 12, we're going to see it. And he's concerned, God, I don't want you to cut off your mercies. I don't want you to stop caring about me I don't want you to stop loving me and stop being kind to me and helpful to me. Don't cut that off. He's concerned about that. And he makes this request. This is interesting. Everybody's still with me? This is interesting. The word tender mercies there is actually translated, it comes from the word that's translated womb. The womb. Now what takes place in the womb? In the womb, that child is very gently cared for, right? So it's encompassed that child is it's so gentle, it's so uh uh compassionate in that womb. And David is saying, and the idea, at least I get this from it, the idea is God had treated David so gently and so compassionately and so graciously, and he says, Don't cut that off, Lord, please. Take withhold not thy tender mercies from me, O Lord. He's making a great request here That implies to me, as I got studying this, that implies to me that God's tender mercies are the default posture of God. In other words, by default, you know what I mean? By default, is God shows tender mercies. God is compassionate. He cares about that's his default position. And apparently it's possible, at least David believed it's possible for God to cut off his tender mercies. It's possible for him to restrain showing mercy and compassion and kindness to somebody. Because David's asking him, don't cut it off, don't stop it. So I got thinking, what in the world could a person do that God would withhold his tender mercies? And there's probably others do a more in-depth study, but I I came across one The Bible says twice, the Bible says, in fact, we're not too far away. Come over to Psalm 18. And again, there's a little implication here, and so Psalm chapter 18, and look with me for wood at verse 25. Now, I don't think I'm reading too much into this. He says, Psalm 1825, he says, with the merciful, there it is. Thou wilt show thyself merciful. And then with an upright man, thou wilt show thyself upright. With the pure, thou wilt show thyself pure. And with the froward, that means kind of obnoxious, unkind, not merciful. And with the froward, thou wilt show thyself froward. Now he he repeats that statement in 2 Samuel 22, 26. He says it again. So twice the Bible says That with the merciful, God will show himself merciful, then he tacks on. But with the proward, those who are unmerciful, God will be unmerciful. So I'm suggesting here. Now he's not talking about his salvation here. We cannot lose our salvation. But we can. We can behave in such a way, I believe, that God holds off his blessings And God withholds his presence. And that peace and that mercy that we experience in a practical daily living, it's possible withhold that. And according to, if I understand this correctly. If I'm not merciful to others, then God will withhold His mercy from me. If I withhold kindness and compassion from others, and God says, alright, if you're going to be thrower to others, then I'm going to do the same thing to you. That's what you're going to get from me. Jesus kind of touched on that in the Beatitudes. And again, I don't have time to I'll never get through this or go to all these, but Jesus kind of touched on that in the Beatitudes. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Mercy. Not talking about salvation. Talking about God's blessing. Talking about having that conversation, that walk with God, getting close to the Lord, and God says, listen, if you're going to treat other people that way, then that's how I'm going to treat you. You're going to treat your wife, you're going to treat your husband that way, that's how I'm going to be with you. You're going to treat your brother, your sister that way, then that's how I'm going to be with you. So David is concerned that God would withhold his tender mercies, and apparently it is possible for that. First I was like, God would never withhold his tender mercies. And I got studying the thought, whoa. He might. If I withhold tender mercies to others, then God says, I'm going to hold it with you. So David has a legitimate request here. He doesn't want God to withhold his tender mercies. Then his second request is, let thy loving kindness and truth preserve me. I got looking up, like I do, the words loving kindness. It means this, and you kind of pull it out of the word there a little bit. It means kindness as a result of genuine love and concern. And again, it's uh very similar to the word tender mercies. It's it's deeper than simply being polite to somebody It means being kind because I care about him. I love him. He says, withhold not thy loving kindness and thy truth. The word truth there is actually translated a lot of times in our Bible. Faithful has the idea of withhold. He's not talking when he says withhold thy truth. He's not talking about God, don't start lying to me. That's not what he's saying. He's not saying, God, don't withhold the truth of your word from me. It's not what he's saying. He's saying, Lord, he's talking about God's faithfulness, God being true to himself. God being true, where he says, Lord, don't take that from me. Let thy loving kindness and thy truth preserve me. You put the two together, and you have this idea. Lord, let your faithful, steadfast kindness That is a result of your genuine love for me, let that preserve me. Let that preserve me. So we have his conversation with God. It's fairly lengthy. He spends time talking to God. He's very honest. He's very open with the Lord. He just pours his heart out to God. And I think we ought to do that. On a regular basis, talk to God, tell him what we're happy about, tell him what we're sad about. Thank him for his blessings. Rejoice in his goodness. Mess up, be honest with him, be straight with God. Then he makes this request, Lord, don't withhold your tender mercies. And Lord, I ask that your loving kindness, your truth would preserve me. And that leads me to my last thought, very briefly, actually, is David's concern. He says, let thy loving kindness and thy truth, look at it what he wants here, continually preserve me. Word preserve again means to keep or guard or protect, to shield from destruction. We put preservatives on food to protect it from decay. Uh preserve, we we um we uh can our vegetables and stuff, we preserve them. Everybody follow, it protects it, keeps it from going bad There was some reason David was concerned that he would go back. I think. I think this is what he's saying. David was concerned that, for some reason, that he would end up back in the horrible pit. I think he's concerned I'm going to end up back in the Miry Clay. And God I'm asking you to don't let me go back there. Don't let me go back. How many people here your life was different before you were saved? Anybody here? How many people your life is b better after you got saved than it was before you got saved? How many people here say, I don't ever want to go back to that? I don't ever want to go back to that Now I don't know that David's talking about salvation, but at some point he had messed up bad, and he says, I don't I don't want to go back. Now I'm not going to ask you to respond to this, but I wonder how many of us Got away from God, got out of God's will. Maybe we were a prodigal for a while, and God got us out of that, and He set our feet upon our rock, He established our goings, and we think I don't ever want to get away from God again I don't want to ever stray. And he says, God, I'm concerned. I want you to preserve me. Your love, your kindness, and your truth, your faithfulness, I need you to don't ever let me go back. There's a lot of people follow Jesus and they turn back. A lot of people did. Peter talks about the dog returning to its vomit. Goes right back. And it says, I don't want to do that. I don't want to go back to that. Um Jesus talked about sowing seed and some of it landing on rocky ground that grew up because of the cares of this world and And um persecution, different things, it never produced any fruit. David says, I don't want to be that way. I don't want to go back. I don't want to go back. I don't want to go back. Now here's the good news. This is what I take from it. It's God's loving kindness that keeps me, that preserves me. It's God's truth and faithfulness that preserves me, not mine. Here's the great news, and again, it lines up right with what we said this morning. It's not me that keeps me, it's God that keeps me. I just keep looking to him. I keep walking to him. I keep trusting him. God will preserve me. God will keep me. God will keep me from going back. How many people ever noticed your Christian life is kind of like three steps forward, two steps back? Anyone know what I'm talking about? And and you know, like I said, this is coming up on 47 years for me. It doesn't quit You know, it ever gets, you know, three steps forward, no steps back. Not yet, anyway, at some point maybe. Heaven I thank God that when we do play the full and we step back And we have a God that's faithful and he keeps us from going all the way back. And he provokes us and he convicts us and he prods us. And uh he chastens us. Hebrews says sometimes he'll scourge us. But he keeps us. He keeps us. And it's God's faithfulness, not ours, that keeps us on track and keeps us from going back. Amen. So David says He says, withhold not thy tender mercies from me. It could happen if we withhold tender mercies from others. In other words, here's my advice: be nice. How many people want God to be nice to you? Be nice to others. Be kind. Be merciful. And then God says, He won't withhold his mercies from us. Let's stay close to the Lord and let's talk to him and let's spend time with him every single day. And if there's something in our heart and life that isn't right, like David says here in verse 12, we'll look at, then let's come to God with that and say, God, this here, I got this. And I need you. I need you to help me. Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray you take these thoughts and challenge us. We come to the Lord's Supper and we. Stop tonight and remember the horrific price you paid so that we could be forgiven. The great act of love and taking responsibility for our actions upon yourself, and then bearing the consequences of that, the judgment of our sin on yourself. And we ask, Lord, that we could experience your loving, your tender mercies on a daily basis as we are merciful to others. God, we pray that your loving kindness and your truth, your faithfulness would keep us close to you. And God, you do for us what we can't do ourselves. And preserve us and keep us close. Keep our church close to you and close to one another. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I really need to talk to God tonight. I really need to talk to him. There's some things there. I I want to get to know his heart. I want to have a conversation with God. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. I really need that. God bless you. If you don't have a Habit at daily time, I urge you tonight, let's get that established. Time with the Lord. Just talk to Him, let Him talk to you Maybe you have some requests. Maybe not exactly what David had here, but there's a request on your heart. I say, bring it to the Lord. Bring it to him. Whatever it may be, just tell it to him. And then trust him to keep us close. Keep us close. By chance you're here or you're online, you're not saved. I plead with you with all my heart, get that settled. Make sure you know your sins are forgiven, you're born into God's family. And then let's walk with him and please them. Father bless now as we go into our Lord's Supper time. We have an invitation. I pray you'd stir our hearts to desire to be close to you and walk with you in Jesus' name. Let's stand together heads up