And uh boy what a great time Sunday was with Easter. Wasn't that fantastic? And uh just everything went so well. I'm still kind of relishing what the Lord did. And um, but we're pressing on Matthew chapter seven. Got a little cartoon across here. I was kind of showing around the folks. I don't know if you can see it. It has a picture of a m preacher behind the pulpit and there is a policeman behind them. There's a policeman beside him, and a policeman's saying to the preacher, he says, You were preaching a 45-minute sermon in a 25-minute zone. He says, Pastor, I'm gonna have to see your license and your ordination. But I don't pay no attention to police or nothing like that, so But I thought that was cute. This is a I was talking to Brian, this is a 50-minute zone here, so don't get worked up Matthew chapter seven, verse number twelve, if you would notice what the Bible says. In fact, tell you what, let's read verse twelve together. This is a good verse. They all are, but this one would be good for us to be read together. Matthew chapter 7, verse 12. You got it there? Let's all read it together. Therefore, all things, whatsoever ye would, that men should do to you Do ye even so to them, for this is the law and the prophets. And this verse is known as the what Anybody know? The golden rule. Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. Let's pray and we'll look at this. Father in heaven, we Pause now before we study your word. I ask that you would be our teacher tonight. I pray you would take this passage, this statement here. And uh burn it into our hearts and minds. I pray that this verse would have an impact on how we live and how we treat each other, one another. our interaction with other people. And Lord, I ask that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. Again, that you would be the teacher. You would speak through me. I present my body anew and ask you would um help us now. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now just a brief Reminder, and I've been saying this over and over, but it's important to understand the Sermon on the Mount is a very well-known sermon. The Lord's preaching this, he's on the side of a mountain He's gathered his disciples together. They're around him. And he is preaching this sermon to his disciples. Question, were the disciples saved or lost? They're saved men, of course, Judas being an exception, but as generally they were just they were saved people. He's preaching to saved people. This is not an evangelistic message, and this is what I want to say He is not telling these people how to be saved. This is not to suggest that if I want to go to heaven, then I have to do unto others as I would have them do unto me. It's not what he's talking about. None of this here. Now he'll touch on salvation a little bit later. In fact, the next passage we'll get into, he's going to address the subject of salvation. But this is not an evangelistic message. He's talking to people who already know that their sins are forgiven. They already know that when they die, they're going to heaven, not to hell. They've trusted Christ as their Savior And they've made the decision to follow him, to live their life, uh uh following the teachings and example of the Lord Jesus Christ. They are disciples. And basically what he's saying here, particularly the first two-thirds of the sermon, he's saying, if you claim to be a disciple, you claim to be one of my disciples, then this is how you will behave. In fact, verses 3 through 12 in chapter 5, right at the beginning of the sermon, it's kind of introductory, I think, he addresses what our attitudes ought to be like as disciples. This is the kind of attitude you ought to have, of course We know it as the be attitudes. And then uh chapter 5, verse 13 through the end of chapter 6, he talks about our actions. If you claim to be my disciples, then this is what your actions will be. This will how you live your life. And he talks about not just being external, just keeping the law and these rituals out externally, but the condition of our heart And he goes into great length there. And then chapter 7, verse 1 through 12, what we're at now, I believe he's addressing our interaction with one another as disciples. And uh he's saying, listen, you claim to be my disciple, you claim to be a follower of mine, then this is how you'll interact with one another. And he's addressing that. How many people recognize, oh well let me back up here a little bit. Verse number twelve, see if you agree with this statement. Verse number twelve, I believe is one of the most well-known statements from scripture uh uh uh and script in Bible. Anybody agree with me on that? John 3. 16, of course, no doubt. Everybody knows John 3. 16. But the golden rule We taught it in schools years ago. It's very well known. It's a tremendous passage. Now, how many folks recognize the name J. C. Penny? J. C. Penny. We used to try and press folk when I was in Bible college. We were going to go shopping at Jacques Pennay. And uh try and impress people. But uh J. C. Penny was saved as the as I understand it, he was saved as a young boy And he had Christian parents that raised him in church, Bible-believing parents. And his father at one point taught him this passage, this verse. And he made this statement to J. C. Penny. When J. C. Penny was just a boy, his father made this statement to me. He said, son, now he's the boy's saved. He's already trusted Christ. He says, son, if you will follow this golden rule, You'll live a great life, and uh you'll live a great life for the Lord, and God will take care of you. If you live by this golden rule, you'll live a great life for the Lord. God will take care of you. Well that stuck in his mind. And as he grew older and uh developed, he began opening his different stores. And he made this verse a basis for his business philosophy. And his whole approach was going to be this. And this is recorded down in his biography in different places. His approach was this, I'm going to treat my employers, my employees, as I would like to be treated by my employer. That was his approach. I'm going to treat my employees the way I would like to be treated. And he said we are going to treat our customers the way we would like to be treated if we were customers. And he built his business on that. He instilled that in his employees. And before it was all said and done, J. C. Penny had thousands of stores opened all around, extremely successful. And so there I think you have an example of a fellow that understood this passage and what the Lord was saying to treat others the way I would like others to treat me. And as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, he is telling you, and he is telling me, and all of his folks that claim to be disciples, He's saying we need to treat others the way we want others to treat us. Very simple concept. But yet so many times we struggle with it. Now I've broken this down. I have several points that are little outlined here. First thing I want us to notice is this and the title is the golden rule. I want us to notice the starting point Of the golden rule. I got looking at this. Again, look at verse number 12 there. And what's the first word the verse begins with Therefore. Anytime the word therefore is in a verse, you need to stop and consider what it is therefore. And so he's saying, therefore, that word therefore has this idea consequently, as a consequent of the previous statements. This ought to be true. Because of what was previously established, the following statement should be true. So, with that word, therefore, at the beginning of verse number 12, that tells me something about this statement. It tells me this: it is not an isolated statement. He's not just making this a statement and it's disconnected from what he said before. Now, sometimes in the Bible you will have statements like that. For instance, Proverbs. You go through Proverbs and they're just isolated truths. They're isolated statements. They're not necessarily, I mean, sometimes there'll be a passage where they're connected, but a lot of them are just individual statements that are true. Not so here When the Lord says, therefore, he's referring back to some statements he made earlier. Now, I got looking at this and I thought, what is he referring back to? And this was my conclusion I think he's saying, because I am going to be held to the same judgment that I hold others to. Therefore, I ought to treat others the way I would like to be treated. Look at verse number one of chapter 7. He says, Judge not that you be not judged. Now we already studied this pretty in depth Verse 2 he says, For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged. And with what measure ye need, it shall be measured to you again. Then he goes on and illustrates about the moat and the beam and the eye and all of that. Then you get to verse 12, and he says, Therefore, because that's true, As a consequence of that, we ought to treat others the way we want to be treated. If I'm going to be judged by the same standard, I judge others, therefore I ought to treat others the way I would want to be treated. Now that's not the only truth he's given in the first twelve verses. Uh in uh the passage right before we spent quite a bit of time looking at the the subject of prayer. It says, Ask and it shall be given to you, seek and you shall find, knock and it shall be open Then he repeats and expands on that. Everyone asketh, receiveth, he that seeketh, findeth, he that knocketh, it's open unto. Then he illustrates it. And he says, even uh, and I'm just putting my own words here, but he says, Even an evil father Being evil knows how to give good gifts to your children. How much more shall your father, your heavenly father, your father which is in heaven, give good gifts to them that ask them? Therefore, Because your Heavenly Father is good to you and I, because He is generous to you and I, therefore We ought to treat others the way we want to be treated. We should do to others as we would like for them to do unto us. And so there's a starting point, there's a basis for this statement It's not just arbitrarily saying, oh, well just treat others the way they treat you. No, no, no. I ought to do that because one, I'm going to be held to the same standard I hold others, and two, God's been so good to me. God is so generous. God is such a good heavenly Father, I ought to be very, very careful to treat others the way I would like to be treated. Come with me if you would. Keep your place here. Come over to Ephesians chapter 4. I think he touches on the same idea because of God's goodness to us Because of God's grace and kindness He shows us, we ought to be gracious and kind to others. Ephesians chapter 4. And I want to begin reading, and this is a familiar passage for most of us, I'm sure, but I want to begin reading in verse 29, Ephesians chapter 4, verse 29. He's kind of touching, I believe, on the same concept. Verse 29, he says this: Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good, to the use of what? Edifying. What does it mean to edify? So he's saying, the things I say, and he's talking about interacting with one another, the things I say ought to be building others up How many people here like it when folks say something to you that encourages you, that strengthens you, that lifts your weight a little bit? How many people uh like when people do that? Yes. Now follow what he says That it may minister grace to the hearers. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. The context here tells us that grieving the Holy Spirit is very closely associated with how I interact with other people. Do you get that? It says speak uh let your c let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying. That it may minister grace to the hearers, grieve not the Holy Spirit of God whereby years see unto the the day of redemption Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice Look at this. And be kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, and then he gives us the basis On why we should be kind, why we should be gracious, why we should edify one another. And the basis is that the end of verse number 32, look, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. And I believe back here in Matthew chapter seven, I think when he is saying, therefore, because You come to God and ask, and you seek and you knock, and God will give, and you'll find, the door will be open. God, our Heavenly Father is a good Heavenly Father. How much more will He give good things to us, therefore? Because of God's graciousness and God's kindness and God's generosity and God's mercy, do unto others as you would have them do unto you. is what he's saying. And so there's a basis here. There's a starting point. Is God's grace to me now he also, I believe, included is the fact that I'm going to be held to the same standard I hold others But God is very, very good. So that's a starting point here. But I think there's another starting point. When we're coming with this idea of doing unto others as I would have them do unto me I start with the fact that God is going to be held to the same standard I hold others. God's been awfully gracious and good to me. But the other starting point is this. I do not begin with others In other words, what I'm trying to say here is this: I do not do unto others in response to what they do to me. Right? He doesn't say do unto others as they do unto you. Right? I'm not starting with others The whole instruction here is not based on what other people are doing or not doing. It is not a reaction to what anybody else is doing. It starts with me There is no qualification on the part of the other people. He doesn't say do unto others as you have them do unto you, if they're doing unto you what you would have them Do unto you. Does that make sense? If it does, explain it to me, because I don't know what I just said. But um you follow what I'm trying to say? The starting point is with myself. Exactly. That's not the point. I am the one that is to do unto others whatever what I would have them do unto me. Not how they're treating me. By the way, not how they deserve to be treated Heard a preacher years ago said that some some other guy said he never cussed anyone out that didn't really deserve it. Now he's not saying do unto others as they deserve to be treated. He doesn't say do unto others as they treat you and ought. He says, do unto others as ye. Would have them do unto you. Do unto them the way you would have them treat you. And so the starting point is The fact I'm held to the same standard I hold others to. God's been off. God is a good father. How much more does he give good gifts to them that ask them? Therefore Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. I don't start with them. I start with me. I start with how God treats me. I start with how I would like to be treated by others So, number one, we have a starting point here, and I get that from that word therefore. Therefore. Second thing I notice here is the simplicity of this rule. It's not complicated. Doesn't. In fact, did you notice the passage on judgment, he took five, maybe six verses. The Beatitudes, he used 10, 11 verses. When he talked about not just having the external righteousness of the Pharisees, but that our righteousness needs to exceed, he used almost a whole chapter. On prayer, he used, what was it, four or five verses. But he gets to the golden rule, this phenomenally significant statement. And it's very, very simple. It is not complicated. What do I like then that's what I ought to treat others. What are things that I dislike? What's actions and words that I dislike? Well then I ought not to be using those towards others. You follow what I'm saying? Uh what is it that pleases me Then that ought to be my actions towards others. How do I like to how what actions do people do that upset me? If I don't like to be have them do that, that action or those words or that behavior upsets me, then I need to make sure I do not do that to them. It's not difficult. What words, what actions, what behavior helps me be a better person, helps me, encourages me, helps me see through things. Then I need to be sure that that is what I do and say to others. It is not complicated. What is it that provokes me? What are statements or responses or retorts or actions that provoke me? And man, that just gets them under my skin. And he's saying, well then what you need to do is be very, very careful that you don't say those things, and you don't do those things, and you don't behave in that way, that would provoke In ways that would provoke you, don't do that, so you don't provoke them. He says, whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them. What is it that encourages me? What kind of words and and uh what kind of actions and behavior, things that encourage me, man, that really helps me. That lifts me up, man, I'm that's fantastic I really appreciate them saying, I really appreciate them doing it. I really appreciate that helps me. And he says, if that's what you like, if that's what you would have men do to you, then you be sure and do that to them. I think in a lot of churches, I don't think it's so I don't trust it's not so much here, but I know I've seen churches where people walk in and it's like, all right, everybody bless me. You need to encourage me. You need to lift me up. Well the Lord's saying if that's what you want from others, then you better make sure that's what you're doing for others. What ye would that men should do unto you, do that to them. And again, the starting point is not them. You say, oh, preacher, I'd do that, but if you knew what they were like, don't say that. Don't start with what they're like You start with what you would have done to you, not what they're like, or not what their character is, or they maybe they're a hateful person, but how would you like for them to talk to you? Then you talk the same way It's not complicated. It's very simple. What would I like others to think of me? What would I like people to think about me? In fact, let's open up. What what are some things that you would like for people to think about you? How many people here would like for people to think you're a decent person? Sure. Yeah. How many people here like to think that you're uh you're trying your best to be a good Christian? Sure. How many people how many folks here you would like for others to give you the benefit of the doubt? Anybody? Sure. You know what's the Lord saying? Then what? Yeah. We ought to give them the benefit. We ought to think, you know, they're probably trying hard, they're probably trying that. As ye would that men should do unto you, do unto them. How would I want others to treat me? You go into uh A restaurant and the waitress comes up. If you were the waitress or the waiter, how would you like the customers to treat you? Yeah, you'd like them to be kind, appreciate, give you a huge tip. Right, I mean you'd like that Yeah, be polite to you, be respectful. I would like that. What if you were the waitress and you had a bad day? Maybe that your child was sick, maybe you're a single parent, your child's sick, you couldn't get a someone to watch them, you've got to come up, you came flying in the last minute, the boss was all hateful to you, and a person comes in, and that was your situation, how would you like for that? Customer to treat you. I'd like for them to be patient with you, right? If I'm a little grouchy, I'm a little short, I mess up, I'd like for them to be patient with me. I'm trying to be practical here because it's not a complicated instruction. It's very, very simple. Um we would like for people to f well how would you like for people to treat you if you messed up? If you did something and it was wrong and you said it or you did it and oh that was wrong, I shouldn't have said that or done that, how would you like for people to respond to that? Don't worry about it. You'd like for them to forgive you. Yeah, and help you through that. Man, I messed up. He says, well, if that's the way you would that men should do unto you, then you should what? Do that to them. It's not difficult. Well, let me take it back because I'm going to address that here in a little bit. I'm not going to say it's not difficult. I'm going to say this. It's not complicated. It's not complicated. It's a very, very simple concept. It's very, very simple instructions. How would I, if I, if I'm grouchy, how would I like other people to treat me? If I'm hurting, I'm hurting. Maybe I'm not very talkative. Maybe I'm a little withdrawn in that church service or somewhere and And uh maybe I'm hurt uh I'm hurting. How would I like people to treat me? If they don't know, but I am hurting, I would like for them to just give me the benefit of the doubt. Maybe they don't even know what's going on, but still be kind and don't get angry and judge the guy and I would like for people to treat that. Then if we go somewhere and we see someone and they're not that friendly and maybe they're a little quiet withdrawing, uh he's stuck up. She didn't even talk to me. What's the matter? What's what she got in her crawl? Right? Wait a minute, I wouldn't want people to say that about me if I was in a situation dealing with something hurting. I saw a uh uh I guess it was a little video clip or I don't think it was a commercial something, but I wish so bad I had that. It was so powerful and it wasn't a Christian thing. But it was uh like they had a camera and they just went through a day, and you come across a person, there'd be a person here in a lobby, maybe you're going into the hospital, and there's a person sitting there in a lobby. And over their head it had a bubble, you know, these little bubbles like they're thinking. And it had that bubble and it said, She just found out her husband's been cheating on her. And then you get in the elevator and there's a man standing there and his son just got arrested for something two days ago. And it went through, and these people just looking at them, you would have no idea what in the world is going on in their life. And it said everybody is struggling. Everybody has heartaches. Everybody has hurts. Everybody has issues they're dealing with. And the concept was just be nice to people. They're hurting. Now again, that wasn't a Christian thing. I don't know who would put that thing out. But I think that's a little bit, they've caught a little bit of what the Lord is saying here. Is how would you like others to treat you? Then respond the same way. I think what the Lord is saying here is another way of saying a statement he made a number of times And is actually used back in the epistles, but the Lord said several times, uh people came to him, fellow came to him and said, Lord, what's the first and greatest commandment? And of course, the first greatest commandment is what? Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. And then he quickly added on to it. He didn't end it there. He quickly added on to it. And he says, And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. The way you would like your neighbor to love you, love them. And so I think the Lord is is Stating that same concept a little differently. In fact, I want us to go to, if you would, turn to Romans. Now we're going to finish looking at this verse here, but turn with me to Romans very quickly. And chapter number 13, this thought is stated various ways in various passages throughout the New Testament. Actually, it's back in Leviticus, believe it or not. This statement is um uh this concept is given. But Numbers or Romans chapter 13. Look with me at verse number nine. Now we're kind of getting a little ahead of ourselves here because at the end of verse 12, did you notice he said, For thus is the law and the prophets. As you would that others should do unto you, do unto them, for this is the law and a prophet. Look at verse 9 of Romans 13. For this thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witness. Thou shalt not covet. And if there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended. In this saying, namely, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Love worketh no ill to his neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law. Isn't that something? You say, wait a minute, the law, how is treating others the way I want them to treat me? How is that keeping the law? We'll look at that here in a minute. Come over to Galatians chapter number five. Now we're going to come back to Matthew here in a minute, but I want you to see a couple of these. Galatians chapter 5 and verse number 14. For all the law, Galatians 5:14, for all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Well, let me give you the last one I got. James chapter 2, one more. Now notice we have twice referenced this loving my neighbors myself and the law. James chapter 2. And verse number eight. Notice what James says. If you fulfill The royal law, according to the scripture, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself, ye do well Law, law, law. Come back to Matthew 7. He says, Law and prophets. Love thy neighbor as thyself. Now Think about the Sermon on the Mount. The Lord referenced a certain group of people a number of times in chapter 6, or the end of chapter 5. Who was that? Pharisees. They were obsessed with the what? Law. Law. In fact, they had their interpretation. As long as you outwardly kept the law. You were fine. As long as you didn't kill anybody, you could hate their guts. But if you didn't kill them, God's okay with that. And they had all this superficial thing. And the Lord is saying here, wait a minute. There is more to the wall than simply this external observation. It's a whole lot more to it. Now I'm getting way ahead of myself, so let me back up. Come back here to Matthew chapter 7. And I think what the Lord is saying here, he's pointing out the fact that the Christian life consists of relationships. Consists of relationships. My relationship with God And my relationship with others. That is pretty much the Christian life. The Pharisees had it all down, these external laws, as long as I was doing this and I keep the Sabbath and I didn't travel more than so such a distance on the Sabbath, and as long as I didn't kill anybody and all of this. It was all this ritualistic, mechanical, uh isolated, uh, impersonal observations And the Lord is saying, no, it's not what it's about. It's about relationships. He talked about our prayer and our righteousness before God and our interaction with God, fasting and prayer. And he's talking about our interaction with one another. And he says when we have that down, then the other stuff will fall into place, I believe. I got way ahead of myself on that. But what I'm going to say is this. Let me get back to the simplicity. The simplicity of this golden rule. As ye would that men should do unto you, do ye also unto them. Very, very simple concept. You know what my experience has been? I've been involved in this for a little while now, the ministry. My experience has been most of our issues in our Christian life involve interaction with other people. Most of it. Most of our struggles. Most of our areas in the Christian life. Now there's some personal things, sometimes we struggle, but 90% of it I would say involves other people. I would say most of the church splits. Now Praise God, I've not been directly involved in any, but that I observed and been from uh outside uh involved with uh involved interpersonal issues. Interpersonal issues And even the times when there may have been sin involved in situations like that, you know, the Bible tells us how to deal with that. If we did it the Bible way, there wouldn't have to be a church split. What happens is we get we fail in our interaction, in our interpersonal reaction actions, and then we get out of the will of God and we lose God's blessings. And I'm suggesting you the Christian life is a life of relationships. My relationship with God and my relationship with others. The lost, my brothers and sisters in Christ. And he's telling us something here. He's saying, listen. He's saying, as you would that others should do unto you, do you unto them. It's very simple. It's very simple. It's not complicated uh maintaining fellowship with God and maintaining fellowship with others. So, number one, the starting point therefore, because the standard you hold others to, you're going to be held to. Because God is such a good heavenly father, how much more does he give good gifts to them that ask him? Therefore, uh do unto others as you would have them do unto you. I'm not quoting that uh exactly as he puts it. So that's the starting point, the simplicity of it. Then notice I want us real quickly notice the spirit of the gor of the uh golden rule here, the Spirit. Looking in at verse number 12. Therefore all things, whatsoever ye would, that men should do to you, do ye even so to them. Then he makes this statement, for this This action, this is what I've just instructed you, is the law and the prophets. I think he's saying here that this golden rule, quote unquote, is a summary of the law and prophets. We have a tendency to view law as impersonal. We view it as a mechanical list of do's and don'ts. Well, I don't go there, and I do go here, and I don't wear those clothes, and I do wear these clothes, and I don't uh this and I do that, and I don't this and I don't Do that And we boil it down to this list of do's and don'ts. That's exactly what the Pharisees did. In fact, look there at chapter 5. Just come back and look at verse number 20. We already preached on this quite a while ago. But I think he's dressing this here. He says, For I say unto you, Matthew 5. 20, that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall in no case enter the kingdom of heaven. And he pointed out that their righteousness was simply an external law-keeping. I do this, I don't do that, therefore I'm righteous. And he goes into great detail here saying, listen, it's also the condition of your heart. It's your interaction with others, it's your attitude and your compassion and your uh your uh uh um your uh view of other people. Is also part of our righteousness before God. God intends for the law to be kept from our heart. He said, remember he told Jeremiah, he says, you have a heart of stone, I'm going to give you a heart of flesh. I'm going to put the wall in your heart. And he's saying here, he says, when I get when I have the attitude, I have the condition of a heart where I want to treat other people, I want to. Treat other people the way that I would like for them to treat me. When that is the condition of my heart, then the law and the prophets are in place. I'm trying to illustrate what I mean here. God intends for the law to be kept in our heart. A love for God and a love and concern for others is why I do things or don't do some things. The motive, the motive behind my trying to keep the law is as important as the law itself. I know what we're thinking. We're thinking, well, preacher, we we can't keep the law of that. No, not for salvation. He's not talking about salvation here. Nobody can. The law shows us we need Christ. We fail in it But does that mean that the law has no practical application to our lives? Yes, it does. By not blaspheming God, that doesn't save me. Does that mean I can blaspheme God? No. Um not not having idols in my house. That doesn't save me taking it to heaven. But that doesn't mean it's okay to have idols in my house. So the law has a practical application. What he's saying here is the practical application of the law in our lives must begin with the condition of our heart, our love for God and love for others. And that's where it flows out of. Now I'm going to try and illustrate what I'm trying to say here. Come with me if you would, way back to Exodus. And this is a little obscure law that God gave Israel, and I think it has application for us today by principle, but I want you to notice Exodus chapter 23 And I want to begin reading in verse number four. Now he's going down, he's going through these lists, and some of these walls are ceremonial for uh the ceremonies Israel went through. Some of them were uh health laws, you know, things they should and should not eat. Some of them were society, you know, how they could function as society. And In verse number 4 of Exodus 23, he gives some of these laws here. Look at verse 4. If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt what? Surely bring it back to him again. If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee, lying under a burden, and wouldest forbear to help him. In other words, here's a guy that uh he hates me, his his uh His uh ass is under a burden, it's collapsed, and uh I'm thinking I'm not gonna help him. He hates me. He says, Thou shalt surely help with him. Thou shalt not rest the judgment of the poor in his cause. Keep thee far from a false matter, and the innocent and the righteous slay thou not, for I will not justify the wicked Verse 8, Thou shalt take no gift, for the gift bindeth the wise, and perverteth the words of the righteous. Thou shalt not oppress a stranger Look at this, for ye know the heart of a for ye know the heart of a stranger, seeing ye were strangers in the land of Egypt Now the Pharisee would say, the Pharisee would say, all right, you just help him. You can hate your enemy, you can despise him, but you go through the motions, you do the external thing, and you help him, and you go on your way, and you've fulfilled the law. The Lord says that's not it at all. You ought to be helping this guy whose donkey, his ox is gone astray, or his donkey is under a burden. You ought to help him get that back. Not because he's a wonderful person. But because you would like for him to do that for you, if you were in his situation, because you really care about people Because you have a real concern. And that is where the wall comes from. A heart of concern. Why does God want us not to blaspheme his name? Just so he can control us? No, because he wants us to love him, and I would never want to do that to my God. I love him. I don't want to do that. Follow what I'm saying? Thou shalt not commit adultery. Why? Well, as long as I don't commit, why is God? Well, he just wants to control me. No, no, no. I wouldn't want somebody to do that to my spouse. I mean, uh why would I do that to them? I love people, I care, but I wouldn't never want to do that to hurt somebody. No, God wants us to love our parents. I would never want to, I love my parents. I don't want to dishonor them You follow what I'm trying to say? And what the Lord is doing here, what he's been doing throughout this sermon, is getting to our heart condition. And thus the law is an outflow of what we are in our heart. So much of the Sermon on the Mount is God clarifying the law. It's not just an outward observation. It's a condition of my heart. And when God saves us, you know what I found to be true? Before I got saved, I could take God's name in vain. It didn't bother me one bit. I'm talking an hour before I got saved. I could say the most horrible things, use God's name in the most unbelievable ways. And when Christ came in my heart and life, he changed my heart, and suddenly I didn't want to do that anymore. And the first day or two after I got saved, every now and then something would slip out, and I was pierced in my heart. That's my Savior. And that's what he's talking about. It's not just saying, well, I've got to do to them the way they do to me. I want them to do to me. No, it's not that at all. The spirit of this These are people, they're in the same condition I'm in. They're sinful people, just like I am. And there's the spirit behind this. And then last of all, I need to end, but real, real quickly, I want us to consider what's the shortcoming. Of the Golden Rule. Now this is not for salvation. We already talked about this. But how many people agree with me? The Golden Rule is a good rule. That's a good rule. Uh how many people here would if you went out of here, uh how many people here would say um yeah people would have preached the golden rule more? And people think that would be good for our country, preach the Golden Rule. Oh, we praise it, we preach about it, we talk about it. But so often we fail to live it. Why is that? God gives us instructions to be carried out. You just make these great statements. Oh, that's a great statement. Every now and then I'm preaching, and every now and then I'll come up with what I think is a pretty good quote. I'll tell Cathy, hey, write that down. That's a pretty good quote. Day later I completely forgot that great quote. The Lord's not giving us these things just for great quotes and we can write them down and read them and think, oh, they're really awesome. No, he gives us these here for us to keep it, for us to carry them out. Here's my question: why don't we do it? It's not complicated. We all agree it's good. We all agree, it's right. Why don't we live by it? For 2,000 years. We've had this very simple instruction by our Lord and Savior, and yet Christians are still fussy Families, Christian homes are still fighting and at each other's throats. Why is that? It's not diff it's not complicated. I'll tell you why it is, because when man fell, when Adam sinned against God, we inherited a sinful nature. Sin came into the world. And I got news for you. You and I, even those of us that know Christ, we are inherently sinful. All you do is hold this hold this golden rule up, and we see right away. I don't do that. I struggle with that. It seems so hard. I know it's right, it's good, and and uh we need that, and man, what a tremendous truth. Do unto others out. Have them doing you. And then we turn around, bite someone's head off. You know why? Because we are inherently sinful. We are inherently selfish. And therein is the shortcoming. You say, what's the answer? How do we overcome that? That's where the filling of the Holy Spirit comes in. That's where the power of God comes in. That's where we have to get so close to Christ. We have to walk with Him, spend time with Him, yield ourselves to Him, let the Lord fill us so that We can keep that sinful nature, that selfish nature at bay and let Christ live through us. Am I making sense? And we struggle with it because we've got sinful nature. There's going to come a day we'll get glorified bodies, that old sinful nature is going to be going. Guess how we're going to treat each other in heaven? We're going to treat each other the way we'd like to be treated. We're going to do exactly what that verse says. But now we got this sinful nature, and we've got to fight it. We've got to die to self. We've got to mortify the deeds of the flesh. We need to yield ourselves to Christ, let Him fill us. It's no longer I that liveth, but Christ that liveth in me. And I believe that's the answer. That's the answer. It's becoming like Christ. It's becoming like Christ. Less than my old sinful nature. More of Christ. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask Lord that you would help us in this matter. This is so simple. I started studying this. I thought, man, this is This is tremendous teaching. And then I look at myself, Lord, and I look at our world and I say, why aren't we doing this? It's not di it's not complicated. And Lord, you showed me how much I need you to enable me to do what you've instructed us to do. And how sinful my own heart is, even as a believer. How selfish my own heart is, even as a believer. So I ask, Lord, that you would have mercy on us. I ask you'd help us, stir us, to draw close to you. And we can live out this principle as your disciples. Our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I've trusted Christ. But you'd say, Preacher, like you, I struggle with this also I catch that old simple nature coming back, and I don't respond the way I know the Lord would have me, and you'd say, preacher, pray with me, that God will help me get closer to Him. God will help me die to self. And let Christ live through me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? My hand's raised. Would there happen to be someone here tonight and say, Preacher, I don't know for sure, I'm going to heaven when I die? And I tell you, keeping them going rule won't get you to heaven. There's only one way to get to heaven, that's by accepting Jesus Christ, our personal Savior If you've never done that, we can show you from the Bible tonight how to accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Is there any tonight say, preacher, pray for me? I'm not sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I'd like to know Jesus has saved me from my sin and from hell. Is there any like that but the uplifted hand preacher, pray for me? I need the Lord. I need to get this settled in my heart. Any at all? Now Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know where we're at spiritually, and we ask that you would help us now in Jesus' name. The thing I don't like