The lights are on, somebody's home, but nobody answers the door. In other places you go, the lights are on, but ain't nobody home. Now when I walk in the door here, get off the get on the parking lot even, I mean I can I can see, I mean everything's clicking And uh this place is uh working and working alive like it ought to be. And uh I was I was telling Dr. Belcher as we were driving in from the hotel a while ago about the the KFC closing down and the story I was told about them not having chicken for a while, you know. And I told him I said it's like some churches, like some churches they gotta sign out but they ain't got no chicken, you know But uh but you know, I mean of all things, I mean you know a hamburger joint got no hamburgers, a chicken place got no chicken, and a church is not doing church stuff. I mean, come on, give me a break. All right. Well, my friend Dr. Belcher's here, and uh I'm glad. Yes Um we uh been looking forward to getting him here and uh I'm gonna preach about an hour and a half and leave him plenty of time, you know. Oh no, I'll I'll get up and stand up and speak up and shut up and all that. In pretty pretty good order. But uh but I am delighted that he's here. I told the folks yesterday It's been such a absolutely fabulous privilege that I had to be pastor of the church in Westminster for a long time. And now he's been there a long time. In fact, come November he'll have been there twenty-two years. And during that what now amounts to almost 40-year run, uh the church has just continued to keep the plow on the ground and do the right things. And uh and and the part of the story that he and I are s quite pretty excited about is that he and I have been close friends through all of that. And we just continue to work together, pull together. And he serves on our board at the sword, preaches for me in a lot of our meetings. And And I've been privileged at his invitation to be back at the church many times through the years. And uh we're we're just pretty excited about that kind of stuff. Just pretty excited And uh I, you know, uh some of you pastors will know, you know, you leave someplace you uh were a long time, place that you love dearly. And obviously you have concerns, but it wasn't any time until I just felt like, hey, I I walked away. I'm not the pastor anymore. And uh and the Lord put it in his hands and it's just continued to do well and uh just a great blessing to all of us. But anyway, I'm glad that he's here, and I will be kind of brief, not real brief, but kind of brief, and uh give him plenty of time tonight and uh Brother Lederman has been kind to us and fed us today. I found out you have a Lido's up at McHenry, and uh that's one of our favorite places in Westminster. Dr. Belcher and I Uh love the Lido's in Westminster and and uh my wife would almost well I can mention Lido's and she's packing, she's ready to go. Uh and uh but uh I found out you've got one here, so we had lunch up there today, and if you haven't tried it, uh you got two. But anyway All right. I I want to um I want to do something tonight. I I know there's at least one person, maybe two in this room, who heard me do this somewhere else recently And I saw you here and I said, you know what, I'm gonna do it again because I watched them carefully the first time I did it and they didn't get half of it. And so just for them, I'm going to do it again so they'll get the get the whole dose. But I want you to turn your Bible to 1 Timothy. I'll read just a little bit there, and then 2 Timothy, we'll stop at two little spots as well. 1 Timothy chapter number 6, verses 11 and 12. First Timothy chapter six, verse eleven. But thou man of God Flee these things and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold on eternal life, for unto thou art also called, and is professed a good profession before many witnesses. Notice in verse 12 that opening phrase says, fight the good fight of faith. Now, a lot of folks don't realize that when it comes to faith, There will of necessity be a fight. Or the reason for that is we have an adversary. The Lord has been fighting him, the devil, through all of the ages. And the fact that you and I line up and identify with the Lord, uh the devil sends some of his imps after us, and so we have a battle. Sometimes I think he shows up himself. But because of that, there is an element of our Christian life which involves fighting. And you notice this passage says, fight the good fight. Not every fight's a good fight. Uh you just think about the place you call home, for example, that is a not a good place for a fight. That is unless somebody's trying to get in the back door at one o'clock in the morning without knocking and then go ahead and put up a fight. But if it's you and your spouse, you and your children, that's not the place to fight. That would not be a good fight. A church is not a good place to fight. That's not where we're supposed to be doing the fight. Unless some devil shows up and tries to bring hurt to the church, then we all ought to arm up and do business. But being being uh noting what the passage says, fight the good fight of faith. Look at 2 Timothy now, chapter 2. And verse number 3. 2 Timothy 2, verse 3. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. Now both of these verses reference soldiering for the Lord. And it says that we ought to be a good soldier. Just a little observation on my part, but I I'm I'm thinking that a lot of Christians do not understand that they have a soldiering duty Uh seems to me like that there are some Christians who have the idea that the Christian life is really a kindergarten where we get to color and play and do all the little nice little things we want to do and raise our hand and say may I and all that kind of stuff You know, very innocuous. I mean nothing going on. Let me just you know uh others others oh no no no it's not a kindergarten but it's a it's a picnic, it's a playground, and we can go out and ride the merry-go-round and and run up and down the slide and play in the swings And those kinds of things, other Christians, I think, maybe think it's uh Disney World or Six Flags over whatever. And just a big time, man, just lets everybody have a good time. Well, this passage indicates there are some soldiering duties in the Christian life. One more. 2 Timothy chapter 4. And verse number six. Second Timothy four, verse six For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. In other words, death is soon coming. Verse 7: I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord Shall of the righteous judge shall give me it that day, and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing. Verse 7, the testimony of the aging apostle The soon to be late apostle is, I have fought a good fight. Now, there are places right here in this neighborhood in the Bible where the Lord compares us to athletes. And some of you would identify with that pretty easily because you've played basketball or football or baseball or soccer and you know that in order to be a good athlete There's training, there's rules, there's schedules to meet, all those kinds of things. The Lord compares us sometimes to athletes. Uh there's another spot here right in this same neighborhood where he compares us to farmers And uh you say, well, what's the deal with that? Well some of you who have farms, live on farms, or around farms know that farming is work, work, work. It really is. It's a lot of work. And the Lord sometimes references us in that regard. But in these passages that I've looked at just now, it is a military uh message that he gives us and he tells us because we have this battle between God and Satan, between the armies of heaven and the demons of hell that we are his army engaged in that war. Now, the media, the awful anti American, anti-God, despicable, ungodly media in this country. Am I making myself clear? The media in this country has depicted us, I'm talking about Christians. And the better Christian you are, the more they will do it. They have depicted us very poorly. And a lot of the clergy, I'll not call them pastors or preachers, and I'm not even sure what it is to say clergy, but a lot of the clergy. Have so misled generations of Christians that now we have a lot of folks who are professing to be Christians, I mean generations of us That are timid and shy and retiring, I mean we are weak and wimpish and waffling and all washed up And all we want to do is the kindergarten thing and the playground thing and the fun and games thing. And if there's about to be a battle of some kind, oh listen, I am out of here because, after all, I don't like to fight Now, very frankly, folks, I'm concerned. I'm concerned that we have lost our fight. We have lost our will to fight what ought to be fought. I'm concerned about it for our churches, and I'm concerned about it for our country. I'm I'm I'm just I'm just wondering what kind of will is left in literally millions of our people around this country. Everybody just wanting whatever whatever I can get, whatever I can get, gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme. That's the theme. Instead of saying freedom has been bought and paid for, By people who gave their lives and shed their blood and scarred their bodies. And uh and and a lot, I mean a lot of a lot of the generation. That we have now. They do not understand how we got here where we are. Do not understand the price that has been paid. Now The Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church would not be up and running like it is, except for the fact that this pastor and some of you Have paid a price and have stood in the gap and have been willing to do what needed to be done so that a really effective, powerful lighthouse could be built here in Mountain Lake Park. And in Garrett County. You've paid a price, I guarantee you. Go down and walk up and down the streets, talk to people, not everybody would uh wave your flag There's a price to pay for that. Now, this soldiering business, most of what I know about it, I learned from my daddy, who's in heaven now. The last eight weeks of his life, I drove up 180 miles to Paducah, Kentucky, where they live. Every week. I went every week for eight weeks and stayed 48 hours and waited on him hand and foot. Took my turn Stayed with him night and day for 48 hours. Did it for eight weeks. Ran out somewhere in a meeting, preached two or three nights, come back home, jump in Montcarthur to National Airport, and drive to Paducah. And uh stayed with my dad, and during that time he talked to me more about soldiering than he ever had before. Decorated veteran of the Second World War. And I could spend the night to tell telling you daddy stories that would cause you to weep and others that would cause you to laugh And I mean some pretty exciting things. One of these days I'm going to write them down and put them all in a book. Lord being my helper. I learned some things about soldiering from my daddy. The Bible says for me that as a Christian I ought to be a good soldier of the Lord Jesus. I ought to fight the good fight. So there's some things I need to get hold of. Number one, A soldier either enlists in the outfit or he's drafted. Now there's a time when we had a draft in this country. We have an all-volunteer army now. So in the Lord's army, actually it's both. He drafts us, he calls us. I mean, he comes after us, but he doesn't commandeer us, he comes after us and waits on us to enlist. So we get in voluntarily, even though he's saying, come on, come on, come on. Some of you remember those signs used to have the picture of Uncle Sam and it said, Uncle Sam wants you. Well I'm going to tell you there's a father in heaven who's looking down and he wants us in his army and he's beckoning to us. And uh yet he waits for us to enlist. But we do enlist. We have to make a choice to get in to the Lord's army. And once we're in, a good soldier puts on the uniform of the outfit that he's connected with. He puts on the uniform. No more of them skinny blue jeans. No seree. He's going to wear the uniform of the outfit. You know, not it no more is he going to get up and say, well, let me look through my clothes and see what I want to wear. No, no, no. He's going to put on the uniform of the outfit And whenever you and I get converted, we come to Christ. We go to the baptistry and get baptized, like we saw happen here last night. Well, what's the deal with that? It's a ceremony of identity where we line up with the outfit. That we're connected with. We start packing a King James Bible. Walk down the street. Go into some fast food place and plop your Bible down on the table. And uh see, see you know you'll I I'm telling you, I I have same I eat breakfast same places in in our town every morning that I'm in town. And I've been doing it in the same place for years. And as a result of that, I walk in now, I walk in, hand the sword out. When you get a fresh copy of the sword, I give out a bunch of them to customers and people that work in there And and and people walk up to me and they they'll say they'll say, Would you pray for me? And oh I I I know you and uh in fact some once in a while somebody walk up and they'll say, are you a Christian? I don't know what tips I'm off other than the fact maybe I got a Bible laying there and some stuff like that. Maybe maybe but but you know you you get on the uniform. You just you just get yourself identified. Now, get identified. You clean yourself up. Present yourself in a way that is becoming to the outfit. So there's no question about your identity. So we sign up, we get on the uniform. Oh, by the way, you go to boot camp. If you're a good soldier, you go to boot camp. Can you imagine some kid signing up for the Marines and his sergeant says to him, now, you know, come Monday morning, we're going to ship you out to Paris Island. Suppose that kid says, hey Sarge, man, I just want to get on with the battle. I don't want to go do all that training and stuff. I just want to skip Paris Island and go straight to the front lines Now after the sergeant gets done with him, he'll wake up in a day or two. And the Marines they might they might teach you that in a little rough-shod way. But in God's army, in God's army, we got a boot camp. Sunday school is part of it. Wednesday night church is part of it. Taking the soul winning training is part of it. Doing Bible Institute. Whatever the church is going on that that trains you and gets you taught in the things of God. Take the boot camp. Take the boot camp. Don't skip the boot camp. Get yourself ready to do this. A good soldier always serves on behalf of his commander-in-chief and represents his country. I love that story. You'll remember when our guys found old Saddam Hussein in that spider hole where he had been hiding out. One of our young soldiers walked in, stuck a gun in his face, and said, I bring you greetings from the President of the United States, George W. Bush. I don't know who that kid was, but I'd love to shake his hand. You know? Walk in there, walk in there, young lieutenant, probably twenty-one years old stuck his stuck a rifle in the nose of the king of of the uh the uh president of Iraq and uh announced to him on behalf of the president of this country he brought him greeting Like him. You and I serve on the behalf of our Heavenly Father and on behalf of the Lord Jesus. We represent our heavenly country as well. A good soldier always takes orders from his superiors. We do have a commander-in-chief. Yes, we do. This Bible is his eternal word. And You know, whatever he says, it's not something we take to committee and vote on. Whatever he says, we're not going to have a five to three vote, yes or no, whether to do it or not If he says it, we just say, yes, sir. And we do it. We follow. We sang here yesterday, trust and obey. Trust and obey. Trust and obey. Get signed up, then do what he says. Trust and obey. Good soldier takes orders from his superiors. Not just the commander-in-chief, but whoever he's putting charge of stuff. You know? Brother Fox is in charge of the choir right now. And you say, what does that mean? Well, if you're going to sing in the choir, you listen to Brother Fox. Simple as that. You say, well, he's not a general in this army. No, but God's appointed him to that responsibility, just like the pastor's got an appointed responsibility. And he's he's one of God's deputies. And when God's put somebody in charge, the rest of us follow. We go along. Good soldier takes orders, and a good soldier, man, he looks forward to getting an assignment. I've preached in some military churches. There's some military bases, several of them, in various places around the world And uh I'm telling you what, uh you talk about a church that's exciting. Every military church I've ever been in, I mean it is an exciting place. And uh those military guys I mean you hear them talking and they'll say, Yep, I'm shipping out tomorrow morning. Sometimes that means they're going halfway around the world. But they're all excited because they have an assignment Now you and I have some assignments in our world. Our soul winning is an assignment. Our stand is an assignment. Our influence is an assignment. You know, there's there's abortuaries in cities all over America where nobody ever says a word. You get a an abortion butcher shop in your neighborhood. I mean somebody, somebody ought to be walking the sidewalk out in front of that place carrying placards and showing up at city council meetings trying to get a stop put to it. And uh while I'm at it, I'll say the same thing about liquor stores and other kinds of things. Uh just just take a stand, uh just go after it. Yes, you know, they're working hard to get us to shut up about sodomite marriage and all those kinds of things. Well I got news for him uh for them, for him, for them There's a lot of us that are not paying attention to executive orders that will shut us up. We're not about to shut up about those things. Why? Because We have an assignment, and that assignment is to proclaim the Word of God, to speak it loudly, to speak it plainly, and to keep saying it whatever somebody thinks about it. And a good soldier takes that assignment and runs with it. Good soldier loves freedom, hates tyranny Just uh wants to have the freedom to get out and do what he ought to do. A good soldier doesn't get chummy with the enemy Doesn't get chummy with the enemy. We got people right now in this country that are in leadership that I think will be tried for treason. Because they've betrayed us. And uh there's been a time in this country when that that didn't go down Ah, listen, a good soldier in the Lord's army doesn't run and covort with the world, but gets gets away from that worldly influence. And he sides with the right crowd It doesn't go getting chummy with the enemy. A good soldier always works in concert with his fellow soldiers. None of this leaving guys behind. None of this uh none of this turning uh uh c tail and run. None of that. None of that running in face of the heat and the battle, none of that saying, well I I just can't take it. None of that A good soldier works in concert with his fellow soldiers, and by the way, good soldiering sustains the peace by the willingness that we have to fight. You know, sometimes you you listen to the people on the media and you think, well, boy, according to them, you know, all we gotta do is just uh you know, dismantle our military and you know and all this kind of stuff and all these enemies by that they'll they'll see how nice we are. I'm telling you, some of these evil tyrants and their ilk around the world, the only thing they understand is strength. And if we don't muscle up and show them strength, they'll run over us. And they are doing that some. A good soldier sustains the peace and maintains freedom because he is willing to go to battle. And by the way, a good soldier never forgets that he is a soldier. You go to Israel today, their soldiers are never off duty, even when they are off duty. You'll see them walking the streets, they've got rifles on their shoulder, and they've got bullets in those rifles. I mean it it takes me to no end to realize that on every military base in this country our military men and women cannot carry weapons even on our military bases. I'm telling you, something has gone way wrong when that kind of thing is true. A good soldier Good soldier, like my daddy was in the Second World War. Fought in the midst of the battle, battled the balls, and all of that. And uh there's a there's a whole little pile of medals and ribbons and other such things, the honors and medals and awards. That he earned. And you and I, listen, when we fight the good fight and serve the Lord like we ought to serve him, we're one day going to be at the judgment seat of Christ, not to figure out anything except the rewards that are coming for having served him well. I know we're going to hand it back to him. I already read the rest of the book. But That that judgment seat is going to be something else when the war awards are handed out and the rewards are handed out. Good soldier, that happens. Once in a while I'll hear some well-meaning Christians say, Oh, you know, I'm not served of anything. I I don't expect anything, and I I just want to say, shut up, don't try to rewrite the Bible The Lord's already told us how that's going to be done. Just go along with the program, amen. And and a good soldier Should always be honored as a hero in the homeland. Always be treated like a hero in the homeland. Almost every flight that I get on, there's one or more of our military men or women in uniform. I try to speak to them, if I'm close enough to them on the airplane, getting on or off the airplane, I try to speak to every one of them. I thank them for who they are and for what they're doing. I believe it's important. But some of those old soldiers that have served well, you and I ought to honor them Last year, 2015, first week of June, I've been up here somewhere in this part of the country for the weekend. And early on Monday morning. I drove my rental car back to BWI to catch a flight about, I don't know, is 8. 30 or 9 o'clock, something like that, maybe 9. 30 I turned my car in, got through security, walked over to my gate, and as I approached the gate, I saw there was a little stir going on, and somebody had something going on. Turned out there was a lady there, she was handing out little flags, and I came to realize that she was in charge of an honor flight. Some of you have heard about these this organization called Honor Flights. And they they will go to a city somewhere in America. They'll round up a bunch of veterans who've never been to D. C. to see the monuments that have been erected in their honor. They fly them To D. C. , to BWI, put them on a bus, take them over to D. C. for the day, show them around, put them back on the bus, fly them out of there, all that's done in one day and take them back home. Well, this particular day there was a flight of them coming in from Orlando. Turned out there was 35 of them, 34 guys and a lady. All of them World War II veterans, so all of them in their late 80s or early 90s And once she explained what was going on, there was 85 or 90 people lined up, took the little flags, and they're bringing them off the airplane, and they had it all organized nicely. Even though a lot of them didn't need the wheelchairs, they rolled all of them off in a wheelchair. About every 30-45 seconds they're bringing one off. So every guy has time. We're clapping and waving the flags Well uh when I realized what was going on, they they had formed the line and come out to the to the corridor, then they turned the line down this way because there was a good number of people, 85 or 90, participating And I thought, man, I gotta get so man I got my cell phone out, I put it on video, and I held it up over somebody else's shoulder, and I'm getting tape as they're coming off. I'm getting the whole thing. And I did four of them like that And then it it oh it hit me, Brother Fox, it hit me. And I said, how selfish of me. How self And I shut it off. That particular day I had I had checked my coat and my luggage, and uh I was I was dressed kind of like this. And I I shut it and I walked over to the end of the line. They're breaking them out, turning them this way. I did not get in the line with the flag wavers. I got right in the middle of the aisle So they got to roll toward me. When they get to the last person with a flag, I'm about six or eight or nine feet out from that. So when they shake hands with the last person, they look up, and the minute that I catch their eye, I'm standing there in the middle of the aisle, like so. Seeing my daddy do it. And when I catch their eye, I went I did that for the last thirty-one of those old soldiers. You say, what's going on here? Honoring those who are heroes and treating them like heroes because they served well. It's the funniest thing. Third guy from the last. He rolls up. Shook hands with the last person. He turned and looked at me I gave him the salute. He got bug-eyed and he said, Dr. Smith, is that you? And I said, Yes, that's me, and who are you? And turns out he's a member of a church in Orlando that I go to in the winter every year In fact I've been in that church twice this year, once my regular time in the winter, and then I went back for a big anniversary thing in June. And so I've seen him uh twice now since then. He and I have kind of become buddies Um and uh now um being a soldier It's not kindergarten play and it's not the playground. But sometimes it's a dirty business. Sometimes you gotta stand your ground. You gotta be willing to wage the fight and all that. But remember it's the good fight that we're fighting. We're not the crowd that drives airplanes into buildings That's not us. We are not a violent people. And we're not pacifist. We're not pacifists. You show up at my back door in the middle of the night trying to get into my house and you will find out I am not a pacifist. But we're not a violent people. But there is a very real sense in which the Bible admonishes us To get our fight going, get our fight back. We need to fight for the Lord, we need to fight for truth, we need to fight for right We need to fight for souls. We need to fight for the territory that God has given to us. We need to fight for victory. I think your family is worth the fight. Your church is worth the fight. Our country is worth the fight. And for that reason, I just think soldiers, I mean, well we'll ought to be on the front line. Front line soldiers are serious about what's going on They're there, they're pulling together and working together, taking orders, following orders, willing to do what they should do. I'll tell you one of my daddy's stories. Somewhere in Europe, Dad and his troop or his unit were stationed out some out of the way place. And uh they were waiting for supplies to come in on a river. And the supplies were slow in coming. Very slow coming. They were down to only minimal amounts of food and other things. And one evening, about sundown, the captain who was in charge of the group. Spoke to my dad and to several other men and he said, uh, I want you to come with me. They walked down to the river's edge. He had already announced that they were expecting a boat to come in with the surprise. They walked down to the river's edge, and Dad said the captain folded his hands behind him, and he stood there looking out down the river. Never said another word. He just stood there. Dan and those other soldiers were behind him. The night wore on. Dark dark came. Moon came up, Captain never moved. He stood there. Dad said several hours passed, some of the guys collapsed. Some of their buddies gathered them up and took them back over to where they were at their encampment. The captain stood there in the wee hours of the morning. And finally, just as the sun was beginning to peak up over the horizon, Dad said it was only him and the captain left. All the rest of the guys had fallen out Just exhausted. The captain standing there stood there with his hands folded behind him the entire night. Looking down the river. He said, why do you do that? He never explained. He never told Dad why. But when the sun came up, he turned around and he looked at Dad and he said, Son, You're a good soldier. You're dismissed. Now I would hope that in Oakland, Maryland In Garrett County, and some of you who are from West Virginia and Western Pennsylvania and Wherever else you may be from. I would hope that some of us, Brother Fox, I would hope that some of us would soul soldier for our Lord. That at some point in time, maybe, maybe somebody would look and say, Son, you're a good soldier. You've been faithful. You've done what a soldier should do. You have fought a good fight. Bless the Lord. The apostle said to us in these inspired scriptures, fight the good fight of faith. Let's not lose our fight. Let's stand up to be counted in these days. Our nation is teetering on the brink. Let's not fail. Our nation. We fail our nation, our churches are failed. Our churches are failed, our families are failed. Let's fight the good fight of faith. Our Father, we're grateful tonight for the privilege we have to serve you. And I ask you, dear Lord, to help us to get some things in these days that will keep us going, keep us strong. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's take our handle and find 573 onward Christian soldiers after that sermon. Let's make up our minds we're going to be good soldiers for Jesus Christ. Amen.