Let's read together in unison. 1 Timothy 2 and verse number 1. Ready? I exhort therefore that first of all Supplications, prayers, intercession, and giving of thanks be made for all men. I want to speak this morning on the priority of prayer Priority of prayer. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we come to you this morning very grateful for your love and goodness to us. We thank you for the The services this morning, the Sunday school hour, the singing, the fellowship we've had. Lord, I'm glad that you cleared that snow out here in time for church for us. We know you're in charge of the weather, so we just give you the glory, Lord, whatever you send our way. But help us now to focus on your word I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I always ask that, Lord. I yield my will. I present my body anew in this hour. That your Holy Spirit could use me as a tool. Just speak through me, Lord. And challenge us in this matter of prayer. And I pray you'd help me, Lord, to grow in my prayer life and develop that to be better. Help us to be a praying church. And Lord, teach us on this matter now. So put away the distractions, Lord. Help us focus our hearts and minds on the Word of God here. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. 1 Timothy was written by the Apostle Paul to a young fellow by the name of Timothy, of course. The name of the book. Paul's writing to Timothy. Paul is an aged man at this point. He's up in years. And he has been investing his life in this young man, this young Timothy. Timothy was very dear to Paul. Paul had won him to Christ. He refers to him on occasion as he refers to Timothy as his son in the gospel. And that is a very tremendous term of endearment on the part of Paul, what Timothy meant to him. He was his son in the gospel. Timothy had helped Paul when Paul was in Ephesus, kind of assisting him there. I think it was probably a mentorship type thing where Paul brought him in. uh gave him responsibilities, worked with him, but then eventually um handed the church off to Timothy, just as a very young man, pr uh we don't know his age, but uh young man, and uh he became the pastor of this great, great church in in Ephesus. In fact, if you come back to chapter number one and look with me at verse number three, he kind of references that a little bit. He says, I besought, again, this was Paul writing to Timothy. He says, I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus. When Paul left, he says, I ask you to stay here. I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus when I went into Macedonia. Now look at this, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine So Timothy held the position there, we believe, as pastor, and uh he is instructing him on this matter and uh and charging him to uh uh as a pastor. Now the book, the purpose of the book of Timothy 1 Timothy is um uh he's doing three things with Timothy. Uh number one, he's advising Timothy on his duties as pastor. 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, then Titus are considered the pastoral epistles. Paul's writing to Timothy and said, listen, these are your responsibilities as pastor. He gives him what the requirements are, the qualification to be a pastor. Then he also gives him the qualifications for deacon. And um and as Timothy would oversee all of that. He's advising him on his duties as pastor. He's also another subject, just trying to give you a little background of the book here before we get to our text. He's also advising Timothy on how to deal with false teachers One of the problems the early church had was uh folks would come into these new churches, these young churches, uh, and they would bring in their ideas, their philosophies Some of it would bring some of the ceremonies of the Jews, ceremonial uh practices into the church and try and present that as a Christian responsibility. Others brought in strange teachings about the Lord Jesus Christ and And just a whole variety of things. So one of the responsibilities of Timothy as a pastor, a young man as a pastor of that church, and really all pastors, was to guard the church from false doctrine Now, what was true in the early days of the church history in these early churches, what was true then, the danger of false teaching is no different today. No different today. There is false teaching. Every possible thing you could think out there is being said and taught. I say this occasionally, I want to reiterate it here. Not everything that calls itself Christian is Christian. And we've got to be very, very careful. The internet can be a blessing. You can get a lot of information, but you can get a lot of false doctrine on the internet also. And uh not everything that's sold in a Christian bookstore necessarily lines up with the Word of God. So one of the responsibilities Paul is telling Timothy is Your responsibility as pastor is to make sure that church stays true to the Word of God. Doesn't drip from that. Doesn't bring in other ideas contrary to the Word of God. And so it's a tremendous responsibility, and it's one we still have in our day today. I appreciate so much the Sunday school teachers, the leadership of the church works with me as pastor and everybody shares that same concern that our doctrine be lined up with the word of God and and not allow So he's advising Timothy uh on this matter of how to pastor the church and qualifications the the administration and the and the the structure of the church. He's advising them on that. He's advising them, hey, there's a real danger. You gotta watch out for false doctrine. In fact he mentioned it there in verse 3. We saw a little bit of chapter 1 And then another interesting thing, Paul's an aged man. He's getting up there. And he loves Timothy and he's invested his life into this young man to carry on the work of God. And uh he's encouraging him. He's encouraging him. There's a real, there's a there's a ver there's a real uh danger, I guess for a young man, a young man pastoring a church, in that people would not respect him because of what? His youth, his age, because he's such a young man that they would might not respect him. And he says to him, he says, listen, don't you let anybody despise thy youth You be an example. You walk with God. You do right. And word and deed. And he gives some of these. And you get this you get this fl you get this flavor, I guess, throughout the book. where he's injecting these encouraging statements to Timothy. And uh I've tried to put my m get back in my mind the context there. And here's this young man pastoring a church, fairly new church, very good church in a lot of ways, and a growing, booming work. And Paul's just writing to him and says, listen, you're a young fella Don't let anybody despise that. Don't let that be a factor in your leadership of that church. You do right, you maintain your integrity. You stick to that old book. Look how he words it a couple times. Come over to chapter 1 again and verse number 18. 1 Timothy, and he makes a statement here to Timothy that kind of stirs my heart a bit. He says, This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy. There's that term of endearment again, Son Timothy. According to the prophecies which went before on thee. Now look at this. That thou by them mightest, what's he say? War a good warfare. Brother, that is a that is a that is a captain charging the troops. Listen, you stay at this. You war of good warfare. You give this all you've got. You stand true. Come over, if you would, to chapter number six and look at verse number 12. He makes a similar statement. Verse 11 kind of. Look how Paul refers to him. Timothy 6, and look at verse 11. But thou, look what what's he call him there? Oh, man of God. Ah, this is a young guy, maybe early twenties. I don't know how old he is. He's young. And uh Paul refers to him now, man of God. Why do you think Paul might address Timothy, a young preacher boy? He's training them, he's helping them. Why do you think he would address him maybe as thou man of God? Yeah, I think he's trying to encourage him. Say, listen, you have a tremendous responsibility. You hold a tremendous position. And understand that. Now look what he tells them. But thou, O man of God, I can see Timothy reading this. Hmm. How often somebody his age get called a man of God. And so, look what he says. But thou, O man of God, Flee these things and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness. Now look what he says in verse 12. Fight the good fight of faith. Paul is writing to Timothy, he's trying to encourage him and say, listen, you get in there. You're a man of God. This is how the church functions. Watch out, you guard that church from false doctrine. And brother, you plant your feet, you get in that battle, that spiritual warfare, and don't you quit, and don't you get laxed, and you get after that thing And uh, man, I don't know. I'm getting stirred up just thinking about what he's writing to them. And so Timothy, he loves them, and uh he's challenging them here. Now we come to chapter 2, our text this morning And um he makes this statement to Timothy that I believe is, of course it's all important, but I think it's it it's very important and maybe applies to us uh uh right now. Look at look at verse one of 1 Timothy 4. four or 1 Timothy 2. I exhort therefore. Now let's just stop there for a second. Paul's writing And he uses this word exhort. I exhort, therefore. What does he mean? Why is he using that word? You know when you know words in the Bible are not there just haphazardly God doesn't just use words to fill space. Every word, every jot and tittle is given to us by inspiration of God. So He uses this term, I exhort therefore. He uses that deliberately. Now what does that term use mean? You and I would don't use that probably too much It means this, to exhort, means this, to strongly urge someone. It's not quite a command It's not commanding. I mean he's not saying, I command you. Uh that would be very, very strong, very, very clear. But it's very, very close to that. It's a c maybe I could put it this way, it's a command in the form of a request Does that make sense? It's a very, very strong request. I exhort, therefore. It means I am strongly, strongly urging you to do the following things. It has the idea of making a very earnest request In fact, I thought it was interesting. I looked it up and how it's used other places in the Bible, and I found that 43 times that same word in our Bible, 43 times, it is translated beseech I beseech you. Now, when I hear that word, I think immediately of Romans chapter 12, verse 1 and 2. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God. Paul says, I'm pleading with you, I'm almost begging you So, whatever Paul is about to say to Timothy in this letter, whatever this next subject is, whatever the next issue he's about to address It is incredibly important in Paul's mind that Timothy get a hold of this. What he's about to say, what Paul is about to say to Timothy Paul feels very, very strongly about. Or he wouldn't use that word, exhort. I exhort you. I am strongly urging you, Timothy. In Paul's mind, this obviously is something that is very, very important. And as I studied the Bible and all these many years knowing the Lord, I've found that what he is about, the subject he is about to address. Is vital in every single Christian's life. And we neglect this subject to our spiritual damage. And what is this subject? The subject of prayer. Prayer. He says, I urge you, I strongly uh exhort you. Um Timothy, what I'm about to say, you must give attention to. It must be taken seriously. It must be very important in your life. The subject of prayer. Of prayer. I'm telling you, I believe the key to the living the Christian life is found in this matter of prayer. Can I say this? I don't know, I can't speak for everybody, but I'm afraid for a lot of us Christians, this matter of prayer is sore lacking in our Christian life is sore lacking. So let's give a few thoughts to this subject that Paul's writing to this young preacher. He's encouraging them, he's instructing them, he's challenging of him. And he says, this matter of prayer, this matter of prayer. Number one, here's my first thought. Number one, I want us to consider the priority of prayer in the Christian life. The priority of prayer in the Christian life. Notice again, if you would, verse number one. I exhort therefore that, what's the next three words? First of all. Everybody with me? I exhort therefore that first of all, now when somebody says to you, they come up and they say, all right, maybe you get a new job. You show up and say, All right, what do I do? Well they say, Well, first of all. How many people say you better pay attention to that First of all. That phrase first of all has two aspects to it. One is first in chronological order. Chronological order. What do we mean by that? First of all, chronologically, it means what? I do this before I do anything else Right? First of all, before you do anything else, chronologically, first of all, in fact, he puts that little first of all. In other words, before you do anything else. Before you do anything else, you need to do this. You need to do this. Now, it doesn't mean you don't do anything else, but it means before I do anything else. And uh we'll we'll we'll we'll try and apply that here in a bit. So one aspect of that phrase, first of all, means first in chronicle order. Or uh, all right, I got a situation, all right, what do I got to do first? Well, first of all I take care of this. But it has a second aspect to it, and it means it has this idea. First in rank or order. Uh uh, I'm sorry, first in rank or honor, or you could say this first in importance. First in importance. Um Usually the most important thing is addressed first, right? Chronologically. But not always Sometimes, is there anybody here, anybody here know what I mean by this? Sometimes we sacrifice the eternal on the altar of the immediate Follow what I'm saying? What I mean by that is sometimes we'll get caught up on something that isn't that important. It's just right now, oh I've got to do this right now, and we fail to see that which is really important. Anybody here ever worry about something that you find out was meaningless and something else was far more important than what that was Yeah. Uh do you ever get in an argument with somebody? I don't mean this morning, but you ever get in an argument with somebody and you're arguing with something and then when it's all said and done you say, that was the stupidest thing I've ever done. What a waste of time You know what I'm talking about? We get caught up on the immediate. We get caught up on what affects me right here and now. And I fail to see that which is really important. Really important. What he's saying to Timothy is this: first of all More important than anything else you're doing, more important than anything else you're getting involved in, is this issue right here. First, before you do anything else, and more important than anything else. How many people agree with me? Whatever he's about to talk about is pretty important. Needs to have my attention. These are top priority. The priority of prayer. First of all, I got studying my Bible a little bit and um How many people are glad when the preacher says he studied his Bible? Amen. That's a good thing. I got studying my Bible and I got curious. I thought, I wonder what all in the Bible does God tell us should be first? And I'm stuck primarily with the New Testament. And I found four things that we are told of the Lord that should be addressed and dealt with first. And uh I thought it was pretty interesting. And so uh I looked up uh first uh first this, first do this, first do this, first this four. The other before I Talk about them. The other thing I noticed before we look at it, I noticed that all of these were addressed to Christians. Every one of these was addressed to Christians. Uh what would be for a non-Christian, an unsaved person, a person that's never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior? Uh what would be the most important, the first thing that they ought to give attention to? Their soul salvation Their soul salvation. So there's several things the Lord addresses here we're going to look at in a moment that says need to be first, but every one of them he's talking to Christians, to believers about that, because For the unbeliever, you can do all of these things, but if you're not saved, it's not going to do you a bit of good. Follow what I'm saying? Uh I I believe I believe Christians ought to go to church. Amen? Amen. Christians ought to go to church. On Groundhog Day? Yeah. Even on Groundhog Day. Super Bowl Sunday, especially on Super Bowl Sunday. And so um that went over like a lead balloon, but um how many people think How many people think it's good for a Christian to go to church? That helps them. It's good, yeah. Anybody here ever uh anybody here ever go to church you really don't feel like you gotta uh I don't feel like And you and you decide to go anyway, and you go and when you left you say, Boy, I'm glad I went to church today. Anybody? Yeah, it's the way I feel right now. No. I I like it. Uh I'm trying to remember where I was going with that. But um uh uh I I believe I believe unsaved people ought to go to church I think well in fact we work very hard trying to get lost people to come into church. Uh now here's what I'm trying to uh I said when I come, I wish everybody in Garrett County would come to Mount Lake Inner I wish the whole place. I wish the county commissioners. I wish Mountain Lake Mayor. I wish uh I wish the guys right out of jail. Uh, because Tom's here, he can take care of them. And uh I wish everybody came to church. But here's my qu here's what I'm trying to get at. More important than an unsaved going to church is an unsaved person getting saved. They can go to church their whole life, die and go to hell. You can put money in the offering all you want. If you're not saved, die and go to hell. That would that's horrible And so the Lord says, first of all, and we find four things that he addresses to Christians should be first of all. He doesn't say any of that for the unbelievers. Why? Because the most important thing for an unbeliever is they trust Jesus Jesus Christ the Savior, get born again, get their sins forgiven. By chance somebody's here this morning, we're thrilled you're here. God bless you. But uh if you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, you've never been born again, ye must be born again, Jesus Said, you cannot enter the kingdom of God except the man be born again. And so being saved, being saved. Now, what are these four things that he tells the believers should be first of all? Let's look at them, and then we'll get back to uh what Paul is Turn with me in your Bibles if you would to Matthew chapter five. Another interesting observation was the first three that we look at are all in the Sermon on the Mount. Now if you look at the beginning of chapter 5, we won't take time, but you notice he's talking to disciples, his disciples. Those are saved people So the Sermon on the Mount is not an evangelistic sermon, it is a discipleship sermon for believers, folks that are trying to follow the Lord. In chapter 5 and verse 23 and verse 24, he says something that must be done. First of all, must be first. Matthew chapter 5. Look with me at verse 23. Therefore, if thou bring thy gift to the altar, And there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee. Alright? You and a brother, or you and another person are out of sorts Yeah, you had some sort of fuss. Uh a lady said to me years ago when not long after I got here, uh somebody's name came up. We're just afterward in conversation, somebody's name came up and she went like this. Well, we are not on speaking terms. What do you want me to say, you know? And uh so, well, God bless you, that's what altars are for, you know. And uh and so he says, if your brother yet you have a fault, you're not on speaking terms with somebody. All right, what does he say we should do? Therefore, if I bring thy gift to the altar, you go to church, you're going to put your tithe and faith promise in. You're going to teach a Sunday school class. Ooh. So-and-so and I are out of sorts. We're not on speaking terms. What should I do? Verse 24. Leave there thy gift before the altar. Go thy way. What's the next word? First be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer your gift. You know what you ought to do? You know what you ought to do before you go to church? You ought to get right with everybody you're not right with. So I'm not going to church because I'm not right with somebody. That's even worse Jesus is saying this, the priority, first of all, you've got to get right with whoever you're not right with. You say, well, what if they don't want to get right? Well, I need to do my part to be right with them. I need to do right by that. Uh people uh now I'm gonna get to Medlin here in a bit. People c drive people leave the house. Dad's, are you ready yet? Where are those kids? Ah quit snagging me, I'll be ready whatever. And uh and uh and they get in the car in the hallway, And they pull in the church parking lot and they open the door and the preacher's back there's door and they say, Oh, hi, preacher. Praise the Lord. God's so good and happy and come walking in Uh uh let me give you a little suggestion, what the Lord's saying there. Before you open the door, why don't you all just bow your heads and say, listen, I'm sorry, this wasn't right, and uh uh get things first, make things right with your brother. Am I making sense? And so the Lord puts high priority on making things right with others. making things. If uh can I say it this way? And this isn't my message, but but if I'm if we're not right with each other, I'm not right with God. That's what it boils down to. Read 1 John 1. If I'm not right with my brother, sister, my wife, my spouse, my kids, my parents, my brother, sister, if I'm not right with them. I'm not right with God. You can put all the money on the altar you want. I don't make that right. I'm not right with God. I'm not right with God. So first of all I put it this way. First of all, getting right with one another. I can do all the giving and praying and Christian service I want. If I'm not right with my brother, spouse, family, another church member, my neighbor Uh it is meaningless. Uh come over to chapter 6 and verse 33. Uh some of us are very familiar with this verse. I claimed this all through Bible college. I asked the Lord to help me with this verse Matthew 6. 33. This is a good one to underscore in your Bible. Matthew 6, 33. Same sermon as the previous one. But seek ye what? First, the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. I put it this way: God tells us as believers, we should pursue God's will for my life, first of all. First, the kingdom of God, God's will for my life and his kingdom. You know what success in the Christian life is? Success in the Christian life is finding the will of God and doing it That's what it boils down to. That's what it boils down to. Um I I I can do anything in the world, but if I'm not in the will of God, it's all to naught. uh I mention uh every now and then I'll reference a fella back when we were in Indiana. He came of a Sunday night, an older man. Um at the time he's probably older than what I am now, probably mid-late sixties. I believe he was a retired man, maybe s into his seventies Old man. And um, but uh he came to the altar and he's sobbing. I'm just a youth pastor. I went over and prayed with him, and he said, God called me. to the ministry when I was a teenager and I said no. And he went out and he was worked and he was very successful businessman But he's unhappy. And he says, all these years, all these years, I knew I was living out of the will of God. And he said this, I've wasted my life. waste in my life. Wealthy, nice home, car, very dignified man. But that was his words to me. You agree with me? Finding God's will for my life is very, very important. Lord says first, seek ye first. the kingdom of God. You say, is it God's will for everybody to be in the ministry? No. But I believe a person ought to be just as sure that what I'm doing is God's will as the preacher is sure that what he's doing is the will of God. God has a plan and purpose for anything. God, it's God's will that some mechanics working in a in a shop somewhere be a good, godly testimony, be a witness there to win those people, Lord, just as much his will as a guy stands behind a pulpit Or out in the truck or in an office or down in a coal mine or whatever. Seek first the will of God. Seek first the will of God. Number three, another one here in chapter seven. Come over there And verse number five, same sermon, he goes on, and uh he says there in verse five He says, let's back up. Let's go to verse number two. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged. What measure you meet, it shall be measured to you again. In other words, what standard you hold others to, that's what you're going to be held to. Why beholdest thou the moat that is in thy brother's eye? And considerest but consider not the beam that is in thine own eye. Alright, a moat is a big two by four. He's being facetious here a little bit. And uh he says, you see that big two by four stuck in your brother's eye. Uh Virginia, you got a two by four sticking out of your or no no, I'm sorry, I'm backwards here. Uh the moat is a little tiny splinter I got ahead of myself there a little bit. A moat is a little tiny splinter. And I'm looking at Virginia and I look down. Virginia, you've got a little splinter in your eye. Meanwhile, I've got a two by four in my eye And I'm looking at that. And I'm man alive. Now look what he says. Uh look what he says here. He says, Why beholdest thou the moat, the little splinter that's in her eye Uh uh in thy brother's eye, but consider it's not the beam, the big two by four, that's in thine own eye. How many people say that's ridiculous? Somebody do that, that would be ridiculous. Yeah, that's the point. Or how wilt thou say to that brother, let me pull the moat out of thine eye, and behold a beam is in thine own eye. Thou hypocrite, strong word. Strong word. Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye. Then thou shalt see clearly to cast the moat out of thy brother's eye. Do you catch that? Thou hypocrite first. First. What's he saying? I need to deal with my own sins before I worry about others. Amen or not? I need to worry about my own sins Before I worry about others. Um I was at the hospital on oh earlier in the week, dad was up there getting some tests. Uh may it might have been last week. week um last in the last week or so and we were sitting there he was in the back and I was sitting in the waiting area. There was a couple ladies there and um in the waiting area and I I was just sitting there playing a little game on my phone doing stuff. I mean uh studying on my phone. And uh I couldn't help but overhear them and I'm telling you, they were gossiping away. Oh, she said this! And they're just going on and on and on. And they didn't know anybody else heard them. I don't know who they were. It wasn't it wasn't any of our deacons' wives or anything, I know that. No, it was total strange. I have no idea who they were. But uh I mean they were just going on everything that somebody else said and did wrong, it was oh, they're just gone on and on. And uh at first I chuckled a little bit. And then I thought about it, I thought, that's really sad. That's really sad. They were so obsessed with somebody else's doing wrong, don't even realize what they were doing was sin. And that's what Jesus is saying. Listen, where you get all worked up about everybody else, we need to stop and look in our own eye. That's first, that's the beginning point. We need revival so bad. We need revival so bad in our churches, in our country And that's not going to begin until we start dealing with the beams in our own eyes. And start dealing with our own sins and acknowledging them and confessing and forsaking. We're not gonna we're not gonna help anybody. We're not gonna help anybody. I can make the biggest stink in the world about the little moat that's in someone else's eye, as long as I got a beam in mine I'm a hypocrite. Hypocrite. So that's high priority. Prayer, the will of God. Uh getting right with a brother or sister and someone else, getting the sin out of my own eye. And now we come back to our text. That all that to say this, we have the fourth thing that is a priority He says, I exhort therefore, 1 Timothy 2. 1, that first of all, first of all, first in chronology, and first in importance. Prayers. First of all, supplication, prayers, intercession, and giving of thanks. Prayer. Prayer is a high, high priority for Christians. James, in the book of James, he made this statement. He says, You have not because you ask not You know why we're lacking some areas in our life? Why we're coming up deficient in our Christian life and we're no my spiritual life isn't what I know it's not what it ought to be. You know what a a factor in that might be Lack of prayer. Lack of prayer. Let me ask you a question. Don't answer out loud. Just between you and the Lord. And I asked myself the same thing What role does prayer have in your Christian life? What role? Let me ask you this. Now again, this is, I'm asking all of us, myself. Have any of have you s have you spent have you spent an hour in prayer for needs any day this week? Have you spent one hour a day in prayer? Say, well, preacher, man, an hour in prayer. Well, what about a half hour? What about 15 minutes? What about five minutes in prayer? Oh Lord, thank you for the food. Bless it. Bless the missionaries. Amen. And I hate to say this. But for your average Christian, that's probably the extent of most prayer lives for average Christians. And we wonder We wonder why our nation, our homes, and our churches are in the state they're in, when prayer is such a low priority In our lives. Oh, when something goes wrong, emergency for him. Oh, we got to pray. Yes, amen. Amen. But if we're just waiting till then, that's not first of all. That's reactionary prayer. We need consistent priority prayer, not reactionary prayer. And Paul writes to Timothy, he says, You've got a tremendous responsibility. You're a man of God. Souls are at stake, and the glory of God and the kingdom of God is at stake. First of all, before anything else, more important than anything else. It's this matter of prayer. This matter of prayer. We have problems. We do. It's part of life. I've got my problems. I've got issues. Situations. Deal with. You've got yours. And we have a phenomenal resource to help us with that. It's called prayer. Prayer And so often that takes a back seat. We'll do everything else in the world. Not first of all, not most important, but we'll kind of tack it on and react with prayer. Paul says, first of all, priority. I put this down. I put down a prayerless Christian life is a powerless Christian life. A prayerful Christian life is a powerful Christian life We need the power of God. If you agree with me, our society is in desperate need of God. And my wife was, she was at the hospital, uh my dad's in the hospital, we'll mention it here in a bit, and she was setting with them yesterday or Friday, she was up there with them And they had the TV on they were watching Game Show, uh Jeopardy and all these silly games, and they were kind of watching them and a commercial came on and she said, I absolutely could not believe How perverse that commercial was. Blantant perversion. Advertising some pill And she says, I hung my head in shame that I'm in a country that that would be on public airways. Something like that. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, our community, our nation desperately needs the moving of the Spirit of God. Something's got to turn. Something has to happen. And the answer, you know what the priority response to that is? The prior factor is prayer. Prayer. Now listen, I know people were I know different things, so don't don't walk out on me here. But it's interesting that the prayer meeting is usually the least attended service. service of a church. Usually people don't clamor. You don't say, yeah, it's gonna be great. Nobody does that. I'm grateful. I think we got a good church. I think we got a good praying church. I thank God for folks that pray and best. But I'm saying this, it has to be a priority. It has to be a priority. He goes down, we don't have time, I wish we did, but he gives the particulars of prayer. He says, supplication, prayer, and uh what else intercessions. And giving of thanks. All of these are aspects of our prayer. Supplication means a desperation, a need. Lord, we need this. We need this supplication. Prayer is making requests. God, this is what I'm asking from you. Intercession means I'm standing before God on behalf of someone else. Lord, I'm pleading for them. I'm praying they need this, and God help them with this, and praying for them. I thought, I just thought of this, those dear ladies at the hospital that were gossiping, how much better that would have been if they'd have slipped aside in the little chapel and gotten their knees and prayed for that person. Intercede on their behalf. Lord help them. God bless them. You know, that's what Jesus is doing. When we pray for others, we're doing exactly what Jesus is doing for us right now. He's interceding for us at the right hand of God. When I pray for others, I'm doing Christ-like. I'm doing what Jesus And then giving up thanks. All our prayers, all our prayers ought to be motivated and rooted in our gratitude for all that God has done for us. How many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. How many people are grateful that God saved you from sin in hell? Man, what a wonderful thing. My dad, we were talking this a week ago, so, and he said this. He says, you know, it's nice to lay down at night. And to know that if your last breath was taken in your sleep, the next breath would be the air of heaven. Nice to know that, have that assurance. Oh, we ought to thank God. We ought to be grateful. We ought to be grateful that God in his mercy suffered hell for us and forgave us. We're accepted by God. Even as sinners, he accepted us. And that should be the basis, the root of our prayers. God, you've been so good to me. You've done so much. Oh Lord, have mercy. Oh God, send revival. Oh God, please meet this need. I found that I tend more to give to somebody who's grateful for what I give to them. You know what I'm talking about? You help somebody out and oh thank you and they try and they're very very grateful. They have another need, sure I'd be glad. You help somebody, you give something or s help somebody out and they've they're entitled to it and they just strut off and They don't they're not grateful at all. Next time they come around it's like, uh, I don't know. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I wonder if God isn't that way a little bit. I wonder if sometimes God gives and gives and gives and gives to us. We never stop to be thank him. We know we're we we're ungrateful for all he's done for us. I wonder if sometimes God isn't, and I don't mean to bring God down, but just in my mind I wonder if it isn't You know, I wish you're a little more grateful for what I'm doing. I might pay more attention. I might answer your prayers a little more uh uh uh little a little more eagerly, you're grateful for what I do. And so he says, supplication and prayers and intercessions and uh thanks, uh giving of thanks be made for all men. We're to pray for everybody. We're to pray for everybody. All men. Prayer affects all the human race. All the human race. A praying Christian is a friend. Is a friend of all men. A praying Christian benefits all of men. I believe our homes are better homes when we pray I believe our communities are better communities when the Christians in that community pray for the people in that community. I believe that. There's communities I thought about when I was studying this, I got thinking about, and these are the ones that come to mind, but there's thousands, tens of thousands around the world, our country. But I thought about cities like Chicago where the murder rate is just through the roof. And Baltimore, so dangerous I was preaching um Thursday night up in Cleveland for a fella and a guy and I gave my testimony a guy came up afterward and he says um he goes I know a fella that down in South Philly I say, good night. South Philly's rough down there. Man alive. And um uh I wondered about these cities I wonder if the Christians there, we wouldn't pray like we should. Maybe those cities would be a little different. He says, pray for all men. Pray for all men that we can live peaceable, quiet lives. We see so much turmoil. We see so much unrest. And uh everything but peace and quiet. I wonder if that's because we're not praying like we should. A home's a lot more peaceful, a lot more quiet. Folks in that home pray like they should You know what's good for a home? A praying daddy's good for a home. You know what hurts a home? Daddy doesn't pray. I don't believe there's one child in the world ought to grow up that doesn't have a parent prays for them earnestly and regularly. Praise for them. I'm so grateful for my dad's prayers. So grateful. Pray for all men. Pray for your husband, wife, kids, church, uh, preachers, Sunday school teachers bus workers pray for their neighbors the the cu the community and then he says those in authority that's talking about that tells me prayer changes nations We're to pray for the kings and those in authority, that means that has an effect. God expects that to affect them And prayer affects me. You say my little prayer would affect our nation? Yeah. Well, actually, it's not your little prayer. It's your big God. Nations are a drop in a bucket to God. Good night. He can turn a nation like that. That's not a problem. We just got to get a hold of him. You just got to get a hold of them. Right, right. William Tyndale. Anybody recognize that name? He was an early translator of the Bible. Tyndale got saved. I think he came out of the Catholic Church. He got saved, and he And there was, now you need to understand, at that point, this was 1500s, 1400 1500s, there was no Bible in the language of the people. Nobody had a Bible they could understand. The Catholic Church dominated. They felt it was a threat for the people to have a Bible in their language. And Tyndale started out and said, We're going to get a translation of the Word of God into the English language, and this was his statement, so the poor plowboy out in the field can read the Word of God for himself. And he worked towards that. And he prayed and he prayed. And um he translated some of the Bible over into English. I think part of the new part the New Testament, part of the Old Testament, I believe. The Catholic Church got mad and they got them. They executed them for putting the Bible into the people's language. While they, just before they execute him, he cried out this prayer, Oh God, open the king's eyes! That the people can have the word of God! That was his prayer. It killed him. You know what happened? God stirred the king. Not long after that, made a decree that they get, I believe, 54 men together and translate the Bible into the language of the people Today, you and I hold the King James Bible in our hands. I believe as a result of William Tyndale's prayer God stir the king, stir the king, and make this legal, make this happen. And his little his little translation was actually is a big part of the King James. God used that to bring that thing up together. Prayer. Prayer. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I ask, dear Lord, you'd send a revival of prayer to my life. To our church. God, whether anybody else ever gets a hold of this, we need your Holy Spirit. We need your Holy Spirit to speak Stir prayer. And these young people, our teenagers, our children, senior citizens, all points in between. God, stir us to pray. And not just in spurts and spasms, but God's consistent, earnest priority of prayer in our homes, in our church, throughout our community. Wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need revival of prayer in my life. I need this to become a priority. Any like that uplifted hand with me. Preacher, I need that. Pray with me. This prayer become a priority in my home, my life. God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe an old-fashioned altar is a place where that fire begins. Maybe an old-fashioned altar is a place where those prayers take life, consume us, become such a priority in time and importance, and we see God begin to do so. Nowhere else in our own heart and home and church, community. Let's pray. Let's pray. Is there some here this morning to say, preacher, I'm not saved? I don't know for sure my sins are going to go to heaven. Listen, you don't want to go to hell. You don't want to die in your sins. We can show you how to be saved. Is there any like that, preacher? Pray for me. I need to be saved. I need Christ in my life. Any at all? Now, Father, bless your invitation, I ask. Stir us and help us. In Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James playing the invitation hymn. How about it? We raised our hands