Says, let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him. Now look at this. For the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife Hath made herself ready, the marriage of the Lamb. Now, just to jump ahead a little bit, who is the Lamb That's the Lord Jesus Christ. It's very, very obvious reading through particularly Revelation. So he's the Lamb. Who would be the Lamb's wife? The church, believers, the New Testament church. And so we have the Lamb, there's a marriage of the Lord Jesus Christ and the church. Now come down if you would. Verse eight talks about the church and how she's arrayed, the bride, and then verse nine And he saith unto me, right, blessed are they which are called unto the, look at this, the married supper of the Lamb. So I believe we have one event here that two phases of one event. You have the marriage of the lamb and the bride. And then you have the marriage supper of the lamb. That marriage of the lamb and the bride, you have the supper. And so I want to speak this morning, Lord helping me. On the Married Supper of the Lamb, this unique event that takes place. So let's pray. Let's ask the Lord to help us and the Lord to apply what's given to our lives that we would grow in our faith. Father We come to you this morning with our open Bibles and we read this passage of a very unique event that you've told us is to take place. And so I ask that you would help me to preach on this, help me to be faithful to your word, and I pray that your Holy Spirit would take the truths that are presented, maybe some of these passages that we reference. And Lord, that your Holy Spirit would apply to our hearts and lives. We're all in different stages of our spiritual growth. We find ourselves in various situations. And Lord, I know that you are sovereign. And it's not by chance that we're preaching on this and that those of us that are here are here to hear this. So please bring this all together that our faith in you would grow, that our service to you would be more effective, our devotion to you would be more thorough. And that you would be pleased with us. I yield my body to you. I present my body. I yield my will. And I ask that you would fill me once again, as always, I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit And that you speak through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We've been for the last month or so on Sunday mornings bringing messages about the second coming of Jesus Christ and prophetic events. Events that the Bible says are going to take place in the future. Now I know for many of us here this morning, you have seen this what I'm going to do next. You've heard it and you've seen it illustrated many, many times. Some were getting a grasp of it, but I want to re And I believe this ought to be very, very fresh on our minds at all times. I just want to kind of go over once again the prophetic timeline that the Bible gives to us. As we've been emphasizing and repeating this week after week. Of course we know in the past the Lord Jesus Christ came. He was born of a virgin It's called the incarnation of Christ. He took on flesh. The Son of God became man. Uh he's born of Mary, of a virgin He lived for about thirty-three and a half years, best we can tell. That's about the time that he lived, walked here on earth, sinlessly, perfect, without without any sin, uh perfectly holy Then he willingly gave himself to die on the cross for your sins and my sins. How many people say, preacher, I'm very familiar with that? How many folks would say that? Sure, we all are. That Jesus Christ died for our sins on the cross, was buried, and rose again. From shortly after that, he ascended to heaven. From that point on till the present, we have been living in uh in what I refer to as the church age or the dispensation of the church. And um and uh that's a fascinating study. But that's where we're living at now. The next event on God's prophetic timeline. Now, all this that took place, his birth, his crucifixion, burial, resurrection, all that was prophesied many, many hundreds of years earlier, in some cases thousands of years earlier. It's all prophetic, all fulfilled, beautifully, perfectly in detail. Now there is a whole um heap of prophecies Concerning the Lord Jesus Christ, that are yet future, that are yet to take place, that are yet to be fulfilled. The next one on God's timeline. The next event that God has prophesied to take place is the rapture of the church. And we preached on that a few weeks ago when, in a moment, Dr. Williams one night referenced it, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye The dead in Christ are going to rise, then those of us that are saved, we're going to be caught up off the earth, raptured off the earth. It's going to happen so quickly, we can't even comprehend it. The rapture takes place. The church, all saved, are caught up off the earth. The Holy Spirit is removed in his present form off the earth. And then the earth goes into what we refer to as the Great Tribulation, the seven year period of God's wrath poured out on this planet. God dealing primarily with Israel, but the whole whole whole of humanity experiencing God's judgment on this earth Sometimes referred to as Jacob's trouble. It's a seven-year period of time. Daniel refers it to the 70th week of Daniel, we refer to it. We noted that at the end of that seven-year period, there is the Battle of Armageddon that takes place. Christ returns physically to earth, visibly to earth. He squelches the armies of the world, the nations of the world. You have the judgment of the nations, and you have the establishment of the millennial reign of Christ. And that is 1,000-year reign, where Jesus Christ literally physically reigns from Jerusalem over the world, over the nations of the world. It's a time of incredible peace, a time when much of the curse on the earth is is uh withdrawn and it's it's going to be an amazing period of time. At the end of that there's a brief insurrection that Satan rises up from those who are born physically during that time that are unsaved. They turn on Christ. He squelches that rebellion once and for all. And uh Satan and death and hell are cast in the lake of fire. The great white throne j judgment takes place, and there the sentence is carried out for all the unsaved who die in their sins. They're cast in the lake of fire where they be for all eternity. This heaven and earth are melted, and there's a new heaven, new earth established, and we go out into eternity. So that is a brief overview of what the Bible says the future holds for mankind. Are you listening, girls? And so it's very, very important that we understand that Now, there are a couple events that take place during the tribulation period that God's people are a part of. We're raptured off the earth, and we meet the Lord in the air, and after the rapture, at some point, either immediately or shortly after there, I believe, we have what is called the judgment seat of Christ. We preached on that a week or so ago. And that is where, as Christians, as a saved person, I stand before the Lord Jesus Christ, and it is a judgment of rewards, really, is what it is Now, following that judgment seat of Christ, there is an event that is referred to in our text today And it is the marriage supper of the Lamb. I was reading a sermon this week by Hugh Pyle. How many people recognize that name, Hugh Pyle? He preached my very first anniversary as pastor here back in nineteen ninety-four. He's with the Lord many years now. He read several books and became a tremendous friend of ours And um uh and was used of God greatly, pastored down in Florida many years, a big church, and uh I I loved Hugh Pyle, very practical man I was reading one of his sermons this week on the second coming, and he was talking about in the sermon, he referenced the rapture, and he made a few statements. He called the rapture his trip to outer space. In fact, that was the sermon, My Trip to Outer Space, anticipating the Rapture. And he made a few statements about the Rapture that I thought uh were pretty creative and I wanted to share them very very quickly with you. He says, our trip to outer space will be number one thrilling. It's going to be an amazing thing. There will be no airplane or no spaceship, yet we're going to go flying through outer space. How many of you agree with me? That would be a little thrilling, something like that. I see people jumping out of airplanes, falling down to the earth. I have no interest in doing that whatsoever at all. Now my mother says she was like would like to do that All due respect, I think she's nuts. But um But the rapture, we are not how many people agree falling out of an airplane would be thrilling, whether you did it on purpose or not? What a thrill, huh? Can you imagine the opposite direction going up and then through space? So he said my trip to outer space is going to be thrilling. Then he said this: the trip to outer space is going to be transforming And he says we're going to be changed in a moment, in a twinkling of an eye, and we're going to be transformed like Christ. And we're going to literally have bodies like unto Christ's body, resurrected body. He said the trip to outer space is going to be speedy in the twinkling of an eye, an immeasurable amount of time. Twinkling of an eye, we are going to be transported from here into the presence of Christ and to be with him I had a lady, I think I mentioned this earlier, but I had a lady one time say to me, boy, I'm scared about traveling through space like that. I said, sister, it's going to be so fast you won't even know it So he said it's going to be speedy. He said it's going to be very safe. I'd be leery to go in a spaceship up and orbit the Earth. Up there on that um uh they're up there now. Um The International Space Station up there. How many people be a little nervous flying up there to that thing? How many people get nervous flying to Atlanta? Yeah Uh but uh it's going to be completely safe. We're gonna be fine. You know those those astronauts go up, you know, there's a lot of several of them being killed. doing that. But I'm telling you, every saved person, when the rapture takes place, we are going to arrive safely at our destination to be with Christ. Isn't that a great thought He says it's going to be thrilling, it's going to be transforming, speedy, it'll be safe, it's going to be happy and joyous to get to our see our Savior. And then he said our trip to outer space will be rewarding. And of course he's referencing the judgment seat of Christ. But after the rapture, after the judgment seat of Christ, we have this event that is referred to in our text as the marriage of the Lamb. And then he references the marriage supper of the Lamb. Now my Limited knowledge and I come to the conclusion that this is two phases of one event It is a marriage ceremony that the marriage itself and then the supper of that marriage is what the Bible is referencing. Now, generally, marriage is a highly anticipated event, right? A lot of young people grow up, boy, someday I'm going to get married and and uh you know they anticipate getting married and boy they're excited about it. I don't know if people still do this. When I was young, the girls particularly would have what they called a hope chest. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Am I referencing that correctly? And they were anticipating getting married, and they would put stuff into that hope chest that they would anticipate using in their marriage. Am I correct? And so generally for a young person, a single person, marriage is highly anticipated, something they look forward to, something that they are hoping for and longing for and anticipating. Again, marriage generally is the highlight of a life. Now, that ought to be all the time, but it isn't always. But a lot of times you will hear people say the greatest event in my life was when I married my wife, when I married my husband And uh generally speaking, that is a highlight of life. A highlight of life. Um marriage is the most intimate form of union between a male and a female, between a man and a woman. It's the most intimate form of union to be married to someone. This is my spouse. And I want to suggest to you that marriage is more than just a emotional, physical, mental union of a man and a woman. But I want to suggest to you marriage is a spiritual union between a man and a woman, husband and wife. It is far more, listen Marriage, as designed by God, is far more than simply two people moving in together and being intimate with each other. That is a very shallow, that is a materialistic, that is the physical aspect of marriage. But there is an aspect of marriage As far as God has designed it, where there is also a fusion spiritually of husband and wife. How many people say, I understand what you're saying, preacher, I understand what you're talking about. A fusion spiritually. And that is why so often, and I'm you know we we're we live in a world that we live in, a fallen world, but so often when a marriage is broken When a marriage is severed, often there is such deep, deep hurt Like nothing else. A person, you can lose a spouse in death, and many times that will not hurt as deeply as losing a spouse in fidelity. You know what I'm talking about? And that fusion of hearts, that fusion of the soul, where the two become one. God designed marriage. This is God's idea. This is God's design. And you and I have no more right to come and try and alter or redefine what marriage is. We have absolutely no right to do that. It is God's design. It is God's plan. Now if you would, turn with me back to Genesis chapter two, and I uh mention about finding that there for you And I know for many of us this is not new. We're very familiar with this, but I think it's important, particularly in our day and age. That we revisit this and we keep this fresh in our minds. Genesis chapter 2 and verse number 21. And here we have God's introduction and God's institution uh instituting marriage. Verse 21 of Genesis chapter 2, going from the last book of the Bible to the first book of the Bible. And the Lord, God caused, verse 21, a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept. And he took one of his ribs. And closed up the flesh instead thereof. Now I want to reference that in just a moment. And the rib which the Lord had taken from man made he a woman, and brought her unto the man. And Adam said, and I always view this as Adam's wedding vows. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. And she shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. And they were both naked and man and his wife and were not ashamed. So God is the one. Marriage is God's plan, is God's institution. Almost immediately after he created man, he instituted marriage. What is the purpose of marriage? I have several suggestions. And I'm leading up to something with this marriage Sep of the Lamb, so bear with me. Marriage is, I believe, initially, and the immediate context was for the good and pleasure of mankind A few verses before that, he made the statement: it is not good for man to be alone. And so God designed man, get this. God designed man to need a woman. To need a wife. This was before the fall. God made man, designed man, initially created him with a need. And then he met that need in creating the woman. And so man uh marriage was designed for the good of mankind and for their pleasure of mankind, the enjoyment of having a spouse and being one with another. Uh marriage was designed by God, I think, for another second purpose was obviously for the propagation of mankind. He said, be fruitful and multiply. Several times early on in the history of man, he says, be fruitful and multiply. Be fruitful and multiply. Brother Ken Lake has taken that very literally. If you know Brother Ken Lake, they got kids everywhere. And so Second purpose of or another purpose of marriage is so that mankind can reproduce and propagate and fill the earth But there's a third purpose for marriage, I believe. And if you would, turn with me to Ephesians chapter 5, and this is going to begin to bring us to our subject of the marriage supper of the Lamb. Ephesians chapter five, and at the end of that chapter He makes an interesting statement about marriage. Earlier in the chapter he's talking about the wives, verse number 22, one of my favorite verses in the Bible, wives, submit yourselves unto your husband. I love that verse. I've memorized that. Uh many, many times. Uh wives, submit yourselves under your husband. Then come down to verse twenty-five. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church. My wife loves that verse uh so much. And um and he goes down, he talks about the roles of the husband and wives. And then you get to verse number thirty one. And he makes this statement. He reiterates what Adam said back in Genesis. He says, For this cause, shall a man leave his father and mother, shall be joined to his wife, and they too shall be one flesh. So God's plan for marriage has not changed. He reiterates, he restates what Adam said right back to the beginning. But then he makes this statement. Look at verse 2032. 32. This is a great what? Mystery. The word mystery, as it's used there, means something that is unrevealed, something that is hidden. He said, this is something that hasn't been seen. Previously they haven't been aware of this. It's been hidden. But now it's being revealed to us. This is a great mystery. Now he's talking about marriage. The husband and wife, leaving father, mother, being joined together, one flesh. But I speak concerning what? Christ and the Church, the Lamb and the Bride Nevertheless, let every one of you in particular so love his wife, even as himself, and the wife see that she reverence her husband. Verse 32 implies to me. That there is a purpose for marriage beyond simply companionship and the well-being and the union of a husband and a wife There's a purpose for marriage simply beyond that of propagating the human species, so to speak. But marriage is designed by God to be what I understand an object lesson. To the world of Jesus Christ and his love for the church and his marriage to the church. I believe the Bible teaches, and this implies here, that all through history, the marriage institution has been pointing to that great day. When God's son, Jesus Christ, is married to his bride, the church And your marriage and my marriage and marriage all through history has been an object lesson of that, an object lesson of that. So that when people see a husband loving his wife as God intended for a husband to love his wife, they see an object lesson of Jesus Christ's love for his church. And when this world sees a wife lovingly submitting to her husband as the church is to submit to Christ, and they see that as God designed it. That role, they see an object lesson of the bride of Christ and her faith and trust and love and submission to the Lamb, uh, the Lord Jesus Christ. You follow what I'm trying to say? If what I'm saying is true, if I am correct In my understanding of what we read in Ephesians, and that marriage is more than just the union of husband and wife. It's more than just a way to propagate the species, so to speak. I hate to use that word, but uh to propagate mankind. If it is more than that, and it is actually a picture, a type or an object lesson of Christ in the church, that makes marriage very sacred Would you agree with me? If I'm right, if I'm correct, that would make marriage very, very sacred. And I obviously believe I'm correct, or I wouldn't be saying this And so marriage, marriage, let's come back and think about Adam for a moment, with all this in mind, what I'm trying to suggest to you. I want to suggest to you, in fact I'm not suggesting you, the Bible clearly teaches that Adam is a type of Christ. He is a picture of Christ. Romans tells us that. He was a form of Christ. So Adam, and then I want to suggest to you that When God put Adam to sleep, all through the Bible, sleep is referred to many times as what? Death. Now, I'm not suggesting Adam died. I don't believe he did. I believe God put him to sleep in a very deep supernatural sleep. But Adam, as a form of Christ, a picture of Christ, a type of Christ Being put to sleep by God at God's instruction, God's plan, is a picture of Christ dying on the cross. That was God's idea, that was God's plan. And then when God took the rib from Adam, did you catch that in Genesis? He said after he took the rib, he closed up the flesh thereof. Now why would he put that in there? Well, it would be obvious that that would take place. Why would he take the time and effort to explain, I closed the flesh thereof? I don't know. I can't say for certain, but I kind of got an idea here to make it clear to us that there was uh some bloodshed I've never seen anybody open up the flesh and not at least some blood be shed. And then to take a rib out. And I'm speculation here a bit. The Bible doesn't say expressly that this happened, but in my mind, I see that as blood being shed for God to take that rib out. Jesus Christ. The Bible says that Jesus Christ bought the church with his blood. Acts 20, 28. With his blood. With his blood. And then God woke Adam up from his sleep. That would be a picture in my mind of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And when he woke up, there was his bride. There was Eve, the bride of Adam. And I see in that just a beautiful picture, an illustration, an object lesson, whatever term you want to use, a type, of Jesus Christ giving his life, dying, shedding his blood, being buried, rising again So that the church, his bride, could exist. So, marriage, all through history, I believe, has been a picture Much more than just companionship, much more than just reproduction, but a type, a very sacred picture type, object lesson of Jesus Christ and his relationship to the church and the marriage of the Lamb. I think that explains. I think that what I'm saying, I think explains why we have Satan's all-out assault on marriage. I think it's more than him just trying to stop man from reproducing. And by the way, some of the definitions of marriage today, it is impossible to reproduce that way. That's ridiculous. Ah man's assault uh Satan's assault on marriage is more than him just trying to stop man from reproducing. I think it's more than him just trying to stop man from finding contentment and having his needs met. It's far more than that. He is trying to distort, stain, and pervert a tremendous picture. Of Jesus Christ's love for and relationship with his bride, the church of Jesus Christ. You mark it down, Satan hates Jesus Christ. And you mark it down, Satan hates the church. And so we that to me explains why we have so much adultery saturating our marriages and our homes, Satan pushing that and and enticing man and woman to commit adultery. I think that explains why you have early on in the history of man, you have polygamy introduced into marriage. Early on Satan trying to twist and alter and pervert this beautiful picture of Jesus Christ and the church. I think that explains why you now have sodomy and sodomite quote unquote marriage. All trying to distort and cloud and pervert this beautiful picture that God instituted right from the start of his son's love and relationship and marriage to this bride, the Church of Jesus Christ. So that brings us to the marriage supper of the Lamb, referenced here in Revelation. It's only mentioned a few times these passages here. I think it's uh it's only uh directly mentioned a few times, I think it's referenced perhaps, alluded to several times in uh in other portions of Scripture. But the Marriage Supper of the Lamb, the marriage of the Lamb, the Marriage Supper of the Lamb, I believe it will perhaps be the greatest experience in our existence. How many folks are saved and you know it? Say amen. If that's true, if that's actually true, you and I are going to be a part of that marriage. You and I make up the bride. And I was as I was studying this and I was trying to anticipate, and we we know so little about what this is going to be, so to try and picture what's how it's going to play out and what's all it's going to be like is almost impossible But I'm telling you this, I believe it could very well be the greatest experience of our eternal history. To be a bride of Christ. And then what that introduces then for all eternity as the bride of Christ. The bride of Christ. What an amazing event And then that marriage supper of the Lamb. I tell you, my favorite part of going to marriages is the meal afterward. That's what I like. Brother, I I I'll go through all that formal stuff, get to that cake, you know, usually a pretty good meal. And so uh that marriage supper of the lamb, what's it gonna be? I've had people ask me questions and I to be honest with them, I think we know very little about it. They say, What are we gonna eat? I'm pretty certain there's going to be watermelon there. And um I like watermelon a lot. And uh so um let's let's let's in the little bit of time I've left let's let me give you a few things that I notice and I find about this marriage and the marriage supper of the Lamb. Number one, the place that this marriage happens. Where is the place of this marriage? Now, as I study this and I went to men that are greater Bible scholars than I am, and I tried to glean where's this going to happen I found that much of our understanding of the marriage of the Lamb and the marriage supper of the Lamb is taken from early Jewish customs, early Jewish marriage customs. Back particularly in a time when this was being given to us through the inspiration of Scripture. And I find we go back there and we see A lot of amazing things from those ancient Jewish marriage ceremonies that perhaps explain to us a little bit about uh this marriage of the lamb. Where is it going to take place? Well first we have to understand that these Jewish Marriages in the time of Jesus Christ, they always followed a time of a betrothal. Betrothal. You notice that with Mary and Joseph when she was conceived with child. They were betrothed one to another. Now, a betrothal, you would say, well, that's like getting engaged today. Yes and no. The Jewish betrothal was an agreement between the wife, the bride to be and the groom. It was an agreement between the two that we are going to get married. Under the Jewish custom, the parent had a huge role in that, played a lot of authority in that. A lot of times they would be what we would call arranged marriages. But the agreement was made Husband and wife were going to get married. It was a decision. At some point, the wife would say, Yes, I will take you to be my groom. It was a conscious decision made to agree to this marriage covenant to take place I see in that a beautiful picture of an individual sinner agreeing to accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior So the betrothal is initiated, is put in place. We are going to be married. Now the several sources I looked at, they suggested generally it was about a year out. Would be this betrothal time. They're agreed to marry. It's more than it's simply an engagement. It was actually a legal binding agreement. Legally binding. In fact, to break that betrothal, there was certain things that had to be done and take place. And so it wasn't just, well, you marry me, sure, okay. Next week, I changed my mind. Okay I was in a little Bible college in Philly, but right after I got saved, I went down there for a little one year. And um They had a they had a policy there that uh uh a boyfriend could not kiss his girlfriend unless they were engaged. So they go out and get engaged Saturday, then Monday they break up, and everything is fine. How many of you agree with me? That's dumb. So the betrothal, what I'm trying to say is this, the betrothal was much more binding than that. There was actually a legal element to it. We are legally betrothed. So that would take place about a year before the marriage. The bride would accept the groom's proposal. And then marriage, here's what I'm getting at: marriage in the Jewish custom did not take place ever. At the bride's house. It always took place at the groom's parents' house where the groom lived. In fact, in that ancient culture, when um uh when uh the boys would get married, they would bring the wives Back home, and they all lived together, kind of almost under one roof. They would bring them to their home. You see that in Abraham when he sent the servant to go get the wife for Isaac. And uh and uh he went out and they brought her back to, did I get the names right? Uh to uh to um uh Isaac's, uh Abraham's, Isaac's house. Thank you. Lisa prepared this for me, so I gotta check with her now. And so the marriages would never, ever, ever take place where the bride was, where the bride lived. He would always a year later he would go many times unexpectantly he would show up at the bride's house and say All right, everything's ready, everything's prepared. We have the place where we're going to live back home. We have that all arranged, all been built, everything's in place. Now it's time to come. And you see that reference throughout some of the parables that the Lord gave in the Gospels. They would always take the bride, many times unexpectedly, take the bride, he'd show up, and he'd take the bride. To his home, where the marriage would take place, and the marriage supper took place. The bridegroom fetches the bride, brings her to his house, the place he had been preparing. For the bride. Many times unexpectedly. Now, if you would, with that in mind, turn with me to John chapter 14. How many people are hanging in here with me? You're hanging in here with me. I hope so. So the question is, where does this marriage supper of the lamb? Well, if the ancient Jewish ceremonies are any indication, we know it is not where the bride lives, not where the bride dwells. But rather it will be where the Father is and the Son. Now look at John chapter 14 And I wouldn't begin reading. Verse 1, he's referencing back to Peter in chapter 13. He says, let not your heart be troubled. Believe in God, believe also me. But now look at verse 2. And with this understanding, with the marriage of the Lamb and the marriage supper of the Lamb and the Jewish ceremonies of taking the bride from where she lived back to his house for the marriage, I kind of look at this in a little different light. Look at verse 2. In my father's house, Jesus speaking, are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. Look at this. I go to prepare a place for you. How many people agree with me? That sounds a little bit like that Jewish ceremony of the groom, betrothed groom, preparing a place for the bride. I go to prepare, and whereat in my father's house are many mansions. If I go and prepare a place for you, look at this, I will come again, look at this, and what? Receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also You know what that sounds like to me? That sounds like to me a groom to be coming, finding his betrothed wife. And saying, you come over to my father's house, I prepared a place, and I am going to receive you unto myself. We're going to be married, so that where I am, there ye may be also. We will be together for the rest of eternity. So where does the marriage supper take place? It does not take place down here on earth That, I believe, is why you have two stages of the Lord's return. The first stage, he comes in the air to greet us. He's coming to the door, so to speak. He's calling us out to him. And he takes us to the Father's house, where he's prepared these mansions, where he will receive us. And the marriage takes place. So the marriage takes place in our father's house. This marriage of the church and Jesus Christ is not on earth. It's in heaven. It's in heaven Jesus does not return to earth in the first phase of his second coming. He does not join his bride on earth. He takes his bride to his father's house. And that to me gives a whole different new insight and perspective on what the rapture is all about. God calling us out here for our new home, we're going to be with Christ. Where he's prepared a place for us. So the place of this marriage is in heaven, in our father's house. Number two, the price of this marriage Acts chapter 20, verse 28, I mentioned this a moment ago, but the church was purchased. Jesus purchased the church with his own blood. He shed his blood for us. There is no greater love that can be expressed for a bride than the love that Jesus Christ displayed for you and I when he died for us on that cross. How many people have ever gotten this frame of mind? And maybe there's some folks here in it now, and I've been in this frame of mind. Nobody loves me, everybody hates me. I'm gonna go eat worms. Anybody ever get that frame of mind? You ever get that there ain't nobody in the world loves me. I tell you, I'm I'm making light of it, but I tell you that's a horrible feeling. That's a very, very dark place to be. When I get where I don't think anybody loves me. Tell you, we live in a world sometimes where the homes There's so little love in our homes where smaller and smaller children are coming to the conclusion, nobody in this world loves me. Not a tragic thing. We see teenagers have come to the conclusion, nobody, nobody loves me. I've seen adults, senior citizens visiting in nursing homes, and they come to the conclusion, everybody has forgotten me. Nobody loves me. And I'm telling you, that conclusion is absolutely wrong. Jesus Christ loves us so much. That he willingly, willingly died, shed his blood, suffered the eternal wrath of God, separation from God, the eternal hell he suffered So that you and I can be with him, can be one with him and be in his presence for all eternity. One of the greatest evidences of being loved by someone is that person wanting you to be with them. Right? I want to share things with you. I want to share our lives. And we want to be together. That's what Jesus Christ says about you and I. The price he paid so that we can be with him is unimaginable. That he gave his blood and suffered the judgment of hell. I tell you, that's how much Christ loves the church. And I'll tell you what grieves me, not just because I'm a pastor of a church, which I consider a tremendous honor, but it grieves me when I hear people be critical of the church. And I hear people talk bad about the church and neglect the church. Wait a minute. My Bible tells me the church is the body of Christ. That he loves dearly, and that he paid a horrific price so that the church could be with him and be married for all eternity I tell you, the church is a valuable thing in God's eyes. The church is a precious thing in the eyes of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the church is not to be slandered. The church is not to be criticized or neglected It is very, very precious in the eyes of the Lord. And I want to end with this. Number three, what's the point of attention in this marriage? The place is our Father's house in heaven. He receives us up here. We go to be with the Lord. The price that was paid for us, and often the Jews would have a dowry, they would pay uh uh something to the Father for raising her, and maybe the loss of of uh income or whatever taking her from the home would be And uh there was a price paid. Jesus Christ paid a tremendous price for us. He loves us that much. But what is the point of attention in this marriage? In our marriages, when you're going to have a wedding And everybody's in, and generally they go something like this. The groomsmen come out and stand up here, and uh the groom's all nervous, you know And they're standing there and no piano and organists are playing and everybody's coming, everybody's dressed nice, and then what? The uh little um uh flower girl comes down You know, and they come in their place and then are they before or after the bridesmaids? I think the bridesmaids come in first, right? They're up there and they're beautiful and oh and the groomsmen walk them up, I think Uh and uh but anyway the little girl's coming down, then the little ring bearer and he's swinging the pillow around, you know. But that's not what everybody's there to see. I'm telling you, nobody comes to a wedding to see the group He's just, oh he has to be here, all right, whatever. The bridesmaids they might, you know. Uh little kids, yeah, they're fun. But everybody's there to see what? The bride She is the focus of attention. She's the point that everybody's looking at. And she comes through that bag, da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da. Everybody stands. And there she comes in all her glory and her splendor, right? The bride is the focus of attention in our weddings. It's going to be a little different. The marriage of the lamb. The bride's not going to be the focused attention. Oh, of the Lord Jesus Christ. We will be. His attention will be on us. But all eyes, if you'll read that chapter very carefully, all eyes are on the Lord Jesus Christ. On the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen, if you want to sum up what the Christian life is all about, it's this: Jesus. It's all about Jesus. It's all about Jesus. It's all about Jesus. As sacred as marriage is. And as precious as the church is, the Christian life, though it definitely involves and affects the home, and it definitely involves and affects the church. The Christian life is all about Jesus Christ. All about Jesus Christ. That's why I take a little bit of issue, and I mentioned this over the years, I take a little bit of issue with churches that advertise their church as this. a family-centered church. Now, in and of itself is not necessarily wrong, we want to emphasize family, but the family is not the center of the church. It is Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. And when Jesus is in the right place, everything else will fall into place. So the point of attention at this marriage of the Lamb and the marriage supper that follows is the Lord Jesus Christ. Is the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the one that made our salvation possible. He's the one that saved us from eternal hell. All we do is simply receive by faith his salvation. Now look, come back there to Revelation. I'm going to end with this. Come back to Revelation 19. I want to just touch on A couple statements here. Then we'll bring this thing to a head. Revelation 19, if you get back there, let me get there And notice with me, if you would, the second part of verse number seven It says, uh, the Lamb has come, and his wife, I put in under that in my Bible, I wrote church, his wife hath made herself ready. Who made her ready? She's made herself ready. So the bride has a little responsibility to show up here being a little presentable Look at the next verse. And to her, now this explains that a little bit. And to her was, what's the next word? Granted. That she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white, for the fine linen is the righteousness of the saints. Now, if you study your Bible a little bit, What's he referencing there? This righteousness of the saints, this linen. It would be our salvation. New robes Christ took the old ragged robes of sin and took them off, gave us a new robe of righteous, pure white. And so there's two phrases. She made herself ready, and then it says, and to her was granted That she should be arrayed in this robe. The word granted there means this: to be freely supplied. I like this definition. Get this: to be given as a gift. So here's this gift that the lamb, the groom, provides to the wife. It is the clean, pure linen garment, salvation. And he grants that to her. He freely gives it to her. She makes herself ready by receiving that. And to me, that is a tremendous picture of salvation. Jesus Christ has provided me the robes of righteousness to make me accepted And acceptable to be the bride of the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, preacher, how does this marriage all fall come out? And how is the what in the world? What are the logistics? How does that all happen? I've studied and studied, I've come to this conclusion. I don't know. I really, we're not told a whole lot about it. But I do know this. It will be an amazing thing. To be one with Christ. To be eternally with the Lord Jesus Christ. Old sinful nature gone. Old battle of pure and ungodly thoughts, that battle that goes on in our heart and mind and soul for righteous and unrighteous, that which is right and good and that which is wrong, all that gone. And just pure and clean and right and holy and one with Jesus Christ. If you're not saved, that might not mean much, but if you are saved, that means a lot. Amen. So Jesus Christ made it possible for us to be saved. He loves us so much. And there's a day coming where we will be with him. Inseparable for all eternity. What an amazing thing. Father, I ask you'd help us to grasp the significance of the marriage of the Lamb and the Supper. Or we are a little clouded in our anticipation because we really don't know what all that will play out But we know what you mean to us, Lord. And you've made it very clear how much you love us. And you love the church. I pray you'd help us, one, make ourselves ready by trusting you as our Savior. And then two, keeping ourselves unspotted from the world, that we can be presented to you as a church. Chase Clean and pure. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I know I trusted Christ. That's established But I want to walk closer to the Lord, anticipating this day when we will be together. I want to learn to know the Lord Jesus better. I want to walk close to Him. You'd say, preacher, pray for me that I'll make those decisions that stay close to the Lord in my Bible reading, my church attendance, my walk with the Lord, my separation from the world. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. My walk with the Lord, I need to get a little closer. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Of course, that would be the desire of every saved person, no doubt I want to walk closer to the Lord. I want to be more like him. I want to know him better. I wonder if there's some here who say, preacher, I know someone that's not saved. I'm concerned about them. I want them to come to know Christ. And that they can be a part of this fellowship with the Lord Jesus. Or any like that. Preacher, pray for me. I know someone. I'm burdened for them so much. They need to be saved. God bless you, hands all around. I'll pray with you and we need to pray and then take action. Is there someone here this morning say, Preacher, I'm not saved? I can't say for sure that I know my sins are forgiven, that I have a home in heaven. And you'd say, preacher, I'm concerned about that. I know I'm a sinner. I need God to forgive me and save me And you say, preacher, pray for me. I need that, my salvation settled. Is there any like that at all by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me My relationship with the Lord Jesus and my salvation, any at all? Any at all? Now Father in heaven, I've seen hands. Lord, you see our hearts And I pray that this desire to know you and walk with you would be genuine and be real and would be strong enough to affect us, to act on that desire. Pray for those of us that have friends and family and relatives, associates that are unsaved. Help us be a faithful witness. Prompt us to pray earnestly for them and their salvation.