I love that Bible reading this morning. Mercy and Truth are meet together. Righteousness and peace have kissed each other The cry in our country now is no justice, no peace. God's word tells us no righteousness, no peace. And if you want a peaceful life You're going to have to live a righteous life. That is another series. But let's go to the book of where we want to go to first. Let's go to the book of Genesis. Genesis. We're going to be this week. In the life of Joseph. And I understand your pastor has been teaching this on Wednesday nights, and I hope he's been teaching it right. If anything is wrong, I'm going to point it out. No, that's not true. And this morning we talked about how that it's easy to remember is Joseph's life. And I've got to hurry because I got a lot to I got 30 pages of notes for this week. But I told him, don't worry. It's all large print. You know, so it's not too bad. Well it's true, it's not too bad. This morning we talked about from Acts chapter 7 verse 9. It talks about when Stephen's about to get stoned to death, he's preaching a sermon. It says Of Joseph that God was with him. And I want to focus on that this week. If you're going to have revival, God is going to have to be with you. And God's not going to be with you unless you're close to Him. And you cannot live close to the Lord and close to the world. And I could just park there for a while. Let me tell you something about the time that I was growing up. The time that I was here, I know I preached a message upon request that I'd preached before at Loving and Leading, and it was really about my personal testimony. Now that I was saved at nine, almost 10 years old in Mobile, Alabama, Metal Lake Baptist Church. Man, it's a wonderful thing. And I think you ought to have a personal salvation testimony also. I'm going to tell you folks, especially old people like me, your grandkids ought to be able to give your own salvation testimony. And you ought to leave that as a witness for them. But I want to tell you something about what happened in that church as I was asked to go back and preach the 53rd anniversary of the church that I was saved in. And so I spent preparation. I called Wayne Crenshaw, and he's the pastor that was pre- pastoring when I got saved there. And uh I buried him last year, right after Thanksgiving, did his graveside for him. I was so honored to be invited to do that. That church, he told me, I said, I want to make sure that these are things that are memories that are correct. I don't want to be lying to people. Is this happened? Did this happen? Did this happen? And I'm going to tell you wonderful things were going on. He said that of all the churches he pastored. That Medalake always comes back for those years that he was there. He was like maybe the second pastor's relatively new church. And God's presence was made manifest in that church. And many, many folks came to know the Lord. He said the church never really grew as large as what it could have, but he said it's because everybody was surrendering to the ministry and going off to Bible college. My father was one of those. And I think about everything that happened in that church. When I went back and I preached revival, I told stories. About how that uh my best friend Mike Bird at the time, his sisters were praying so much for their daddy Their daddy wouldn't come to church and made fun of him and he was they were lost and mama did all she could to get those kids into church. We were at Rolling Hills Youth Camp and I said, Brother Crenshaw, is my memory correct on this That I remember one time at the chapel service, at night, Rolling Hills Youth Camp outside of Citronell, Alabama, the bird girls were over here brokenhearted, crying for their daddy to be saved. And what they did not know is the man walked in the back of that chapel in that service just during the invitation time, never even heard the preaching, went down and was being led to the Lord on this side of the altar, and they didn't even know it. Wayne Crenshaw said, I was there, and that is how it happened. And I said, I remember when my daddy got saved two weeks after I did. And it changed our home. He said, well, let me tell you about that. He said, people were walking the aisle and getting saved that night. I didn't have enough altar workers to work with them. And I got down on my knees next to your daddy, and I went through the plan of salvation clear with him, and he trusted the Lord as a Savior. He said, When your father got up, I turned and looked and he named the man's name. I don't know remember who it was. He said he was coming down the aisle. I didn't have altar workers. He told my daddy, he says, Ted, tell him what you just did. And my daddy had just gotten saved, but he turned right around, had his Bible, was at the altar and leading another soul to the Lord. And that man that he led to the Lord had two sons that got saved, and one of them became the president of a Bible college. Things were happening in that church. I said, what was the secret to it? He told me he said this. He said, we started having prayer meetings on Friday nights with the men meeting together. And he said, I remember that one time we were so earnest in prayer. The next thing we knew, the sun was coming up on Saturday morning. And he said it changed everything in that church. And it was the power of prayer. And I'm going to confess to you, that's one of the greatest failings in my life. And we desperately need the Lord. And we need his presence to be manifest in our lives. And we're never going to win a lost world to Christ without the presence of God in our life shining through. Another man that pastored that church, we called him Corky, Ronald Sullivan. And he was one of my father's teenagers that went off to Bible college after him. And so I called him also and spent time on the phone with him, and he told me about that. He says, I remember that, Brother Mark, because I was in that prayer meeting And I saw that growing up as a teenage boy, and it changed my life. And when I was preaching that sermon, I was talking about that, and then later on, one of the Godfrey boys came up to me. He said that they were having a revival one time at Metal Lake Baptist Church, and he said I was staying outside parking the cars and we did not have enough room to park the cars. We didn't have enough room for the people inside A man drove up off a three-notch road, then said, what is going on here? And I told him, it's a revival, sir. He said, I don't know why I'm here, but God's brought me here and I need something. And he went inside and got saved that night He said, right after that, a deputy sheriff pulled up in his car and said, Son, what's going on with all these people in this parking lot? He said, We're having a revival in there, sir. He got on the radio, said he's taking his break, went inside, and he got saved. He said, My life's in a wreck and I need the Lord. And I'm going to tell you, those things used to happen. And revivals like that used to break out. And oh, how we need to see it again. But we're not going to have it unless we're going to present ourselves and ask for the Lord to be real in our lives. I want to ask another question. I know I just made fun of these guys. How many of you here are teenagers? Let me see your hands. I can't I'm old. Okay. Alright. If you know your teenager or not, okay. They they thank they are. He writing the mail. What's your name, son? And you just don't know you're halfway a teenager. How old are you? Eighteen? Eighteen, yeah, yeah. He he's okay. He's unsure about a lot of things. You girls are all teenagers? Are y'all married? How old are you? Well in Arkansas, that's about one year away from an old maid. I've got a grandson, he's seventeen, he's not married. Just saying. We work these things out early. Is your daddy here? He's not go home, ask him how many pigs is this gonna take. We'll work this deal out. Now my grandson he needs help. I'll tell you right now, he's a project. How many teens again? Back here. Good night. Do y'all ever do y'all get to do anything that's fun? Uh y'all got a a building over here. Can I just extemporaneously do something? Do y'all want to would y'all like to show up for a pizza party one night? I'll fund it. I'll get you some pizza. How many how many would be in on that? Can you stay in on that? How many of y'all can stay up late enough? Can you get r rise back home? You're eighteen. What do you care? You got a job? Need to get a job. Need to get a job, make a lot of money. Pay into Social Security I need it. You'll never see a dime of it. And for you kids that think you're gonna get the house, nope, your parents are gonna take out a reverse mortgage, you anyone will see that But I need the money. Get jobs work paying the Social Security. Don't work for nobody for cash, you get Social Security. Pay into that system It's it's failing and I need the money. How many of y'all would like to go to a pizza party on Wednesday night? Okay, Wednesday night it is. Wednesday night. Can we do that to church? Y'all need rides home, see the pastor. No, no, we'll do something. We'll get you home if your parents don't want to stay and help you. All right. Genesis chapter 37. This morning we talked about Joseph. Characteristic about Joseph's life is God was with him. We said that we could remember Joseph's life journey by these things. They all start with peas, easy to remember. First off, he starts all in his parents' house From his parents' house he finds himself in a pit. He's taken up out of the pit, sold into slavery, and he finds himself in Potiphar's house. In Potiphar's house, he has trouble and he gets thrown into prison unjustly convicted by the way, and then he goes from the prison to the palace itself and becomes prime minister of the whole country of Egypt. Man, what a life. But it doesn't end there Because he winds up in the promised land. So what we're going to do this morning is we're going to talk about his parents' house That's the beginning, and as I said in Sunday school, we're going to talk about the end of his life, which when he winds up in the promised land. So we're going to talk about the beginning and the end. And if you want the rest, you've got to come back to get what's in the middle Okay? So that's where we go with this thing. And it talks about this stuff in the book of Genesis is where we first find mention of Joseph. And it's in his parents' house that we're talking about now. Are we ready? Now I got a long way to go and a short time to get there. Why am I taking up time talking like this? I was preaching for Steve Ware in Orlando, Florida, Tabernacle Baby Church. Do you know him? Pretty good size church. Said, Brother Mock, we've got to be done at a certain hour, just like you told me this morning. We've got to be done. I got bus kids, all this, we've got to get done. I quit on time and gave him a few minutes. Two or three minutes. We get in the cars, we go down to the restaurant to eat. Me and my wife in our car. A couple of his older kids in their cars and then they were in their car, so the four cars pull up to the Mexican restaurant and get out. And his oldest daughter said, Daddy's gonna have to have him back. Well, I started scrutting pretty good. Wife behind beside me and then we heard her say to her mama He quit on time and daddy never quits on time. And Joe said, see there, I told you, it's better for you to be brief than to be good. We'll try and be as brief as possible. But I got a lot to say. Joseph had to make a choice. And the choice was to make the presence of God his choice over everything else. Young people, if you could learn that lesson, you will learn the secret to life. Learn to make the presence of the Lord first in your life over everything else. Now, Jacob's life, his daddy's life, was built on three different dreams. We don't have time to get into that. But in the days that this was written, I want you to get a hold of this concept, in the days that this was written, in the life of Joseph, think about this, in the life of Joseph, there was not one scrap of Scripture written down. When Joseph was coming up this whole story, there's not one scrap of Scripture written down. And we have the complete revelation of God. But I want you to get a hold of that. Jacob's life was ruled by three different dreams in his life. His son Joseph comes along and has these two dreams. You know what? But he didn't believe those dreams at first. Now that's kind of a key to show that Jacob might have been a little bit backslid backslidden at that time. But I'm going to tell you, God spoke to people in dreams back then. Joseph believed the dreams because God was behind them. And if God is not behind your dreams, they will come to nothing. I'm preaching to the young people now. God's favor for your life Will have no meaning. And your life will come to nothing if you don't have dreams that are from God. Dreams that come from God give you direction, and they will last for the duration. Other things in your life are just illusions, and they will vanish, and they will quickly disappear. Dreams from God do not disappear Let God give you a dream, and don't fall for the illusions of Satan. I spoke to a young man earlier. God may be putting a dream in his life. And if it's from God. It's going to give direction. It's going to have duration, and it will not disappear Young people, let me tell you a secret. If God ever puts a higher calling on your life, it is a holy calling. It's not just a higher calling. It's a holy calling. It's a humbling calling. But God would use you in a special way. There's nothing greater for your life than for you to find the will of God for your life. And God can give you a dream. But know this that if God puts that special calling, which is not just a higher calling, it is a holy calling. It's a humbling calling. The Bible tells us in Romans chapter 11, verse 29, I believe, that the gifts and the calling of God are without repentance. And if God does that, he will never rescind his calling, no matter what you do. And if he calls you to something, he will gift you to do it. And young people, if you're having problems finding out what God's will for your life is, and if he's put a calling specifically on your life, And you're a little cloudy on that right now, that's okay. But I'll say this God If you will look to the gifts he's given you, it might give you a key to unlock what his calling is for you. Faith promises coming up. And I'm going to tell you, it'd be great in this church to see you do more for the cause of Christ and worldwide missions by giving more. But oh that God would touch one of your kids to give themselves. And Joseph gave himself wholly to the Lord. Because the presence of God was the main thing in his life. Young people, I cannot stress it any greater than that, that what we need to do is we need to make sure that you get a dream that comes from God. When God speaks to you, you will know it. And you'll know that it is God speaking. But only when we are close to God can we hear Him. He has a plan, he's made a promise, and he has a purpose for your life. And no matter what, the purpose of God for every believer's life. Is to reach people. And the purpose of God for Joseph's life is so that one day he can save his family and many of the world from starvation. God always speaks to you first in the matter of salvation to give you something. It's a gift that He wants to give you. He's speaking to you for salvation. The next time he speaks to you, it will be asking you to do something for him. Whenever Jacob said to Joseph, Anything. Son, I want you to do this. The first answer he said was, Here am I. And that was Joseph's reply to his father. And it should be our reply to the Father. The same way, if we're ever asked to do anything for God, and God's purpose, it should be saying, Here am I. Young people, I don't know that God would ever put that higher calling on you. I don't know that. But if God does, you will know that. It'll come from him. And I'm telling you right now, your answer should be, hear my, Lord. I'm willing to do whatever you want. I would never preach and say you need to be praying right now, is God going to send you to the field of Zambia to be a missionary No, but I will say this. God will call you to himself. And if you'll go and get close to him, and the presence of God is manifest in your life, you will know that God wants you, and later on God will send you to wherever he wants. Now with that, let me say something else. It's hard to read the heart. Of someone else. Joseph's brothers misunderstood his dreams. He never said that he was going to rule over him. The final plan was for Joseph to save his family from starvation. Look at chapter 37 of the book of Genesis, if you will. It says in verse 5, and Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it to his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. Isn't that sad? He told him that dream. He has another dream. Verse 8. And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us, or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams and for his words. I want you to know, as I said before, that from Adam to Joseph Worship was always at an altar. And these children only knew how to worship God by watching their parents. Folks, if you're the parents of any of these teenagers, of any kids anywhere, I want you to know that the only way that parents really model worship in front of their kids is what their kids pick up. And if you treat church lightly and if you treat God lightly and you're not having the presence of God in your home and in your life and it's not visible, that's what your parents are going to see. The only way from Adam on, when he killed those animals at the altar, that's what Cain and Abel saw. On down through. And what Joseph saw was what his daddy Jacob did. And that has a great influence on how you worship God and how you look toward God as to what your parents teach you in the home. In 2 Peter 1, verse 16, 19, around there, Peter talks about how that he saw the Lord transfigured. On the Mount of Transfiguration. But he said, we have a more sure word of prophecy. We have something that Joseph did not have. All he had was God speaking to him in dreams and what he saw his parents do. But young people, we have right here the unadulterated Unfiltered, pure, Word of God, His revelation for everything that you need to know. Everything you need to know, God's put in this book. This book does not contain everything Because the half has not yet been told. But everything you need is in this book. God will never lead you, contrary to this book. You have the Holy Spirit to help you, if you're a born-again believer, illuminate the scriptures to you in this book. Make God's word your guide. God's word is precious. It is complete. It is trustworthy in all things. And know this: that if you do not heed His Word, He's never going to speak to you specifically with a dream individually for you. If you don't listen to this, he's not going to give you the dream that I talk about. God's word right here will dispel the illusions and the false dreams that Satan, the world, and the flesh will give you. God never leaves contrary to this word. Never. What makes the difference in Joseph's life and his brother's life that hated him is that he believed God The brothers and their father did not believe. The question is this: will you always be, will you always do what God wants you to be and do? Do you believe God's word? Joseph only had the dream that came from God, and he believed that. And Joseph will be the key to his family surviving in the famine. Many times one person is the key. One person is the key. It was the Philippian jailer who was the key to his family's salvation Noah was the key to his family's salvation. My neighbor that witnessed to us across the street on Oxmore Drive in Mobile, Alabama, she was the one. God's plan is for the gospel always, and it always involves one. My question is, will you be the one that the Father uses to reach one? And every believer has that from God. 1137, we're not doing too bad on time. Turn to the last chapter of the book of Genesis, chapter fifty. That's the beginning. Joseph and his parents' house. Now let's talk about the end. And I'm going to get serious on some things at this point. That involves eternal things. We should learn to live our lives for what is eternal. Everything down here is temporal. Pastor friend of mine, Sam Davison, he preaches pretty hard on some things. And he's pastoring a large church. At a good Bible college, Heartland Bible College, and someone came up to him once and said, Sam, you're not living in the real world. Sam said, this isn't the real world. This is not. There is a world that is coming, that is the real world. And it's the one that's eternal. Look at these last verses starting in verse 25 of chapter 50. And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence. So Joseph died being 110 years old, and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt. Can you imagine being in the lineage of Joseph? He had two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. I don't know which one had the duty. Probably Ephraim, but we don't know that for sure. Can you imagine he proposes to a young lady? She says, Yes, I'll marry you. He said, but there's one thing you need to know. What's that? Well, I got this coffin and it's got my daddy in it. And we're gonna have to keep him either in the basement or the attic. I don't know what they had in Egypt at the time. Well, I didn't know about that. Let me think about it for a while. So she gets married, they have kids. He has a boy. I think the boy's name was Usher. And Usher goes to ask this girl to marry him. I don't know about marrying you anyway. Well, there's one other thing you need to know. Our grandfather's bones have got to go with us. How many of you girls would like to marry some crazy guy like that that's got to have his great-great-grandpa's bones with him? This passes down from generation to generation to generation. I mean If I told my wife that, she would have never married me. She can't stand the bones of a mouse in the house if it's up in the attic and died. Let alone if I had my daddy up there in a sarcophagus. Besides carrying all that around with you and fitting it in a you U-Haul, that's gonna be that's rough, man. But he said, I want my bones put in a coffin. Now, a coffin, that means a hope chest. And I don't mean hope like, well, that's wishful thinking. No. It was hope in the promises that God had made. And he wanted to leave a testimony for his kids. Now I'm going to say this statement right here that I picked up from another pastor. It's not original with me. But no one is ready to live. If first they're not ready to die. Only when the question of after that is found in Hebrews chapter 27, verse 27 Where it says it is appointed unto me as it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment. You know what? We're all going to die one day. Now that's pretty morbid, isn't it? You guys don't want to hear that, but you're going to die one day. You know, well you ought to not talk about that. So you go out and knock on somebody's door if you died tonight. Well I don't want to be thinking about dying tonight Well, I'm seventy-one years old. I'm going to tell you right now, if I'm middle aged, I've got to live to be 142, if my Arkansas math is correct I'm on the downhill slide. I am not going to live a whole lot more years. Statistically speaking, my wife and I have been married 48 years. We're celebrating our 50th this coming year because we're now at the point where we don't we want to get the good one out of the way before somebody kills the other one. My wife said my husband came home, said he wanted to be cremated. So I made an appointment for next Tuesday. That get gets me worried. During COVID, did you hear about the lady and the neighbor knocks on the door, you know, you can't go anywhere do anything? Where's your husband John? Well he's in the backyard. Goes to the backyard, comes, I don't see him in the backyard. She said, you didn't look deep enough. I've been stuck in his house with him We're gonna die. I'm not trying to be morbid. I'm trying my best to be prepared You know, I I would like to leave my house where my wife, you know, got no there's no loan on the house, so she got a place to live I'm trying to put back a little bit of money. It's not much, but I'd like for her. You know, I'm making preparations in that. But the most important preparation that I can make, and I'm talking to you old people is you need to make sure that you have left a salvation testimony to all of your progeny. And they need to know where your destination is. And they need to know and you need to make sure that no matter what they do in life, they make preparations that when this life is over, meet me there. And I told that to my grandkids and to my kids. I don't care what you do in life. I do care. But if you don't do what I want you to do, make preparations to meet me there. And Joseph was leaving a testimony behind. And until you get this thing settled about what's going to happen to you after you die, you are never, never, never going to do anything for Christ. The question would be then, if you're a born-again Christian and you make that decision that you're going to trust Christ as your Savior, is what you are living for now on this earth worth what Christ died for? And it's time that we quit piling up treasures on this earth and sending nothing to the next world. Some of you got 401ks, some of you got good retirement. That's good. More power to you. I got me a financial advisor a year ago, last October. He looked all myself. I got on Dave Ramsey. How many of y'all listen to Dave Ramsey? Kids, get a hold of that. Right now. Don't do like the rest of us people. I wasted too much money on new cars. Don't do that. Good jobs make a lot of money. Remember, pay into Social Security. So he got all my stuff and he's looking over my budgeting. I'm trying to figure out how much am I going to need. My financial advisor told me this. He said, Mr. Mock, after looking over all that you've given me My advice to you is to keep working. And when your financial advisor says keep working, that means He ain't gonna make it, man. I'm gonna tell you something. Social security for the rest of y'all is not too social and it ain't very secure. I'm counting on you guys. Make a lot of money. Pay into Social Security. We're gonna die one day. And I'm not trying to be morbid about it. How many of y'all understand this? Don't raise your hand, old folks. It's getting to be that you've got more over there than you've got over here. Now they're not there yet. Some of us are. I'm going to tell you right now, you're going to have to make preparations now in this life for the next life. And Joseph was leaving a testimony behind. This is what he was saying. Joseph was the prime minister of Egypt. Joseph believed God's dreams, but Joseph, I'm telling you, believed in the promise of God. He was the prime minister of all of Egypt. He had great wealth. He was the favorite of Pharaoh, and he was the favorite of his own father And he could have built a tomb like the pyramids made for himself, and he knew that he could have had all that stuff. But you want to know something? He also knew that Egypt, which was a type of the world, was not his home. And he wanted to leave a testimony. Don't get too attached to this world. Because one day you're going to leave it behind if you're a believer. And if I'm speaking to someone right now in this congregation and they don't know the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior, this is your day. Because where will you be one second after you die? And I'm going to tell you something else. Where are you going to be 500 years from now? No, we're going to live eternally someplace, heaven or hell. And Joseph believed the promise of God. And I'm going to tell you, Pastor, I believe the promise of God. I've done a lot of morbid things. You'll love this. I shouldn't say this from the pulpit. I had my colonoscopy and the next day a meeting with a lawyer for end-of-life papers. Like this is getting to be bad. I mean, what's the next thing you got to do? And that man charged us $500 and something dollars for all those wills and things like that to be done. But I'm making preparation But I'm also making preparation in that I'm leaving a testimony behind for my kids because I've got a promise that this world is not my home. I'm going to another place. And that is what we need to lead to our kids. This is not the real world. The next world is. You've got to make preparation now in this world if you're going to make it to the other world. Joseph believed the promises of God. Joseph trusted in the power of God. He had suffered through the pit and the prison, but he still believed God had the power to do what he had promised. We ask sometimes, well, can God do this, this, when we should not be asking a question but making a statement and reverse those words instead of can God God can. Well, Joseph, you're never going to live to see it. I know I'm not, but put my bones in a box. Because one day I want to be buried in the promised land that God has said that He's going to give you people. And I trust in the promise of God, and I want you to know that's the last testimony that I want to leave behind. When I go to India, the Hindus cremate, the Christians do not, because the Christians want to leave a grave and they want to leave a cross on it as a testimony that they trust Christ. When I went to Rome, I went to the catacombs. They did not worship in secret in the catacombs, that's where they buried their dead. Because you could not bury dead inside the city limits of Rome. They went outside, went into the catacombs of terracotta mine, and buried their dead there because they didn't want to have them cremated because that thought they made that harder for the resurrection. And you can see on many of the tombs, one of the symbols that I loved that they had was a whale. And inside the whale, a stick figure. Which was the picture of Jonah, and that's what they believed in was the resurrection. And they just didn't want to make it hard on God That's not theologically sound because it doesn't matter. But I'm telling you right now, there is a hope in glory. And you sang those songs, Beulalan. I'm kind of homesick for a land that I've never seen. And just over in the glory land That gave Joseph peace. And he could rest in the peace of God because he believed the promises of God, and he believed that God had the power. Joseph did not fear death. Listen to me carefully as we close. You cannot face death with peace without the Savior. 2 Timothy chapter 1, Paul writes to him that God has not given us the spirit of fear. But of power and of love and of a sound mind, to be saved and know it Is to live. To be saved and not know it is to live a life that is riddled with doubt and fear If the child of God is to live by faith, not by sight. By the way, four times in Scripture it says the just shall live by faith. We have to get rid of the doubt and the fear. Don't let Satan rob you from the peace found in the Savior by blinding you to the goodness of God. Joseph was faithful to his prosperity. We need to be faithful to ours. Now this is the serious part of it. In just a moment I'm going to have a word of prayer. Pastor's going to come and take over the invitation. He knows you folks better than I do. I may be speaking to someone right now that does not know Jesus Christ as your Savior. If you've never ever put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I don't want to be ugly, but the Word of God says that your destiny, you're determined now to go to hell. It's not God's will. It's not God's wish. It's not what he wants. But if you reject his son and you don't put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and Him alone, you are going to spend an eternity in a place that was meant for the devil and his angels. But that can change today. All you have to do is do what I did. I came forward when God spoke to my name and called me to Himself. He wanted to give me the free gift of salvation as best I knew how. I asked God to forgive me of my sins that come into my heart. And to be my Savior. And He did. And He gave me more than I ever knew that I had when I got salvation. Let me say something else. It is very possible that I may be speaking to someone today. And you say, Brother Ted, I wish I was as secure as you are in that salvation. Because I have doubts, am I really saved? Do I know the Lord is my Savior? There was a time in my life I was riddled with that. And you cannot live for God if you are doubting that you can get that settled. Hit me real hard when I was in Bible college. I had someone say that I did not pray a theologically correct prayer, and I did not. I actually went to my professor, Kenneth Gilming. He said, Ted, the thief on the cross didn't pray a theologically correct prayer. He said, Lord, remember me when you come into the kingdom. He said he needed him that afternoon in a few hours. But it is with the heart that man believeth unto righteousness. It's not an ABC one, two, three, repeat after me prayer. It is something that comes from the heart. If you're struggling with doubt about your salvation, there will never be a revival in your life. We are in churches today that are full of lost, baptized church members. This church will never have revival. Unless you're truly born again. You'll never be ready to live until you are ready to die. Mercy and peace, two things It says, mercy and truth are meet together. Righteousness and peace have kissed each other. The truth is the Word of God, and He extends mercy to us. But the righteousness of God that we find in Jesus Christ is what brings us peace. It's not by works of righteousness which I have done, but it's his righteousness. When God looks at me, he looks through the blood of Jesus Christ, and he sees me as righteous through his Son. And I am ready to live because I am ready to die. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for these good folks listening Oh Lord, I pray that you'll help us today. Because Lord, we desperately need you. Lord, it's hard to put into words how serious these matters are. Lord, we are trusting that you will do today what we cannot do. Which is walk up and down the aisles of these pews and in and out. Lord, your blessed Holy Spirit, Lord, I pray that He would do that work which we cannot do, which is to touch the hearts of men and women, boys and girls here. Before I finish this prayer, is there anyone that would say, Brother Ted, I want you to pray for me because I want the presence of God in my life, and I think the Lord may be wanting to use me And if you'd say, Brother Ted, if the Lord would speak to me, I'd at least be willing to listen. I'm not asking you to surrender to go to Zambia. To the jungles of South America, but I am saying that I would be would you be willing, if God called, to answer? I want to pray for you. With no one looking around, would anybody say? I see a few hands. Anybody say if God is going to put a higher calling on me I'd at least be willing to listen. Thank you. I appreciate that. I appreciate that. Does anyone here say, Brother Ted, pray for me? I'm lost and I don't know the Lord as Savior. Anyone like that? Real quick, if you raise your hand, I just want to know to pray for you. I'm going to ask a hard question. Is there anyone here and say, Brother Ted, pray for me because I'm struggling with doubts about my own salvation? Pray for me. Anyone like that? Anyone at all? Father, we thank you for these folks. We pray now, Lord, that as we continue on, that you'd have your will and your way in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Now, Pastor, why don't you come and finish up?