Verse twenty three, first Peter chapter one, the Bible says, Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible. Now notice this, by the word of God We're born again, not of corruptible shade, of incorruptible, and it takes place by the Word of God, which liveth and abideth forever In the next couple verses, he addresses this, the Word of God's role in our salvation. Verse 24, for all flesh is as grass. And all the glory of man is the flower of the grass, the grass withereth, the flower thereof falleth away, but The word of the Lord endureth forever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. The new birth and the Bible. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, I thank you that we can assemble together in a sense, Lord, the best we can under the circumstances. And I pray your presence would be here in this pulpit, in this presence right here. I pray your Holy Spirit's presence would be very evident in the living rooms, dens, wherever folks may be, scattered across, listening in. I know where the Word of God is. The presence of God is there, I believe, to some extent at least. And so I pray that your presence would be evident and that you would speak to our hearts. And that our faith in you and in your word would grow and be stronger, especially in these days, these confusing days And so I need you, Lord. Lord, I don't have anything of myself of any eternal or spiritual value to add or say So we need it to come from you, Lord. So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. I ask that you fill me with your spirit and you be the preacher tonight. And help us to be receptive and open to what you have to say for us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Peter, of course, as we've been pointing out in our series is uh writing this letter under the inspiration of God uh to uh believers and a lot of them young believers this is early in the church age and they're under intense persecution And they have fled their homes, they've fled up into Asia Minor, and they're being persecuted. They've lost families, many of them, they've lost their occupations, jobs, they've been run out of their cities They are uh some of them suffered physically, abuse and and uh no doubt torture. Some gave their lives, had family members gave their lives. So Peter's writing to them, he's trying to encourage them As we get to the end of chapter 1 here, he addresses this matter of the Word of God and the Bible's role in our salvation. Now last week, if you remember, we noted this. Our first point was this. The Word of God regenerates. Now that word regenerate means to give life to anew, regenerate, to make alive again. The Bible term is Born again. And so the Bible gives us this new birth. We pointed that out there in verse 23. Being born again Not a corruptible seed. Now remember that corruptible seed is the flesh. He's not talking about a physical birth. We all have had that. We all had a physical birth, at least I would assume you did. It would be strange if you didn't. But um we all have a physical birth. We've been born physically. That's the corruptible seed. This old body is corruptible. It's dying, decays, it catches viruses We get cancer, sickness. And this old flesh, this old corruptible seed, uh doesn't last. But we're born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible. That's the spiritual birth That is that which is born of God. We gave a few observations about this new birth, this second birth. Number one, we said it's a spiritual birth, what I just said Uh it is uh a spiritual life. You and I are spiritual beings. We're more than just flesh and blood. And the m and uh the Bible gives us, offers to us through the Word of God God offers to us this opportunity to be born again, be born spiritually. Jesus addressed it with Nicodemus in chapter three. So we looked at that. I trust you've been born again. You've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. If you have. You've been born spiritually, you now have eternal light, spiritual light. Ah, we said this produces an entire diff entirely different type of life. In other words, this spiritual birth, this second birth, this new birth, this birth from above Is not simply a reformed old life. This new life that Christ gives us when we trust Him as our Savior It's not just the cleaned up old Dennis. It's not just the cleaned up, reformed old life. It is a completely brand new life. uh with uh with new values, new principles, new a whole new character and nature about it. And we talked about that at length. We said this new birth is a completely God's doing I can't burn born myself again. I have to trust Christ. God has to do it. Um I can't uh uh my parents uh uh Christian Christian parents Doesn't make me a Christian. They've been born again. They can't make me born again. God has to do that when I trust them. And then we pointed out that this new birth borns me, if you would, bornes me into the family of God. When I trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, acknowledge my sin, turn to Him, accept what He did for me on the cross, buried, rose again, and put my faith and trust, my hope, my reliance. In Jesus Christ, what he did for me. When I do that, I'm born again, I have this new birth, and now I am born into the family of God If a person has never been saved, now listen, if a person's never been saved, they are outside the family of God. You may be religious. You may be a good person. You may be honest and a man or woman of character, but if you've never humbly come and trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior I hate to say it, but it's the Bible's very clear, you're outside the family of God. So uh the Bible uh regenerates Through the Word of God, we have this new birth. Now, let's look at a couple others here real quickly. Number two, I want us to notice that the Word of God, the Bible, remains Now I'll explain what I mean by that. Look at verse 23 and look at the last part of verse 23. It says, born again, not a corruptible seed, incorruptible by the word of God. And then he makes this statement about the Word of God, about the Bible. Look what he says. Which liveth and abideth for what? Forever. Forever. The Bible remains. The Word of God remains. Look at verse 25, the first part. But the word of the Lord endureth for what? Forever. Forever. The Bible remains. The Bible remains. Now, we pointed out in verse 23, this new birth, salvation is another term, being saved, being born again, is by the Word of God. Verse 23, you could circle that little word by the word of God. The word by there means probably what you would imagine it means. It means through or by the means of. In other words, the Bible is God's channel through which the new birth is made available. The Bible, the Word of God, is the means by which we can come to Christ, we get the information about Christ We hear the gospel and we trust the Lord Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior. I remember years ago I was talking this afternoon on the c on the uh uh little um uh things on the phone there. I don't know what all these things are called, but um uh some kind of thing on there. We can see each other. Folks I went to school with back years ago. What back in the previous century Uh we uh w and we were talking away about things and I got reminiscing back to to when I got saved and I've told this uh hundreds and thousands of times, but uh how the Lord saved me. I remember those months leading up to the night I trusted Christ And uh I had made such a mess of my life. I say this often, it's it's disturbing how how quickly a person can mess their life up. Just 19 short years made such a disaster of my life, so wicked. And I began crying out to God, God, you have to help me. I saw the man I was becoming. I did not want to be that person. That's not what I that was wrong. I did not want to be that. And I cried out to God, you have to help me, God, help me. It wasn't an audible voice, but it was as real as if it was an audible voice. God spoke to my heart, and he said, read your Bible. Find a Bible I remember clearly January of 1979 digging through my dresser drawers and my possessions trying to find a Bible. And I found a Bible there that I'd gotten in Sunday school as a child I began reading that thing, and I read and as I read in that word of God, as I read in the Bible, I saw that I was a sinner. My only hope was in the Lord Jesus Christ. He could forgive my sin and give me a new life, a new birth, a new life. And it was from reading the Word of God, being born again, not of corruptible seed, of incorruptible. by the Word of God, through the Word of God, by means of the Word of God. It is impossible to separate the Word of God from the plan of salvation. Cannot do it. If you don't have the Bible, you don't have the plan of salvation. The Bible salvation is a Bible teaching. Any other salvation, contrary to the Word of God, outside of the Word of God, is not God's salvation. It is a false hope, it is a false salvation, and it'll lead to hell as surely as anything else will. And so the Bible is the Word of God is the means, the process by which God brings salvation to us. I cannot simultaneously reject the Bible. I cannot simultaneously reject the Bible and at the same time receive salvation. Because the Bible is the means. By the Word of God is how we're born again. And so the world needs the Word of God The world needs the Bible. I tell you, one thing that grieves my heart as we're in this shutdown here is not doing our fingerprints ministry. How I miss that I was back the other day just looking at the materials there to assemble our Romans booklets, just setting there. We can't do it. And how desperately people need the Word of God I'm telling you, the salvation uh salvation is by means of the Word of God. The world needs the Word of God. Now, my point is this, the second point here, is that the Bible remains Now look with me if you would at verse 24. Notice what he says. Verse 23, born again by the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. For all flesh is as grass And all the glory of man as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away. But The word of God endureth forever. Do you notice there's a contrast here? He's contrasting flesh and the glory of man. Contrasting it with the Word of God. Now look what he says about flesh. He says, for all flesh is as grace. By the way, that term flesh refers back to verse 23, the corruptible seed. That's the flesh is the corruptible seed. And he says all flesh is as grass, all and uh all the glory of man, all that man glories in, all these athletes and movie stars and Rock and roll, and oh millionaires and billionaires, oh look at what we glory. God says, all that's temporary. All that's just fading. It's just like a flower that fadeth The Bible is very clear. The brevity of the physical life is very, very clearly taught in the Bible. Physical life is brief. The Word of God, on the other hand, is eternal. He's eternal. This physical world is temporal. Tell you, it's a grief. We make a serious mistake. Now listen to me. We make a serious mistake. If we are investing all our time and effort and attention and affection on temporal things here on earth, because it's going to pass away. I remember again before I got saved, those months leading up, there was one passage from 2 Corinthians that just gripped my heart. I don't know how I came across it reading the Bible. But it says, the things which are seen are temporal But the things which are not seen are eternal. And that's what he's saying here. All flesh is as grass, all the glory of man. is like a flower that fadeth, all that we live for, all that mankind glories in, all that mankind is pursuing here down here, these temporal pleasures and these temporal successes and these uh temporal uh uh things and possessions. The Lord says, listen, that's all passing away. That's just like that old flower out there. At the end of summer, oh you put so much time and fertilizer, you weed it, took all care of that. And at the end of the summer, that thing just fades and falls over and dies. All that time and effort, it's dead. It's gone. Grass, I put uh mentioned, I put some fertilizer out there and I was out there pushing that thing around sweating and working hard and uh man and uh putting all this and and all and the end of the summer you know what happens all that grass just turns brown uh at the end of the end of the summer. It's just temporary. Just temporary. Life is temporal. Physical life, just temporary. We're only here for a while. A little while. Then it's all gone. It's past Friday It's past Friday, a week ago this past Friday, we took my daddy's body and back home and they laid it in a grave. Just his physical body, physical life was gone It's temporary. And 81 years raced by. Now his body's in the grave. Thank the Lord. He was a saved man. He's in the presence of God And listen, that's all we got. This all flesh is as grass. It just live and it goes by so quick and then it dies And uh the Bible teaches this. Listen, uh if you would, take your Bible with me real quick here, if you would. Uh Job, back in the Old Testament, right before Psalms. You open your Bible up right to the middle, you'll probably find Psalms And then go back towards the front a little bit, and you'll come to Job. And I want to show you a few statements in the book of Job. The book of Job is a fascinating book. Some people say, well, that's a morbid book, all the terrible things. No, you've got to read it to the end. And in the end, God gets the glory, and God turns that thing around. But look with me, if you would, at Job chapter 7 And I wanted you to notice verse number 6. Job chapter 7, verse number 6. Notice what he says. He says, my days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle. Now this is old time stuff here. We don't we don't not real familiar with the weaver's shuttle Uh we were up at the Springs Festival the other year and they had a little museum there. They had a weaver thing and that and that thing's just choo choo choo choo choo choo choo you uh going real fast back and forth and uh he says that's what life is like just that thing foo phoo and it's gone it's over Oh again, I was uh talking this afternoon with folks I graduated high school with years ago, and uh they started saying when their birthdays were and how old they were And I thought, good night. I graduated with a bunch of old people. And um, but uh that's what happens. Forty years races by. Look with me if you would at Job chapter 8 and verse number 9. Just go over there, chapter. In verse number nine. For we are but of yesterday and know nothing. Look at this. Because our days upon earth are a what? A shadow just passes by. Just passes by. He says, but we are of yesterday. Oh, it seems like yesterday, last year was just like yesterday. Go to Job chapter 9 And look with me if you would at verse 25. Job chapter 9, verse 25. Notice what he says. Now my days are swifter than a post. They flee away. They see no good. He's saying, Oh, my life is just racing by. The word post there has the idea of somebody that that delivers a message. They hand it to the post. We have the post office You hand it to the post and he runs to the next town back in the day. He'd run to the next town and deliver that message. Uh I thought of, as I was looking at this, I thought of the uh Pony Express. How many people remember the Pony Express? Raise your hand there at home. You remember Prote Express. I mean, I don't mean do you remember being around when it was there, but remember reading about it And uh the Pony Express, oh they'd give a message and they would just race across the state over to the next town or in the next city, uh in the in the next state And uh they go so fast. And Job says, that's what my life is like. That's what life is like. Just goes by so quickly. Race is by. Um, look with me at Job chapter 14. And uh verse number one. Here he says again, man that is born of a woman is of what? Few days and full of trouble. Wow. The older you get, the more you realize. This life races by. What are you trying to say, preacher? I'm saying that Peter is comparing the Word of God to our fleshly life, our physical life, this temporal world, and he says this flesh that goes by so quick, it is temporary, it doesn't last. How foolish it is to live only for temporal things, the things which are seen, the things which do not last, and then neglect the eternal things, our spiritual well-being. Let me challenge you tonight. Let me challenge you. Have you ever stopped and thought about your eternal life, where you spend eternity? Have you ever stopped and thought about your spiritual well-being Oh, you're stocked up on supplies for the physical life. Oh, we've got the uh we've got the food and the canned goods, we've got the toilet paper, we've got everything ready for the physical life. Let me ask you a question. What have you invested in your spiritual life? His physical life is gone, just brief, quick, goes by. But yet we're spiritual beings. We're going to spend eternity somewhere forever, heaven or hell. And how foolish it is to invest all our time and effort into the physical, the temporal, the flesh, which is just like grass, uh the glory of man, the flower of grass, it withers, and the flower thereof falleth away, invest in all of that. And so he's making this contrast between the two. And then he noticed the certainty that Peter states here. Look at verse 25, the first part. The flesh is a grass, glory of man, flower, fades, falleth away. But, look at this, the word of God endureth forever. And that's a very emphatic statement. This is an absolute certainty. Peter's saying, listen, your life is temporal, physical things, glory, all your glory in it, oh that's just grass, flower fades But listen to me, the word of God endures forever. The word of God. This old book, this old book, God's Word, He says is going to endure forever. A very emphatic statement. The word endure it there means simply this: unmovable, fixed. Permanent. And he says, endureth forever. The word forever there means unbroken, perpetually for all eternity. This book stands. The Bible stands And uh it lasts, and he makes this very strong statement. Uh in Psalms 138 and verse 2, we won't turn there, uh, but Psalms 138, 2, the Bible says God has exalted his word above his very name. God has exalted his word above his very name. Now, I don't know about you. There's no other name as holy as the name of our Lord God Jehovah. And he says he has exalted his word above it. I put this down, it is impossible to overemphasize the Bible It is impossible to overexalt the Bible. It is impossible to value the Bible too highly. I remember when I got saved, worked in a meat pack and plant, and man, God changed my life overnight, miraculously. And now I fell in love with this old book and I began reading the Bible and studying it and memorizing it And it became so precious to me, just uh just in a matter of days this book became so precious to me. And I'd go to work and always carried all these years, always carried uh a little Bible in my back pocket. I always did and at lunchtime I'd get it out and read it or whatever. I had a break. I just liked having the Bible with me and I'd try and read it and meditate on it. And these guys Uh these unsaved guys, they knew what I was before and they were trying to figure out what in the world happened to Leatherman and uh they started, oh Leatherman, you're a Bible thumper. Yeah, you and that Bible, you and that Bible You know, I've just I've just always took that as a compliment. I don't mind being associated with the Word of God. I don't mind being identified with the Word of God. God says that He's exalted His Word above His very name I tell you, there's nothing wrong with being identified as a Bible believer. And so he makes this emphatic statement, but the word of the Lord endureth forever. God's word is forever settled. It will never cease to exist. I've got a slew of verses here, but I am I am I committed myself to be briefer on my messages than normal. So let me just give thee. Psalms 12, verse 6 and 7 The word of God is preserved for this generation and forever. Psalms 119-18. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven, established in heaven So he says, number one, the word of God regenerates. It's through the message and the truth of God's word we learn of Jesus Christ. We're born again. Ah, the Word of God remains forever, O Lord. It is settled. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but the word shall not pass away. And then last of all, very quickly The Bible, God's word, is reliable. Look at the end of verse 23. And this is the word by the gospel. Oh, let me read again. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. In other words, he's saying this: listen, that very truth that you are depending on for your eternal destiny is from the Word of God. In other words, you can trust this old book You can trust God's Word. Our eternal destiny rests upon the truths and the veracity of God's word It is reliable. God's word is reliable. We have to accept. We need to come to the Word of God and just accept what God's Word says about sin. You know the Bible says there's none righteous, no, not one You say, oh, preacher, I'm a Sunday school teacher. None righteous. There are not one. Oh, preacher, I've been an honest man my whole life. None righteous. No, not one. There's none that doeth good. No, not one. We've all sinned, come short of the glory of God. And we've got to accept what the Bible says about our true condition. We're lost in sin. Under the wrath of God. Read John chapter 3, verse 18 and verse 38. We're under God, the judgment of God as sinners. We got to accept that. We have to accept what God says about Jesus Christ. It's reliable. He died on the cross for our sins. He suffered God's judgment for my sin upon himself, took responsibility for my sins against God, paid the price of my sins. Rose again at the right hand of God. And he says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That is a reliable truth in the Word of God. And we can accept that And we must accept that. It's reliable. And then once we've uh trusted Christ and born again, we ought to meditate on God's word. Now I gotta list of things here, uh what to do with God's reliable, unchanging uh word of God. Once we're saved, I think we ought to meditate it on every day. We ought to spend some time in the Bible every single day. Let me say that again. We ought to personally, one-on-one, between me and God, a quiet time alone, spend some time every day reading and meditating on the Word of God I'm reading a little uh devotional that George Washington, our first president, uh was given to him by his mother, and he would read that every evening along with his Bible, and it's a little uh uh devotional And uh just tremendous thing. We ought to read the Bible every day. We ought to ask God that when we read the Bible and meditate and study it, we ought to ask God, Lord, how does this apply to my life? How do I live out What your word is teaching me here. I think you ought to use a pen when I read the Bible. I ought to take notes down, underline verses. I put little notes in the margin of my Bible thoughts and underscore verses And um helps uh helps me study, helps me get some uh some out of that. And so I want to encourage you, if you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. This old book has the message you need to hear. Being born again by the Word of God. Not of corruptible seed, not just temporal physical life, something much, much more than that. Incorruptible, eternal life. through the Word of God. Trust Jesus as your Savior. One of my favorite poems, I like poetry, and uh I've tried writing some, it was pretty terrible, but I like reading what other people wrote And uh I thought of this one this afternoon. It says, this last eve I paused beside the blacksmith's door and heard the anvil ring, the vespers chime Then looking in, I saw upon the floor old hammers worn with beating years of time. How many animals have you had, said I, to wear and batter all those hammers so Just one, said he, and then with twinkling eye, he said, the anvil wears the hammers out, you know And so I thought the anvil of God's Word. For ages skeptics blows have beat upon, yet through the noise of falling blows was heard, the anvil is unharmed. And the hammers are going. What's he saying? He's saying the Bible stands. This old book's proven itself to be true for thousands and thousands of years. And you and I, in this day of fear and confusion and uncertainty, we can come to an old book that will stand for all eternity, that we can rely, we can trust with our very souls. I hope you'll read the Bible. I hope if you're not saved, you'll come to God's Word and trust what it says. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and find eternal life. And if my life doesn't line up with God's Word Tell you what, let's get my life in line with the book. Get in line with the Word of God. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask that you would use these thoughts tonight, that you would help us as believers to be people of the book That old book that lasts forever, and I pray you'd help us to live it, to love it, and to share it. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now again