Number 10, if you would uh notice with me here in verse number 2 in particular, I'd like for us to read together verse number 2 in unison. You have your Bibles there. Notice Luke chapter 10, verse number 2, altogether. Would you read it with me? Here we go. Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. This Wednesday we start our missions conference, and our theme for our missions conference is The Harvest Truly is great. This morning I want to speak on that subject, that thought. The harvest truly is great. And my prayer is this, that God will stir our hearts. And we'll begin this morning to pray that God will raise up and send forth missionaries and use our church however he can. To get as many missionaries out on the field as is possible. So you pray with me and let's ask the Lord to have his way with this message. Father in heaven, we come before you this morning with very grateful hearts. Lord, I believe I speak for most, perhaps the majority here this morning. We're so glad for that person that came our way and shared with us the message of Christ, the plan of salvation. And in your grace, we believed and were saved. And God, we pray now that you would use us to do that exact same thing for people all around the world. Do everything we can. To get that message of the gospel to every single person on this planet. So, Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I pray and ask you to fill me with your Spirit And you do in our hearts what I can't do, stir us and help us to trust you. In Jesus' name, amen. Our text here in Luke chapter number 10, it's interesting, as I got studying this, I came to find out this section here of Luke is not found in any of the other gospels. Matthew, Mark, or John. We don't have record of these events here. Luke is the only one that gives us this account and the the the happenings before and after. Now a lot of in the ma especially Matthew, Mark, and Luke, a lot of you have uh a lot of events in Jesus' ministry are recorded all three, but this is not For whatever reason, Luke is the only one that records this passage. And if we study this here, we find out that at this point in Jesus' life He had a ministry of about three and a half years, start about 30 years old. He had a ministry of about three and a half years before he was crucified And at this point in Jesus' life, at this point in his ministry, his earthly ministry is winding down. His crucifixion is fast approaching. And uh his time, uh his earthly ministry is just uh a few weeks left at the most, just a short time left of his ministry. It's winding down. Uh if you would, look over in chapter 9, just to Point that out to you. Chapter 9. And notice with me, verse 51 has a statement here and tells us that uh he is making his way to Jerusalem. He is making his way to the time of his betrayal His unjust condemnation by the fake jury there, the fake court, and then his crucifixions. In Luke chapter 9, verse 51. Notice what the Bible says. It came to pass When the time was come that he should be received up, that's his crucifixion, his ultimate ascension, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. So Jesus has a short time left here on planet Earth. He has a short time left to accomplish those things he intends to accomplish before his crucifixion, burial, resurrection, and ascension. And uh it appears to me, as I'm studying this passage, it appears to me that he is trying in these last days, this little time he has left He is trying to reach as many people as he possibly can with the message of the gospel, with the gospel of the kingdom. He's trying to reach as many people. He's trying to cover as much ground as he possibly can. And he's sending disciples out. We'll look at this in a little bit. Not just him going to the cities, but he's sending his disciples out, trying to reach as many people as we can. Now, much of these last six months of Jesus' ministry was spent in what G. Campbell Morgan, a great commentator, said are neglected areas. Now I got looking what Dr. G. Campbell Morgan had to say about this, and he pointed some interesting things out. The areas that Jesus went to during his ministry, he broke them down into four areas. One would have been Jerusalem and Judea. That would have been for the Jews, that would have been their home area. That was where the vast majority of the Jews lived. It was where they felt comfortable. It's where their people were. The ma the vast majority of the synagogues and their places of worship, of course the temple there in Jerusalem. And so that would have been, for you and I, that would have been maybe like here, Oakland and Garrett County. This is our home. As I said, we traveled last week and we drove back fifteen hours on Thurs on Tuesday. We left out there early, got back here Tuesday night. And I tell you when we pulled into town And we got into house, yeah you ever say this boy, it sure is good to be home. Anyone know you ever say that? And then we got church Wednesday night and it was like, oh, it sure is good to be back at Mountain Lake That was kind of the area Jerusalem, Judea was for the Jews. That was home. That's where you had most of the scriptures. That was the solid home area. And then he suggested there was an and Jesus ministered in those areas. By the way, interesting enough, that's where he took the most opposition. That's where they gave him the hardest time. That's where he was crucified. They're in hometown, so to speak. There was another area that Jesus would minister in, and that was Samaria. Anybody here ever hear of Samaria? Samaria was an area north of Jerusalem and Judea, so area north, and the Jews' attitude towards the Samaritans was hostility. There was great tension. We talk about racial tension. There is tension between the Samaritans and the Jews They they were very hostile to each other. But nevertheless, Jesus would make his way into Samaria and he would minister. There's a woman saved there. And he had a ministry there among those who the Jews despised. Then G. K. M. O'Morgan pointed out that Jesus would spend some time even north of Samaria, which was Galilea. Now, the people that lived in Galilea were hated by the Jews. They would refer to them as the Galilean Gentiles, the Galilean Gentile dogs. They despised them up there. And Jesus would go up and he'd minister up there. He'd spend a fair bit of time up among in that area there. But then there was another area, and that's where he's at here, I believe. And that was the area what's referred to as the other side of Jordan. And that was kind of out of the Jewish realm. And the Jews didn't really hate the people over there. It was pretty much this. They just didn't care about them. They had no interest in them whatsoever. They were unconcerned. Let me put it this way: God's people had little or no concern for the people on the other side of Jordan. You know what I found out, studying scripture and being in ministry all these years, you know what I found out? I found out a lot of times that the people that others care little about The Lord cares deeply about. The Lord cares deeply about. Sometimes it's those who society rejects Sometimes it's those who the society looks down on and thinks that they're of little or no worth. I think many times those are the ones that God looks on and says, oh, I love them dearly. I love them dearly. I have a preacher friend, acquaintance, a little more than acquaintance friend. He pastors down in Mexico City, Mexico. He told his story about how he was saved. He was from California, and he was what we would call maybe an outcast of society. He lived in a car. He just kind of wandered place to place, uh unconcerned by the world, unloved by the world, and just a teenage boy, an older teenage boy, maybe in his early twenties Somebody came across, a soul winner came across and shared with him the message of Jesus Christ, and Kevin got saved. And God got a hold of him and transformed his life, and he is pastoring one of the largest churches in the world. In Mexico City, God using them to reach tens of thousands of people. When I was studying these people on the other side of Jordan who the Jews and the people of God had little or no concern, Concerned with they didn't interact with them, they were just not even a part of the equation. But yet Jesus Christ would go over there. And he would reach those people and he'd talk to those people. What I'm trying to say is this God cares about every single person. There are countries in this world that have little or no gospel There are nations that you and I never think about. Somebody asks you about it, say, well, I really don't. That's no concern of mine, that country Those people in some city, I remember when Brother Nathan Ring, our missionary down in southern Brazil, was with us, and I was just talking with them this week He's down in southern Brazil. When he was presenting his work, there are cities in southern Brazil with millions of people, cities that you and I never heard of. You and I never gave a thought of. You and I never even aware of them. But you know what? Our God in heaven is very acutely aware of every single person in that city, and he loves them very dearly. Our God loves and cares for every single person in this old world. I don't know about you, but that tells me we've got a great God. We've got a great God. I don't know who I'm talking to this morning. I might be talking to somebody And you say, preacher, I'm at the point in my life where I just feel like there's nobody in this world that cares about me. I'm at the point in my life where it just seems like I'm forgotten, nobody thinks about me, I'm just kind of left on the shelf I'm here to tell you whether that's true about mankind or not. I can't answer, but I can tell you this. Our God, our Savior, the one who created you and gave you your light, loves and cares for you very, very much. Jesus Christ would go into this area on the other side of Jordan. There's very few synagogues there. So I understand it. I studied it. They had little access to God's word. And again, there was little or no concern on the part of God's people for these people on the other side of Jordan And yet Jesus had a heart and a compassion for these dear folks. I want to make a statement as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I want to clarify something very, very, I want to make something very, very clear right at the start of before we even start our missions conference, and that is this. The primary reason that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church exists is to get the gospel of Jesus Christ to every single person on this planet. The smallest villages, the rich and poor, the educated, uneducated, those that speak English, those that speak other languages, every culture Our primary purpose is to get the gospel to every single person in this world. To get the gospel to as many people as we possibly can in our immediate area My concern is that every single person lives in Garrett County, hears the gospel, and has an opportunity to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. For all these years we've been doing everything we can. We're running buses now, every direction we possibly can. They got the radio broadcast gone out We're trying to put in full-page ads in the newspaper so that every single person, we go out every week knocking on doors, door to door, neighborhoods, going through, every house. Dr. Lee Robertson taught me something years ago when I was down in Chattanooga. He said, whenever you're out visiting as a pastor He said, always look above the stores downtown and the two and three story, look above. He says, there'll be little houses. There's little apartments, little back alleys. He says, don't you neglect the little back alleys and the upstairs apartments in your city You know, I started paying attention. You know what? I notice downtown Oakland, there'll be stores all over down there, and you look above and you'll see some windows up there with curtains. That'll be a little side door. I made the effort all these years to try and knock on those doors, try and somehow get in there. I found apartments down there up There'll be two, three apartments people live. In fact, just a couple years ago, I was able to lead a man to the Lord downtown Oakland in this little back apartment down near the um pet store down there. Little apartment up above a store. And so our responsibility is to get the gospel to everybody we possibly can here in our community, then extended area out throughout our region. We haven't said much about this, but Pastor Matt is working on a project, a very ambitious project, and I am 100% for it. I think we're going to be able to pull it off He wants to get a Roman salvation booklet in every home in the state of Maryland. How many people agree with me? That's a little ambitious. Yeah, we're a little church out here in the but he's got a plan and he's getting other churches on board getting the special ones printed up and it's gonna be all here's his plan. I'm spilling the beans here on him, you might get mad at me Nobody tell him that I told you, all right? Don't tell him. Courtney, don't tell him, I told you. But his plan is to have teenagers do all of it How about that? Now I'm going to get I think I'm a teenager. I'm going to get in on that. But uh that's that's our responsibility as a church. You get the gospel to every person. By the way, if you're here or you're listening in And you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven. You know, our responsibility is to be able to share with you how you can know for sure you're saved, sins are forgiven, trust Christ, go on your way to heaven. Now it's up to you whether you accept it or reject it. But our responsibility is to give it to every single person. And then, not just our area, not just our local town, not just our region, but into all the world, the regions beyond, places that had little or no witness. Countries and cities that have little or no churches, little or no word of God. I read a figure, I forget what the number is, but it's in the thousands. Of languages in this world that have no portion of our scriptures in their language. I don't know about you, but I say, shame on us as Christians. That there would be one language in the world that does not have the Word of God in their language. And so that's our responsibility. Here's my statement. The primary reason this church exists here with all these buildings, our budget and our programs, our primary reason It's to get the gospel to every single person in this world. And that's what we've got to focus on. That must be our priority all through the year. Here locally. And then around the world. And those we can't get those we can't reach ourselves, we commit ourselves, do everything we can to support those who can and do go to others. You follow what I'm saying I've said this before, and it's true. I just talked yesterday. My wife and I talked about it yesterday. I was in Bible college. I'd hear preaching from missionaries and testament missionaries, and my heart was stirred. And I said, God, I want to go. I'm a 25, 26-year-old young man. Said, God, I'll go. I want to go to these countries and I'll share the gospel. Use me. And it seemed like every time I would give myself and I talk contacted mission agencies and and uh talked to missionaries and how can I go, and it seemed like every time the door was shut, the door was shut, the door was shut I got youth pastor, and then in youth evangelism, then came here pastoring. I said, Lord, I'm willing to go if you'll if it's your will, you'll call me. And it's like, God, I just never had an open door Back in 1999, a church sent Kathy and I down to the Dominican Republic with Dr. Pat Creed, and I preached. They had a mission uh conference for the missionaries through the Caribbean, and I preached the final message that night. And I preached my heart out to get people saved and get the gospel to everybody. And I don't know if God spoke to anybody el anyone else's heart in that meeting. And there was a good crowd of missionaries, their families, and local church folk. When I was done preaching, I knelt an altar. I said, God, I will go. Here I am. Send me. It's like God said, nope, I have a place for you in Oakland. God would never open that door. And I made a commitment to the Lord years ago and I renewed it. I said, Lord, if I can't go to the mission field, then I will do everything I possibly can to support and encourage and help those that can go. I'll do everything I can to get behind them and make it possible for them to go That's the purpose for our existence. Reach the people in our area as much as we possibly can. And then areas that we cannot personally go, we support those who can We pray for them. We make give our resources to enable them to go. To enable them to go. I have a statement. I'd like to, I want to encourage you, maybe jot this down. I don't know if it's that profound or not. To me it is This is the statement I wrote in my notes, and I want to share with you. The level of my commitment to evangelism and world missions. Is a clear indicator of the strength of my biblical convictions. Now let me say that again. The level of my commitment to missions Is a clear indicator of the strength of my biblical convictions. Now let me explain what I mean by that. I believe that old book right there is God's holy word. I believe that is God's word from him to you and I. And that old Bible, that Bible teaches me that there is a judgment upon sin. That we are all sinners and God our holy God, there is a judgment upon sin And that judgment is separation from God for all eternity in a horrific place That Jesus Christ described as hell. And he went to some pretty graphic descriptions. Now, if I believe that book, And if I believe what it teaches about sin and God's judgment on sin, then I need to do something about that. I need to act on that. That same book teaches me there's only one way to find forgiveness of sin. There's only one way to avoid the judgment of God on a person's sin, and that is through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Is anybody with me this morning? That's the only way to be saved. Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Listen to this statement: no man cometh unto the Father, but By me. Nobody finds forgiveness of sins outside of the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. We've said this over and over and over. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church can't save one soul. We can't forgive anyone's sin. We cannot bestow upon one person eternal life. But I'll tell you what we can do. We can point people to the only one who can, and that's Jesus Christ. Now getting back to my statement, That book teaches that we're sinners. There's a judgment on sin. That judgment is eternal. Only Jesus Christ can save us from that judgment. Now, if I believe that The level of my conviction that that is true is going to be reflected in my commitment The world missions, getting that message out. Does any does I don't know, that struck me. When I wrote that down, I thought, man, uh that's it. That's it. I hate to say this. In fact, I started writing my notes and then I waited. I'm old school. I still use white out. Anybody here remember what whiteout is? Uh one lady secretary is working on uh on her computer and when she was done the next one came by and she had whiteout on the screen. She was waiting out what she had typed on this. That'd be me. I started to write this down in my notes and then uh I wired out and said, no, I'm not gonna say it. I'm gonna say it I'm afraid the average Christian, I'm just being honest, I'm afraid the average Christian has little or no concern about the salvation of the lost. I think we talk about it. I think we sing about it. We listen to sermons about it. But how many of us as disciples of Jesus Christ are actually involved? And committed to getting the gospel to the lost. Now, I'd like to thank our church as an exception. But I'm telling you, I've been around enough. I get and preach in some churches, and I mean hard stripe, independent fundamental Baptist. I I get in there and I get the impression that World Missions is not very high on their priority list. Oh, they'll have a few missionaries on the side. They'll give a little bit of money out of the budget towards missions, maybe soothe their conscience a little bit, but as far as being the driving purpose I see that's lacking in so many churches and so many Christians. And when reality is, if we believe that book It doesn't affect us in any other way. It ought to affect us in reaching the loss for Christ. Amen or not. I believe that's true. I believe that's true. And so Jesus would go to these regions beyond, and that's where he's at here. When he makes this statement, he sends out these 70. Here's my three thoughts, real quick. We got a couple kids getting baptized, so I want to get real quick here. Number one, I put this out. I want you to notice in verse number one, the appointment of the disciples. Look at verse number one of Luke chapter 10. And after these things the Lord appointed other seventy also, and sent them. Two and two, before his face, into every city and place whether he himself would come. So he makes this appointment. He appoints these seventy. I got looking up that word appointment, and it means this: to place to be placed into a position of responsibility. To be given a responsibility. So he gets these 70 disciples And he says, I am appointing you to go ahead of me and go into these cities and all these places. I'm giving you the responsibility to take this message of myself into these areas. Go ahead of me. You have a responsibility. You've been given this responsibility. And so the appointment of these disciples. Now I got thinking about this What does Jesus Christ do with disciples? He's gathering up disciples around him. What do you do with them? What do you do with his disciples? Well, did they just sit around and have Lord's Supper all the time? No. Did they uh uh just walk around and you know do miracles and stuff? No. He did all that What does he do with disciples? I boil it down to two things Jesus did with the disciples. Number one, he trained them how to serve God. He discipled them. Read uh the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5, 6, and 7. He's training them, teaching them how to live for God and serve God. So the first thing he did, he spent some time training them, and then the second thing he did, which was his ultimate goal, was what? Send them out. Send them out. Disciples, what does Jesus do with disciples? He trains them and sends them out. And sends them out and sends them out. And so they are given this appointment, this responsibility to be sent out and proclaim the message of Christ. Now, look with me. I hope you're hanging in here with me. Look with me in chapter 9 and verse 1 and 2. Luke chapter 9, look at verse 1. He says, He called his twelve disciples together. And gave them power and authority over devil, over all devils, and to cure diseases. Look at this, look at verse 2. And he sent them, there it is. To preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. And then he goes on, he gives them instructions. Here he is sending out twelve disciples. How many did he send out in chapter 10 and verse 2? 70. So what's the difference? Here's my take. I believe this 12 that he sends out in chapter 9, this 12, this is an elite group. These are the twelve that are in the inner circle. They are going to, yeah, they're the SEAL team. These are the ones that are going to become apostles. Of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is going to use them to lay the foundation, to lay the groundwork for the New Testament church. This is an elite group he's sending out. Now they're doing basically the same thing the other 70 do. But it's a different group. You and I are not apostles. I'm not apostles. I'm a pastor of a church. I'm not apostles. By the way, there are no apostles in the world today. I'm not trying to pick a fight with anybody. I'm not trying to fuss with any other denominations or anything. I'm simply saying, the Bible is very clear, one of the qualifications to be an apostle is you had to have seen personally the resurrected Lord Jesus Christ. And I don't know anybody that's that that's that old. I know some old people, but nobody that old. Present company is excluded from the old people. But uh But the fact of the matter is, this was an elite group. These are the twelve that were the inner circle of Jesus Christ who he trained. And then they went out after his ascension and they laid the groundwork for the New Testament church. Now in chapter 10, he has a 70. Now I may be I may be stepping out a little bit on this But I look at this 70 and chapter 10. These are not an elite group of disciples. I look at this 70 here in chapter 10 and verse 2 and verse 1 and 2 and I see these 70 disciples as, this is my term, all right, so as run-of-the-mill disciples. Just your everyday average disciple. In fact, one of the commentators suggested that these 70 disciples, many of them, were very new believers They hadn't been saved very long. One of them suggested that a lot of these 70 disciples were probably not very strong in their faith at this point. They had just come to know Christ. They had just received Him. They had just accepted Him as their personal Savior. And now Jesus is taking them with minimal amount of training. And he is sending them out with a responsibility, an appointment to carry out this message that he wanted them to take out. Just run of the mill, disciples, just your everyday disciples, new believers, some not very strong in the faith. And I thought this: that is the category that perhaps I would fall into. Not especially gifted in any special way, not given any kind of special elite status as like an apostle. Just a disciple of Jesus, but nevertheless, now get this, nevertheless, they still had a responsibility in this matter of getting the gospel. out into all the world. You follow where I'm going with this? 70 disciples calls them together. Alright, you guys, here's your appointment. Here's your responsibility You say, preacher, I'm just an average church member here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I haven't been to Bible college. I wouldn't have I'd go to maybe some of you have been in Bible Institute. By the way, y'all ought to be in Bible Institute But uh I'm not bad. I don't know. Is there anything I can do is for world missions? Yeah Jesus called every run of the mill, every a uh uh run of the mill, everyday disciple, and said, Uh, you've got a part in this You've got a part in this role of getting the gospel everywhere. So we have this appointment of the disciples. Every follower of Jesus Christ has been given a responsibility to reach the world with the gospel. To reach the world with the gospel. You say, how do I do that? How can I, just an average, just uh I'm a Christian, I'm saved, I love the Lord, I'm trying to live for Him best I can. What can I do? Oh, I tell you, we can pray This coming week, we're going to be challenged in our conference, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday night, next, Sunday. We're going to be challenged. We're going to be instructed how every one of us can have a part. And getting the gospel out, supporting those who are going. Number one, I noticed the appointment of these disciples. Number two, real quickly, I noticed the predicament of the harvest. Come with me here to verse 2 of chapter 10. He said, Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great. But the what? Labors are few. Labors are few. I used the word predicament, and I thought, I wonder if that means what I think it means. So I looked it up in Webster's. I found out it means this, and it means what I thought it meant, this, an unpleasant or a troublesome situation. An unpleasant or a troublesome situation. Anybody here ever make this statement? Boy, I've gotten myself into a predicament. Anybody here ever make- I mean, not just today, at some point in your life, huh? Oh, what a predicament. Oh, what a predicament we're in. An unpleasant or disturbing situation. Jesus made a statement here that is a little unpleasant. To be honest with you, it's somewhat disturbing. He says the harvest is what? Great. What's the harvest? The harvest is folks that need to be saved. Unsaved people in this world by the tens of hundreds of millions, the harvest is great. I looked up that word great. It has two ideas behind it. Number one, great in volume, in size. There are so many people in this world that have never heard of Christ. There are so many people in this world that are unsaved. The harvest of souls for the Lord Jesus Christ is incomprehensible in the volume of people That need to be saved. I wonder, you ever any any any of y'all ever look and watch a back when they used to have big crowds at stadiums and stuff and see that whole crowd? Do you ever ask yourself this? I wonder how many of those people are saved. We went up to a WBU game a couple years ago and the place was packed. And uh we're sitting there, I looked out and I thought, I wonder if the rapture took place. If it would even be noticed in this great crowd. And then you think of countries, Kazakhstan, the Middle East, have little or no witness All those people lost in their sins, unsaved, dying, their sins in the eternity separated from God. Jesus said the harvest is great. Number of people that need the gospel. But that word great also has another aspect to it. It has the idea of urgency. Not just volume, but it's urgency. He's using the illustration of a harvest. What happens? What happens if the fruit or the grain is out there and it's not harvested in time? What happens? It rots. It rots. I understand, particularly in the Middle East, we were just the Middle West, we were out there in these huge fields through Illinois and out in Nebraska, where the wade's at. Huge fields. And I understand that when that harvest comes on, those farmers band together because it's urgent you get that in. Before that harvest goes bad. And they will work 24-7 big lights on those tractors and they'll run them day and night and get that harvest in before it's too late. Before it's too late. And I thought about this world, and people today around the world are going to go out into eternity while I'm speaking. Into eternity, a Christeless eternity. The urgency of getting the gospel to people is overwhelming. So we have this predicament This disturbing statement, this unpleasant statement the Lord makes, He says there's so many people without the gospel, there's so many unsaved people that are, and it's urgent. But then he makes another statement. The harvest is great, but the laborers are what? Few. I got looking that up, and it word few means few in number. It's not a lot of them. Compared to the number of people who need the gospel, the number who are working to get the gospel to them. It's few. It's few. Little in number, but it also has the idea, and this is one that bothers me the most. Few in concern. That word few also has the idea of intensity or concern. Little or no concern. Little or no concern. We walk by them every day. Go to the market, get gas, downtown. We walk by people in sin, don't know Christ. Yet so little concern. So little concern. This isn't the only time the Lord pointed this out in Matthew chapter nine. If we had time we'd go there, but Matthew chapter nine, verse thirty-six-thirty-seven Jesus said, the Bible says when he, Jesus, saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they were sheep without a shepherd. And he said, the harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few. I did a little research. I found out there are 3. 14 billion people in the world that never heard the name of Jesus. Do you get that? 3. 14 billion never heard the name of Jesus. And the name of Jesus is the only name whereby we must be saved. And they never heard of it. Never heard of it. I found that 76%, this was a study of Bible-believing mission agencies. 76% of all missionaries go to places that already have churches and already have the Bible in their language. Now, I'm not faulting someone. They need to go where God calls them. But if you got one 3. 14 billion people never heard the name of Jesus, Looks like to me that would be high priority getting missionaries to those places. Amen or not. But 76% of those who do go go to places where there's already churches There's already scriptures in their language. Now again, I'm not trying to fault those who go, but they said this: 0. 37%. 0. 37% Go to places that have no Bible and have no churches. The overwhelming minority of laborers Are going to the places where there's an overwhelming majority of need. Overwhelming majority of need. When we get to the point that we really believe the Bible, And we see the world the way Jesus sees it, missions becomes a priority. And I end with this. Number three, I want us to notice the prayer requests for labors. The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few. And I circled that next word in bold red ink. Pray, ye the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth laborers. Word laborers air means workers, ones who get involved Investing themselves, investing their time, energy, and resources and getting that harvest in Jesus often told his disciples to pray. Sometimes he told them how to pray. But here he tells us what to pray for. He tells us to pray for what? Laborers. Laborers. We preach about world missions. We sing about world missions. We read books and read prayer letters about world missions. We have conferences about world missions. But you know what this world needs? World needs missionaries. This world needs labors. Somebody will not just sing about it, not just talk about it, not just study about it. Somebody actually goes and just starts telling them how to get saved. I believe in Siberia. I don't even know what the city's in Siberia. Does anybody here know the name of a city in Siberia? I don't. You know there's cities with million plus people in Siberia? Hundreds of thousands? I'm convinced you pick any city you want out of Siberia. And somebody goes there with a Bible in their language and sits down with people, there would be people today who would trust Christ and be saved from sin and hell if somebody would just come and share that message with them. I believe that with all my heart. And you name any city, you name any country in the world, if somebody would just go People would get saved. Churches could be built. Scriptures could be translated. Souls would be saved. Just go. The Lord said, pray. Pray that God will send forth labor. Our role in missions begins with prayer to God for labor. Say, preacher, what can I do? I'm just a run-of-the-mill disciple. I'm just a member of a church in Oakland, Maryland. I'll tell you what we can do. We can pray God, raise up people. Use me however you see fit. I've known people that tried to quit smoking and they couldn't quit smoking. They couldn't quit smoking. And the doctor comes and says, I found a spot on your lung. If you don't quit smoking, that's going to spread, it's going to kill you. You know what? Suddenly they're motivated to what? Smoking. You know what they needed? They needed motivation They needed something to stir him and motivate him. A number of years ago, um the doc I was I was wasn't feeling well. I got real faint on the platform here a number of times. I almost fell over Something wasn't right. I went to the doctor and did a bunch of tests and everything and he said uh you're pre-diabetic. And he says, You've got to lose weight or it's gonna be bad. Now you wouldn't never know it now, but I lost forty pounds in six months. I've gained it back, but um I lost my motivation there somewhere. But man, I tell you, that that was a wake-up call. That rattled me And I got motivated. I was so careful. And I knocked that weight off and kept it off for a while. And I thought of this when I was studying this message. I thought, you know what we need God to do as a church? We need God to motivate us. To stir us to action, to get involved, be a part of world missions, whether it's through supporting and praying or going ourselves. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to stir us and help us to see our responsibility as individuals and as a church. To do all we can to get the gospel into all the world. I wonder how many this morning say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. And you join me and say, preacher, I'm going to pray that God stirs my heart. And God gives me that motivation to do all I can. To get the gospel to everybody in this world, one way or another. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, that's what I want. I want God to stir me and help me. God bless you. Hands all around Let me ask this question. Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I'm a disciple, I'm saved, but I'm not living for God like I should I know if God's going to be able to use me, there's some adjustments that need to be made in my Christian life. Maybe some sin needs to be dealt with. Some areas need to be realigned. Priorities. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me as a Christian. I'll get my life lined up. I'll be where I ought to be so God can use me. Is there any like that? Preacher, I know there's areas need work. God bless you. Any hands, all around. Another question, is there any here this morning? Say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved. You say, I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to die in my sins. I I want to know for sure that God has forgiven me and I have eternal life. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I just need that settled in my heart and mind. Is there any at all? I want to know that Christ has saved me. How about it? Any at all? Now, one last statement. I'm going to issue a call to our church. That maybe this morning we commit ourselves at an old altar to pray that God would send forth laborers. And that he would use our conference this week to stir us. Calling on our church folk to pray that this morning. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.