They have served the Lord as missionaries over in North Africa, I believe I'm correct, sixteen years. Was that correct that you were over there? And uh 38th year with VIMI, 16 years in North Africa, correct? And uh used of God in a tremendous way. And um I told the church the other week, a week or so ago that uh working with and winning Muslims to the Lord back before Muslims were popular and uh you didn't hear a whole lot about it back in years going by not like now, and uh but faithfully served the Lord and um now as African director for BIMI, been with him 30-some years, doing a great job And I tell you, I think of uh we were driving back from the airport and he was sharing different things. And uh I think of where Paul says that uh Paul says he has the burden of all the churches uh on his heart and shoulders. And I think of Brother Bragg is working with all the missionaries through BIMI in Africa, helping them face challenges and difficulties and victories and uh assisting the churches and just a tremendous responsibility, doing a tremendous job. Everyone I talk to that knows Brother Bragg has the utmost respect for him and his commitment to the Lord and what God is doing. We truly have uh heroes of the faith with us this week with Dr. and Mrs. Bragg. Mrs. Bragg has written a book back there of her experience uh facing the call of God to leave America, go to Africa, entirely different culture, surrendering to that call And then what God did in her life as she went through that. It is a powerful, powerful book. And um she has them back there. She's going to be giving her testimony this evening and sharing some of those things with us. And so it's going to be a fascinating week. I'm thrilled that he was willing to come a few days early. And I know that puts a crimp on his schedule. You know, it pulls another weekend out of what he could be doing and could be home. And that means the world to me that he was come and help us. So let's get our Bibles out. And before I do that, I failed to mention we have authentic Indian dress here in Andrea Mill. is wearing she was in India in a wedding in India and I wanted to have her parade around like a pageant type thing, but she refused But uh go and see her after the service. It's it's pretty neato. But Brother Bragg's with us now. Let's get our Bibles out. Ask the Lord to stir our hearts as he preaches. Come on, brother You pray for him, he's getting a little old. After that introduction I'm I was re getting real excited about what I was gonna say until he said that I'm telling you the truth. Uh well I'm I'm here this week among I know Some real dignified uh hillbillies. And uh I am still an Ozark Mountain Hillbilly preacher And uh all he said was, I don't know what he said all that for, uh uh, but I like it anyway. Uh but we're gonna have a good time this week and Really this is uh I hope gonna be kind of a vacation because this last week my daughter had surgery on her jaw Friday and so this has been a this last week's been a kind of a madhouse and then When I was here last time, I was getting ready for knee replacement surgery on my right knee, and this week I kind of blew my left knee out And so uh I took I don't know how many pain pills and stuff before I came to church this morning. And so if I get off into tongues, uh praise God, you just know that it's the medicine And when he was talking about tongues a while ago he was wrong on tongues. There is uh the gift of tongues and uh I may get into that this morning. I don't know. I hope you're uh understand I'm joking. Uh the the gift of tongues came to us uh twelve hours a day for over a year and that's how we got the gift of tongues. It was a learned language. Your faith promise card. I want you to put that in your Bible and pray about it this week. And if you were here for Sunday school, you could not have had a clear presentation of faith promise The thing I like about faith promise, it's you and God. It's me and God. It's not the church. It's not the pastor. And and I say this when someone asks me, well, how much should I give to faith promise? And I say, well, that's totally between you and God. And when he tells you what to give, uh, it'll usually scare you to death Uh I heard about a man last week in the conference I was in and down in Atlanta and uh he came up to the pastor and told him what he was going to give and he said, Pastor, I can't figure this in my budget, it's ridiculous And he said, I'm just going to step out and see what happens. And the next morning, that was Fri Sunday night, next morning he went into to to his work and he had got a raise that would cover that whole faith promise God's going to provide, and if he doesn't, then this whole thing that we're doing this week's a joke and it's a lie And hey, God doesn't lie, but he wants you to take another step out there, just a little bit farther, on faith, and there's no place here for your name Uh like I said, it's just uh we put the amount down so that the budget can be fixed for the next year, whether you have to whether you've got money to take on new missionaries Or you may have to drop some. That would be that would be sad. I don't see that happening. And so uh really the emphasis this morning on this money This is a bad time to start preaching to Baptists on Monday on Sunday morning because uh you know you can kill a Baptist by shooting him in the hip pocket with a BB gun. Uh you've heard me say that before Uh but this morning I I I may uh say a little bit about money, but uh I I I've got some things, a lot of things to share with you this week and maybe even a new missionary story or two Uh I've had some things happen. Uh my last trip to Uganda was something else. But uh we'll get into that later on in the week. And uh I want you to turn your Bibles this morning to the book of Philippians The book of Philippians, if you want to be a good pastor, a good preacher, good soul winner, good Sunday school teacher, regardless of what it is, you've got to study the writings of Paul And you know the thing that you get out of Philippians from the very start is Paul's love for his church. And you know, it always blesses me, just like yesterday riding across uh from Pittsburgh to here with your pastor. I don't know how many times he said it. I love it. He said I love my church. He said I love where God put me. I don't care about being with a pastor uh that's always down on his people, down on his church, and down on the deacons. I don't have any I I don't have any use to be around a pastor like that But thank God you've got one that cares about you and loves you. And I'll tell you, some of you are harder to love than others. Amen. Come on, smile. Hey uh it's going to get worse as the week goes on, folks. I'll tell you right now Uh I'm I'm a little bit plain in my preaching and the things that I'm seeing going on across this country today, uh uh well anyway, we'll get there later on the week when I get you kind of softened up a little bit Uh but the book of Philippians is a precious book, a precious mission book. And you know if I went through all these chapters, there's so many sermons in each Each chapter. I just want to go to chapter 4, and we're going to read some verses, and then I'm going to try to take you over to the book of Leviticus. And the book of Genesis, and maybe we'll get out of here in time to beat the Methodists to the restaurant. I don't know. Father, we thank you for this day. We thank you for this time And for this special week that you've given this church to set aside to decide the fate of the heathen man around the world. And Father, this week is the most important week, as the pastor has already said, on the calendar for this church this year. And so, Father, just bless in a special time. Lord, we're just a bunch of sinners that you have saved by your wonderful grace, and you snatched us out of the fiery furnace. And Lord, you've given us a place to serve here on this earth. And so, Lord, we praise you this morning for life full and free in Jesus Christ. We pray that you'd fill us with the power of your Holy Spirit. May this day be a great day. And we love you, Lord, and we praise you for what you're going to do. In His precious name we pray. Amen. It says in verse 10, let's read verse 1 of chapter 4. Paul's provision is the title of this chapter. It says, Therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved and long for, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord Here's what Paul thinks about his church and his people. They were his joy and his crown. Now it says rejoice two times in verse 4. Fourteen times you'll find that little word rejoice or joy in the book of Philippians. I call it the joy book because that phrase is used so much, and yet we find Paul the apostle, the writer, in jail. He's in jail. He's going through difficult times. And sometimes, you know, our circumstances more control us than we control our circumstances. That's not the case with the Apostle Paul, because he is going to serve God regardless of what the circumstances are. And you know that's I I've I've not arrived there. I'm gonna be honest with you. Uh I don't get if I was in jail, I don't think I'd be too excited about it But uh he says here in chapter one that him being incarcerated in jail uh was for the benefit uh of the men of God that that was serving him and working with him And so we go on in in uh verse chapter four, uh, and let's look at verse nine Those things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do, and the God of peace shall be with you. And verses seven and eight he talks about those things that are true and honest and pure and lovely and of good report. Uh here's some things that that Paul has driven down, he's given to his men, he's practiced them in his life, and uh now he's putting them to use. Verse ten, but I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at the last your care of me hath flourished, flourished again wherein you were also careful, but you lacked opportunity Not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am, even Maryland, therewith to be content. Amen. Uh my wife has this phrase that she uses all the time. Bloom where you're planted. Wherever you're at, praise God for where He's put you. You may not understand why you're where you're at. But praise God that He's allowed you to be there and get involved in something for God's service. Not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned. This is 20 years after Paul's salvation, and he's still learning things. Hey, I want to tell you something, when I first went to the mission field out of Bible college, I thought I knew just about everything. Now at sixty-eight years old and forty-one years of preaching, I'm not sure I know very much at all. But we know this, that God in his timing is going to use every circumstance and every place that you've ever been for his glory if you'll let him Now, verse twelve, I've I know both how to be abased, and I know how to abound everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. That means you, that means me, as the pastor explains faith promise this morning. Hey, uh the missionary cannot go unless the church, the local church, sends him That means that you in your giving and in your praying are just as important as the missionary who goes It's a partnership, we're working together, and without you we can't go. Without you it's a it's an impossibility. And without you getting involved in it We're outside of God's plan because this is the way God put it down. And by the way, he would not have given us the Great Commission If he had not given us a plan and a program to carry that program to carry it out. And praise God, that means all of us together uh can get involved in this thing of faith promise missions. And I mean from the youngest to the very oldest. But that's not my message this morning. Paul had a positive faith attitude, even though they were uh he was in jail. And you remember Lydia, she was a member of this church uh whose heart the Lord opened, the seller of purple, the the business lady, she was there, there was a demon-possessed girl, there was a jailer, there was a cross-section of humanity in this church, and they were not uh a wealthy church. They were not a rich church. All the time, well if we just had uh a few millionaires in our church we could really do well uh for the Lord in faith pro No you wouldn't. No you wouldn't. Hey if you won't give the fifty dollars you've got in your bill full right now, uh what makes you think you'd give a half a million if you had it? You wouldn't My brother-in-law when we was on the field, he'd get those readers digest things all the time because our mail came to his box and he'd fill them out and send them in and I said, What would you do if you if you won If you won that million dollars, he said, well he said uh I would be miserable in a better section of town. That's what that's what he put how he put it But it's not through the lottery, it's not through cake sales, bake sales, it's God's people obeying him that's going to get the job done. These people were willing to suffer, they were willing to serve, and they were willing to sacrifice. Now look what it says in verse 15. Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only, gives the idea that this was the only church. that Paul had support in him. And by the way, when we read a couple of more verses, we'll find that Epaphroditus in chapter 3 Perhaps a deacon, perhaps a pastor of that church was bringing Paul some kind of a gift, maybe his support check. I don't know. But we'll get into that in a minute. But it says that Epaphroditus was sick nigh unto death, and yet he was concerned about Paul in jail and his needs That is the kind of church every missionary is looking for to support him. Paul is the kind of missionary that every church is wanting to support Now look at this. Not that I desire a gift, verse 17, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. But I have all and abound. I am full, having received of epaphroditus, whatever the gift was. He says, the things which were sent from you, an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. But my God shall supply all your needs. And I've probably shared this with you before. You've got to get a hold of this principle. But my God shall supply all your needs, local church. According to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. Hey, I want to tell you something. We quote that verse every day as God supplies our personal needs. But this in context is talking about the cooperate body of the local church, and he's saying, local church, as long as you are Doing what I command you to do concerning uh missions, then I am going to take care of the church Hey, I want to tell you something. I've been in uh churches that was in building programs and had to drop their missionaries to do their building. It's just the opposite. If you want to build, hey I want to tell you something, tell me what you're doing for missions. And uh I'll tell you where you are in your building program. You can't drop what God has commanded, what God uh has closest to his heart, and expect God to bless you in other areas Hey, it's not gonna happen. But it said whatever it was here, it says it was an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable Well pleasing to God. And in the Old Testament, there's some uh verses that use that same phrase, an odor of a sweet smell. And it's talking about an altar. We know that concerning an altar, there has to be a sacrifice Number two, there has to be some dedication. Number three, there has to be a fire. There can be no sacrifice with a fire. All of us know that have been saved any length of time at all, that sometimes the fire goes out. Now in Missouri, where I'm from, I'm famous for fires We had the dozers come in and I have about 30 acres. We, I mean to tell you what, it was a pile of brush about as b half as big as this auditorium The wind was blowing a little bit one day. I knew that it was too wet to burn, and so I went up there and just didn't have anybody with me, threw a match into that and walked off Boy, in a few minutes I had I had a flame at least fifty feet high, and the wind was blowing towards this row of houses. And I said, Lord, here it is. I said, I've lit this fire, and I'm going to burn down my whole neighborhood before this thing's over. And I said, Lord, And I did. I'm telling you the truth, I'm dying or lying, one of the two. Hey, I asked the I said, Lord, you did it in the Bible I said, change the direction of this wind so it'll go the other way. And I you know that hedge that we was burning. Uh it's the kind of wood that when it gets hot, it shoots out little Roman candles all over the place And so I'm just doing my dance and I'm stomping out all these little uh fires that just going everywhere and they were starting quicker than I could get them out. And finally, it did. The wind shifted, burnt that pile down to a powder. Three days later I went out there and some of the brush was kind of around the side and so uh I walked across that spot and and then I started throwing limbs in there. I started throwing limbs on that burnt spot, and I was going to relight it and finish burning them up. About two hours later, I looked back and there was a little plume of smoke. Another little bit of time, and I mean that fire was going again. That ground was so hot from that big fire that there you didn't see the flame, but it was there. It was there. Paul told Timothy in 1 Timothy, he said, stir up the gift of God that's within you. Hey, I want to tell you something. There's some of us sitting here this morning that used to be on fire for God. Now we come to church and really we're ready to Throw in the Tao proverb. We're here this morning because someone invited us. Uh we're we're here because we're supposed to be here on Sunday morning, but the fire has gone out in our lives, in our soul winning, and in our praying, and in our giving, and we wonder why the churches are in decline all across the country Because the fire's gone out. We know that fire in the Bible represents the presence of God Fire represents the purity of God. He's the refiner. Fire represents the protection of God, the pillar of Fire by night that led the children of Israel. The power of God is represented by fire. The person of God. So the Bible says, our Lord is a consuming fire. We have got to keep the fire burning for this next generation. These young people that are sitting here this morning, hey, they're looking for some older folks Maybe some white-headed folks that's still fresh in love with Jesus after forty or fifty or sixty years of being saved and what they're seeing is the older crowd, the the crowd that used to run the church, they've got their arms crossed and they folded their arms and they say, Well let the younger generation take it on. I'm tired. I've fought my battles. I quit. That's not the way it is. That's not the way it should be. That's not the way it should be. All of us. All of us, every one of us here this morning, should have an altar. And that altar should be precious to us. And what we put on the altar is pre- should be precious. Let's go over to Leviticus chapter 6. And really, I don't preach a long time anymore. But uh I told you last time and I tell every church that you know if you if you go to sleep during the service Uh if you play checkers back in the back or you know you just lose interest in what I'm saying, then I change sermons to try to get you back. So that makes it it might be a long time getting out of here Leviticus chapter 6. Let's look at this and we'll look at it quickly. And then we'll turn over to Genesis chapter 15. It said, and the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Command Aaron, verse 8, starting at verse 8 of Leviticus chapter 6, command Aaron And his sons saying, This is the law of the burnt offering. It is the burnt offering because of the burning upon the altar all night until the morning and the fire of the altar shall be burning in it. Now, look at verse 11. Oh, we better read, let's just read them all. And the priest shall put on his uh linen garment, verse 10 And his linen breeches shall be put upon his flesh, and take up the ashes which the fire hath consumed with the burnt offering on the altar and he shall put them beside the altar. And he shall put off his garments and put on other garments and carry forth the ashes without the camp. Now get this. unto a clean place. And the fire upon the altar shall be burning in it. It shall not be put out. And the priest shall burn wood on it every morning and lay the burnt offering in order upon it, and he shall burn thereon the fat of the peace offerings, the fire shall ever be burning upon the altar. It shall never go out. Let me say this An altar is a place of dedication, it's a place of consecration, and it's a place of sacrifice. All through the Old Testament, everywhere they stopped, they built an altar. And we've got to keep Yesterday's ashes off the altar. Yesterday, what happened last year in your faith promise? What happened in last year? In your Christian life. That's last year. We're starting a new year, fresh and anew, a new day, fresh and anew. Oh, I want to tell you something. This is the day that the Lord hath made. Let us rejoice. Oh i today's a new day, folks, and it doesn't have to be a dead day, it doesn't have to be a discouraging day We've got to have fresh fire. That's the reason for this missions conference this week. Number one, the altar had to be kept clean. That altar, our altar, personally speaking, has got to be kept clean on a daily basis. If there's any sin there, hey, we've got to get that sin out And some of you say, well this this week at conference, you're just going to put the pressure on us to give. Hey, I want to tell you something, God's pro this is ugly, but you're going to get it anyway. God's program is going to go forward whether you give a dime or not, and if you're being pushed and pressured and your arm twisted to give, then don't give. When he was talking this morning about that church over in uh Thessalonica, that poor church that gave beyond their ability. There's another verse there and says, and they were willing of themselves. What is it going to take this week? To get us willing and into a place where we can hear the voice of God and where we can have contact with Him and know what we're doing With this thing of missions. The altar has got to be kept clean. We've got to get that gospel broom and clean that altar off. Number two There was a need of continual care. Continual care. That means the things of this life uh are going to interfere. Business keeps us away, preoccupation with little things, prayerlessness I've said this before many times. Prayerlessness brings forth paralysis. If we're not praying, we're paralyzed Hey, I want to tell you something. There was a need of continual care. That altar had to be taken care of on a daily basis. And the fire cannot go out. Hey, this world is looking at churches like this all across this land, and you think, well, we're not a megachurch, we can't give millions and millions of dollars That doesn't matter. God's going to zero in on what God wants you to do this week, and we can't worry about the rest of the world. We can't worry about the church across town and what they're doing and what they're not doing God is interested in what he wants to do in your life, and it is a step of faith. And I remember old Dr. Seitler, he used to say, crawl out on a limb with God. That's where the fruit is. Amen Hey, if I miss out on giving what I'm supposed to, and he talked about missions, giving the faith promise. My faith promise, and I I'm I'm my name's Bragg, uh I'm not being proud, I don't think, but my faith promises more than my tithe. And I have a real simple, I'm not a real smart person with finances. My wife is. That's probably why I'm not in jail. But when I get my uh support at the end of the month, uh my first check is my tithe. That's what keeps the lights on in the church. My second check is for my faith promise that keeps the lights on around the world. And what I have left. It's what I live on for the rest of the month. And it's quite obvious I'm not starving to death, and I don't think there's a person in here that'll starve this next week because of what you give to faith promise. Amen. Glory. Help me, brother. These these people you know the a little far farther north to have trouble with this. Someone has said we're to comfort the afflicted and afflict the comfortable. That's what I'm doing this morning. Being scriptural about it. The altar's got to be clean. The altar has got to have continual care. And then the altar has got to be protected It's got to be protected. You cannot serve God without the fire. How many times have you won a soul and God was so far away because of your spiritual condition? Hey, I want to tell you something. He'll honor his word But without the fire, we're not going to get a lot done. We can have the best organization in all the world. All the machinery in the world. And God be a million miles from it. I appreciate when I walk into this church, the flags, all the preparation for this week. Sometimes I go in. There's no preparation And they don't expect anything. And they never set a goal because they don't want to hit anything. Because when you set a goal, that means, well, wait a minute, it might cost me a dime. 450 people a week died in England of the bubonic plague. A fire started and ended the plague. I'm going to tell you something. God starts a fire in some folks in this church, your faith will never be the same An east wind of God needs to blow through our souls. An odor of a sweet smell unto God Now let me give you that last point in chapter 15. Not only does it have to be kept clean, but it has to be protected. Look what Moses says in chapter 15 of the book of Genesis. Look at it and read it. If I can't explain it good enough while you're reading it, you'll get it. And he said in verse 8, Lord God, wherefore shall I know that I shall inherit it the land he's talking about? And he said unto him, Take me a heifer of three years old and a she-goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtle dove, and a and a young pigeon, and he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst, and laid each piece one against it the other. But the birds divided he not. And when the fowls came down upon the carcasses, Abram drove them away An altar had been prepared. A sacrifice was laid on that altar. The fire was started. And the birds of prey were coming down and swooping down and stealing away what Abraham had put on that altar. The buzzards that steal. What about Satan and his crowd that's trying to steal your family? Someone in in the midst of your family, someone you love? What about those buzzards that's causing maybe division in your church or in your family? What about the buzzards that that Hamper us every day that we breathe and every day that we're alive. What about those buzzards? You all face them. You'll face them tomorrow morning when you go to work The altar, we have to remember, was a place of death. What are we going to put on our altar This week. Hey, I want to tell you something. That altar's got to be kept clean. That altar has got to be protected We've got to protect our family. We've got to protect this younger generation that's in this church and show them that living for Jesus It's worth it all. Hey, I'll tell you what, I look closer and I look more fondly toward heaven today than I ever have in my life because I'm closer to being there. But hey, I'm not gonna uh burn out a It's all out and I'm not going to quit just because we're getting attacked from all sides, from our government, all the way down We've got to stay on the firing line. We've got to keep on going. Let me read you some stories about some men who did. And I read these because I'm seeing coming out, and this is not the sermon, so this is just extra. Coming out of some of our independent churches are weak, anemic, worldly missionaries. That know nothing about sacrifice, that know nothing about hardship, and it's a concern to me. Had a letter from one last week, resigning from the mission, caught up in this thing of hyper-Calvinism. Caught up in a bunch of doctrine that's totally off the Baptist. Hey, if if this book is not right and there's a better way to go than the Baptist way, then I'll go that way But I want to tell you something, when the Sandbalats and Tobias and the Gishams, when they attack us, there's got to be someone there to stand for God in these evil days William Carey, father of modern missions. Expect great things from God. Attempt great things for God. He had the death of his five-year-old son. His wife lost her mind and died in 1807. Second wife passed away in 1824. But he translated the Bible in part in 34 different languages. He says this, what shall it profit a nation if it gains vast empires and loses its own soul? What shall it profit a people if they send their ships of commerce to the seven seas and yet suffer shipwreck of their faith. The missionary movement saved The country of England. And now we see it going the way of all flesh. It was Carrie who said that he started what he finished. He finished what he started. On his tombstone, he has this written: A wretched, poor, and helpless worm, on thy kind arms I fall. Ministry that costs nothing accomplishes nothing, says Hudson Taylor. George Greenfield of the Congo, and I've been there. I've stood out in that spot where David Livingston died and heard those stories from those African people. And you know, I think it's where our heart is today. That's where David Livingston's heart was buried in that very spot. Where is your heart and my heart today? George Grenfield, a missionary to the Congo, he said the bodies of missionaries line the banks of the Congo River like mile markers. The first few ships that came to West Africa and North Africa where we served They said within 16 to 18 months, all but one or two of those boatloads of missionaries were dead. They paid the price. And yet they went on. It didn't their life didn't matter, but they went. Ad and Aram Judson, and I love to read about Judson, because he wasn't even a Baptist until he got on the ship to go. Then he then he was converted and then he changed his mind. Adam Iram Judson could read the Bible at three Graduated from Providence College at 19, became ambitious and atheistic, and living an extravagant lifestyle, influenced by a man named Ernest. And one night while he was traveling, he was staying in an inn, and there was a man in the next room dying. And he asked the innkeeper, who is that man that's wailing and crying and weeping over in this next room? And he said, Well, he's a man, a graduate from Providence College named Ernest The very man that had influenced him to go the way that he was tied right next to him. Hey, I want to tell you something. That was the thing that woke Adonai Judson up But now wait a minute. Look at this. Reading the works of William Carey He was influenced to seek missionary service, which lasted 42 years. How can we go unless we're sent? February 1812, married and sailed for Calcutta with four friends, became Baptists on the trip over. Ran out of India, landed in Rangoon, Burma, and they all said, they were all in unity, this is the worst place on the face of this planet. Baby died at sea. Wife Anne Hazeltine, sick and on a stretcher. Imprisoned. Another baby dies. He buried his wife and all of his children in 14 years on the mission field Quit. He didn't take a furlough until he'd been there 33 years. Here's what he said. If I had not felt certain that every additional trial was ordered by infinite love and mercy, I could not have survived my accumulated sufferings. He translated the total Burmese Bible. Six years, no converts. At his death, there were 63 churches and 7,000 converts. Hey, I want to tell you something. The problems and the difficulties of life, they are going to come. Our circumstances like Paul are not always going to be the best circumstances But we have got to keep the altar clean, we have got to uh keep the fire burning, and we've got to protect what God has given us And that reaches all the way around God's earth from this community all the way around the world. Those missionaries. Wow, they were real missionaries. We think we when we read those stories sometimes we wonder are they really true? Yes, they were But their hearts were just a little bit different than our hearts today. Folks, we've got to keep the altar clean. We've got to keep it fire burning. Paul told Timothy, stir up this gift. It's just like that day I went out there and threw that brush on that fire and stirred it up a little bit. And that fire that was way down in there that I thought had gone out was in fact still there. And God wants us this week. To do something very special. If you've never been involved in faith promise, get started by doing something. If you've been given for years, increase it a little bit. And just see what God will do. If this is some kind of a tool or trick to get you to give Then, hey, try it out. And if it doesn't work, throw it away. I know better. We've been doing it for a long time. And how God has blessed And how God has met our needs for the last 41 years in such a wonderful, wonderful way What about your altar? Your personal altar? Heads bowed, eyes closed No singing, piano playing, no one hiding behind the book. Let's stand to our feet, heads bowed, eyes closed. My invitations are very clear. They're very short. I'm not up here to hammer on you and to force you to do something that God doesn't want you to do. I just asked you this morning, is your altar clean? Or has the fire gone out? And you need to rekindle that fire here this morning. Maybe you do not have an altar because you've never trusted Christ as your personal Savior. Hey, at age 26, my father was a drunkard. A man knocked on my door and gave me a track and invited me to church. And that started the ball rolling in my life. And it wasn't a few months later when I bowed on a front pew in a church and I gave my heart to Jesus Christ. And what I did, he took me all the way to Africa. Are you here this morning and you may be a church member like I was? I was a church member, but I was lost. Do you know him as your personal savior? Have you bowed your knee and said, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I know that, and I want you as my personal Savior. Without that act in your life, then you're a child of the doomed. And your destiny is an eternal lake of fire. But it's not necessary. Because he says, all that come to him, hey, I want to tell you something. There's a balm of Gilead. There's a fountain filled with blood. He's ready to save you to the uttermost, he says, if you'll just come to him. The piano's playing. This altar is open. Will you come? I know Sunday morning. Whatever it might be. Christian, have you been dragging your feet lately? With your giving, with your service. Is your altar clean? Have you been taking care of it? Is the fire still burning? Sir, if you were to die today, do you know that you'd go to heaven? You can know that before you walk out of these doors