He went up into a mountain, and when he was set, his disciples came to him and he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Here we are, these are the Beatitudes. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers For they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you and persecute you, and say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted the prophets which were before you. Let's pray. Father, I ask you bless now as we look into your word, and uh challenge us, I pray, challenge me. that we would be stronger Christians and we could know what it means to be blessed of God. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer, Lord. In Jesus' name, Amen. I want to give another introductory message to these uh uh Beatitudes here before we start getting in and looking in each one in depth And I realized driving back I was kind of going over my message in my mind on the car and thinking back and I actually I this had slipped my mind. I'd actually preached on these A number of years ago I'd done a series on the Beatitudes, I don't know, five, eight, maybe ten years ago. I don't know if anybody remembers. I think it was a Sunday night, if I remember correctly. It might have been a Sunday morning Or it might have been a Wednesday night. Um not sure. But uh I'm not preaching the same messages. I like I said, it's completely slipped my mind that I preached these before. I felt the Lord's direction So it's the same passages, but not the same messages. But I want to take uh one more at least one more s message Wednesday night and just back away from the Beatitudes and look at them, so to speak, from a distance. You know, sometimes you can get a better idea of a forest if you step back away from it first and see the lay of the land And how that thing is out before you approach it, you get a little idea what's ahead of you. And that's kind of what I want to do here with the Beatitudes is Temptation is jump right in and look at each one individually close up. But maybe if we just back up away from it and look at them at a whole, we might uh get a little uh clearer uh idea of what the Lord is is uh presenting to us here. Now I want to begin by saying this. There is a I hate to say this, but I believe it's true There is a great flaw, I think, in much of Christianity, and we have to admit, even within our good churches, our good independent fundamental Baptist churches, and that is this of being superficial. Now, you understand what I mean about being superficial. If someone is superficial, what does that mean? What are we say what are we saying about them? Alright, fake is the blunt way of putting it, yes There's no depth to them, they're very shallow. Anything else? How uh what in your mind, what is someone superficial? They're not real. I put it, I I I view being superficial, and what I mean by using it here is simply having an outward Christianity. Uh there's no depth to it there. It's shallow. It's just a show. My Christianity. And I'm afraid in more cases than what we would care to admit, a lot of us are guilty of simply having a superficial uh uh Christianity is simply an outward form of Christianity, uh uh a surface Christianity. Uh it's a show only. Now this is a Wednesday night crowd And, you know, that's a pretty strong accusation to make of a Wednesday night crowd. You say, I'm here on Wednesday night, I'm at prayer meeting, I'm here faithfully, there's a hundred other things I could be doing. I understand that But um I think it's been a characteristic of God's people throughout history. Uh even back in the Old Testament, you find God saying to his people over and over and over, he says Something to this effect. He says, you honor me with your lips. What's the rest of that statement? But your heart is far from me. You know what he's saying about them? They're being superficial. They're putting on a show. They're saying the right things. They're outwardly they're going through it. But there's no substance to their relationship with the Lord. There's no depth to it. There's no character there It's simply a service relationship. Keep your place here. Turn over. And he addresses this in the book of Romans. Go to Romans chapter 2. Now the first couple chapters in Romans are some pretty strong statements made and some strong accusations against mankind in general as God is presenting here exposing the fact that we're sinful beings. And in Romans chapter 2, verse 28, he addresses the Jews in particular. Now the Jews were God's people. uh very similar to what the Christians are in the New Testament. They were God's people. They were the ones he was working through in the world. They were the focus of his attention. Now in this dispensation, the church is his people. Now notice what he says in verse 28 of Romans. Chapter two he says, For he is not a Jew which is one what? Outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh, but he is a Jew which is one Inwardly. And the circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, and not in the letter, whose praise is not of man, but of God And he s says this repeatedly throughout scriptures to his people. He challenges them and he confronts them of the danger of simply being superficial, of putting on a show. Now I understand we all do that to some degree. Uh in fact I think we need to. If you're if you come to church and you are in your heart you're grouchy Be a little superficial and act nice. Okay? So we uh we have a little bit of this facade we put up. I it just irks me when somebody somebody's real hateful and they say, well that's just the way I am. Well, that's what Jesus died on the cross for to change that. So we do if we're grouchy, we're a little irritable or something, we we need to put up, you know, put on love, put on charity. We do that a little bit But what what we're talking about here is a show, an outward Christianity, get this, without the character. Without the substance behind it. And I believe that is what Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7 addresses. This is the Sermon on the Mount. And Jesus, we get through here, and I'm kind of tempted when we finish the Beatitudes in about nine years. Um whenever we finish the Beatitudes, maybe just keep plowing on through the whole Sermon on the Mount Because he says some powerful things here. And I think I get the picture as I step back and I read through that Sermon on the Mount several times. I believe the Lord is addressing, challenging his people to be genuine Christians From the inside out. And so we come to the Beatitudes, and we looked at them a little bit. Last week we looked at the preacher that's presenting it, and that's significant. We looked at uh the place he's on the side of the hills uh the hillside there as he does that. But I want to stop and look at the beatitudes themselves. uh as a whole. Now uh he notice that repeated word blessed blessed blessed is he blessed are they blessed are ye blessed blessed blessed anyone want to guess what he's talking about Being blessed. He's dealing with the happiness, the blessedness. Actually, the term blessed Well sometimes we'll refer to that, you'll hear preachers refer to that as as being happy. That's another way of seeing being happy. That's true, but being blessed Blessed is a much deeper happiness than what we think of happiness. We think of happiness as like, ah, yay. When God talks about blessed, it's something that comes from deep down inside of us that is not dependent on circumstances or anything around us. So it's a much deeper form of happiness. And he's saying here, as you come down, beginning in verse 3: Blessed are the poor, blessed are they that mourn. Blessed are they, blessed are the blessed are they He is saying, I believe the Lord Jesus saying in some degree, he's saying, this is the man that I am looking for. These lists of characteristics, this is the person that I will bless. The person that has these characteristics in their life, that is the person that I want to honor. And to be honest with you, as Christians, we ought to, if we're going to envy somebody, we ought to envy the person that has these characteristics. We ought to want to be like the person that has the characteristics that are given here, because that is the person God is looking for. That is the person he says, this man, those that mourn, those that are meek, those that are poor in spirit, those that are peacemakers, he comes down through here Those are the ones that I will honor. Those are the ones that I'll pour out my blessings on. Those are the ones that get my special attention, if you would. And so, what does the world how does the world Think that we achieve happiness or blessedness. Well, one of the thoughts of the world would be if I can just avoid troubles. Right? If I can not be sick and get along and all these things, then I'll be happy. The world says if I can have all my needs met, if I don't have any needs, boy, then I'd be happy. Uh or if uh if I can have stuff. Brother James and I were talking about a four-wheeler for sale we saw, and you know, it's like man we're talking this, that, and the other, and finally I said, you know, I got some other things I need more than a four-wheeler. And so boy, if I just had that four wheel, if I just had this, if I just had that. That's the world's view. But you know what I found? Some of the things that we think we need to have. Some stuff that we think needs to be in place for us to be happy are actually the very things that hinder us from being happy. You follow what I'm saying? Boy, if I had all my needs, if I had so much money, I wouldn't ever have to worry about having a need ever again. You know I found people that have that much money for the most part, they're very unhappy people I found the people that go through this don't have any troubles, no difficulties, no trials, no hardships, a lot of times they're very unhappy people People have everything, everything a lot of times they're unhappy. Just need a little bit more, just need a little bit more, just need a little bit more. So often the very things we think we have to have, the things we think need to be in place to make us happy, make us bless If we see it from God's perspective, we find out that's the very thing that's stealing my happiness from me. It's hindering me from being happy. And so I look at these Beatitudes. Blessed is the man. The person God honors, the person God blesses. And I want to give some general lessons before we get down. We step back. We're looking at the forest called the Beatitudes And we're going to make some general observations about this list. I would encourage you to jot these down. It may come be helpful at some point in your life, if not right now. Number one. We're looking at the Beatitudes. Number one. These characteristics that the Lord gives us here are to be true of all believers. These are not for a special class of Christian. These are true for all believers. These are not just for some exceptional Christians. Boy, you know the the Catholic Church is notorious for setting people up and uh making certain people on another level than other people. You know what I'm saying? In fact they're the ones that came up with the idea of clergy and laity. The clergy and the lady. And somehow those that are in the clergy are on a separate class or on a different level than the lady. I don't like those terms. I don't have a little sticker on my car that says clergy. that he had a little sticker on there clergy. I said, Why do you do that? He says, gets me free parking at the at the hospital. I said, Well, okay. I just don't like those turns. I don't like to refer to the church folk as lay people. I mean, uh some of you fall asleep sitting up, but you're not laying down, so I don't refer but These beatitudes are not for some certain class of people, for the saints. These are for everybody. These characteristics should be true of teenagers. They should be true of juniors in school. They ought to be true of senior citizens. They ought to be true of the new mother. They ought to be true of the of the the the truck driver. They oug These are for all Christians. These are for everybody. And so when we come down through these and we're going to dissect them, and uh I'll tell you the standards held pretty high here with the Lord gives Don't allow yourself to think, well, you know, there's no way I could ever be that way. There's no way that could ever be true of me. That's for special Christians. Attain that. No! This is these beatitudes, as we go through these, I want you to keep in mind, these are God's normal. What we call revival, what we call an exceptional Christian, as far as God's concerned, that's the way everybody ought to be. These are God's normal. Number two. All of these characteristics are to be true of all Christians. Now the first statement was: all Christians, this applies to all Christians. The second statement is all of these beatitudes apply to all Christians. In other words, I can't come to these and just pick and choose which of these beatitudes I want to characterize me. Uh some one person looks and says, Well, peacemaker, I'd like to be a peacemaker. And so uh that'll be my beatitude, and I'll zero in and that's what I'm gonna be, I'm gonna be the be the peacemaker. No no no Uh I'm I'm to be poor in spirit just as much as I'm to be a peacemaker. I'm to be meek just as much as I'm to be uh I know some guys they just like the idea of being persecuted Uh old uh I heard a preacher say about Lester Olof. How many people recognize his name Lester Olof? He's on our radio. Great guy with the Lord. Got to hear him preach a number of times. I had a Bible signed by Lester Roloff. You know what happened to it? Ask my wife. Did I tell you that story? Kathy gave it to a bus kid. And so it's somewhere in the slums of Chattanooga. But um what was I talking about? Oh, some people, uh notice the one beatitude there in verse number ten. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness. I know some Christians they like being persecuted. I mean they're just looking for it Uh Lester Roloff, I heard a brother preacher state and knew him very well. He said he was kind of that way. He would just go out and look for something. He said if somebody was shooting a bull at someone, he'd step in front of it and dare them, you know? He just liked that Now listen, all of these, we don't pick and choose these. We can't say, well, I'm a meat I'm gonna be a meek Christian. No, no, no. All of these ought to be true of us Fact is, God is working in everyone's life. How many folks here are saved and you know it? Say amen. If we're saved, that means God is working in every one of our lives to develop all of these characteristics to be true. Now, when we get the glory, these will be perfectly true in our lives. We get on the other side, boom, we'll arrive. But until then, God is working. And God is trying to produce in us, He was working in our lives to produce in us each of these various characteristics. And so, number one, what we say, all uh these characteristics are to be true of all Christians, all of us. All of these characteristics are to be true of all Christians. Number three, I put this down. Each of these characteristics are the result of God working in our hearts. Now, what I mean by that is this. Each of these characteristics is a result of God's grace working in our hearts. And this is what I mean. Sometimes we as people are born with a natural tendency to be maybe one of these. You looked at the list. The one I thought of was meat. Some people are born with with a naturally meek personality. You know what I'm talking about? I'm thinking of someone right now that has that just a natural meek personality Uh some people are born uh just naturally merciful. I mean they're just so gracious and uh they have the gift of mercy in a sense and they're just come naturally unsat Unsaved people can have a tendency to be merciful. There can be some unsaved people that have a meek personality about them. For whatever reason, that is not what the Lord is addressing here. He is not addressing characteristics that just come naturally. These are supernatural works of God that He does in our heart. These are the result of the Spirit of God creating in us a new man. And that character is producing these characteristics. This is something God does in us. It's more than just a natural tendency to be this way It is something God does in us. Alright? So everybody with me so far? Alright, number one, what'd we say? These will be true of all Christians, right? Number two, we said all of these are to be true of all Christians. Three, it's something God does in our heart. It's not just something that comes naturally. These are supernatural. Number four, now this is where I want to spend a little time on this. I was kind of scooting through those first ones. Number four These characteristics, I believe, distinguish a believer from a non-believer. These characteristics in many ways distinguish a believer from a non-believer. I think all of us here would agree. That the church in general, I'm just talking about in general, the church has become very, very worldly. Would you agree with me? Would you agree with me? There are some churches, maybe you've been in some. I don't get in many churches outside of ours. But uh maybe some of it in some churches, you can't hardly tell the difference between that church and an unsaved organization You know what I'm saying? Church has become very, very worldly. There's little difference in some circles Between those who claim to be saved and those who are unsaved. There's no distinguishing difference Even for many believers, the behavior of a believer is no different than the behavior of a non-believer. A lot of circles in the churches, the uh the the believer, the child of God, dresses and acts and behaves. No different than the child of the devil. The unsaved. There's no distinguished. And that's troubling. Would you agree with me? That's troubling. That's not right. But I'll tell you what's even more troubling. is when we have a lack of difference in character, when there's no difference not just in the behavior of a professing Christian in the unsaved world. But there's no difference in the character of one who claims to be saved and one who's lost. If there's no difference in the character, something is powerfully wrong. Because the power of the gospel, I believe, the power of the gospel is seen in its ability to change a person's character. The gospel does more than just change my outward appearance. The gospel does more than change the length of my hair or the length of my skirt. The gospel does more than simply change outward appearance. The gospel of Jesus Christ changes the nature of a person, the character of a person. And so when we see no difference between one who claims to be saved and one who is not saved, no difference in their character, what they are. That's troubling to me. And some something's not right. Not just outward appearance Uh we have a tendency, and I'm sure I've been guilty of this, but we have a tendency to focus and emphasize the external, the outward, the outward. And don't misunderstand what I'm saying. The Lord addresses that. There's no doubt. You know, our appearance is important. Outward behavior is important. But the outward behavior is only important in the sense that it is the result of the inward character You follow what I'm saying? And the Lord is addressing the character of the believers. That's what, as we go down through here, we're going to see this is what a person is. He's not addressing what a person does, he's addressing what they are And the results of that. Well, we're not to be like the world. Amen. You're gonna hear me preach that Be separate from the world. Don't be like the world. Love not the world. Be not conformed to the world. That is absolute. I think that's one of the most neglected teachings in Scripture is distinction separation from the world. But We're not to be different from the world just for the sake of being different. Well, the world's wearing red clothes, so I'm going to wear blue. That has nothing to do with it. Just being different for the sake of being different. We're to be different from the world because we are becoming more in character like Christ. You follow what I'm saying? If all we do is push on our people and our ch our young people and any of the new converts or whatever, all we do is push on them is outward outward distinction from the world But we're not addressing the difference in character. We're missing the point. And that's what the Lord is addressing. And that's a been a concern of mine for young people and uh for years is you grow up, a young person can grow up in a Bible-believing church, in a Bible-believing home and take on, conform to the outward of Christianity, and yet never have the character changed You see what I'm saying? And when we when when our hearts like the things the world likes And when we in our heart and soul admire the things that the world admires, and when we from our hearts want to do the things that the world does. That's an indicator that I have no different character than what the world has. I have the same character as the unsaved. Say, well, uh, let me illustrate. Uh one person says, well, I want to dress modestly. Question, should people dress modest, should people, men and women, dress modestly? Sure, absolutely So Bert says, I want to dress modestly because I don't want to be like the world. Would you agree with me that world is pretty immodest? Anybody notice that The world's pretty modest, and the hotter the temperature is, the more modest the world gets. So a Christian says, Well, I don't want to be immodest because I don't want to be like the world. Fine, great, that's wonderful. But I think what the Lord's looking for is saying, I don't want to be immodest because my very nature repels, is is repulsed by the idea of being immodest. You see what I'm saying? Not just to be different than the world, but my heart and soul says, I don't want a part of that. It's from the character within. That God blesses. We don't want to be different from the world just for the sake of being different from the world. We're different from the world because the character of Jesus Christ is being developed in my life. And the character of Jesus Christ is the exact opposite of the character of the world. And the more the Lord is conforming me into the image of Christ, the more the Lord. through circumstances and whatnot is molding me into the image of Christ, the more distinct I'm going to be from the world. Because I am going to have a completely different character than what the world has Am I making sense? And so he's coming down through there and he's not addressing what we do so much as he is what we are. And what we are is what distinguishes us from the world. And I'm afraid a lot of the reasons so much of Christianity is taking on the appearance of the world, becoming so worldly is because they have a worldly character. Never been renewed. They've never had that new nature given And thus the world and all the things of the world, the values of the world, the things the world admires and loves. Well, I admire it, and I love it too. The world's values, they're my values. Why? Because my character is the same as the world's. If the character of Christ is true in my life, those things are going to be very foreign to me. Now that's a process. We have to grow and we understand that. Let me give you my last observation of these beatitudes. Number five. Believers live in a different kingdom than non-believers do. If you notice down through here, look at verse 3. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the what's the last three words? Kingdom of heaven, not the kingdoms of the earth. Um he comes down through here. Uh Where's another statement there? I didn't write these down. Blessed are they? Oh, verse ten. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sakes, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Jesus is addressing a group of people who live in a different realm Then the rest of the people live in a different kingdom. Believers, the moment I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, He begins, He gives me a new nature, He begins developing this new character That he is, the Holy Spirit has infused in me through the gospel. And I become a citizen of the kingdom of God. The kingdom of heaven. And we can have a whole theological discussion on the significance, kingdom of heaven, kingdom of God, and there and it's there. But what I'm saying is this. When a person gets saved, I am now in a different kingdom than I was before I got saved. The child of God, we are citizens of the kingdom of God, the kingdom of heaven. The unbeliever, get this. Now this sounds harsh, but it's true. The unbeliever is in the kingdom of Satan. Listen to 2 Corinthians 4. 4, whom the God of this world has blinded. Talking about the unseen. That word God there, little G. O D. You know what that, you know how that's translated other places in the Bible? Magistrate, authority He's saying that Satan is an authority on earth. He is a king He has a kingdom here on earth. John 14, 30. He says the he references the prince of this world. In Ephesians 2, 2, he talks about Satan being a prince, an authority, a king. So, as a child of God, I am living in a different kingdom than the unbeliever is. I'm living in a whole different realm of authority, a whole different realm of walls. Whole different realm of benefits. I live in a completely different kingdom. You know, I've said this before, and maybe some of you feel this way. The older I get, the less. The longer I'm say been saved, the less I feel like I fit in in this world. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? I just feel like, man, this I'm not even at I don't feel at home here. These people are living and I'm not saying that we're some we're better than anybody else, we're certainly not. But I feel like I don't I'm not a citizens here. We went to Kazakhstan a couple years ago. It's very obvious we were not citizens of Kazakhstan. We didn't talk like they talked. We didn't even a lot of ways think the way they thought. A lot of ways we don't live the way they live. We just didn't fit in. Especially in Mongolia. Good heavens. And that's that's what the Lord's saying here. You are of a different kingdom. Here's the question. And uh again, this is a Wednesday night crowd, so These I I I don't know how these apply, but my first question as I was preparing this was this. Number one, am I a genuine believer? Or am I a superficial Christian? Is my Christianity just an outward shell that really my heart doesn't share? It's my outward Christianity, just something that really in my heart and soul I am not that. Second question is this. Do I sense God developing these characteristics as we go through them? Do I sense God developing them in my life? Do I see them as I stop and examine myself and kind of evaluate myself, do I see God developing these in my in my heart and changing me and developing these? Remember, these aren't stuff we work up, this is stuff God does in us. And the third thing is, if I do sense that, I see God working in my heart, I do sense God changing me. And the question is: this: am I cooperating with Him? Am I letting him have his way? As God leads and directs and changes and molds and cuts this away and adds that and Squeezes this and stretches that and he's molding me into the to have the character of Christ. Do I cooperate with what he's doing? Or do I fight him the whole way? And what he wants from us is to be yielded. That is the first thing that God wants from his children, to be yielded and surrender to him and say, Let me have my way in your life. Let me mold you and change you and make you into the character of Christ. But we're humans, we still got the old simple nature, and we fight it. Sometimes and we drag our feet, we find an anchor, we throw it out, God's trying to change us, and we're just hanging on The best thing to do is say, no longer I that liveth, but Christ liveth in me. Not my will, but thy will be done. Amen. Father in heaven, I pray you'd challenge us and help us in our Christian life, that our Christianity, and myself included, would be more than just a show, just a facade. God, I pray that you're working in our hearts and you're changing us from within, and that there would be a clearer and clearer distinction between us and the world. Because of how you're changing us into the image of Christ and giving us the character of Christ. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight would say, Preacher, I really sense God working in my life. Now be honest I really sense God working in my life, convicting me. I see him changing me, working in my heart. And I want to cooperate with that. I want to be fully yielded to him. And let him make those changes and develop that character. Is there any like that? Yes, I sense that. I sense that in my life. God bless you. Hands all around. That is a very, very good thing. And be honest with you, that's what you'd expect from a Wednesday night crowd. Let me ask you this. Is there some of us maybe that we know God's working in a certain area and we're resisting? And maybe we're quenching the spirit there and we're resisting the spirit there. And you say, Preacher, I know it. I know what God's trying to do here. I know I need that. I know it's right. But for whatever reason, I'm just having a hard time letting the Lord have his way in that area. And tonight you'd say, preacher, as my pastor, I would really appreciate if you would pray with me. That God would help me be fully yielded in every single area, particularly that one where I know he's working, and I'm having a hard time yielding that to him. Would there happen to be anybody like that, preacher? I know what it is, I know where it is How about it? Uplift the hand. God bless you and you and you, a number of hands around. I know where it is, I know what is. God's dealing with me about that. And I need to let the Lord have his way. And God will help us, and I will pray with you Father in heaven, you know our hearts. God, we've got a long way to go to have the perfect character of Christ. But God, I pray as we that process is taking place in our lives that you would help us in our hearts and minds. to be fully yielded to you. That you could have your way just like that clay in the hands of the potter and not harden up, but just Let you mold us and make us until we're so distinct from the world because we're so much like Christ. Help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, our heads are