Bibles and turn to Proverbs chapter number twenty-three. Proverbs chapter twenty-three I want to I appreciate everyone's prayers for me this week. I had minor surgery on my tongue of all places. And uh they took a little um mass off the front side top side of my tongue uh on Tuesday morning and um the doctor assured me uh that uh he said it doesn't look cancerous on the surface. He said we looked that was the initial concern that it would be a type of uh oral cancer And he says, I've seen these uh many times before. He says, I think you're fine. They did a biopsy, we'll get that back on Saturday. So we really appreciate your prayers for that. Anytime they use that word, you know, just even it comes up it kind of throws you for a loop. And then I got I learned something through this. I'll tell you I can save you a lot of worry and a lot of stress as uh if the doctor says something, don't look it up on the internet Whatever you do. I I did great with that thing until the night before surgery. I thought I want to look this up, see what exactly they're talking about. And good night, I went into severe depression and um I thought, oh no, the end is here. I won't live till Christmas. And um but uh the doctor is very per very positive, and so we appreciate everyone's prayers It's a little strange all week long having uh I think he said he put five or six stitches on my tongue of all places. Isn't that weird? And uh So I'm pretty much uh fully recovered. If I stumble a little bit, it's just my tongue getting in the way. And uh so I appreciate your bearing with me. I did want to mention it's good to have Brian Sandy back in town. I had announced Wednesday they went to a medical symposium and I'm anxious to hear about that. But uh I announced Wednesday that they were in Las Vegas gambling. And uh Uh I I was mistaken. They were actually in Los Angeles uh Los Angeles gambling. And so uh no not really Proverbs chapter 23. I'm going to read verses 17 and 18, if you would, just follow along. Proverbs 23, verse 17 and 18. Let not thine heart envy sinners. Now look at this next statement. But be thou in the fear of the Lord all the day long. For surely there is an end, and on expectation shall not be cut off. A few moments ago, James read from Psalm, and he said, in that Psalm, it says that God blesses those that fear the Lord. Here in this passage of Scripture, we're commanded to be in the fear of the Lord all day long. I want to preach this morning on the subject the fear of the Lord. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, we thank you for the Word of God And uh what it means to us who uh who have trusted you as Savior. And God, your word has helped us through so many years and through so many trials. God, we found strength, we found blessing and direction from your word in our lives, and uh truly is the most precious possession we have. Now, Lord, as I preach from your word and try and teach, and we want to learn and find help in our lives now, we need you to do that for us, Father. I yield myself, I present my body to you anew, and I ask that you would fill me, that you would take this truth from the Word of God and speak through me. And that we would be a truly God-fearing people in the biblical sense of that term. Or we need your help. Our country desperately needs your help Lord, we we uh we can't help but come to the conclusion that you are dealing with our country in very serious ways. And so help us, we pray. Help us for our children's sake and uh for for our our community's sake In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. No doubt you've heard the statement. If you've been around preaching, at least our stripe of preaching very long, you've heard the statement That there's nothing wrong with the United States of America that a healthy dose of the fear of God could not cure. And I believe that with all my heart. I believe there's nothing wrong with our government that a good dose of the fear of God in our politicians' hearts and minds, God couldn't cure that. There's nothing wrong with our schools that a good dose of the fear of God wouldn't cure. There's nothing wrong with our churches And I believe this is really where it strikes home for us. Our churches need a genuine dose of biblical fear of God. Our homes need that. There's not a marriage situation on planet Earth that a good dose of the fear God couldn't solve. And so we've heard these statements and we agree with them. You know, there was a time when Christians were known as a God-fearing people. That's all we were described as. You don't hear this much anymore, if at all. But it used to be said somebody's name would come up and they'd say, oh yeah, that guy's a God-fearing man. She's a God-fearing woman Those folks over there at that church, there's some God-fearing people over there. Used to hear statements like that. You'd hear that phrase, years gone by. You don't hear that much anymore, do you? God-fearing people. In fact, we live in a day and age where man boasts about the fact that he does not fear God. We live in a day and age where man flaunts his lack of fear of death and judgment. We live in a day and age where man flaunts the fact that he has no fear of the consequences of his sin. In fact, they tattoo it on their arms. They plaster it across the back of their pickup trucks. No fear. No fear. You'll recall there was two thieves who were crucified with the Lord Jesus Christ. One on the left hand and one on the right hand. The one thief, just moments before he died, came to the realization that he was guilty. He was a sinner. He was about to go out into eternity and face God. And believing that Jesus Christ was the Messiah, and he turned to Jesus Christ and he said, Remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. He was crying out for mercy. The other thief, if you'll recall, the Bible says, was railing on Jesus Christ. And it's interesting, the one thief that ultimately got saved and ended up with the Lord in heaven said to the other thief, who had no fear of God, he said this: Fearest thou not God? And he says, we're dying, we're guilty, we deserve to be dying this, but this man has done nothing amiss. And you know what the response of the unsaved thief was? Total rejection of fearing God. And the Bible records that he died in his sins, and we have every reason to believe he's under the judgment in hell na right now and will be for all eternity. I think if anybody in the Bible had tattooed on their arm no fear, it would have been that thief. Who on his deathbed showed no fear of judgment, of consequences of rebellion, of going out into eternity. The Bible says we're to fear God. We're to fear God. Perhaps, and in fact, the more I wrote this at the beginning of my study. Perhaps our greatest need in our country and our churches is a biblical fear of God. As I finish the message up and finish studying on what the Bible says about this and looking at it anew I came to the conclusion the greatest need, not perhaps, the greatest need of our churches and our homes. And in our individual Christian lives, in our country, is a genuine biblical fear of God. And that's what I want to talk about. What does that mean? To fear God. How does that affect my life? What is that what does that mean to me to fear God as a Christian? What about an unsaved person? To fear God. Well, first of all, the thing I want to point out is God's commands concerning fearing Him. I study the Bible diligently. That's my livelihood. That's what I do. And I found, as I've studied the Bible over these years, there are two things, there are two actions or attitudes that God expects from man, that the Creator expects from the created being. Two things God expects from us. Number one, He expects us and desires intensely that we love Him That's the greatest command that we love God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, with all our strength. We love God. You cannot study the Bible. And not come away with the conclusion, God loves me and wants me to love him. But there's a second attitude that God expects from mankind, and that is this: that man fears him. That man fears him. You say, well, I understand God loving me and wanting me to love him, but I don't know about this idea that God wants me to fear him. Alright, put your seat belts on Let me I'm gonna give you a list of verses. I'm doing this on purpose to emphasize the fact that God expects us And in many ways demands from us a healthy biblical fear. Listen to I'm going to just start in Exodus 18, verse 21. It says, talking about the leadership, they are to be such men as fear God. Men of truth, hating covetousness. In Leviticus 19, 14, thou shalt fear thy God, I am the Lord. Leviticus 19,32, fear thy God, I am the Lord. Leviticus 25, 17. But thou shalt fear thy God, for I am the Lord your God. Leviticus 25, 36. But fear thy God, that thou brother may live with thee. Leviticus 25, 43. Thou shalt fear thy God. Deuteronomy 6. 2, that thou mightest fear the Lord thy God, and keep all his statutes and his commandments which I command thee. Deuteronomy six thirteen thou shalt fear the Lord thy God and serve him. six twenty four. The Lord commanded us to all to do all these statutes and to fear the Lord our God. Deuteronomy ten twelve. And now, O Israel, what doth the Lord thy God require thee? But to fear the Lord thy God And to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul. Deuteronomy ten twenty, thou shalt fear the Lord thy God Deuteronomy fourteen twenty three uh twenty three and thou shalt uh uh that thou mayest learn to fear the Lord thy God always. Deuteronomy seventeen nineteen that he may learn to fear the Lord his God, to keep all the words of his laws and these statutes to do them. Deuteronomy 311 Gather the people together, men and women and children and thy stranger that is within thy gates, that they may hear, that they may learn, and fear the Lord your God, and observe to do all the words of his law. uh Deuteronomy 31, 13, to fear the Lord thy God. Do you get the idea? Let's go on. Joshua chapter 4, verse 24, that you might fear the Lord your God forever. Joshua twenty four fourteen. Now therefore fear the Lord thy God and serve him in sincerity and truth. Isaiah 1 Samuel 1412 If you will fear the Lord and serve him and obey his voice. First Samuel twelve, twenty-four, only fear the Lord and serve him in truth with all your heart, considering How great things he has done for you. Second Kings seventeen twenty-eight. He taught them how they should fear the Lord. Psalms fifteen four. That uh he honored them that feared the Lord. Psalms thirty three eight Let all the earth fear the Lord, let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him Psalms thirty uh let Psalms thirty four and nine. O fear the Lord, ye his saints. Psalms one fifteen thirteen, He will bless them That fear the Lord. Proverbs 3:7. Be not wise in thine own eyes. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. Ecclesiastes 12. 13, he's talking of the young people. And he's talking about the vanity of life. And at the end of the chapter, at the end of the book of Ecclesiastes, he says this: let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God And keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. Hosea chapter 3 and verse 5. Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God and his goodness in the latter days. First Peter chapter two, verse seventeen honor all men, love the brotherhood. Fear God. Revelation chapter 14, verse 7, saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him. Over and over and over through the Old Testament and the New Testament, God tells his people that we are to fear him. You can come to no other conclusion. God clearly commands all men everywhere to fear God. Would you agree with me in light of these passages I just read? Would you agree with me? If I do not fear God, I am disobeying God? Absolutely. To live a life, to have no fear of God, to live a life and have no fear Of the consequences of my sin, no fear of the coming judgment of God, no concern for that whatsoever, is to live in disobedience to God. So, we're clearly commanded, whatever it means, we're commanded to fear God. Now that leads me to my second thought in the message. The concept of fearing God. What exactly does it mean to fear God? We're obviously commanded to do that, both Old and New Testament. Old Testament Jewish, uh the Israelites under the Old Testament economy, uh the saints under the New Testament uh age, uh church age, uh were commanded to fear God. So what does that mean? What am I supposed to be scared of God? Well, the classic definition that Bible scholars give for the definition of fearing God is, and many of you no doubt have heard this before, reverential awe. Now, actually, that's a pretty good definition, but for the average one of us, we have no idea what that means. What does it mean to have reverential awe toward God? Well, as I tried to put together a uh uh uh uh uh definition that we can comprehend, that we can get a hold of. I found it's very difficult to define what it means to fear God. I've made some attempts at it. I put this down. An overwhelming and almost terrifying reverence For the power and authority of God. Almost overwhelming when I realized how powerful my God is. When I realize the authority that God has over creation and over my life, it is a very an idea of humility comes in To humbly be not terrified in the sense of scared, but overwhelmed reverence For God. It's a very humbling reverence, as I said. I tried, I wrote down, tried to put in words what it means to fear God. I found that it's almost impossible to put into a concise statement what it means to fear God. We grasp at this. I put this down to comprehend my own powerlessness and God's Omnipotence. In other words, he is all powerful, and I am powerless. It means to comprehend to some degree God's complete authority over my life And by the way, God has supreme authority over every one of our lives. Say, well, it's my life. I'll live it the way I want. It's not your life. God has the authority over your life and my life. We're not our own. We've been bought with a price. So it's to recognize God's complete authority over my life. It's to realize how in debt I am. To God's goodness and mercy He's shown me. The reverence for God, a reverential awe. Listen to Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 31. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. I think that is a way of expressing what it means to fear God. To realize that my destiny is in his hands. The fear of God. Matthew chapter 10 and verse 28, the Bible says, fear him which is able to destroy both body and soul in hell. So the concept of fearing God, He has complete authority over my life, He is all powerful. He has been so good to me. He has done so much for me. I am so indebted to him that it's overwhelming It's overwhelming. Take your Bible with me. I'd like you to I it's almost easier to illustrate what it means to fear God than it is to try and define it. Turn the book of Mark with me, with if you would, please. And Mark chapter number four. And we're going to look at a few passages here. We're going to look in the New Testament, then we're going to go to the Old Testament. I really want you how many folks brought your Bible with you while you're turning there? How many folks indicate you brought your Bible? God bless you. That's great. I think going to church is a good time to bring your Bible. Amen? And uh so just encouragement to you there. Uh and I'm my thinking is we brought them with us, we might as well use them, huh? So let's let's look up some of these verses. Mark chapter 4. Look with me at verse number 37. This is the story Jesus did some miracles and um Uh folks are all stirred up and they get in a boat and they cross over the other side. And beginning in verse 37, and there arose a great storm of wind. And the waves beat unto the ship so that it was now full. I mean, this was bad. This was sandy. Storm, get it? We're trying to be relevant here this morning. And uh so that it was now full. In other words, the ship's taking on water. This thing's gone down. And he, Jesus, was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow of all things. And they awakened the disciples and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? And he, Jesus, arose, look at this, and rebuked the wind and the sea. The wind, and said unto the sea, peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was great calm And he said, Jesus to the disciples, said unto them, Why are ye so what? Fearful? How is it that you have no faith? So he rebuked them for being fearful, not having faith. And look how they responded. And he said to them, Why are ye fear so fearful? How is he have no fear? Verse 41. And they did what? Feared exceedingly. And said one to another, What manner of man is this that even the wind and the seas obey him? The word fear in verse 40 is a different word from the word fearful in verse 41. The word fear in verse 40 has the idea of being scared, wanting to get away from it, wanting to get out of that situation. This storm and our situation scares us. We want to be out of this. We want to be away from this situation. But the term they were in verse 41, where it says they feared exceedingly, is a different word. It has the idea of reverence. Did you notice? They did not try to get away from Jesus. They feared him, but they were not scared of him. Or as they say in West Virginia, scared. You follow what I'm saying? They didn't flee from Jesus. Man, this guy, this is scary. We need to get out of here. Wasn't it at all? There was a fear, but it was a fear that reverenced Jesus Christ. It was a fear that exalted him It was a fear that was a result of learning something about Jesus that they did not know before. This man is like no other man that has ever lived. There is something about this Jesus that is humbling, that is almost terrifying. That is the fear of God. Um come with me if you would back to Genesis. Here we have the same, I think, type of fear, but in a completely different setting, that produced a very Distinct result. Genesis chapter number 39. If you would. Go back to Genesis chapter 39. I think we're all familiar with the story of Joseph. Had the brothers, the coat of many collars, they were jealous, they were gonna kill them. The one brother sold them to the traitors, took them down to Egypt, they put them on the block. Genesis 39 is where you're looking. getting you caught up to speed here. And uh they put him on the block and the treasurer for uh the the nation of Egypt, a very powerful man, very wealthy man. I mean he is in the highest levels of the Egyptian government. He buys Joseph. His name's Potiphar. He purchases Joseph as a slave, as was common in that day. And he brings him home, and Joseph fears God. We're told that repeatedly through scriptures. And he does right and he becomes very successful. He's very responsible. He's very reliable. And Potiphar, he over time, he works his way up. The ranks in the household of Potiphar. And he gets to the point where he is in complete charge of all of Potiphar's possessions. He's paying the bills, he's filing the income, he's uh handling the other servants, the the housemaids and all of that, and the gardeners and whatever else was involved. I mean Joseph was the manager of everything Potiphar had. And look what it says in Genesis chapter 39 and verse number 7, we'll pick up. He's approached, of course, you know the story, Potiphar's wife. And it says, verse 7, and it came to pass after these things that his master's wife, Potiphar's wife, cast her eyes upon Joseph. Now what does it mean to cast her eyes on him? What it means is she's catching his eye. She's making sure she can. I tell you, a woman can do more with her eyes Am I right or wrong? I mean a woman with her eyes can melt a man. Am I right or wrong? Or she can pierce him through the heart with a dagger. Oh yeah. So she cast her eyes on him. She's given him the eye. She is telling him she's available. Huh? I mean Look what happens. Finally, she comes the point, she openly said, Lie with me. What's the next three words in the next verse? But he refused. And said unto his master's wife, Look at this. Here is an expression in my mind, at least, of the fear of God in the heart of Joseph. Behold, my master wadeth not, in other words, doesn't know what is with me in the house. In other words, he's committed all his possession, he doesn't even know what he owns. I'm going to take care of all of that. And what is with me in the house. And he hath committed all that he hath to my hand. There is none greater in this house than I. Neither hath he kept back anything from me. In other words, I have access to all his possessions. I have free use of it Neither hath he kept back anything from me but thee. Because thou art his wife. And by the way, that was the right thing. Joseph's saying that's the right thing for him to do. How then can I do this great what? Wickedness and sin against Potiphar Is that what it says? No. David, uh Joseph did not fear Potiphar. Joseph feared God. And he's saying, in so many words, the way I see it, he's saying, God has been so good to me. And in this most unbelievable circumstances, I found myself. Here I am I have free access, I control the possessions of one of the most powerful men in the most powerful nation of the world. And I can't do this. This is wrong. Because I fear God. I will not sin against God. I reverence him too much. He has too much authority over my life for me To make this decision, to sin against him. He is my God. He is my authority. I fear God. In Mark, the disciples saw something about God. Jesus, they never realized. They saw an aspect, they saw his divinity at work. And it produced exceeding fear. Not scared, not run away. In fact, if anything, it attracted them more to Jesus Christ. But they feared him. Joseph feared God. And it expressed itself. God was so, he was so in awe of God. God was so reverenced by him. And he said, I cannot sin against God. I can't do this wickedness. The fear of God, the fear of God, it doesn't mean to be scared of God. Nobody tried to run away. When the thief on the cross that ultimately believed on Jesus Christ, and he said, Fearest thou not God? Obviously, this guy did fear God. But rather than him trying to get away, he said, Remember me. So, what is the concept of fearing God? It's to have such an understanding and such a reverence for who God is. His power, his goodness, his authority over me, that I am so humbled That my allegiance and my reverence is committed to this one that is so great. Can you see how the fear of God would alter a nation? Suppose the political leaders of the United States of America, or Great Britain, or France, or any other nation, would genuinely and biblically fear God. Do you think that would affect how they governed that nation? Absolutely. Can you imagine if a church and its members, which is the church, by the way, feared God? I mean, had such a reverence and be so awestruck by who and what God is. Do you not think that would affect that church? Do you not think that that would have some impact on our behavior? Do you not think that would have some impact on the decisions we made and how we lived our lives? The fear of God, not scared of God. You don't find anybody fearing God in the Bible and running away from Him. You never find that. You find them falling down before them. Moses, the burning bush, I'm in the presence of God. And he fell down before him. He didn't run away. Isaiah. Ear that King Uzziah died. He saw the Lord high and lifted up, and uh the cherubim cried out, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. Isaiah didn't run away. He wasn't scared, but he feared God. He had such a reverence and an awe Of the holiness of God, he fell down and says, I'm a man of unclean lips. The concept of fearing God, we don't find that. In our day and age, do we? You don't find that in the marketplace. You don't find that in the streets of our cities. You know what we find? No fear. No fear. I'm not afraid of God. I'll blaspheme his name. I'll disobey his word I'll live my own life. I'll lean on my own understanding. I'll make my own decisions. No fear of God. Bible commands us to fear him, to reverence him, to understand his authority and his power and his love. So, number one, we have the command of fear God. We have the concept of fearing God, which is difficult to put into words, but we understand what it is when we see it practiced. Thirdly, I'd like for us to consider the biblical characteristics of fearing God. How does it manifest itself? In the life of a person who fears God, Who has this attitude, has this understanding, this they comprehend what it is and they actually do fear God. How does that manifest itself in the life of that person? Well, it's obvious that the presence of disobedience and sin is evidence of the absence of the fear of God. Would you agree with me on that? If somebody's living in sin and just deliberately disobeying God and just deliberately violating principles and commands of Scripture, obviously they don't have much fear of God Obviously think I can disobey God and impunity and impunity, and uh uh I'm not worried about any consequences. That would be an evidence of the lack of fear of God. By the way, the fear of God doesn't necessarily mean that person never sins. But it does mean when they sin, they understand its consequences. David feared God. He sinned grievously, but read Psalm 51. Don't tell me the fear of God didn't Affect David's response to his sin. So the presence, ongoing presence of sin in a person's life is evidence that There is no fear of God. In fact, Abraham, remember Abraham was called of God to go to a land he didn't know where he was going. He finally got to the land of Canaan and a famine hit. Genesis tells us. And God had promised him that I'll take care of you. If you'll go to this land where I'm calling you to, the land of Canaan, I'll take care of you. You're going to be alright. A famine hits the land, rather than trusting God and staying there, where God called him, he ran off to where? Egypt. And when he gets down to Egypt, he tells his wife something that's really unnerving. He says, when we get down there, don't tell them you're my wife. Now that, in my mind, should have raised red flags and Sarah's mind. Can you imagine you go off on vacation, ladies, and you get somewhere and your husband says don't tell anyone to your wife? My wife, he takes his ring off. In my situation, that would be frying pans to the head consistently for a period of time You thought this tongue was just a deal. My wife, no, not really. She's peeking at me back there, so I better behave. So Abraham, on his way down, says, Don't tell them you're my wife. Why did he tell her not to tell them that she's his wife? He said, because in this land, listen, there is no fear of God. And they will kill me to get you. So I guess in a backward way, that was a compliment to Sarah that she was so beautiful they'd kill him to get her. But he makes a statement. Let me quote it to you in a uh I don't have the reference. He says, surely there is no fear of God in this place. And he says, goes on to say, they will kill you to get me. So the presence of sin, selfishness, immorality Is evidence of the absence of the fear of God. So let's come back to our thought. What are the biblical characteristics of a person that fears God? What does that produce? Well, we got our Bibles with us, we might as well use them. Go with me to Proverbs chapter 1. In fact, Proverbs speaks a lot about fearing God. Proverbs chapter 1 and verse number 7. Some of you were probably ahead of me. You said, I'll bet sooner or later he's going to end up Proverbs 1-7. You're right. Notice what the Bible says. By the way, while you're getting there, uh Thursday, we begin a new month, November. And I'm going to challenge you in the month of November, would you read a chapter of Proverbs a day corresponding with that day of the month? November first? Read Proverbs one. November 2nd, read Proverbs chapter 2. Do that through the month, and I believe with all my heart you'll see a difference in your life. God will help you. And so we're in Proverbs chapter 1 here. Look at verse number 7. The Bible says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. But fools despise wisdom and instruction. Fools despise being taught Given instruction, being taught things. They despise it. Young people be careful when you say stuff like this. I hate school. That's what this verse is talking about. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. But notice what he says here: the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Now, knowledge in the scripture is a little bit different than the way we think of knowledge today. We think of knowledge today as the massing information. Boy, I've got all this information. We live in the information age. When the Bible talks about the fear of the Lord, beginning of knowledge, it doesn't mean it's the beginning of getting lots of information. It's talking about knowing the purpose of that information, understanding why that information is important Um knowing what to do with that information. Um, the fear of God enables me To understand how this information I've gained fits into the plan and purpose of God for my life. You follow what I'm saying? Am I making any sense? The fear of God, I've got all this information, let's just say, for sake of illustration, finances. Boy, I've read all these books on finances. I know All these different things. You can have all the information available out there in finances and be a financial disaster. There's a difference between having knowledge and having information. Having knowledge says, all right, here's all this information. This is how it fits in. This is how it's applied. This is what I should do with this information. The Bible talks a lot about finances, and I'm just picking on this for illustration. The Bible talks a lot about finances. And you can have all those verses memorized. You can do everything that you have about it. But if you don't know how it applied how to apply it to your life and how to implement it, you're a disaster. Same th hey, the same thing is true with salvation. I guarantee you, I say this often, but I guarantee you we could have gone down to Long Grant Saloon or any other bar around here. And we could have found any number of people that could quote to us John 3. 16. Am I right or wrong? You'd ask him, how does a person get saved? I guarantee you we could have found drunkards in bars last night. that could have told us how to be saved. They have the information, but they don't have any knowledge But how that fits into their life and how that applies to them and does them any good. And when I fear God When I understand who God is and how holy he is and how the authority he has and how sinful I am, and I read Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and come to God. There is none righteous. No, not one. I understand, I understand how that fits in my life, how that applies to me, that I am a sinner That I need a Savior. The fear of God is the beginning of knowledge. Let me pick on another one. Our worlds eat up with it. It's sexuality. There is more information in existence today about human sexuality than there ever has been in the history of the world, but there sure is very little knowledge on how that's supposed to be implemented. Am I right or wrong? Our kids getting younger and younger and younger in school. Fifth, sixth grade, fourth grade, some places in kindergarten They're teaching them their version, the facts of human sexuality. And the kids are coming out more perverse than they've ever been. Just having information is not knowledge, but when I fear God When I have a healthy biblical fear of God Almighty, suddenly I understand that sexuality is a sacred thing That sexuality is something that is very precious in the eyes of God, that is not to be thrown about and mishandled and cheaply. There's something preserved for a husband and his wife. Period. A husband and his wife. Period. Knowledge kicks in. When I fear God, then I recognize that. But when I have all this information and I have no fear of God, then anything goes. And you've got sodomy, and you've got fornication and adultery rampant. Because there's no fear of God. Thus, there's no knowledge on how that's to be handled, how it's to be dealt with. So the fear of the Lord, when we fear God, it characterizes itself in a person's life. They have knowledge, they understand how these things apply to life and where they were. Turn over to Proverbs chapter 9 and verse 10, if you would. Fear the Lord. manifests itself, characterizes a person's life by giving that person knowledge. But also Proverbs 9 and verse number 10 tells us it gives wisdom. The fear of the Lord is the beginning. Chapter 1, verse 7 said knowledge. Chapter 9, verse 10 says the beginning of wisdom. And knowledge of the holy is understanding. You can say that knowledge of the holy could be a veiled reference to the fear of God. I know what God is. I understand how reverent, how holy he is, and how powerful and authoritative he is. Wisdom. Wisdom. Psalms 111, verse 10 says almost ex verbatim the same thing. Biblical wisdom has more to do with integrity and purity than it does with being shrewd Well, that guy's a wise businessman. The world's definition of wisdom, maybe he is Biblical definition, if you say he's a wise businessman, biblically it means he's honest, he's pure, and he's just in how he handles his business. James tells us the wisdom that is from above is first pure, moral integrity So a wise businessman in the biblical sense means he's honest and just and has integrity in his business dealings. Why? Because he fears God Does it make sense? Um, biblical wisdom, when I fear God, when I have this healthy awe and reverence. For the holiness and authority and power of God. Then I see the issues of life in light of who God is and the authority He has, and I'm able to deal with them wisely, I'm going to do right. Fear of God causes me to factor God's will into every decision I make. Proverbs 8:13 says: the fear of the Lord is to hate evil and pride and arrogancy. So, biblical characteristics of fearing God imparts knowledge imparts wisdom. Let's go to one more verse and I'll end. Psalms, the book of Psalms. Come back if you would. Chapter 31. I want to challenge you to do a study on the fear of God. The more I study this, the more fascinated I became. The more I realized how little we have of the genuine fear of God in our lives. Psalms 39 and verse number 19. Turn there with me if you would. Psalm thirty-nine and thirty-one, I'm sorry. I thought something didn't look right there. Psalm thirty-one and verse number nineteen. Look what he says here. Oh, how great is thy goodness which thou hast laid up for them that what? Fear thee, which thou hast wrought for them, thou uh which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men. Oh, how great is thy goodness! Which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee. You say, Preacher, if I fear God Like you're talking. And I and every decision I make in life, the will of God is factored in. And and I live in this reverential awe of God. I'll be some fuddy duddy that just sits in a corner. That is the farthest thing from the truth. This verse says that God pours out his blessings on them that fear God. You say, preacher, I know this isn't the right thing to do, but I just don't see myself happy any other way. I know this isn't God's plan. I know it's not what the Bible teaches, but preacher, there is no way in the world I will be happy if I don't do this. If I don't engage in this, if I don't take this path, Brother, you have bought the devil's lie, hook, line, and sinker. There is a way which seemeth right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of death And the fear of God says, no, I'm going to obey this God that has all authority. I'm going to trust him. I'm going to follow his leadership. How can I do anything but that? And God says I pour out my blessings. Now that Be a whole series. I got studying that. There's a whole series in that how God blesses those that fear him. He gives us direction. He protects us. He gives us fulfillment and joy. He gives us meaning and purpose of life and depth of life. My wife and I were talking this week and um uh she was doing most of the talking with my tongue the way it was, but um that's usually the way it is. But um uh I'm kidding. But we were communicating, and it just seems like you have so money, and we use this term hollow Christians. Hollow. I mean that front's there, the facade's there. There's no fulfillment, there's no purpose, there's no joy of the Lord. Oh, they're getting their way. They're doing what they want. And they put off this front. Like everything's okay and everything's fine. And it's not. God says when we understand who God really is And we get to the point where we reverence him and fear him. God says, alright, I'll be a joy in fear. Blessing in your life. Joseph feared God. You know how that turned out. Man, what a blessing. The most perfect illustrate type of Christ in the Old Testament you'll ever find, Joseph. Fear of God. The disciples feared God, feared Jesus Christ exceedingly Christ took them under their wing. That's what I heard. Christ took them under his arms and discipled them. And you know what the Bible says? They became some of the foundation stones of the church. They feared God. They fear God. Thief on the cross. He realized who Jesus Christ was. He feared God. He rebuked the other thief for not fearing God. You know what Jesus said to him? Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. You talk about a deathbed conversion. You don't get any closer than that. Jeremy Pittman in Uganda, we read a prayer letter from him today in Sunday school. Led a man to the Lord eleven days before the man died. Nobody knew he was going to die. The man trusted Christ eleven days later got saved. Whew. I mean he got saved. Eleven days later he died. Talk about cutting it close. The thief on the cross feared God and it brought him to salvation. We could go on and on. Saul, King Saul, did not fear God. He feared the people. He died in shame. Failure. Do you fear God? Do you see God having any authority in your life at all? Do you have the attitude? Well, I can just pick and choose what I'm going to obey from the Bible. I'll just put on a little show. I'll go to church and do all that, and everything's fine. It's not fearing God. If you're here today and you've never been saved, if you don't have it absolutely settled from the Word of God in your heart and soul that when you die you're going to heaven, that your sins are again. If you don't have that settled, I tell you, you ought to fear God. You die in that condition, you are under the judgment of God for all eternity. Hell Remember before I got saved, I was so scared. I didn't run from God. The more I studied the Bible, the more I realized how sinful it was, realized how holy He was. I was drawn to Him. The more I feared him, the more I needed him. Finally, I made the decision. I'll accept Jesus as my Savior. Greatest decision I ever made in my life. About it. I was reading about a Hungarian king. This is a true story, so we're told. He was came under conviction. Hungarian king, years ago, 1700s or sometime, he came under conviction of his sin. And he just got withdrawn and depressed, and he thought, I'm under the judgment of God. I've sinned against God. And it was obvious on his countenance, and everybody around him knew something was wrong. They'd ask him, what's the matter, King? I'm under the judgment of God. I sinned against God. I'm a sinner. His brother had no fear of God His brother said, You're being silly. He said, How am I being silly? I've sinned against the holy God. I'm under his judgment. I cannot die in this state or I'll be lost for all eternity. His brother said, You're silly for being afraid of those types of things. Don't worry about God. Don't worry about sin. Don't worry about death The custom was in Hungary, as I understand at the time, was that when somebody was in a death row and it was time for their execution, they would have the executioner step outside his home. Or a cell, and would blow a trumpet, certain tune, and that meant it was time for him to be executed. And they brought him out and they would execute him. The king who's under the conviction of his sin, under the conviction of God, fearing God and concern for his soul. Is being mocked by his brother. So he secretly has his brother arrested. And his brother is in prison. Not knowing why he's there, not knowing what he did wrong, and the executioner comes by and blows the trumpet outside his cell. And the man almost withers in fear. And they bring him out, he can't walk, they're dragging him, he is trembling, and they bring him before his brother the king And a king says to him, Why are you afraid? He says, You fear a human judgment on your actions. Why would I not fear God's judgment on my actions? You follow? You follow? Fearing God. That would change everything. Say, how do I do that? How do I get to that point? I think it's something God has to do Maybe in the midst of a storm and you cry out to God, God help me, and God does something, and you see something of God you never saw before, and you're humbled. You say he's more than I ever dreamed. Maybe you find a test, a trial, a temptation to do something wrong that is very enticing. And you look to God and you say, God, I can't sin against you. You are too holy. You've been too good to me. I cannot do this. And you learn something about who and what God is. Maybe under conviction of sin, like the thief on the cross You look to Jesus Christ and you say, He's my only hope of escaping hell. He's my only hope of having new life. And you're humble You turn to him and trust him. I believe the answer to America's problems is found in fearing God in a biblical sense Recognizing his authority, submitting to him. Will you pray with me? That God will teach us to fear Him in the biblical sense Will you join with me? I just have a sneaking suspicion, a small church in the hills of Western Maryland, if we would learn to fear God. That could very well be a key factor in turning our nation around. You say, you really think we're something? No, I don't. I think God's something. And I think it just takes a handful of people who genuinely fear him and recognize him for who and what he is that can prompt God to do some great things on our behalf What are you struggling with? What are the temptations you're facing? What are the areas you've blown in? Come to God. Fearing Him doesn't drive us away from Him, it attracts us to Him. What are the sins that have dominion in your life? Come to God. Fear Him. Trust Him. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I ask, dear Lord, you'd help us, beginning with me, dear Lord, as a pastor of a church, to learn to fear you, not take you lightly, and not view you as some toy. But view you as God Almighty, a holy, good, loving God, but God nonetheless. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say with me, preacher?