2 and verse number 15 is where we're at. Peter is um this whole second chapter of the book of Peter, he is exposing the danger that these churches were experiencing of these false teachers, false prophets, coming in the church and bringing unscriptural teaching, unscriptural doctrine into the churches And not only that, but introducing and persuading the members of the church, the congregations, to abandon their biblical convictions, to abandon their biblical standards and getting involved in immorality and ungodliness. And so they're having a twofold effect upon these good churches that uh were established there early in the early period of the church, that New Testament church period They were infiltrating these churches, and um and the danger was twofold. One, altering their doctrine, getting away from biblical doctrine, and then getting away from godly living. And that's what these false prophets were doing. Peter is strongly exposing these guys. He's warning. These Christians to be vigilant and not allowing these, they're very deceptive. Man, they can talk the talk, they can put on a show. But they're bringing false doctrine in, they're bringing ungodly living in the church. And he's strongly, I mean powerfully exposing them. Jude, if you'll study, if you'll read 2 Peter chapter 2 and the book of Jude They're almost verbatim the same, warning this. And we've been talking about this. And I've noticed over the last several years, every single New Testament book, with few if any exceptions From Romans on through Revelation has warnings in there about false teaching, about false doctrine. It was a very real issue in the very chur in the early church, and it was a very dangerous issue facing the churches. And every single New Testament penman addressed that, of course, under the inspiration of God. They addressed that issue. And if it was important then, if it was a danger then, I'm telling you, it's still important today, and it's still a danger today. We have enough warnings, we have enough teaching in Scripture that there's no excuse for a church To abandon biblical doctrine. There's no excuse for a church to allow immorality and ungodliness in among its congregation. We have enough given us in Scripture. We know So that's what Peter's doing. Look with me if you would. And we picked, we started this these this thought here last week. But verse number 15, now he's exposing their character. He's telling what kind of people these guys are. And verse 15, he says, they have forsaken the right way, these false teachers. And are gone astray. Now look what he says, following the way of Balaam, the son of Bosar, who loved the wages of unrighteousness. But was rebuked for his iniquity. The dumbass, speaking with man's voice, forbade the madness of the prophet. And so I want to talk tonight about this way of Balaam that Peter references here, the way of Balaam. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our study now tonight. I pray you'd help us to be strong in our faith. I pray you'd be help us to be strong in our understanding of what the Bible teaches, Bible doctrine. Lord, help us not to abandon that or compromise that in any way. And I pray, dear Lord, you'd help our church to stay true to godly living. And Lord, that we would not let the things of the world and the lusts of the flesh to creep into our church or into our personal lives, into our homes. But help us to keep the keep the wall of separation up. Help us to hold our convictions strong. And that we be the people and the church you intend for us to be. And so I yield my will to you. I pray you take my thoughts and guide my thinking as I preach. I present my body anew. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit and empower me and speak and preach and teach through me, Lord. And give us open hearts and minds to your word and your will. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. He makes two statements. Peter makes two statements about these false teachers. He says, first of all, they have forsaken the right way. And we looked at that last week. The word forsaken there in verse number 15 means to walk away from, to abandon And we've been emphasizing this over and over and over. These false prophets were not ignorant of Bible teaching. They knew exactly what the Bible taught, and they rejected it. And they forsook it. They walked away from it. There's a world of difference. Being ignorant, and I don't mean that in a derogatory way, but being ignorant of what the Bible teaches and rejecting what the Bible teaches. And these people were rejected. And he says they've forsaken the right way. They've gone astray. They've wandered off. And if you remember, we said last week it was, it was just a, and this is how they operate. I just want to reiterate this here tonight. This is how they operate. They don't come in and announce, all right, I'm a false prophet. I'm going to change all the doctrines in this church, and I'm going to introduce ungodly living to this church. They don't do that They come in sneakily and they just go astray, it means to wander bit by bit, just like a boat, it's kind of a nautical term Just like a boat or a ship just slowly drifts, drifts. How many people uh saw the video of that boat hit the Francis Scott Key Bridge how that whole thing collapsed instantly. That boat just drifted over there, just drifted over there. Next thing you know you got a disaster. I'm telling you there are churches after churches after churches after churches that have drifted and have brought on disaster in the name of Christ. And we cannot drift. And that's what they do. They've forsaken the way of truth. They've forsaken the right way. They've gone astray. They've drifted just slowly. A little bit here, a little bit there, a little bit here, a little bit there. And next thing you know, you can't even tell the difference between them and the world. And it's disaster. Now he references, we looked at that last week, now he references this fellow Balaam And he says these false prophets, these false teachers that are sneaking in, drifting the church, they're following the way of Balaam. Now, how many people are familiar with the name Balaam? What do you think of? When you think of Balaam, you think about what? A talking donkey. Balaam is referred to numerous times in Scripture Particularly in the New Testament, and he's referred to as an example. Three times particularly, we're going to look at them here. He's referred to the New Testament writers under the inspiration of God. Refer to Balaam as an example of two things primarily. Number one, bad doctrine. And we'll look at that. They followed the way of Balaam. Balaam had bad doctrine for Israel And uh ungodly living, bad behavior, bad doctrine, and bad behavior. And that's the way these false prophets are going. They're following the way of Balaam Three times particularly he's mentioned New Testament. One is in our passage right here tonight, our text. Notice he says they followed the way of Balaam, the son of Bozar, who loved the wages of unrighteousness He was rebuked for his iniquity. God rebuked him. The dumbass, speaking with a man's voice, forbade the madness of the prophet. And so here he's referred to there. And notice it says the way of Balaam. Now, if you would come over to the little book of Jude, just a few pages towards the back of your Bible, right before Revelation It's a very small book in the Bible, but it's a very powerful, important book in the Bible. And Jude verse number 11. There's only one chapter in Jude If you would notice verse number 11, Balaam is referred to again by Jude. And again, it's in the context of false teachers, false prophets. Verse 11, it says, Woe unto them, these false teachers, for they have gone the way of Cain. Now look at this. And ran greedily after the what? Error of Balaam. Peter said the way of Balaam. Jude refers to it as the error of Balaam. Now there's another one in the book of Revelation. Come back just a page or two over and Revelation chapter 2 and notice verse number 14. The Lord here is addressing the seven churches of Revelation, and in verse 14 he's addressing the church at Pergamis And he makes this statement about them. Chapter 2, verse number 14. He says, But I have a few things against thee. This is God speaking to the pastor of the church and the church as a whole. I have a few things against thee. Boy, I I don't want God to have anything against Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Wouldn't that be awful He says, I have a few things against thee, because thou hast them, thou hast there them that hold the what? The doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balak, that was the king of the Moabites, who taught Balak to cast a stumbling block before the children of Israel. Now look at this. To eat things sacrificed to idols Balok taught Balaam taught Baloch to introduce idolatry, got them to introduce idolatry into the children of Israel. And look what else. And to commit what? Fornication. Fornication. That was Balaam's doc. That was Balaam's doing. That was his doctrine. Get them to sh to to drift over and Start get into involved in idolatry and then get live in fornication. And so you have the way of Balaam and Peter. Peter references that. Jude talks about the error of Balaam. And John, in Revelation under the inspiration of God, talks about the doctrine of Balaam. The interesting thing is, as I studied Balaam in the Bible, not one time, never is Balaam held up as a positive example for Christian behavior. Not one time. Nobody ever references Balaam as, oh yeah, be like Balaam. Follow his example. Listen to his teaching. Never A church is severely rebuked by the Lord because they have the doctrine of Balaam. Jude is warning the churches about these false teachers because they are introducing the error of Balaam. Peter talks about the way of Balaam. Now I want two thoughts about Balaam real quick and I'll try and get out of here. Number one, I want us to consider the enigma of Balaam. Enigma I use big words like that every now and then just to make everybody think I'm, you know, I are a Bible college graduate, so. The enigma. What is enigma? What's that word mean? Somebody help me. I don't know. I just heard it. Enigma. If something is an enigma, what does that mean? What? I'm sorry? Something stuck? Kind of. Uh somebody said something here. A mystery If something is an enigma, it means this, it's puzzling. It's confusing. I can't figure it out Uh during before World War II the Germans developed an Enigma machine. How many people heard of that? It was a code And that's how they would do and they were convinced for years it was impossible to break. Well, it was broken and we figured it out. Somebody said the enigma machine breaking the code of the enigma machine probably shortened the war and perhaps even resulted in how the outcome of World War II. But nevertheless, the word enigma means puzzling or are confusing. It might mean contradictory. I don't understand it. I can't explain. We don't figure this out. I'm telling you, Balaam is an enigma You study his life, it's puzzling, this guy. It's hard to figure him out. Who was he? What was he like? What kind of person was Balaam? Alright, if you would, keep your place here in Peter. Now let's go back and look at a little bit about Balaam. Numbers. Chapter 22. Numbers chapter 22. We're introduced to Balaam. And he's an unusual fella. He's a little bit confusing. There's a little bit of contradiction here with him. And I'll be honest with you, you almost have to read between the lines a little bit to figure out this guy, Dalaem. Numbers chapter 22. Look with me at verse number 10. We're not going to be able to look at his whole account of him, but we're going to pull some statements out and see if we can figure out who and what this guy was like. What in the world? Chapter 22, look with me if you would, at verse number 10. Says, uh, and Balaam said unto God, now let me give you a little context, Balak, the king of the Moabites, had come to Balaam. And he was known to be a seer, a prophet of sorts, not necessarily of Jehovah, but he was uh what they called a seer And Balak comes to him and says, I want this nation, these people of Israel, they're coming up out of Egypt, they're invading the land. They're just uh, and uh we we want to c I want you to curse them And so that we can defeat them, so we can conquer them, you need to curse them. So Balaam's responding to that. Now look at verse 10. And Balaam went to God and said, God, these guys want me to curse Israel. And Balaam said unto God, Balak, the son of Zippar, the king of Moab, has sent unto me, saying, Behold, there is a people come out of Egypt which covereth the face of the earth Come now, curse them. Peradventure I shall be able to overcome them and drive them out. Alright, so he's coming to God saying, This is what Balak wants me to do. Curse them so he can whoop them Verse 12, God said unto Balaam, Thou shalt not go with them. Thou shalt not curse the people, for they are blessed. And by the way, Israel is still blessed of God. Verse 13. Now look at this. And Balaam rose up in the morning and said unto the princes of Balak, Get you into your land. For the Lord refuseth to give me leave to go with you. You know what he's saying? He was saying, get out of here. God's not in this. God doesn't want me to have anything to do with this. Get out of here. Go back home. Go home. Question, good or bad? It's pretty good. That's pretty good. Come over to verse 18. 22, 18. He says, uh and Balaam, and and then they came back again with uh the first time they came with a bunch of riches and wealth and all kinds of goodies. I mean they had donuts and and um all kinds of stuff Somebody said when I got the flower this was resented, they said I didn't Jody said this. I didn't know if that was a flower or a donut they gave you. You can't eat flowers, I'll tell you that So uh anyway they come back and they got even more riches. They got even more uh goodies to give 'em and stuff. And verse eighteen Uh uh notice what Balaam says. Balaam answered and said unto the servants of Balak, if Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, look at this I cannot go beyond the word of the Lord my God to do less or more. Question, good or bad? Man, that's great. He says, I'm listening you can give me all the money, you can fill the whole house full of silver and gold. I am not going against the word of God. Pretty good stuff. Look with me if you would at verse 38. And Balaam said unto Balak, and they just keep pressing on him, pressing on him. And he says, Lo, I am come unto thee Balaam said unto Balach and unto thee, and have I now any power at all to say anything? The word that God puteth in my mouth, that shall I speak Question, good or bad? That's really good. He says, I'm going to preach the word. I'm going to say what God says. You can give me all the money you want. You can do all you want. I'm preaching God's word. I'm not going beyond it. I'm not going to add to it. I'm not taking away. It's basically what he's saying. Come over to chapter 23 and look at verse 8. Now he's still now there's another side to this we'll look at here. But um he comes over and uh Again, verse 7, Balak is still pressing this. The king of Moab brought me, hath brought me from Aram out of the mountains of the east, saying, Come, curse me, Jacob, and come defy Israel. Look at verse eight How shall I curse whom God hath not cursed? How shall I defy whom the Lord hath not defied? Question, good or bad? Really good. Man. Boy, we could use some Christians that way. I'm not going to go out of what's God said. If God said it, that settles it. Come over to chapter 23. And look at verse number eight. That's what I just read. Look at verse nine. From the top of the rocks I see him, Israel, and from the hills I behold him, nation of Israel. Lo, the people shall dwell alone And shall not be reckoned among the nations, who can count the dust of Jacob and the number of the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end be like his So I'm not cursing them. Look at verse 12. And he answered, Must I not take heed to speak that which the Lord hath put in my mouth? Look at verse 19. He says, God is not man, this is Balaam speaking. God is not man that he should lie, neither the Son of Man that he should repent. Hath he said, and shall he not do it Or hath he spoke spoken, and shall he not make it good? And he goes on, he just praises Israel. Praises Israel. Man, sounds like a good guy to me He's praising God's people. He says, I'm not going outside the word of God. And he goes on. And he's offered great wealth. But he said, I'm not going to curse Israel. God said, don't do it, I'm not doing it. Now he's an enigma. There's something puzzling about him. What he says there, what he just said, is really good. Are you with me? I say amen to everything Balaam's saying here. Amen. Amen. Amen. But I get in the rest of the Bible, and we're warned over and over and over again: don't be like Balaam. Don't follow his way. Don't follow his doctrine. He's wrong in the error of Balaam. And so I'm wondering, who is this guy? What's the story? In Micah 6. 5, Micah, the great prophet of Israel. Warns the nation of Israel to remember Balaam's unrighteousness. So there's something more here Than what we're picking up in numbers. There's something more going on here. And so that I shift to my second and last thought, and that is this. The first is the enigma. I don't understand. It seems confusing. He makes such tremendous statements, and then the rest of the Bible says, don't be like him. Watch out for him. Stay away. Don't follow his, don't listen to his teaching. And so we need to figure out what exactly is the iniquity of Balaam, the sin. What is it? What's the sin that he has that we're to avoid? Because so far it sounds pretty good. I see three issues with Balaam. That we would call iniquity, that the reason we need to stay away. And the reason Peter says these false prophets are just like them. Number one, a lack of loyalty. That would be the way of Balaam. Notice in Numbers 22 again, and look with me at verse 20. And this is when Balaam uh is approached here, and uh he's already uh God's made it clear, uh God's made it clear, you do not curse. Israel, you don't go with these people. You don't curse them. Look at verse number twenty. And God came to Balaam at night and said, If the men come to call thee, rise up and go with them. But yet the word which I shall say unto thee thou shalt do. And Baal rose up in the morning and saddled his ass and went with the princes of Moab. Now look at verse 22. And God's anger was kindled because he went. And the angel of the Lord stood in the way for an adversary against him. And then that's where it goes into. He's riding this ass and the ass pushes him aside. The ass sees the angel with the sword drawn and uh the donkey pushes aside here, pushes, and finally Balaam's high he gets mad and he starts beating this donkey. And then the dumbass, as Peter calls it, the dumbass speaks. And he rebukes Balaam. Now here's my question. In verse number 20, God said, you go. If they want you to go, you go with them. In verse number 21, in verse number 22, God's angry at them for going. How many people see a little? How many people have a question there? God says, you go, and he goes, and God gets angry at him. And sends an angel. I mean serious enough sends an angel is going to chop his head off if he keeps going. I think you have to, I want to be careful in this because I don't want to be misunderstood, but it's almost like you have to read between the lines here a little bit. There's more going on than we're told directly here. Other places we're given a little more information. But it appears to me that Balaam's is everybody with me? It appears to me that Balaam's motives were the issue. Now this is me. This is my interpretation. Trying to fend this. This is this is my thinking on this. This is my reasoning. This is what I think is going on. I think if Balaam would have went, God says, all right, they want you to go, you go. I think if Balaam would have gone for the purpose Of standing up in defense of God's people and being a strong testimony for God's people, I think that that would have been fine. But here's what I'm getting at. I believe, and reading between the lines a little bit and what other passages say, I think Balaam's motives were wrong. Balaam's motives were wrong. God, again, this is my thinking, God wanted him to go to take a good, strong stand for righteousness and for the people of God and for Jehovah. I think Balaam's motives is I want to try and weasel around what God's saying, because that is a lot of money. And that is a lot of possessions. I could retire on what they're offering me. I could buy me a nice electric chariot with what they're giving me. He's not he's not going with Balak To make clear God's blessings. Now, he never violates God's word up to this point, but I think he's trying to get around God's word. He's trying to give way that he can have Israel cursed and he can still get that stash, get that money. Now, without directly going against what God says, I can't curse and God is blessed. But maybe there's another way we can accomplish this. I think he's trying to get Israel cursed without actually cursing them. In other words, Balak was not loyal to the children of Israel. Balaam was not loyal to his God. Balaam was loyal to Balaam. He says, what do I get out of this? And that is the way of Balaam. That's what Peter's talking about. He's saying, listen, these false teachers coming in your church, they're not loyal to your church. They're not loyal to the well-being, the spiritual well-being of the church, and the advancement of the church, and the growth, and the strength, and the purity of the church. They're not loyal to that. And they're not loyal to God. They're loyal to themselves. And that's it. So the first iniquity, sin, problem I see with Balaam is his lack of loyalty. You know, when God said the first time, don't you do this, that ought to have settled it. But he kept toying. He kept coming back to God, coming back to God. You know, if God tells me one time that I shouldn't steal, I don't need to keep coming and asking God if I should steal something. You follow what I'm saying? If God says, don't drink, I don't need to keep coming to him and ask him whether I ought to drink liquor or not. That's what he did, because he wasn't loyal to God. So he wasn't loyal to God. Number two, my second issue I have with, I see with Balaam is the love of money. There was lack of loyalty, but there was love of money. Balak offered to Balaam a great wealth. I mean, it's hard for us to imagine the numbers, the wealth, the the value of what Balak is offering to Balaam to curse Israel. So that they could defeat him. Now here's the thing. Balaam was willing to sacrifice the people of God to get that money. Man, if I can somehow now God won't let me curse him. He's made that clear three times. I can't curse them. I'm not gonna God says don't curse them, I'm not gonna curse them But you know what? There might be some other ways we can defeat Israel without me pronouncing a curse on them. Why? Because that is a lot of money he's offering me. And God have mercy on any preacher that compromises the Word of God for money. And sells out on God for money. And I'm telling you, these yard birds. I got some uh meat rub today. It's called Yard Bird Rub. And uh and uh these guys on TV That are preaching blasphemy, but it's popular, and they're getting millions and millions, and they're trying to raise money to buy airplanes. I'm telling you, God had mercy on that thinking. That's what Balaam was. First Timothy six ten says, For the love of money is the root of all evil, which some, now think about Balaam. which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith. The error of Balaam They've erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. Now I jumped way ahead of myself, but did you know that Balaam was killed? When Moses led Israel to fight the Moabites, I wiped them out, and Balaam was killed along with them. He was right down there in the mix with them. He had gotten in with them and infiltrated and sided with them. Why? For money. Anytime money, listen, anytime money or material possessions takes a higher priority than the will of God, we're following the way of Balaam, the error of Balaam. I thank God for God's blessings on our church. I thank God we can pay our bills. I thank God we're not in debt. I don't know a penny to anybody. And that's God's blessings. And I think that's from following the principles of Scripture. But God have mercy on Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church if we ever compromise what this book teaches so we can get more money. God have mercy on us. If we ever lower our standards or cut back on our faith promise or quit reaching the trying to reach the world so that we're more popular, we get more money, God have mercy on any church that does that. And Balaam, that's exactly what Balaam is doing. He says, that's what these false teachers are doing. The love of money. This is the error of Balaam that Jude mentions in Verse 11, he says, for reward. For reward. And my last sin I notice of Balaam is loose morals. He's lack of loyalty. He's not loyal to God's people at all. Love of money, he'll sell out the things of God to get more money anyway and every way he can. And number three, loose morals. Look with the are you still in numbers? Come over real quickly to chapter 25. And look at verse 1, 2, and 3. We find out that he found a way to circumvent what God told him Without actually cursing Israel, but yet he can bring God's judgment on them. Look at verse 1, 25, Numbers 25. And Israel abode in Shiddem, and the people began to commit. What? Horedom? With the daughters of who? That's Balak's crowd And they called the people to the sacrifices of their gods. The Moabites got the Israelites to start sacrificing to their false gods. And the people did eat and bowed down to their gods. This is Israel. Look at this. And Israel joined himself unto Baal Pure. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. Bingo. Balaam's got what he was after. He says, there you go, pay up. God's angry with Israel. Pay up. I got you. Balak, I got what you wanted. God's angry with his people. He's going to destroy them. Come over, if you would, to verse 17. Verse 16, the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Vex the Midianites, that's this crowd Balaam's with, and smite them. Look, for they vex you with their wiles, their sneaky trickery, wherewith they have beguiled you in the matter of Peor, in the matter of Cosby, and the daughter. of the prince of Midian, their sister, which is slain for the day of the plague of Pure. He says, those Midianites, they tricked uh they tricked you They got you in their wilds. They got you worshiping these false non-existent gods. They've got you involved with their women. Ve vex em Vexem. Come over, if you would, to chapter 31 Say, well how why is why are you blaming Balaam for all of this? Look at verse 15 of chapter 31. And Moses said unto them, Israel, have ye uh this is they go into the Moabites and they wipe them out, and they save some of the women. And Moses, verse 14, he's mad. He's wroth. So what in the world? Verse 15, and Moses said unto them, Have ye saved all the women alive? You're supposed to slaughter them all. Look what he says. Behold, these cause the children of Israel through the council of Balaam, to commit trespass against the Lord in the matter of pure, and there was plague among the congregation of the Lord. Huh That word counsel there means doctrine, teaching, advice. Balaam, we figure out, here's what we figure out happened. Balaam could not curse Israel. God wouldn't wouldn't let him. I said, I can't go by now. But apparently he went down to Moab. Balak said, Balak, listen, I can't curse them. You got that money still, right? Yeah. Listen, I can't curse them, but I'll tell you what we can do. You get your women. Get them to pull their skirts up real short. Get them to cut real low cut, real tight. You get them to come walking into Israel. All those guys, you'll get their attention. You seduce them, you draw them out. And then you get them, introduce them to your false gods and your false wickedness. I'll tell you what, God will judge Israel for that. And you'll get what you want, Bailey. You'll get what you're after. Bala. Brilliant. Great counsel with Balaam. Great counsel. We're doing it. And I tell you, they almost got away with it. They got Israel, God was mad, but then God led them and they wiped out Moabites and Balaam in the process. I think it says about, would you agree with me, Solomon's a good man? But he married many or let me reword it. It's not you know he loved many what? Strange women. It doesn't mean strange in their weirdos. It means strange in that they're outside the will of God. Seductive. And they drew Solomon away and got him to worship their gods. That's exactly what Balaam led the Israel to do, the Moabites to do to Israel. Exact same thing. And that is the doctrine of Balaam. Can I tell you what the doctrine of Balaam is? In our context, the way I see it, the doctrine of Baalum is you've got to be just like the world if you're going to win the world. You've got to look like the world, you've got to act like the world, you've got to talk like the world. Your church service has to be worldly That's the doctrine of Balaam. And it introduces sensuality, it introduces worldliness, it introduces the, it appeases and inflames the flesh. And God condemns it. And in Revelation, he said very clearly: the doctrine of Balaam was idolatry and immorality. So Balaam is an enigma. He talks so good. He sounds so good. But brother, he is sneaky, and he is deceptive, his motives are bad, his loyalty is non-existent, and his doctrine is of the devil. And Peter says that's exactly the way these guys are that are coming in the church. And he's warning them they followed the way of Balaam Any counsel, doctrine, teaching that draws God's people away from Bible doctrine and godly living is the doctrine of Balaam and it is the doctrine of the devil. And what Peter was warning the churches in the early church about these apostates, what he was warning them, I'm telling you, is alive and well. In 2024. And we need to commit ourselves that we're going to stay true to this old book. Amen or not. You say, preacher, you're saying this every Sunday night, I know, and probably until we're done with series, I'm going to keep on saying it We've got to stay true to this book. We've got to stay on guard. We've got to be submissive to the Lord. We've got to humble ourselves before God. We've got to say, God, not my will, but thy will be done in the areas of our life or I'm telling you we're vulnerable to the way of Balaam. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us tonight to be cautious and be wise. I pray you'd help us humble ourselves before you and be obedient to your teaching. And with our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, I wonder how many Christians tonight would say, Preacher, I want to be on red alert. I want to be on guard. I want to watch out. I want to be careful. Any like that, like me, I got my hand raised. And we got to stay in God's Word. We've got to know what He says. And then we got to submit to it Trust them and obey them. I wonder if there's some would say, Preacher, I gotta look at my home, my house, and what I'm letting in my house, and the thinking there. And I I need to put uh I gotta be more careful in keeping my house in line with the word of God. Any like that. My home, I gotta be careful. Boy, I tell you that music, those movies, and all that stuff creeps in. Next thing you know, you're out in Moab. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, listen, I I'm not sure my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. I'm concerned about heaven and hell, and I don't want to go to hell. I'd like to know I'm going to heaven And God tells you how you can know for sure your sins are forgiven. God tells us how we can know for sure we go to heaven, not to hell when we die. We can show you from the Bible how you can put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and trust Him alone to be your Savior. Is there any like that? Say preacher pray for me. I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know God's saved me. God's forgiven me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. How about it? Any at all? And you know, Father, bless our imitation now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen