That's what's going on in our country today. I mean we are doing the same thing that other nations have done and because someone thinks that they've just dreamed this up and because that they're in power that what they're gonna do is gonna turn out differently. But it's not going to turn out differently. And again, what a very bad thing about history, which of course is his story And I think what I mentioned the last time that I was here was that history is very important because history basically is God's guidepost, it's his uh his way of warning us and uh we need to understand that we have a circumspect walk as a Christian, we need to do that also as uh corporate entities, uh churches and nations. And we do not know what we've been all about if we don't understand from whence we've come So we need to understand from where we have come. That explains where we are today. And it also gives us the wisdom to proceed correctly into the future. And so we need to realize what God has done, what he is doing, what he will continue to do if we continue just to follow in his precepts. If we step out of his precepts, some very awful things happen They've happened in history before. And the problem about history is we've learned something from history, and that is we don't learn from history. And if you don't learn from the mistakes that someone else has already made, you're doomed to repeat those same mistakes. And folks, that's just having a bad case of the stupids. Someone said, oh brother Hart, you shouldn't use the word stupid. It's a very good word. Well it pro it provokes people. That's why I use it. Okay? Because stupid actually, the etymology, the study of the word stupid The Germanic term stupig meaning the runt of the litter, it's runt reasoning. It's only looking at this much. We need to expand our vision. And as God says in the Bible in Ecclesiastes 3 and verse 15, that which hath been is now, and that which is to be hath already been, and God requireth And that which is past. So we need to be students of history. Amen. And it says here in Ezra, looking at his story right here, in God's Word and verse Twenty-five, it says and thou Ezra, Ezra seven and verse twenty-five. And I I hear pages continue to turn. If you can't find it, look intelligently on whatever page you're on. No one will know the difference, and I'll read it for you. Okay? No, I'm just kidding. But uh it says, and thou w the wisdom of thy God that is in What do you think that was It was the word of God, right? This is the wisdom of God. And we have it in our hands tonight as well. He says, by that wisdom that is in thine hands, send magistrates and judges. Which may judge all the people that are beyond the river, all such as know the laws of thy God, and teach ye them That know them not. I want to speak on tonight for just a little while this evening on the miracle that is America. The miracle that is America. Heavenly Father, thank you so much now for loving us. And once again, as we bow before you, we thank you, dear God, that you met with us Yesterday. And dear God, we ask that you would do the same today. Father, we are simply this. We are sinners saved by grace. And so Lord, we bow before you tonight humbly and we beseech you, dear God, that you would enter once again into this service. Lord, these people don't need to hear from me. We all need to hear from you tonight. And so as I step back and surrender everything that I am to you, these fallen lips, dear God, this this mind, Father, that does not think clearly aside from thy preaching Father, we ask that you would just once again articulate these lips and clarify this mind. And Father, through and by your Holy Spirit, that you would Just control everything that's said and done, that your words and thoughts once again might be my words and thoughts. And oh Father, we ask that you would enter into this service in a most unique way tonight. And dear God, through that holy unction of your Guide us into all truth, enlarge and enlighten our understanding and equip us, prepare us for those days to come. Father, we'll be very careful to give you all the praise and glory for what you are about to do, for we ask this once again in the name of your Son and our Savior, create and maintain that hedge now around us. Dear God, we pray this by the authority that is in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. And so I found this very interesting. When you look into God's Word, I believe you see some things here, and that is that back in the time even of Ezra, they were using the Word of God. to basically form governments and set up judges and that's what we need to understand today. And I want to repeat this one more time that All of the different problems that we have, domestic, foreign, monetary, the governmental problems have all been solved and they're all They are in the Constitution of the United States. The moral problems are right here. This is the solution to all the moral problems In God's word, amen. And we face these in time past, but it seems like we have forgotten of the solutions to the problems. And what we, I believe, need to do is go back and look at history and understand that Christianity in America is one of the most astonishing chapters in the annals of the world The events of God's providence, God's will in preserving and preparing this country of these United States to be the arena of the development and triumphs constitute a remarkable historical event. Once again, I want to say this. We may not be acting like it in many ways, but we are a Christian nation. Because the whole world looks at us still as a Christian nation. First in name, secondly because of the many and mighty elements of pure Christianity, which has given our country its character and shaped its destiny from our nation's inception. This is still the land preeminently of the Bible and the Christian church and the base of world evangelism. We still send out more missionaries than any nation on earth There may be some nations that send out more missionaries per capita, but we are a people of 317 million plus and we're still sending out and have more missionaries on the field than any other nation. This is the land of great and extensive and often repeated revivals, the land of the free conscience. and the freedom of speech and the freedom of religion, the land of noble charities and manifold and earnest efforts to elevate The welfare of mankind. We are the first ones on the ground, and we don't need our president apologizing for us. His apology tour made me sick. The chief security and glory of the United States of America has been, is now, and forever will be the prevalence and preeminence of the Judeo-Christian faith and through it the mercy and grace of our God Jehovah. I just kind of like that As far as our heritage goes. And everyone at one time, we all knew that this was a miraculous country. We all were taught this in public schools. I mean, we all understood that this is a nation that really shouldn't have been, but God interceded time and time again. You know, when Washington with his own money put together some small ships to run the blockades that the great British Armada had set up around our country You understand that the flag that was flying over top of those small ships was the cedar beam, and the words were an appeal to heaven. You know why? Because we knew if God didn't do something, our nation was going to fall. And we see these wonderful things occur in our country. And by the time yesteryear When we were graduating from high school, be you someone that was actually born here or immigrated here, you knew that there was something very unique about this country And if you were a young man and and you had that patriotism that was inbred in you through and by public education in the 30s, up to the 30s, I should say, you were willing to go and if needs be fight and die to preserve what we have here today. And yet today our young people are being taught that our flag is no different from any other flag. And may I say this is a completely different flag from any flag anywhere on the globe. Because this is the flag that stands for liberty. that has stood for life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Problem is it's being attacked today. And so we need to, I think back and realize that we representatives of the past generations, the recipients of those people that have gone before us, are very unique. in that not what we're better than anyone else, but that we as God's people are living in a miracle, a miraculous nation. And each and every one of us, I believe this, we need to be standard bearers. We need to be holding up the standard of what it is to be an American. And in doing that, I believe that we need to Go back and to recall some scriptures from the Bible. One is Isaiah chapter 10 and verse 18 where it says, And shall consume the glory of his forest and of his fruitful field, both of soul and As they and they shall be as when a standard bear fainteth. So when the standard bear faints, the nation suffers in a big way. I've understood this, that in history and teaching history and even looking at nature, all of nature has cried out. for freedom. I remember there was a project at the University of Oklahoma for many years. It was underway to teach a 15-year-old chimpanzee named Washu to talk by combining sign language with simple recognition And since 1966, this chimpanzee had learned 140 signs. Finally, the project directors decided that Washu was prepared to conceptualize some thoughts on her own. Instead of merely just imitating some human words, she was going to express her thoughts. And now understand that while she was a pampered animal, that means that she had enough to eat and physically comfortable and away from harm and she had a lot of security. And so they stood back and they waited to see what Washu was going to conceptualize through sign language And the first three things, the thirst first three words that she said was this, let me out. And she kept on saying it over and over again. Let me out. Why? Because people and even creatures want to When you look down history, I think we have to understand as Calvin said back October fifteenth, nineteen twenty-five Two theories of government in the world. One rests in righteousness, the other on force. One appeals to reason. The other appeals to the sword. One is exemplified in our republic. The other is represented by despotism Down through history, we see governments on earth that have been almost entirely a rule of force held in the hands of a few. Look with me over to James chapter one. Are you with me tonight? Say amen. James chapter 1, I think it kind of describes it here very accurately because our founding fathers were very unique. and their understanding of the Bible. And in James chapter 1, I think it kind of epitomizes what our founding fathers did. and and what we need to go back and understand and you might say reclaim for ourselves. It says in James chapter 1 in verse 23, for if any be hearer of the word and not a doer He is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass, for he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straight straightway forgetteth what manner of But look at verse 25. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty and continueth therein, he being unforgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. You see, as Calvin Coolidge was saying, that most of the world's governments and the history of the world have been great nations of law. But law without liberty, and that's tyranny. There have been some times where in history there have been moments of great liberty. But that's wrong too, because liberty without law, that's anarchy That's what happened during the French Revolution. It's very interesting to me. And I know that Pastor Leatherman, he's come with me down to the House floor when we've had the after hours tour. And if any of you want to accompany him and you aren't coming to the next Capitol Connection, right? Okay, good. Just want to make sure. Amen. And if you want to come with them, what we get to do after the event on Tuesday and Wednesday after the preaching's done, at about 9. 30, 10 o'clock, uh everyone that wants to go, they get loaded up and we go down to the Capitol And we have an after-hours tour in the Capitol. It's it's amazing. I I get to be your tour guide. And uh and if there's a congressman that you know that is with us that's very knowledgeable, normally there is I'll let him take uh uh some of it too. And and so these congressmen they agree to come and and take us on a tour through the Capitol. It's amazing. I mean we're the only ones there. First time we we went there, uh I told everyone and there was a congressman from And were you there that first time? I mean it was wonderful. I I said, you know, they used to hold church here in the Capitol. Talk about the misnomer of separation of church and state. And for decades they held church right there in the Capitol. Thomas Jefferson went to church there in the Capitol. I said, so we're going to hold church tonight. And we were in the rotunda and and the board acoustics were great. And so we just started singing Amazing Grace. And then we sang, God bless America. The congressman that was there was a born-again Baptist from Oklahoma. And uh he first of all, uh the pastor was standing next to him. There's a big crowd of people. We had over a hundred and twenty-five people there And that's kind of a funny story too because the the uh lady that uh was arranging the the tour said, well how many people you want to lead onto the Capitol? She thought, maybe twenty-five. I said, no, a hundred and twenty-five. She said, Oh, brother Hartney has never been done I said, well check with the Sergeant of Arms. Maybe he'll he'll let that happen. And so she did, and she said, uh, well, yeah, he's going to let you take 125 on. The next year was 200 and some. And again she said, Oh, this has never been done, Brother Hardy. I said, Well checked it with the Sergeant of Arms. She came back and she said, Yeah, I can't believe it he's gonna let you do this. And the next year was over three hundred. And she didn't even say anything this next year. She said, Okay Okay, Brother Harding. It's wonderful. She's a wonderful lady, wonderful lady. But that first year we were just singing and and I mean it was just something special that we were singing in the Capitol Praises to God. And this congressman was weeping over there. Tearing up, first of all, when I was talking about the fact, and it's it's an amazing thing, because when you're in the Capitol, on one side of the Capitol are four paintings about the age of exploration and discovery. And there are two prayer meetings and a baptism. Both Johannes getting baptized. Columbus, when he discovered America, they were praying, giving thanks. And the Separatists praying with the Bible open on the speedwell before they embarked on their trip to the New World. I said, so right there you have you have two prayer meetings and a baptism and this isn't a Christian nation? And then people were going, it's it's it's an amazing thing. And so we we were there. But when you see something There in the house of representatives. We go down and we sit actually where the representatives sit. And that's a lot of fun. Amen. Because you're sitting right where these people sit that are passing the laws. And you can pray, Lord, whoever's sitting here, dear God, give them wisdom as they decide on the laws that we will have to obey. And you're able to pray right where they sit in the House of Representatives. But it's it's uh it's interesting in that first of all behind the speaker's rostrum uh are the words in God we trust. And all of the lawgivers going around the House of Representatives are all sideways, all profile, and then they come opposing where the speaker is and right there the biggest the highest the most noblest quote unquote lawgiver is Moses and he's looking straight at the speaker Full faced. All the rest of them are profile. And they're all looking at Moses, and Moses is looking straight at it. I kind of think that probably that's a little bit uh reminiscent of the fact that this is a Judeo-Christian nation. On either side of the speaker's rostrum are two paintings. One is George Washington, and the other is the Marquis de Lafayette. And I asked, why are these two men depicted here? And so this last time uh one of the congressmen explained, well, Washington and Lafayette were very good friends And when the war for independence was ensuing, Lafayette came here as just a young man, very young man. He was an aristocrat, but he wanted to fight. I kinda like that. You know, he had some fight in him. Amen. And so he was a very intelligent man, very brave man, and so g actually Washington put him in charge of his own, you know, unit and and he fought very bravely very brilliant strategist and so they became very close friends. And then after the war for independence was won, the Marquis de Lafayette, as an old man, goes back to France and the French Revolution occurs. And they storm the Bastille. And when they storm the Bastille, Lafayette, he gets the key to the Bastille and he sends it back to Washington. He says, this is the key to the prison that held the political dissidents, and I want to give this as a gift to you. But you know, when I start thinking about that, I thought the comparison between the two men was fascinating Because on one side get Washington and the war for indefense by by the way now, I want to just clarify something. I want you folks to understand something very, very very clearly, and that is this, we really never did have a revolutionary war here in America Because in order to have a revolutionary war, you have to have a period of anarchy where there is no government, no functional government. We never had that. We always had a functional government. We always had the continental government all the way through the war, even though the British tried to arrest them several times and they scattered, they always came back again. And it was a constant functional government all the way through the war for independence. So it it was that it was the war for independence, but it wasn't a revolutionary war. But over in France, oh they definitely had a revolutionary war. And what happened? Anarchy. No government. And what happened with anarchy came? You know what happened? Madame Guillotine. was in full force. And because there was no government, a lot of good people lost their lives. Now, France's revolution was a complete failure in comparison to the American War for Independence. You know why? Because the French took something out that we had. And what was that? It really wasn't something. It was someone. It was God. We said that God gives us unalienable rights. Life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness. The French said, we don't want God even involved in this. And their cry was liberte, equalité, fraternité. Now the problem with that is everyone wants liberty, right? But then the second thing is equality. Now now what's what's equality? Uh equality is bringing everyone down the same level. Huh? That's socialism. Huh? You understand what I'm talking to you about now? Socialism, that is basically bringing everyone down the same level and it appears to be all very righteous. Well we're just gonna bring everyone down the same level. Yeah, poverty level. Only problem is this, folks, everyone's not at the same level. There's some people that have greater capabilities than others. There's some people that are born entrepreneurs that go out and start businesses And you know, here in America there's some people that get very wealthy. And it's almost like that's a crime. That's not a crime. I'm glad about that. I'm glad some people very get very wealthy. You know why? Because then they produce jobs for other people Amen? And so the government isn't supposed to give us equal things. It's just supposed to give us equal rights to make sure there is a level playing field, but when you come to America, you can go as fast and as far as you possibly can. And that's a standard on this country. But what they did over in France was they wanted equality, so they brought everyone down to the same level and they killed all of the best and finest minds, the aristocracy The people that had risen above the fray, so to speak. And then they and then the next thing was, you know, and it's so interesting to me the comparison between the two. godless and godly, not that Lafayette was a bad man. He just went back to a godless culture. You follow me so far? So liberté Equality, fraternity. You know what fraternity is? That basically is those people that think, well, we get our rights from our groups. Huh? So there's this group and they have their rights and then this group and they have their rights and this now is that really true though? Is that where we get our rights from? No, where do we get our rights from? God. Right? You have for you follow me? I'm going somewhere. So so that just hang with me here for a minute. And and so what's another word for group? Union. What's another word for a group? Soviet. Soviet Union? We get our rights from groups? No, we don't get our rights from groups. We get our rights from God. That's why the French Revolution failed and the American War for Independence succeeded, because God was in our war for liberty. And they even took God out of their calendar. I mean strange to me, but that's the miracle of America. And a lot of people say, well, look. Brother Harding, socialism is biblical. I said really. I I love it when they come at me with this. And this is something that you can use too when they come at you trying to say that socialism is biblical. Well look in Acts everyone sold everything and everybody had everything. I said, no, no, that's not that's not socialism. Uh that's philanthropy, where people were selling things so that they would it was a church, basically a church group, and they were selling things to give it to others. I said if socialism is biblical. Then when the Lord gave those three men each of talent and one worked very hard and got ten, second one worked pretty hard because of his capabilities and he got five. But there was one that didn't work at all. Huh? And he buried his. And what did the Lord say? He said, Well, what's the usury? Do do you have something that you can give me? I gave you a talent? Yes, Lord, I work on Oh, well done, thou good and faithful servant. He said that to the five. And he went to the guy that didn't work at all, the uh the bum, huh? That buried his, and he said, Thou slothful servant. Now, if socialism was biblical, you know what he would have done? The Lord would have taken from the man that had the most and gave to the man that had the least, right? But did he do that? He didn't do that, did he? He took from the man that didn't work and gave to the man that had the most. You know why? Because he knew that man was going to do the most with his now now follow me now. This is an amazing thing. It says that perfect law of liberty, that's what we have here in America. Because for thousands of years, for millennia, we did everything the same way. We went from point A to point B. And I mean by either walking or some type of beast or a beast-driven cart, from point A to point B, right? And we lit the world not by electric lights, but for basically six thousand years. We lit the lights that were in homes and businesses by candle or oil lamp. We ate all the same weight. We didn't have refrigeration for all that millennia, 5,000, almost 6,000 years. So wh what did we do? How could we preserve our food? We salted it. Okay, we put it in smoke houses and we smoked it. Or if the meat got rancid, this is where pepper comes from by the way, we peppered it so we could choke it down in its rancid form. Isn't that nice? Can you just imagine that? And see all of these things from yesteryear, you see, they still play a role in our conscience even today. Uh back in those days, if you were A poor person, you went to a bakery, you got the bottom part of the bread that was like hard and and crusty. And uh and if you were a middle class person, a little more um you know affluent, then you could get the middle part of the bread. But if you were a wealthy person, you got the nicest part of the bread on top, and you were part of the upper crust Follow me? What they did back in those days literally is when they got enough money, they would bring a side of a pork belly home with them, and so they would hang it up in the living room and you were bringing home the bacon. And if you were poor you ate the belly of the pig. If you were a little bit more fluent, you could eat the side of the pig But if you were affluent, you ate the top part of the pig and you were living high on the hog. I'm not making this stuff up, okay folks? All of these things from yesteryear still play a role in what we think of today. And in fact, you know, back in those days, I mean if someone got married and they they came to the altar and there was a bunch of flowers, it wasn't to make it look pretty It's because and why the June bride was the June bride is because the women back in those days in June they took their quarterly bath. Whether they needed it or not. They bathed once a quarter. Okay? You understand? And so but everyone else didn't, and so that's why the flowers were to mask all the smell. Okay? I mean where you live in a city, when you got close to a city, you could smell the city before you saw the city. Okay, so when you lived out in the country it was a little bit different aroma, but it was a little better aroma. Okay? And back in those days you had the groomsman and you had the best man. Those look, those weren't men that were necessarily the best friends of the groom. Those were men that he knew had um a pretty good sword hand And so back in those days, when the officiator would say, if there is anyone here that would give just cause why these two two shouldn't be adjoined together, let him speak now, forever hold his peace. All of those guys next to the groom That's why they stand on the side of the drive that they do, would pull their sword slightly out and turn toward the crowd to see if there was anyone that was going to challenge him. See, all of these things come to play. Even the fact that we have a threshold, maybe we're going to carry the bride over the threshold. You know what the threshold is back in those days? They didn't have carpet. They didn't have tile. Most everyone's house was what? Dirt. And they would cover it with what? They would cover it with hay And so this hay was called thresh and they would keep the the thresh from falling out. So they put a woo a piece of wood in front of the door, and that was the thresh hold to hold the thresh in. That old saying that uh that we still use so back in those days, what you would do is you would build your house next to an embankment, and uh that embankment, of course, would allow your house to be a little bit cooler uh in the summertime, a little bit warmer in the wintertime, and you would have a little type of a of a a makeshift fireplace and you would send the chimney up through the thatch roof, and the thatched roof of course was all made with slime, and so the cats and dogs uh they would go up and try to sleep as close as they could. climbing up on the embankment and sleep as close as they could to that uh exhaust of that because it was a little bit warm but when it rained it activated the slime and the dogs and the cats they started slipping and you would look outside and they'd fallen off the roof and you'd say, It's raining cats and dogs. I'm not making this up. Okay? Well something very unique happened as time went on. With all of these things continuing to to to change and and and to and I mean j just the advent of the button saved a lot of lives. Did you know that? When the button came along, people started living longer. Isn't that interesting? Just from the button being able to to button close up, okay? And and so We had some businessmen and said they're going to get a group of people and they're going to sponsor them over to the New World and they're going to send them to Jamestown. One of my great-great grandmothers was born in Jamestown. But what was going on in Jamestown? You know what's going on in Jamestown? They said this. When you go over there, no one's gonna own anything, you're gonna all work for the good of the whole Okay. And uh and so you're all gonna work in the fields and and some of you ladies are all gonna collectively um basically cook for everyone and and wash everyone's clothing But Jamestown failed. You know why? Why did Jamestown fail? It was communism. See, Karl Marx was not an original. Amen. So then the same businessmen, they got another group of people. This time they were Christians. And and these people are going to go to Plymouth. And so they said the same thing again, going back to what Einstein said, okay? That insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, expecting different results. They said Look you, we're gonna go over there, but you're Christians now. We don't want to dog eat that type of thing, and so we're gonna give you money, you're gonna go over and uh and you're gonna all work for the good of the whole Look, why does communism fail? You know why? Because man doesn't work for the good of the whole. Man works when he knows he's getting something from it. You know why? Because man's inherently evil. And we want to know what we're going to get out of it. Are you following me so far? So they came to Plymouth, okay, and and there of course uh William Bradford was a was a biblicist and he was saying, Okay, I want you fellas to go out work in the field and you ladies you cook and you ladies there you and these people were just basically getting very disheartened. Some of the men were saying, I got a bad back, I can't go out in the field today And these ladies were saying, look, these people don't like my food and oh look, I'm complaining because I'm washing everyone's clothes and this is a stinky business. And so everyone was complaining and he said, look We left Europe to flee tyranny and you're making me a tyrant. He said, so that's it. We're not going to do this anymore. I'm going to give you each a portion of land. I'm going to give you each a section of feed. And you're going to sow that seed, that seed in the soil. And you're going to grow what you're going to eat. And if you don't work and you don't grow something and you don't harvest it, guess what? You're going to die. Because we're all going to die this way. Because he was realizing these people that were making excuses and not working the field, they were the first ones in line when harvest came and they wanted their Their portion. What's that? Socialism. You follow me so far? I'm going somewhere now, okay? And so what he said was Now you're going to have your own portion of field. It's going to be yours. It's your land. And he said it made all hands industrious. And those people that were at one time complaining, now they had their families out there. And they weren't just working hard, they were working smart, thinking up ways. Do you understand when we came to America that we had forgotten what the plowshare was? Now even the ancient Israels, uh the is Israelites knew what the plowshare was, but we had forgotten what the plow share was. And and to actually sow a field, you would take a stick and you'd you'd be going like this, well they rediscovered the plowshare and the other things going on. So from that point on, almost 6,000 years, everyone doing the same thing over and over again, eating the same way, okay, traveling the same way, and then Plymouth 30 about 20 some years later, after five almost six millennia, we had air conditioning. We had automobiles, electric lights, we had airplane travel, we were going to the moon. Even the sound production was amazing. The reproduction of sound back in the time of ancient days, if you wanted to listen to music, you had to know how to play an instrument or sing. And you'd serenade your wife or you would serenade your family. You know how to play the guitar? No, it's not happening, he said, not not happening. Okay. But then the Edison Cylinder, and I heard the Edison Cylinder down in Florida. You can hardly even understand. And it goes from the Edison cylinder then, because the mind of man was liberated here in America through and by the Holy Spirit, unlike any other time in the history of man. Thirty-three and the third album. I remember the thirty-three and the third album. Now you're dating yourself, okay. Then we had the forty-fives. Forty five, you know, the little forty-fives where you had one song in each song, you know, something you put the forty-fives in the box, you go to a friend's house, go playing forty-fives, you know, you're cool now, okay? And then you went to the eight tracks and you had a joystick. Now I was lost back in those days, but I had an eight track 'cause I I mean a eight track player I had a joystick and the sound was going wow around my car, you know, and I was going, This is great, you go from track to track and then double track and all went downhill from there. And then from the A track it went to the cassette player. And the cassette, little cassette, it was a better quality sound, but and we lost the ability to go from one track to another. But you didn't mind because you had a better quality sound, a little tiny cassette, you know But those things would still unravel once in a while. But and then from there i and I and I can tell the young people look at me like I have no idea what you're talking about Now I knew I knew as I was getting old when I went to a museum and I saw eight tracks. This is not good. This is not good. Okay, eight tracks in a museum. But then we got the C D Now some of the young people back a little bit now, okay? The CD which was a piece of plastic and we had tremendous quality sound, no thin piece of uh of plastic and you could go from tract to tract. I thought, well that's it. I mean we're not gonna go any further than that. But we did And went to the iPod next. Now I'm getting the young people back now. Okay. And I can remember my in-laws gave us some money to buy an iPod when I don't need an iPod. That's for young people. That's for teenagers. I don't need an iPod. What do I need an iPod for? And I was flying somewhere and I was reading a book and this guy next to me was older than me and he had this iPod and he was going like like this And he had earbuds in his ears. They must have been friendly or something. I don't know. They had ear he had earbuds and uh he would go like and he'd go And every once in a while he'd wake up and he'd go And I couldn't stand it by the time we landed, I said, so how do you like your iPod? He said, every bit of music I've ever had is right here. And I can categorize it by the type of music it is and and the album that it from I said, wait a minute, album? That's kind of quite strange. Use I can do playlists, I can create playlists and and I looked at and I said, I think I need an iPod. So I got an iPod. And and then from there, I I got something even beyond that. I got the iPhone. And here it is. And this is connected to a satellite that is revolving the Earth. And this has a global positioning system in it. And and you know what that is? That basically tells me where I go from this point to that point. And it's a female voice because I'm kind of used to that, you know what I mean? So At first I you know I wasn't traveling with my wife and and I I told her one time, I said, you know what, I talk more to my GPS than I do to you. She said, Should I be concerned? I said, No, we're just keeping it professional, so it's okay. Don't worry about it at all But you know what this what this actually illustrates is the mind of man being liberated here in America more than any other time in history. We have a miraculous country. But it's because God has given us the free market system. And the free market system is something that we need to hold on to. And it's very easy to understand. It's the right to try It's the right to buy, it's the right to sell, and it is the right to fail. Failure is a very real part of the free market system That's all constitutional. And a lot of people say, well, what's going on? I tell you what's going on. The government is coming in now. I never thought that I would hear a president tell a CEO how much he could make Say what's wrong with that? I'll tell you what's wrong with that. Anytime a government gets involved in business, it's failure. Because as soon as the government gets involved in business, what happens? Subsidies occur. And what I'm telling you is the sacred law of property ownership is something that's very biblical because when Abraham was talking to one of those quote-unquote foreigners. He said, Look, I dug this well, and I'm giving you this many sheep for this well. In fact he said, what what are these sheep? He said that gives me title D to the will. He said, Oh, okay. And John Adams said the second that the government starts to take away or infringe upon the sacred law of property ownership that very second tyranny begins to creep in. Now we have property taxes. So that means the property is never really ours. And the reason why we didn't know these things back when that was in suit, so we didn't stand up for it. You understand? Now folks, look, I I can tell you very quickly all the different types of the main isms in the world today. Socialism using two cows. Everyone know what a cow is? Everybody know what a cow is? Okay, two two cows, all the different types. Two cows. N no number one, socialism. Socialism you have two cows and the government takes one of them and gives it to your neighbor who is a dirty bum and it's never worked. Okay. Communism, you have two cows and they take both of your cows and you work your cows and they give you part of the milk. Fascism, they take both of your cows and you have to work both of your cows and they sell you part of the milk. Nazism, they take both of your cows and they shoot you Democracy and bureaucracy that comes basically with democracy, and they take one cow and they milk that cow and they pour the milk down the drain because it doesn't meet their standards and then they slaughter the other cow. But capitalism, the free market system, that is biblical, you're able to do whatever you want to with your cow, and you take one cow and you sell it and you buy bull. Now see people in Texas they get that much quicker than you do. Amen. And you get a herd then, right? And you go through Texas and you roll down the window, somebody says, What where does that smell? That's money. That's what decimal is. But that's what capitalism is, and that's what the free market system is, and that's what we have to understand that anytime government gets into business it's wrong Because there are over seventeen codified restrictions of the government being involved with business. It should never be involved with business That's what our Constitution says, and that's what we need to get back to again. And what happens is the liberals dream up the scheme. This is what we're going to do with health care. And the Conservatives say no no no no no we're not gonna do that with health care. We have a better idea and what they need to be saying is you shouldn't even be involved in health care. Don't give me any excuses or any reasons why you're getting in health care. You give me an apology and get out. We've known this for a long time. Benjamin Rush back in the eighteen hundreds said this unless we put medical freedom into the Constitution, the time will come when medicine will organize into an over undercover dictatorship to restrict the art of healing to one class of men and deny equal rights to others. And you understand, right, that our representatives in Washington, DC, have their own health care system. That's not under the Affordable Care Act. That's just kind of laughable. The Affordable Care Act. It's not affordable, it's not care. It's control. Amen? We need to get back to these simple things and once again realize that these are standards that have made America great. We're the greatest, most prosperous nation in the world. And and if these standards fall, folks, I'll tell you what, we're going to be in Big trouble. So when we look at what a standard is, that's our standard. That stands for the Constitution of the United States. It's an enzyme. It's something that we rally to, and we've got to rally around the fact again that we have a very unique Country where there's a basis and a balance between the law and liberty that God has given to us. We need to hold on to that. We need to keep on going and realizing that if we don't do something very soon, hey folks, we are going to bring ourselves to a demise. Garfield, James A. Garfield was one of our presidents. He was also a preacher and would even keep track of how many people accepted the Lord and got baptized. And uh he coming up to the hundredth anniversary of the Declaration of Independence said this. He said, now, more than ever before, the people are responsible for the character of the Congress. If that body be ignorant, reckless, and corrupt, it is because we the people tolerate ignorance, recklessness, and corruption. If it be intelligent, brave and pure, it is because people demand these high qualities to represent them in the natural legislature. If the next centennial does not find us a great nation, it'll be because those who represent the enterprise, the culture, and the morality of the nation do not aid in controlling the political forces I remember there was one pastor and he was talking to another pastor and he said, Do you think that ignorance and apathy are the biggest problems that have given us this condition? in America. He said, I don't know and I don't care. Huh? And that's what's going on. People aren't voting. How many Christians in the last election say, well, I'm not going to vote for Mr. Romney? Because he doesn't believe the Bible. And so I'm just not gonna I'm gonna vote for a third party candidate. Or I'm not gonna vote at all. Forty million people didn't vote. How did that work out for us? Hmm? See what I'm saying? Now folks, let me just tell you this. Um the e both of the candidates that are running for president, uh not not my choices. Okay. But you say, well, I I would really like to have someone that I wouldn't have to just say voting for the lesser of two evils or I have to hold my nose and vote against someone and and force someone that I don't well then if you don't like that then then the problem is we need to look at ourselves in the mirror. Because we haven't done anything. For decades. And it's not that this system's fixed or that system's going on. It's because we haven't done anything. And we don't do anything. We don't go and we don't we don't pray with our elected officials. We don't call them about bills. We don't uh take a little bit of time to hold on to civic liberty so we can continue to go forward to spiritual liberty. That's in the Lord Jesus Christ. And then we have at at at the end of four years, well I'm not gonna I'm not just gonna vote for anybody. It's our fault If we want someone better to vote for, then we need to get active. But let me just say this. I want to get I want to tell you a couple things real quickly here. If we don't vote for against someone and for someone else, then we're going to have a Supreme Court that's locked up until 2040 or 2050 And and our nation will be gone. And our constitution will be dismantled. So there's one candidate that has put 11 names forward of the people that he will go forward to appoint as justice for the Supreme Court, and all 11 of them are pro-life and they're pro-Second Amendment. I don't know about you. Just that alone is huge. One of the two candidates said, I'm bringing the Johnson Amendment onto my platform to repeal it because I want the people that are preaching behind pulpits to be able to say whatever they want to say I told you about that last night, so I'm not going to tear on that point. One of the two candidates has selected a born-again believer as his vice presidential candidate. So how do you know that? Because I've met him and I've talked to them. I've talked to the man. I've talked to Mike Pence. I've looked at his Bible. As Bible as marked up as any pastors I've ever seen, any preachers that I've ever seen. First time I met him, he was a representative in Washington, D. C. I gave him New Testament Along with Brother Creed, gave a new testament with his name on it. He said, You know, I was just reading in my morning devotions, the book of Nehemiah, and there's a very interesting an interesting analogy between what was going on there and what is going on in our country today. I said, Wow. He's a man that has the daily devotions. He's got a very good testimony as a as a Christian. Okay, well that's also good. All right. One of the candidates is also going to strengthen our borders. How do you trust him to do what he well, because one of the two candidates is a businessman. He's not a politician. And he says I'm going to do it and he does it. He's not my choice. And there's some things that really bother me about him. You understand? One of them is Right right there. Okay? But I can go on and and uh he's gonna go after ISIS, he's gonna build up our military. You don't understand? Our military you you re you realize we are lacking in fighter Fighter pilots? You know why? Because they're having to rob parts to keep our fighters flying. Do you understand see I was back when Carter and Reagan were running against each other, and do you understand something? That if Carter had won All the experts looking at where we were and the unbelievable state of affairs our military was and where Russia was and how the prepared they were, they said if Carter gets back in, we can be blackmailed into surrender within a thousand days from the USSR. This is back in 1979, coming up to 1980 for the election. Everyone was very concerned. I don't think they look as arch as concerned now as they were back then And so what I'm saying is we need to understand that one of the standards of our country is simply being able to vote in the election. And and your vote doesn't even belong to you It belongs to all those people that paid for it, that have gone on, that we're not just hearers of the word, but doers also. Those men that fraught and died to give us that perfect law of liberty in our country today. America, I believe, is in danger much more from within than from without. And our foes are mingling among ourselves and And we see some of the administration trying to bring divisiveness among the races. And there's reasons for all of this And we'd understand, folks, that if we don't start doing something very, very quickly, we're going to see our nation go down to its knees. We need to get back to a limited government once again and the separation of powers once again. I'm going to end with this story. Because you know what we need to do, right? We need to pass the torch to the next generation. Ronald Reagan said, our liberty is only one generation away from extinction. It's not passed on from one generation to another by DNA or the blood system. We have to protect it. We have to preserve to preserve it. And we have to basically get a greater understanding of it. And so I I can remember being interviewed on the radio Uh uh and and this woman was asking me about the Fourteenth Amendment and what I thought, you know, about the fact that at one time our nation had slaves. And and what I thought about that and what I thought about the slavers and I said, well let me tell you a story. How about one generation affected another generation? Because of course we're a nation that was um in our documents all men are created equal. Right? And that atrocity of enslaving people was something that needed to be done away with. And so we had a president, his name was John Quincy Adams Uh Hugh was the son of the second president. Uh John Quincy Adams was the sixth president of the United States, probably one of the most brilliant men that we have ever had as a president. In fact, at the age of eight, he was training with the Minutemen At the age of eleven, he was accompanying his father over to the court of uh St. James as a secretary, unofficially. At the age of thirteen, almost fourteen He was legislatively appointed as the secretary of Ambassador Dana to all of the Russians because by that time he knew fluently over six different languages, could read, write, and speak them. At the age of thirteen, almost fourteen. And so he knew all the different dialects over in the Russians, and he went with the ambassador Dana over there, approved by Congress. He was the only president in history that went from the presidency to The House of Representatives. So he could have retired, he would have been, you know, celebrated throughout the land. I mean there he was, probably uh you know one of the most brilliant men we've ever seen in our country as president. But he went to the House of Representatives and I've seen the house. In fact, Brother Leatherman's been there and seen exactly where he sat. And he would pretend very old man at this time, pretend like he was sleeping, but there was configuration in where the uh what is called now the statuary hall It was a round type of a ceiling. And way over in the other side of the building, in one particular spot, is where the opposition was because most of the people in Congress at that time were pro pro-slavery And he was trying to legislate slavery out by one bill after another after another. They even passed a John Quincy uh Adams gag order. to keep him from passing any more bills, but he kept on passing bills and they kept on saying, Oh you can't do that. He said, What are you going to do to me? Former President of the United States? And so he just kept on doing it. And they finally rescinded that act and The opposition, when they were whispering way over here on on this side, what they didn't understand because the configuration of the ceiling Everything that they whispered over here would bounce off the floor, would go across the ceiling, and would come right down to where John Quincy Adams was sitting, and he could hear everything that they said in a whisper. All the way over there. Only two places in that entire auditorium where this happened, where John Quincy Adam sat and the opposition sat, talking about the providence of God. So he pretended like he was sleeping. He was always one step ahead of the opposition. And they kept on saying, how does he know what we're about to do? He wouldn't let anyone sit in his chair. So I always have books. He had a three-point plan because he knew our nation was going to come to death grips over slavery if he didn't legislate it away. He had a three-point plan to write a document and to free the slaves in the federal city and then start freeing them in the southern states. Well a lot of people don't know this, but he had a stroke. John Quincy Ans, one of our greatest presidents, had a stroke right there in the Capitol, was carried out into one of the other rooms, and in one of the other rooms he uh basically languished between life and death and And and for a while basically he uh he was lucid and then he was delirious. And one of the young congressmen that he was mentoring came to a sign. We don't know what exchange, but we do know there was some profound conversation that went on between the two of them and John Quincy Adams, he dies in the Capitol. Dies in the Capitol building. This other young congressman, he goes back out into private life. He doesn't win his bid for re-election, and so he goes out and he tries this and tries that and this and this and doesn't really succeed at anything much and finally comes back in to public life several years later as the sixteenth president of the United States. This young congressman that John Quincy Adams profoundly affected, his name was Abraham Lincoln. And the Dred Scott decision had just been made by the Supreme Court. See, they've gotten it wrong before. And he said, you're just the Supreme Court of the United States. That's just your opinion. That's not law. There's only one branch of the government that can make law, and that's the legislative branch. He said, and and I'm the chief chief executive. I enforce the laws that they make. You just interpret the laws. It's just your opinion. And I disagree with your opinion. And I knew a grand old man And he had a three-point plan to write a document. I think I'm gonna write that document, and I think I'm gonna call it the Emancipation Proclamation. And it then I'm gonna start freeing slaves in the federal city, and then I'm gonna start freeing them state by state And Abraham Lincoln did just that, and we know what happened. You know the big difference between the time John Quincy Adams almost had it done? And Abraham Lincoln got it done, but we also lost 600,000 of our people fighting for what they believed in on both sides. There was a president that came along between these two men who was a slave holder and a slave trader. And reinitiated slavery in our country as no one else did before or after. His name was Andrew Jackson. And with him was born the modern Democratic Party. Lincoln was Republican, and he gave us basically a nation that could Adhere to all men are created equal. But it was because one man passed the torch to another. See that's the standard of our country. And we, God's people, need to once again understand these about the free market system. We have to understand these things about how unique we are as a nation. Because if we don't, folks, they're all going to be gone. And in the Constitution of the United States are listed all of these different things that the government can't do and they cannot be in business. Why are they in businesses, Brother Hardy? Because we have allowed them to be there It's not eight thirty yet. One more story. Or you want to go. We can pray right now. Young man in the midst of a battle, very exciting that he had a part in this battle. And the commander said, Sir Son, here's here's our flag. I want you to take our flag and I want you to run to the enemy. And I want you to hold that flag up. And the people will see that flag because that's our enzyme and that's the battle flag and they'll follow you and and there the enemy is and here the people are and so you're not going to have any other weapon. I just want you to run with that flag The young young man said, Thank you, sir. I I appreciate this great honor. And he took the flag and started running towards the enemy. People followed him. And the battle ensued. The fire was so heavy, and the bullets were whizzing past the young man, but he just kept on running, that some of the people following him began to s to stop. Some of them began to pause and actually some of them began to turn and retreat. And more of them began to retreat, but the commander saw something. He saw the young man continuing to run towards the enemy More and more, all alone, all by himself. So he yelled out to the young man, Bring the standard back to the people! The young man turned around and there the people were that began to falter and to fail and even begin to retreat. And the young man said, No! Bring the people back to the standard! And that's what we need to do. The standard as a Christian is our Bible. The standard of America is the Constitution of the United States. We have to understand the government belongs in certain areas limited. They don't belong in our businesses. They don't belong in our ideology. They definitely don't belong in the church. And if we don't start getting involved in the government very soon, guess what? The government's going to get involved with us. And we're not going to want that. If we want to keep our pulpits unfettered from government restrictions, we need to be the standard bearers and once again hold up the standard and go forward. With the boldest vision that has ever been given to a people for life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness May God move upon us to do just that. Heavenly Father, we thank you for loving us. And dear God, we pray now some of these things that have been mentioned might move upon your people in a most miraculous way. Lord, we pray this evening that you would help us once again just to get back in, first of all, to enforce f form of institutions so that we can rally around these standards and hold them up high that others might see, so they might follow. Dear God, help us, dear God, through and by your Holy Spirit to do what we can, each one of us. And Father, to be standard bearers, to realize the miracle that is America, that we have lit the world with the electric light bulb, that we have brought the world together. through and by communications, Father, by travel, by just improving the conditions of people everywhere because Your Holy Spirit has illuminated the mind of man and allowed us to do the unimaginable. Dear God, help undertake now in a special way. We pray this in the precious name of your Son and our Savior by the power and merit that is in the name of Jesus Christ we ask it. Amen. If you would please stand to your feet the