First Samuel chapter number eight. First Samuel chapter number eight And uh starting verse number one, uh we'll start there again. Use the uh the green handheld. And it came to whoa. And it came to pass when Samuel was old that he made his sons judges over Israel. Now the name of the firstborn was Joel, and the name of the second Abiah, and there were judges in Beathsheba. And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after Lucre, and took bribes and perverted judgment. Then all the leaders of Israel gathered themselves together and came to Samuel unto Rahmon and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons not walk not in thy ways. Now make us a king to judge us like all the other nations. Well, the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the Lord, and the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee. For they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. That's where we stopped this morning in uh in this passage. We stopped with God saying, These men have rejected me. If you weren't here this morning Uh we uh the uh title of the sermon is The Man You Would Have King. Because the fact is when we put someone over us, we put something over us, we put some uh some philosophy over us. And that power exceeds even God, we make someone else king besides God. When we say, I will follow this man, this philosophy Even if it goes against the Bible, even if it's wrong, even if it's ungodly, even if it's obviously not what God wants, we are making someone else, something else, king over us And king as we dis and the king of our lives as we discussed this morning should be God. After all, again, God created us. After all, he is the perfect lawgiver, and he is the perfect judge of the law. And he and not only that, but uh but he knows everything. He can see the future, he can see the past, he knows it he can see inside of our hearts, he knows you better than you know you. And maybe that's why we don't want him being king in our lives sometimes. Maybe it's because he knows us too well. Because you can hide things from man, you can hide things from men, but you can't hide anything from God Maybe it's because God is too just. And the things that we say we deserve, that we want, that we know we deserve, we don't actually deserve. I don't know. So men, and um uh just to give you a quick overview, if you weren't here this morning, uh God is to be our king, but oftentimes men choose men over God. in their lives. Men choose philosophies over God in their lives. And they usually do it out of fear, out of anger, out of greed, out of discontent, out of revenge, out of lack of Faith, out of pride, and out of just the worship for a man because he's so or she is so or this philosophy or or or this idea is so wonderful. And so we're going to put that above God See the times when uh man has chosen a king, because all kings at the beginning are chosen. Now a monarchy Is it w after the king has been uh after the king has passed down his kingship from from father to son to son to daughter to whatnot, blah blah blah blah blah. Keep on going down. But at the beginning, someone chose a king Someone chose to say, you know what? I'm going to follow that guy. You know what? I'm going to let him make the rules. I'm going to let him judge the rules. Now here in America, we are one of the few nations, the very few nations that started with no king. And that is great. And I love America for that reason. Oh, we talked about this morning how king setting setting someone over us And I'm not talking about having a leader. Listen, leaders are great. Some of the greatest men in the Bible were great leaders. David was a fantastic leader. And by the way, his follow his men did follow him into anything. Even when it meant leaving Israel. That's a shaky subject. Because while these men were good men and they loved David and they followed David, they followed him into a sinful place. Listen, sometimes we might love someone and have so much passion for someone that it actually ends up Taking his he end up he or she ends up taking God's place in our lives. And that in and of itself is another form of idolatry. And it always happens because of discontent. Just you're unhappy with something. You're unhappy with you with what you have. You're unhappy with the way you've been treated. You're unhappy with just uh just uh people cheating you, you're unhappy with uh with just uh with uh with with what you can get, you're unhappy with who you are, and so you say this person, this ideology, this this doctrine will make me better. By the way Worshiping man, putting man as a king over you, didn't just happen in political circumstances. It doesn't doesn't just happen in uh psychological or uh or um Um or sociolog sociological situations, it happened in churches. Now I don't I don't I don't expect this from anyone here. I don't I don't even see it of anyone uh anyone here. Never I never see it. But I know a lot of pastors who take the place of God in a lot of people's lives. It's not the pastor's fault most of the time. Most of the time the pastor is just a good preacher. He knows a lot about the Bible. He's a wise man. God's blessed him incredibly. And the person says, I will follow that man. I will listen to whatever that man says And they don't say it. But it's implied no matter what the Bible says. Some of us will believe something that we've been taught about the Bible, even if it's disproven to us. I've seen it. There are doctrines that that I've had friends believe that because someone taught it, they believe it. Even when you show them you say, that's not right. Listen, this is one of the reasons that witnessing the people outside of uh outside of really our uh culture is so hard because listen, how do you argue with Catholicism when whatever the Pope says is God's word? Now it's pretty easy because you know popes were evil, murderous, sinful people for most of time. So But uh but other than that, like how do how do you fight with someone? How do you fight with a Mormon who says that that uh that their prophet had God's word? Now again, luckily they were creat these religions were created by man. So there's a bunch of flaws in them and things that just don't make sense in them, and we can point those out, but the fact is, guys Putting a man as king over you in your spiritual life instead of God leads to cults. Period. That's what it leads to. So we we found out that uh setting a man above you, setting a man as your king was uh was an act of idolatry. We talked about man's solutions uh versus God's solutions. Man says, hey, if you don't have enough, take from someone else. God says you should be content. Man says, if you want revenge, go out and get it. God says vengeance is his. And it says, if you need a change, revolt, rebel. God says, pray about it, this might be my will. If man says, I want a leader who can win, God says, my will for you might be to lose. I know that doesn't sound fun, but do you not realize that uh before uh just before um God talks about us being more than conquerors, he talks about us being slaughtered? Because how we are more than conquerors is not fighting sometimes and actually losing. You realize that martyrs, listen, this is this might come as a shock to you, but martyrs, while some of the greatest Christians in history Martyrs in the world's eyes lost. That's how they became martyrs. Sometimes it's your it's it's in it's it's God's will for you to lose Sometimes it's God's will for us not to have everything that we want. In fact, often it's God's will for us not to have everything we want. Because then we become spoiled little brats. Right? Listen, God doesn't give us anything we want, so be careful when someone tells you, listen, I can give you everything you want. You just have to do this, this, this, and this. You just have to put me over you. I'll lead you to greatness. Be careful of that. Be careful of that because you give someone absolute power You give someone that kind of respect, you give someone that kind of status in your life that you'll do whatever they say. Listen, that's a position for only God. But we'll keep going. Rejecting God, we weren't the first humans were not the first people to reject or the first beings to reject God. Angels were, a third of them, called Lucifer, because they wanted a new king. Now let's uh let's move on to tonight's sermon. The consequences of rejecting God. What are the consequences of rejecting God? Well, let's uh continue in 1 Samuel and we'll begin in verse number 11. And he said, This is the manner of the king that shall reign over you. He will take your sons and appoint them for himself. For his chariots, and to be horsemen, and some shall run before his chariots. Let me uh stop right there. What does that mean right there? He says, if you get a king, this is what's going to happen. Are you right? Are you ready? Some of them He's going to take your sons, and some of them are going to ride in the chariots, and some of them are going to be bait or are going to be the first line that die first. Running before the chariots. That's what's going to happen because that's what's necessary. He will appoint him captains over thousands, captains over fifties, and he will set them ear to the ground to reap his harvest, to make his instruments of war, to make his chariots He will take your daughters to be confectionaries, to be cooks, and to be bakers. He will take your fields and your vineyards and your olives, even the best of them, and give them to his servants. He will take a tenth of your seed. Wow, I wish that kings only took a tenth of our seed. That'd be nice. Um take a tenth of your seed and of your vineyards and give them to his officers and to his servants. By the way, that means he'll play favorites. Keep going. He'll take your men servants and your maidservants and your goodliest young men and your asses and put them to work. He'll take a tenth of your sheep and ye shall be his servants, and ye shall be his servants. And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king, which ye have chosen you, and the Lord will not hear you in that day. Nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel and said, Nay, but we will have a king over us, that we may be like all the other nations. That our team may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles. Let that sink in for a moment. You see, the problem with people is, and by the way, people are stupid I'm one of them, so I can say that. Um people are dumb. You know, the first thing God said was, Hey, don't eat that one fruit or you'll die. And what'd they do? Well they ate the fruit and then what happened? Well eventually they died. Listen, God tells us what's going to happen to us. Many times before it happens to us. He says, hey, hey, stay out of sin. Because if you take one taste of sin, you might get addicted. You might find pleasure in it. And then by the end you'll ruin yourself, you'll ruin your testimony, you'll ruin who you are. And we say, Yeah, I heard that. And God, you're probably right because you're God. But there's a small chance that there isn't. The fact is there is no small chance that God isn't right. He's God. And he says, This is what's going to happen to you. He will take your sons, your daughters, your servants, he will take your lands, and he will just give them away to people, and he'll give them to his friends, and he'll make you slaves, and he'll make you his Servants, and yet they were like, no, we still want a king because we want to be like everybody else. You see, the children of Israel, they had a right to be angry, by the way. Not at God, but they had a right to be angry that their judges were corrupt. Their judges were were taking bribes. We're getting paid off And they had a right to be um to be angry. But instead of saying, God, give us a new judge, Samuel, please appoint new judges, they said, no, no, no. We want to skip this whole process. We don't need God as our king anymore. We want a king that we can see and we can touch and we can smell, and they're no better than they were than when they had the golden calf Because that's when they wanted a God that they could see see, that they could touch, they could smell. Although I know what gold smells like. And if you're going on smelling people, you have a problem. But um but in reality They want they just didn't care. They didn't care what God had for them. They didn't care what consequences it would bring. They didn't care who they had as a king. They wanted a king. God looks and says, this is what's going to happen to you. You have freedom now. Why would you give that up? And they say to be like everybody else. Listen, by the way, this is completely unrelated because we're talking about putting men in philosophy above God. Not ourselves. Usually we think about putting ourselves above God. And our own wants above God, but putting others above God, sacrificing our freedom for what? Sacrificing our choices, sacrificing our names, sacrificing our religion, sacrificing our Christianity, our reputation. We're usually someone or some someone that we don't know, some idea that that we didn't create. But we're willing to give all that up because we want a king. We're willing to become servants because we want a king. Well when you ask for a king, what you really do is you reject God. And when you reject God, you sacrifice his favor. You no longer got like listen, that's a problem. If I want if if I want anything in life, it's kinda to be God's favorite. Because if God likes me, I'm I mean, listen. Doesn't mean I'll be great in this cre in this life, but I really want God to love me. I want God to like me. I want God to bless me. And you know I want God to listen to me when I call him. He sacrificed his plan. Listen, God loves you, and if all things work together for good to them that love God and they're called according to his purpose, if you love God and you feel like you're called to his purpose, And then you go and choose to follow a man over God, you're sacrificing his plan. That that that that that that good that he has for you, that all things that work together for good, that's gone. That goes away when you just leave his will. Because we when you he has a great plan for you, he has a good plan for you, he has a godly, a wonderful, a holy plan for you. But you need to put him first to get through that plan. But when we say, you know what, I'd rather have somewhere else. Somewhere else. Something else. Some other religion. I'd rather follow a false Prophet. I'd rather follow an Antichrist, as the Bible would say. I'd rather follow man. I'd rather follow philosophy. I'd rather follow humanism. I'd rather follow greed or lust or something like that. What happens is God says, How can I use you in my plan? He sacrifices judgments. God is an oh is a is a very fair God An ultimately fair God. But when you begin asking for man's judgments While God will still be fair to you, you then encourage someone else to get to judge you. You sacrifice your freedom. Listen, this is in ex more extreme circumstances because here in America we'd say, well and we'll get to this later, but here in America we'd say we don't have a king. We're not putting a king over us. You know, that's not happening right now. Yeah, sure, fine, that's that's great, fine But say we did. Sacrificing our freedom And you say, well that's a well listen, that we're not we're not doing that well yeah say say say we had a president. And imagine this for a second. You guys can imagine. You all look very imaginative and creative. Imagine this for a second. Imagine there was a president That just gave executive orders willy-nilly. Whenever he wanted to. Just imagine that. It'd be a weird place, right? Imagine like those executive orders actually affected you, which they would and do. I mean if this was in the right place. And imagine those executive orders. Wait a second. Cost you money. You know what money is? Money's freedom. Someone takes some of your money, they take some of your freedom. Someone takes some of your money illegally, they're stealing your freedom. They say, wait a second, but we're not actually sacrificing our freedom. Fine, fine. Maybe not maybe not your choice to uh to speak out about your religion. Uh maybe not your choice to uh not bake a cake for someone. Oh wait Wait that freedom's gone. Maybe maybe not that choice to actually get to keep some of your money instead of having to pay eighty percent to the government or by the way in the forties 95% of your income to the government if you made enough money. Let me say that again. In the 40s it was 95% of your money to the government if you made too much. Oh, but you still have your freedom. Unless of course, and we'll we'll get to this one a little later. Unless of course you, you know, were Japanese in America, 1940s. Let's go where your homes threw you in an internment camp in America Don't tell me we can't lose our freedom. Because it's happened once, and it happens over and over and over again in so many places in America, and it always comes from one thing. Us saying we want that guy to rule over us. Despite his flaws, despite his or her weaknesses, despite the fact of what they've said or done, despite anything, we want that person And and we're and we're gonna be blind to their flaws. You know, the only person you can really be blind to flaws is God, because he doesn't have any. And when you treat someone as if they are perfect, and you treat someone as if they are God, and you treat their word as gospel, you are making another God, you are committing the first sin. That the demons, that the devils, that the fallen angels committed in choosing Lucifer. Because Lucifer, think about this Lucifer was not, and I know this is gonna be sound really, really sacrilegious, not Lucifer was not that bad. We have no record of anything he did, except For trying to make himself equal with God. He wasn't killing babies. He wasn't he wasn't I and that there were no babies at the time. But he wasn't murdering other angels. We don't have all he did was just try to set himself to love God. And then he said, you know what, that's a good idea Now he was wrong and he was wicked and he was sinful and he was rebellious because of that, but the other angel said, No, we're gonna follow him. And the moment we say, hey I'm gonna follow this person no matter what. I'm gonna make this person my God. I'm gonna make this person my king no matter what they do, no matter what they say, no matter what they have said, no matter Whether it's just a popularity contest with a with a with a with a singer or an actor we like, or if it is in politics with a politician, or if it is uh just someone that we re that we like in our Christian life, or it is a a an a band list on TV Or it is a a a leader of a cause. We say that person is perfect, so I'm just gonna follow their will, and then we are in trouble because we picked the king over us And every time that happens, and that happens nationally, and by the way, for it to happen nationally, you only need about a third of the nation. And maybe less. We'll get into that later. And the moment that happens nationally, and people actually, and I'm not talking about now, but people actually pick a king over them. And say we want a king and listen America is in the situation where we have no king, where we've never had a king We are not Israel, but listen, we're as close to a nation being like Israel as we as anyone ever has been Because we because Israel was a theocracy and God was their king. You know what a lot of our a lot of our founding fathers said? We have no king because God is our king. And you know what? We're just gonna live by a nation of laws, just like Israel, and we'll have judges just like Israel. Listen We are in the same place, and it's wonderful being in that place because we have freedom. It's why I believe that we're the most successful, most charitable nation in the world. It's why we're the best nation in the world. But Israel ruined themselves. Israel destroyed themselves when they picked someone to be king over them. And they were warned. And just FYI, this is me warning you. So you've been warned. Listen, if you think for a second I am sitting here. And and I I got a comment after my first sermon somebody said, I know what you're talking about. And there's no problem. I don't mind people saying that to me. But no, you don't know what I'm talking about. See I'm not gonna drop names. I don't I'm not gonna drop names because it doesn't matter. Because you can and uh well here's a couple names. You can support Donald Trump like a god and you can also support Ted Cruz like a god. And you can support Barack Obama like a God. And I don't care which one you do it, because if you support anyone like a God and say they're um they're flawless, you're wrong. And you can support your husband like a God, and you can support your wife like a God, and you can lift anyone up, but the moment you lift someone up above God, you are in sin, you are committing idolatry. Listen, we should never say this person is always right because no one is always right. Listen, and we and uh listen, I I there is a there's a time and a point for choosing a godly leader, and we're not gonna get into that tonight, but Goodness gracious. The funny thing is, it's if you do have someone who is a godly person and you do lift them up on a pedestal and listen to everything they say, that's a sin. But at least most of the time you're gonna be doing what God would have you do anyways. But if you left an obviously sinful person or an obviously a wicked idol ideology up on the pedestal and worship it You'll miss a lot more than you hit with God. But that's just that's a freebie. That's not part of the sin So we have consequences of rejecting God, but then we have consequences of choosing men. You know what men are? By the way, I said this earlier. People are stupid. So why do you want one telling you what to do? Let me say this again. People are stupid. So why do you want one to be your master, to be your king? People are flogged. People are greedy. People are wicked. By the way, think about Think about that sin or those sins that no one else knows that you've ever done and you're very ashamed of, and you ask for forgiveness, but you're very ashamed of them, and and you've and and they tear you up inside, and you it makes you feel like a wicked person because you are a because you are a sinner. Because you do have sinned. Now think about that. And think about the worst thing you've ever done. And now realize that pretty much everybody in the room has probably done something similar. Everyone in the room, everyone in the world has that same sinful nature. And by the way, people, in this in in a uh let's say in a government sense, people who we who do get to the point to where we can actually elect them They may have done some shady stuff to get there. That is, guys. Why do you want a man over you? I never answered it because you're greedy and you're discontented with who you are. Or you're hateful. Or you're vengeful. And you're not taking it to God. You're taking it to someone who you think can fix it But we'll keep going. Consequences of choosing men. See, we talk about consequences of choose of rejecting God, but the consequences of choosing men are like this. If he enslaves you, if it takes away your freedoms, or she takes away your freedoms, or this ideology doesn't allow you to do things, that's your fault. Because you chose it. If wickedness is performed by the person you chose, and you empowered him to do it, or her to do it. That's your fault. For instance, I talked about Mao. Um you guys don't know who Mao is, uh he's Chinese, uh you know brought communism to China. Hundred million people died. Let me say it again. Hundred million a hundred million people died in China because of communism. They were not all murdered. A lot of them starved to death. Now you say I didn't I didn't do anything. And sorry, that might it might be ninety million. Or I'm sorry, it might be sixty million and and environmentalism is killed. Let's talk about environmentalism. That's way more fun. You guys know what DDT is? It kills bugs. You know for a while we were like, dude, we should not use DDT because it will mess up birds or something. That's what we said. You know, like a year or two later we found out that's not true, it's fine. But during that year or two, we restricted it in Africa. And sorry, the the fact that a hundred million people I messed that stat up this morning, I apologize. Although I think it's fixty million in China, but a hundred million people have died because we won't allow them to use GDT. Let me say that again. A hundred million people have died because we've not allowed them to kill their mosquitoes. Because it'll hurt birds or something that it actually won't do. Now you say, I have not had any part in that. Maybe you haven't. But if you're one of the people who goes around saying, hey, we shouldn't use DET, I think you have a part in it. If you even the while while the while the people who picketed DET, while the people the while the stupid hippies, I'm saying that stupid hippies wrote songs. About DDT. I mean, they might not have ki went down and killed someone, but they're per responsible. Because who you support and what you give your voice to matters, and you will be judged for it, and the consequences thereof are your own. The people in Germany who never touched a Jew in the 1940s. The people in Germany who never touched a Jew But we're part of the conservative movement to elect Hitler. We're guilty So before we choose a man, we need to realize that whatever he does, if we gave our voice to that, whatever he does. Or she does. It's on our hands. Favoritism usually happens with consequences of choosing men. By the way, um interesting. Uh communism, if you guys don't know the you know, communism. That's fine. But communism is everyone supposed to be equal. Why then did was not everyone equal? It's called favorites. That's why. But we're getting that but that's you know the p the fact is guys listen when you put a king over you he has his favorites and if you're not one of them you're not going to do as well as you think Unrighteous judgment? He and he will be willing, or she will be willing, or this thing will be willing to sacrifice you for its own good. Let me say that again. Most people, most ideologies, they don't know you. And most of them are willing to sacrifice you. Most of them don't care if you follow them anymore. So they'll act real nice to you to your face. When it comes down to it, they just don't care. Because most people who allow people to set them as king over people Or pretty e egotistical. Mind you, I had a conversation with someone yesterday. But now we won't get into that. That's not funny. That's no funny. All right, last last couple points. Am I a couple? I mean twelve. Um maybe fourteen. Somewhere around there. Um steps to make men to steps men take to put a king over them. Are you ready for this? Here are the steps. Broke down in six steps. I'll go through them quickly. First, there's an inciting incident. An inciting incident. Someone gets discontent. A lot of the times it's a righteous discontent discontentment. A lot of times the person the people or the person or the group has actually been treated unfairly. Has actually like something actually happened to them and it was wrong. It is not their fault. So they are either angry, they are either discontent. They are either they don't have enough, so they so they want more, and it's not out of evil, it's not out of wickedness, that they want more, that they want to they want p uh justice to be done. But they do want it. And so there's that initial incident, that inciting incident, that feeling of anger or or or uh Oh sorry, step two is to give in to those feelings, to dwell on that anger, to dwell on that fear, to dwell on that hatred, to dwell on that greed, to dwell on that envy, to d Flow in that covetousness They say, I don't have enough, or I've been treated unfairly. This is not my fault, and they dwell on it and to get angry. And then step number three happens. Someone stands up. Someone stands up. Now here's the problem with people standing up. In this situation, sometimes these really are good people who really want the right thing, but often in these situations, it's people taking advantage of other people You want more? Great! I have a Ponzi scheme for you. Right? That's how scams, that's how Connor just works. is they get you to trust them, they get you to put your trust, your faith in them, they get to be your best friend, and then they scam you Step number four, you break your own rules. So you find someone to stand for you, and then they break your rules, but because you're on their side, you allow it. You don't stand just as strong as them when they treat someone unfairly. You don't stand up and say, hey, that's unfair. You say, well, they probably deserve it. When they stand up and they take someone's stuff that is not theirs to take, when they steal it from them, you say, Well, yeah, but you don't know the situation behind that. When something happens that you know is wrong in your heart, and you read the Bible and you know that God would not be pleased, you make excuses for them, and you become a hypocrite. Step five, you give power away. You just sacrifice you just give it all in. And you say, listen, I'm standing behind this person no matter what. Step six is live with your consequences. The Treaty of Versailles was the end of World War One, but consequent but consequently Consequentially, also the cause of World War II. Most people don't know that. At the end of World War One, we treated the Germans awful. We ruined their economy. We gave away all their land. Now listen, it was a world war and we won. And winners get to choose uh choose stuff. But we we were awful to the German people at the end of World War One. So Germany was uh severely uh was punished severely, and the German people suffered economically for years. The once great German Empire was now the world's joke. Think about that. You have a lot of pride. Germans, by the way, had a lot of pride. And now they're the world's joke. Now listen, Germany was totally on the wrong side of World War One. But their entire country suffered for it. We had a Great Depression, their depression lasted twice as long. Until. So it's so step two. So first of all, there's that inciting incident, a great injustice or a tragedy. Step number two was giving in the feelings, right? So German people were discontent with their lot in the world. They felt humiliated and angry at the rest of the world. Find someone bold enough to stand. A small group known as the National Socialists, the Nazi Party, who would never gain more than a third of the votes. joined up with the Conservative Party. And that Conservative Party, they elected their leader, and then Hitler was apprenti uh appointed the Grand Chancellor. Or Chancellor, I'm sorry. Number four, break your own hypocrisy. After feeling as if they've been treated unfairly, these National Socialists, during what they call the Night of Long Knives, executed 80 other party leaders Or any any other leaders from other parties. Executed them in the middle of the streets. This is this is in thirty-three, by the way. This is not in this is not during when we think of World War II. This is during our Great Depression He executed them all. Nazis become the party and give him power. Nazis become the state party. Let me say again, Nazis became the state party, and this is a very, very simplistic version of how Hitler rose to power. Step number five, give him power. Gazis became the step party, and then he made a deal with who the Catholic Church Step number six, we know the horrors of the Nazis, we know the horrors of the Holocaust, we know that we that listen without America jumping in when we would have, the Holocaust would have won World War II. The Nazis would have won World War II Thousands, countless people died. That's how we choose a king. That's what happens. That's the steps to choosing a king You have an injustice done against you. You give in your feelings. You find someone who will stand up for you. You break your own rules. You give that person power. And step six, you live with your consequences. By the way, steps to having a king if you don't choose him. Are you ready for this? Steps to having a king if you're not one that chose him Stay silent. Don't talk about it. Listen, I uh like I said, this sermon is not about I as much as I appreciate the person coming to me afterwards, the sermon is not about a specific person. The sermon's about you. And what you choose to do And how you choose to put someone above you. See, most people say if someone disagrees with me I'm just gonna stay sound. And that's fine. In most matters, that's probably the good thing to do. If someone says, I like Camaros better than Mustangs, they're wrong. But that's okay. If someone says that the Green Bay Packers are not the most awesome team at the end of the fellow, they can be wrong. I don't care. But the fact is There's certain things where you better open your mouth when someone says something Tell you why. The German people, like I said, the Nazi party was only a third, would never get more than a third of the votes. Never in its entire existence would it get more than a third of its votes, yet somehow it became the state party. Stay silent. German Lutheran pastor Dietrich Bonhoeffer. If you guys don't know the name, he's Boss. Alright? That's a good for those of you who don't use the word boss, boss is good. He's one of my favorite he's a cool guy in history, all right? He died, I think, four days before Hitler killed himself. He was executed, which is really sad because he was an amazing man. This is what he said. He's imprisoned by Hitler for speaking out But at first he wouldn't speak out. At first he was scared to speak out. But then he started speaking out and he was imprisoned for it, eventually. He said, silence in the face of evil. is itself evil. God will not hold us guiltless. Not to speak is to speak. Not to act is to act. You know why I don't care if someone doesn't like Green Bay Packers? Because it doesn't matter. You know why I do care? If someone is trying to give away my country? Because it matters. Because it matters. You know why I care if someone is ruining their life? Because it matters. Listen, you're if you haven't ran across it, you're gonna run across someone who who is joining a cult. And they don't know it, but they're joining a cult. It happens, guys. We have friends and we're people and as I said, people are stupid. And someone's gonna be like, hey, these Mormons came into my house and they showed me a bunch of cool stuff. Now you have one of two reactions there. Because by the way, that is putting Joseph Smith as their God, just to make that connection to why this sermon. You have one of two options there. You can stay silent and say, you know, I'm glad this person is getting involved in something to better their life. You convince yourself that it's better for them Or you could not sin. Or you could tell them that that's the wrong way and that will lead them to hell. Or if they're already saved and they've started falling into Or you can tell them that that is not God's will. Or you could show them in the Bible why that is wrong. You see, that's someone's life. That's when it matters. Listen, if I'm at dinner with my wife and they bring out a sandwich and it has tomatoes on it. And and she doesn't like tomatoes, which she doesn't. And I look at those tomatoes and I say, man. I could speak up, but she says, listen, it's fine. And she just picks them off. And no harm, no file, that's fine. Whatever, right? But if I see them putting rat poison on her sandwich, then that might be the time to speak up and say, hey. You shouldn't put wrap wood around the sandwich. Probably a good idea, right? There's a time to speak and a time not to speak and you know when that is. Because usually it's when you don't want to speak but you feel like you should. That's when you should And when you know you shouldn't shut up, but you're going to speak anyways, that's when you should shut up. That's how this works, alright? Whatever your body's doing, whatever your whatever your soul, whatever God is telling you to do, just just listen, right? Because you're dumb. You're human. But um So, we talked about this. We talked about men steps men take to uh to get a king. Last point, and I'm done. My last point is titled like this, but this can't happen in America, right? Right? Why ruin that for you? Because of F E R and I apologize. Inciting incident A great tragedy, if you will. December 7th, 1941, Pearl Harbor. Giving in the feelings, fear, anger, hatred. Finding someone bold enough to stand, by the way, we'd already found him at that time. His name was FDR. Breaking your own rules. We're Americans, we believe in liberty, yet we imprisoned 120,000 Japanese. Oh, by the way, 50 six are sorry, 60% of those? They were American citizens. And we imprisoned them. We took away their homes, took them from their homes, and put them in camps. And they didn't get their homes back, by the way. People forget about that. Give him power. The reason he had this kind of power is because the American people were angry and they just wanted the new and they were scared and they just wanted protection. Lastly, live with your consequences. Listen, I I I have no problem listen, I the fact is you can disagree with me if you want, but slavery uh and what like slavery like in the eighteen forties actually you know I think it affected African Americans from there on out. Well listen, does that mean that anyone has an excuse 150 years later to blame that or anything? I don't know. But if your grandparents got their homes taken away in 1940, that actually does affect you today And it's still affecting us. That's FDR. Considered by liberals to be the our greatest president. By the way, they consider our second greatest president to be Woodrow Wilson, who was a terrible, awful racist. Um, just to throw that out there. On September eleventh, two thousand one, we were attacked. Everyone knows this. September eleventh, Twin Towers fell. Um roughly three thousand people died. Here's the thing, guys. Well and listen, I I'm not getting political here, but we intro we introduced the Patriot Act and no matter how you feel about the Patriot Act, it was ruled unconstitutional. But everyone voted for it. Which tells me one thing. When we get scared, when we get angry, when we feel like we don't have enough, when we feel like we've been treated unfairly. Even Americans are willing to just give up everything. Now none of you, maybe none of you Are willing to put anyone as God tonight. Meaning, none of you would have anyone that you know be king because God is your king. And I and I implore that, and I and I respect you for that. And I hope that's true in every one of our lives But you're not the only Americans in this country. And on the right side and on the left side of the political aisle, I don't care whose side you're on, we both have a bunch of man worshipers. We and listen don't get mad at me for saying this, but you shouldn't get mad this is this is something that kinda bugged me because We're idiots as humans and we're also what and we're just idiots. It's okay. But the fact is If eight years ago I would have preached against Barack Obama and said all this about him? I would have gotten a hundred amens. Not saying you guys didn't do well. You guys amen just fine tonight. Don't worry about it. But um I would have gotten a hundred amens. But if someone has an R next to their name, then they're off limits. Right? Aren't they? So before you like get out here and you're like, I'm so mad he was talking about such and such. I wasn't talking about no one. I was talking about everyone. And most importantly, I was talking about you. And I was talking about your friends? And I was talking about you staying silent to people when they say, I don't care what this person does, I'm gonna vote them in. And I kinda care about you sitting there and going, Well I don't want to get in this fight because this person's an idiot. You know what? Sometimes you have to confront an idiot. Bible says that. The Bible actually says that, just not in those words. Sometimes you have to confront someone. Sometimes you have to say sound listen and they're saying, listen, I believe that um where are we? This is Steelers Country. Who what team does Steelers Country hate? Ravens? They they say, listen man, Ravens are the best team ever. Listen, I know it'll be hard, but you're allowed to keep your mouth shut there. Alright? But if someone says, you know what, no matter what, and by the way, okay, I'll drop a Democrat's name because apparently I'm allowed to do that. I'm gonna vote for Bernie Sanders because I want free stuff. Listen, you might want to be like, listen, stupid. Except you shouldn't say it like that. Listen, moron. No, that doesn't work either. Listen, you greedy little child. No, that doesn't work either. Um okay, I don't know how you approach it, you have to work it on your own. The fact is, guys, when someone puts someone as a god and does some and is putting someone as their king as someone who they say no matter what I'm standing for this person and it's not God. They are committing idolatry and it is your job to stop them. It is your job to keep them from that. Be a Christian. Be that person in someone's life who actually stops them from something. Be that change in someone's life. I said earlier, God leave us on this earth so we can be that person if you're not being that person, if you're not being the change in someone's life today, if you're not standing up to people when they're going to ruin their lives or ruin your country or ruin your freedoms when you're standing up to them now. What good are you on this earth? Stand up. Speak out. I am sick and tired of only anti-Christian voices speaking out. And then when we do get a Christian voice Because of how our media works, it's always someone who doesn't know anything about Christianity. I'm sick of that. Now listen I don't it is your job. Period, to vote. It is your job. No, that's not your first job. Your first job is to actually learn about candidates and then go vote. And your first job before that is to be a Christian. And if you're Christian view, then it affects how you look at uh candidates, and then it doesn't affect how you vote. Praise God. Listen, this sermon is not about politics. It's about you. And you putting a philosophy, whether it be humanism, socialism, communism, even capitalism, above God. Let's pray. Dear Lord, just uh thank you, God, for everything you've done, Lord. We just want to praise your name, God. You are our great King, God. And Lord, as uh As we pray tonight, Lord, I just, God, I want to say a word of prayer for our country, God. Lord, there Lord, we uh We're a foolish and rebellious people, Lord. You've been so gracious to us, Lord. But I pray that you just would extend your grace on us for more time, Lord. In your name. Amen.