First Peter chapter five, I think this is our third maybe message on this verse here, maybe third or fourth. We've been dissecting and spending some time. We kind of parked it here as we're preaching through First Peter. We got to verse 10 here. We kind of parked it and we talked about the God of all grace. And what that means to us. And then we talk about the eternal glory that awaits us. And now I want to look at another statement that Peter makes here in verse number 10. Notice The Bible says, But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by G Christ Jesus. Now look at this statement he makes. He says, after That ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. He says, the God of all grace has called you to his eternal glory. Then he says, you know, after you suffer a while, And these certain things are going to be true in your life. You'll be perfect, you'll be established, you'll be strengthened, you'll be settled. Suffering will do this for you. Suffering is a benefit to the believer. And that's what I want us to think on. Now we're not going to get the whole message. I'm just going to give kind of introductory thoughts. I have three I have three thoughts from this. We're going to look at two tonight. Then the next one we'll pick up again later. Let's pray. Father, I ask that you would bless our time in your word tonight. Lord, it's a As always, it's so good to spend the Lord's day with the Lord's people. God, you've been good to us. I'm so enjoy church this evening. And I'm praying now with our Bibles open. Lord, we're about to go into a new week. We don't know what lies ahead. We don't know what tomorrow holds or the rest of the week. But we do know, Lord, that you love us and you have a plan for our lives. Lord, we trust you. I pray you'd speak to our hearts. And Lord, whatever our spiritual need may be tonight, I pray you would use your word as we look into it to adjust us and fine-tune us, Lord, and refocus. That we can be a good witness for you this coming week, that we can walk in victory and uh please you with our lives. So fill me with your spirit. I always ask, Lord, again I yield my will to you, present my body. Please, Lord, speak through me and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. He says, after that ye have suffered a while. Peter is writing to believers, and we said this a hundred times, no doubt, he's writing to believers who have been severely persecuted. In fact, as the time of this writing, they were being persecuted at that very moment. They paid heavy, heavy price for their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. So when he writes to them about suffering, they knew what he was talking about. They knew what it meant to suffer. They had suffered physically because of their faith in Christ. You study the history of the church and you study the church at this time of uh at this time frame, you study the book of Acts. They suffered physically. They were violently beaten for no other reason than they were committed to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so they knew what it meant to experience pain. They knew what it meant to have broken bones. bruised bodies, uh beaten and and kicked and and uh locked in prison. They knew what physical suffering was people he's writing to. When he says, after you suffer while they knew they related exactly what he was talking about. They knew what it meant to suffer emotionally. You know, sometimes emotional suffering can be as painful as physical suffering. I know, folks, I know situations where someone would gladly trade the emotional suffering for physical suffering. And these people knew what s emotional suffering was. They had families that had turned against them One of the practices in the Jewish households at that point, and even since then, has been if someone trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, the family literally disowns them. They don't know you. You're not part of our family. Well I don't know about you. I love my family. I don't know about you, but that would hurt. Your family disowns you. We've mentioned over the years there was a fellow when I went down to Tennessee Temple, he was still living. Jacob Gardenhouse was a Jew. Ain't America got saved. And um his family turned against them and they literally had a funeral service for him. They said, as far as we're concerned You are dead. We no longer have a relationship. And they had a funeral service for him. I wish you could hear him, wish you could have heard him give his testimony as he stood there and wept as his family rejected him These dear believers, they knew what it meant to suffer emotionally. His family would reject them. They'd have family members taken and beaten, sometimes killed. A wife's husband would be martyred for the faith. And so when Peter writes to them and says, after you have suffered for a while, they knew. They knew what he was talking about, what it meant physically and emotionally. And they knew what it was to suffer spiritually. If you'll remember just a few verses before in verse number 8, he says, Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. They knew what that meant. Some of them had failed the Lord. Some of them, like Peter, had denied the Lord to save their neck. And they come back. Peter knew what it meant to suffer spiritually. I don't know. I don't want any kind of response from anybody, but I'm no doubt there's many of us here know what it means to fail the Lord Huh? You know what it means to fail the Lord and the shame and the sense of failure that the devil will pour on us and the guilt that he'll pour on us. Devil try and convince us that God will not forgive us and has not forgiven us. I'm here to tell you the devil's a liar God does forgive, and He forgives freely and He forgives fully and He forgives permanently. They knew what it meant to suffer spiritually, they had their ups and downs. They knew what the spiritual warfare was about. So Peter writes to them and he says, After that ye have suffered a while. And they knew physically, emotionally, spiritually, what it meant The word suffer means what you think it would mean here in this text. It means to experience pain, emotional pain, physical pain. It means to experience distress, whether in body or in mind. Now, here's the strange thing about it as I got studying this, and I I'd seen this before. I knew this was true, but I think it just dawned on me again as I studied this. The believers in the New Testament, their attitude towards suffering. Now, I don't know about you. I don't know what your thought is about suffering, but to me, in my mind, suffering is something we want to avoid, right? I don't know about you, but in my mind, suffering is something that is negative. Right? Anyone with me on that? This is the negative thing, to suffer. I got studying the New Testament believers. You know what I found? The New Testament believers and the apostles, they viewed suffering in a very positive way. Amazing as it is. Now here's where I want us to use our Bibles a little bit. Now keep your place here, because towards the end of the message, we're going to come back here. But if you would, turn with me to Acts chapter number five And I reference this passage occasionally because it's such an amazing thing to me. Anybody here ever get the idea in your head that you think, well, I'm a pretty good Christian. I'm pretty strong faith. And then you read something in the Bible, how there's New Testament believers and you think, man, my faith is the weakest thing it's terrible. Anyone know I think, boy, I really we tend to think more highly of ourselves than we probably ought to. And I read this passage here in Acts chapter 5 at the end of the chapter And I see how these believers respond to the beatings they're getting and the rejection they're experiencing and the suffering they're going through and what their attitude was about it, how they responded to it. Look at verse 41. It says, and they departed from the presence of the council. Now this council had just looked up at verse 40. It says they called the apostles and beaten them, commanding they should not speak in the name of Jesus. So they're leaving this council. They depart from the presence of the council. Look at this next statement. Rejoicing. That they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. And then it goes verse 42, and daily in the temple in every house they cease not. To teach and preach Jesus Christ. They said, we aren't doing that. You can beat us. Man, we're we we're we're just we're thrilled. That we're counted worthy to be beaten for our Lord Jesus Christ. We're going to keep on doing this. I don't know about you. That's an amazing thing. Rejoice in that they're counted worthy to suffer shame. That's uh an amazing thing. You know what most of us would be doing if we had just been threatened and beaten and threatened? We wouldn't lead the council. We wouldn't depart from the council rejoicing. We'd be apart from the council calling the Christian Law Association. Right, we're at sue them, and they're not they're not doing this to us. That wasn't their attitude I get the impression these people these people saw things from a whole different perspective than most of us did. Rejoicing. If you would come over to Romans chapter number 8. Paul is writing here about Christians dealing with suffering and facing suffering. In Romans chapter 8 and verse number 18, would you agree with me? Paul knew a little bit about suffering for the Lord. Beaten, left for dead, scourged, prisoned. Look in verse number 18 of Romans chapter 8. I have this underscored in my Bible. He says, Paul testifying here, for I reckon, that proves he's from South Carolina, Brother Matthews. I reckon. No, it doesn't mean what we would say reckon. I reckon are you going you going to the store you going to Walmart tomorrow? I reckon No, that's not what he's talking about. He says, I'm counting this as true. I'm confident of this. It's an an accounting term. He says, As I reckon, I am confident I'm I'm counting that this is true. Look at this. That the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Paul had an interesting perspective on suffering. He says, oh, this is nothing. I'll tell you, what's coming up ahead, it's going to be wonderful. This doesn't even compare. What lies ahead. I tell you, as grievous as suffering can be, as grievous as Paul's suffering to be, for him to say, oh, this is nothing compared to what lies ahead, boy, I'm interested in what lies ahead If that makes this nothing, it's nothing compared to it. Take your Bible, if you would, and go over to 2 Corinthians chapter number 4. Again, this is the Apostle Paul. He's writing to the church at Corinth at this time, and they were a mess. But he writes them a little bit about his experience with suffering. And 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Look with me if you would at verse 7. He says, but we have this treasure in earthen vessels. In other words, we're just temporary physical bodies we're in, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. Now look what he says. We are troubled on every side. Just everywhere I look, there's trouble. I can't get out of it. I look up, there's trouble. trouble is down, left, right. There's this trouble. I'm surrounded by trouble. He says we're troubled on every side, yet we're not what? Distress. It doesn't stress me out. His whole attitude about it is different than ours. Say to somebody, uh, how's it going? Oh, I'm stressed out. Why? There's trouble on every side Paul says, Paul, what are you so happy about? Oh, there's trouble on every side, but it's not stressing me out. He goes on. We're perplexed, but not in what? Persecuted, but not forsaken. Cast down, I'm not destroyed. Look at this. Always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be manifest in our body. For we which live are always deliver always delivered unto death for Jesus' sake. That the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our mortal flesh. I don't hear much whining on Paul's part that all the trials and difficulties and sorrow, even whining Because, yeah, I've been through all this stuff, but man, it's not messing me up. I don't have a bad attitude. Man, I'm living for Jesus. They beat Jesus, they can beat me. And Jesus lives, and he lives in me. What an attitude. If you would come over with me to James chapter number one. Back close to where our text is, James chapter 1, James is writing to Jews. Verse 1, he says of chapter 1, he's James the servant of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. They've been run out of their homes. These are believing Jews, they've been persecuted, they've been beaten. They've lost their homes, their families have rejected them. Look what he says in verse 2, my brethren, count it all what Joy when you fall into diverse temptations. The word temptations there is talking about trials. Talking about stuff that hurts. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. You know how James viewed the sufferings, the trials? He viewed them as something good for me. This helps me I learn to be more patient, and when I learn to be more patient, I can uh uh the triangle of faith work with patience and um and then uh when I'm more learn to be more patient and I'm more mature And when I'm more mature, boy, then I'll be exactly what Jesus wants me to be. He viewed it as a beneficial thing. Suffering, something that helps me. I can count it joy. He's not joy in the pain, but he's enjoying, he says, rejoice in what it accomplishes in my life. If you would come over one more here, 1 Peter again, chapter number 4. Peter, in fact, one of the themes of this whole letter that Peter wrote, one of the recurring themes, is Christian suffering for Christ and for our faith. Chapter 4, if you would, look with me at verse number 12. Now we preached on this some time ago, but notice what he says: Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you. As though some strange thing happened unto you. But what? Rejoice Inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, look at this, happy are ye. For the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you. On their part, he's evil spoken of, but on your part, he is glorified. Don't you think it's strange? I mean, humanly speaking, from the world's perspective, that they would have such a positive attitude about suffering. The fact of the matter is, God's people, as believers, as children of God, we live on a different plane than what this world lives on. We live on a different level. We live in a different world than what this world lives in. And they had a positive spin on suffering. Now I have three points. We're going to look at first two tonight, just real quickly. First one is suffering is inevitable. Suffering is inevitable. Second point is that suffering is temporal. We'll look at those two quickly tonight. And then the third one, the next time we come back and we're going to notice that suffering is actually beneficial. Beneficial. Did you ever hear a weightlifter make this statement? No pain, no Game. That pain's beneficial. It helps me. And then what is true in the physical realm is also true in the spiritual realm. So we'll notice that later. Number one, suffering is inevitable. Come back here to chapter five, you're right there. Notice how he words it here. He says, The God of all grace who hath called us into his eternal glory by Christ Jesus After that ye have suffered a while. That doesn't sound like suffering is a possibility. Doesn't sound like to me he's saying suffering is something that might happen, could happen He's presenting it as if it's inevitable after ye have suffered a while. I don't know about you, but I try to avoid suffering The boys were small. Anybody here your kids had Legos when you were small, little Lego things. Anybody here your kids ever have them laying in the hallway? When they go to bed. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody here get up in the middle of the night and in the dark try to make your way to the bathroom and you find those Legos suffering Pain. Agony. I try to avoid that. The fact of the matter is there are spiritual Legos all over the place. It's inevitable. We don't like it. We try to avoid suffering. When it does come, a lot of times folks will try and ignore it Well I'm just gonna act. Maybe it'll go away. If I just ignore this, it'll go. Any uh men are notorious for this You get something, uh, you know, your arms bent backwards, and the wife says, I think it's broken. Nah, just let it go, it'll heal up. You know? Sometimes we d we try to avoid suffering, sometimes we ignore it But the fact of the matter is very few, if anybody, gets through life without some degree of suffering. I don't know anybody that's been alive for any length of time that hasn't wept. It hasn't had their cheeks stained and burned with tears. I don't know anybody I don't know anybody that's gotten any length of time in life that doesn't experience some sort of physical pain, whether it's a Lego. Or we think of uh we've been praying, we were praying this evening in the men's prayer meeting for Trevor, and the physical challenges he has, and even now, and others in our church. It's part of life. Nobody gets through life without physical challenges, physical pain, tears. I don't know anybody that gets through life without being hurt. To some degree, in some way. Something said, something done, something not said. We've all been heard. And if we were honest, we've all hurt people. The things we've said and done And it's a reality of life. It's an inevitable part of life. We can try and deny it. We can get bitter about it We can try and uh uh flee from it and isolate ourselves from it, but it's inevitable. Sorrow and suffering and hurt and pain are a part of life in a fallen world. Heartage. Grief. I found that all classes of people experience suffering. Did you know that poor people experience suffering? Yeah. Did you know rich people experience suffering? Suffering could care less about the kind of house you live in, or the kind of car you drive, or what your bank account is. I'm telling you, I could right now, if we so desired, I could get you in my car and I could drive you to home. Just poor? Have little or nothing? And those folks are as happy, as happy can be in the Lord, much happier than some of the folks live in these big fancy houses around here and out at the lake. Am I right or wrong? I can take you to some poor folks that are hurting bad. Suffering is is all classes of people. There's no sometimes folks think, boy, if I just had more money, boy Uh uh uh uh it would be a whole lot better. I'm telling you, sometimes some people more money ruins them. Sometimes more pro sometimes prosperity brings more suffering. God knows what we need. God knows what's best for us. God knows what level of prosperity is best for us emotionally and spiritually. We trust Him. I found that healthy people suffer and sick people suffer. I tell you, I I mentioned this before, but I'll tell you. Uh there's some folks that would give up their physical health if they could have some spiritual health, have some emotional relief. And so the point I'm trying to make, Peter writes to him, he says, after you have suffered a while, the implication here is it's inevitable. They're going through suffering. Suffering is part of life. As disciples of Christ, suffering is a very real part of our Christian life. In Acts chapter 14, and we won't take time to turn there. But Paul and Barnabas have gotten together, the believers there in the city there. But they get these group of new believers together And they're teaching them and they're discipling them. They're training them, preparing them for a church to be established there, and they'll move on and put a pastor in, they'll move on. And part of their training, part of their disciples, they teach those new believers, this is what they teach them. They said, we must through much tribulation enter the kingdom of God. Say, preacher, is that how it is? That's how it is. It's reality. We must through much tribulation enter the kingdom of God. We can get mad about that. We can try and run from it. We can get bitter, or we can say, all right, God, you've allowed it. There's a purpose here. There's a purpose here. Sometimes suffering is an e uh sometimes suffering is um well we bring it on ourselves unnecessarily, some suffering. Um By our actions. Study the life of Israel. For 40 years they suffered in the wilderness. You know, they wonder how to do that. They'd have trusted God. I see people all the time going through a tough time and uh not uh a tough time and simply because they're stupid. Huh? Nathan, you know he works with it. Sometimes we bring it on ourselves. Isaiah chapter 48 and verse 22 says, There's no peace, saith the Lord, unto the wicked. He says that exact same thing in chapter 57 and verse 21. Now suffering's inevitable. Job, one of the best men you're ever going to find. He suffered greatly. But sometimes people some I'm not going to say people, I'm going to say us. Sometimes we are just do stupid stuff. Can I get a witness? Now I'm nobody here would do that, I'm sure. Sometimes we do stupid stuff and we pay for it. Galatians chapter 6 and verse 7 and 8 says, be not deceived. God is not mocked. Whatsoever man sow it, that shall he also. I'm telling you, we bring some of it on ourselves, right or wrong. We'd be wise, we'd trust the Lord, they're still going to deal with suffering, but some of that we could avoid. Sometimes suffering is part of God's disciplinary process. We are sinners, right? Anybody aware of that? You know what sinners do? They sin. And you know what the Father, God the Father, does when his children sin? He corrects them. He disciplines them. Study Hebrews chapter 12. And God will take his children to the woodshed. And I tell you, sometimes suffering is God saying, Hey Dennis, you need to straighten up here. Alright, Dennis, listen, you're being stupid. We need to do a little correction. So he sends a little bit in. And it teaches me, it helps me, gets me online. Anyone here ever get out of whack with God? And things went south, and you got back right with God, and you said, Praise the Lord, things went south. It got me back right with God. Anybody know what I'm talking about? We got two honest people in the church here So sometimes suffering is uh God's disciplining us. Um uh you tell your child, don't you touch that hot stove. And they reach up there and say, Oh yeah? What happened? They learned a lesson I used to tell this a long time ago, I haven't told it for a while, but my cousin, uh, when she was small, my we were at my grandparents' house, and this was many, many years ago. But my grandparents had a cactus sitting on the coffee table there, just for pretty little decoration. Cactus! And so my little cousin She's standing there, she's probably three, maybe, around that age, and she's just looking at it with her hand like this. And I can still see my grandfather sitting in his chair, and uh he said, Krista No. And when grandpa said no, it meant business. He said, Krista, no. And she looked at him. She looked at the cactus, got her hand, and said, no, smack right on the cactus. You know what I noticed? She never touched the cactus again There's a lesson learned. Sometimes God lets us burns our hands. Sometimes God lets us go through some suffering. So we learn not to do that again. Can I get a witness? Anybody know? Now the reason I screamed there is some of y'all were falling asleep. Whatever the reason, there's no such thing as pointless suffering. So my first point is this, suffering is inevitable. My second point, which is very short, is this suffering is temporal. Notice what he says here. After that ye have suffered, then he puts two little words in there. After a while. That word a while means this. I looked it up. It means a brief period of time. 1 Peter 1, verse 6. If we go back there, he says, suffering for a season, for a short period of time. I want to remind you. And our theme this year fits right into this. Suffering is only for a while. There is coming a day when no heartaches will come, no more tears in the eye. No more clouds to dim the sky. Oh, what a day, glorious day that will be. Our suffering here, our journey here on this earth is just for a while. How many folks here you thought it would take longer for you to get to the age where you're at than what it did? I thought, man, it would take a long time to get to this age. Here it is. Hey, next thing you know, we're going to be in glory. Huh? It's but a vapor. Just a shadow. Pierce for a while. It's gone. It's old life. Here's my point. There's a better day coming. There's a better day coming. I was talking to a fellow who's going through a rough time than a couple years ago, and how I mean he was going through it And I didn't have answers for everything. But I told him this. I said, I know this. It won't always be this way. It won't always be this way. Our trials here, there are many. They come in various forms, but they don't last forever. Eventually I come out of this one. Another one hits me. I come out of that one. God sees me through this one. And then one of these days where that old trumpet's going to sound, the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we're going to be changed. What a glorious day that will be You know, most of my heartaches, before I was saved, it was just such a debauchery and such a wretched person I was. And God saved me. But I tell you, since that point, my heart has been broken more since I've been saved than it ever was before I got saved. I've gone through deeper valleys since the Lord saved me than I ever went through before. But you know what the difference is? Every valley the Lord went with me. Every heartache there was a purpose. I came out stronger. I came out with a clearer understanding. I remember there's a long time ago. I was absolutely broken. I'm just gonna be a little personal here. I mean, I was absolutely broken like I'd never been in my life And I wept and I wept. I remember on my knees praying in tears, just sobbing. I was praying. God put this on my heart. I was praying, God, help me see this sorrow from your perspective, not from my perspective. What I was asking for was, God, remind me that there's a purpose behind this, that you will use this, that I can benefit from this. Remind me, Lord. And I'm here to tell you, and I wish we could bring that into the message. We'll have to look at it another time, but I'm here telling you: no sorrow comes into the heart of a believer, into the life of a believer, that does not have a purpose. To help us grow and be stronger. No pain, what? No gain. No sorrow, no spiritual growth Nobody ever grew spiritually because everything went their way. People get we get stronger when we go through heartaches. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you would help us. To have a heavenly perspective, to have a spiritual understanding. Lord, I'd long to have the attitude and the perspective these New Testament believers had That they could rejoice with joy unspeakable, exceedingly joyful. Even in the midst of heartaches and pain and sorrow. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, pray with me. I want to I want to have that attitude. I want my faith to be such that Regardless of what it is, I can rejoice in the Lord. Anybody like that? God spoke to your heart tonight. I don't know how God would apply this. It's kind of been a day of dealing with heartache and difficulty God spoke to your heart. Why don't we take those cares, those burdens, that sorrow, and put it on the altar and just say, Lord, I give it to you. And help me. Help me to trust you. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand.