Galatians chapter 5, and if you would notice down at verse number 22, we started a series about three weeks ago now on the fruit of the Holy Spirit, the fruit of the Spirit And if you remember, we noted initially, we just took note of who the Holy Spirit is and some truths, facts about the Holy Spirit. And one thing we've noted that's very, very clear in Scripture, when a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, that person, that moment they trust Christ as Savior, they are indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. Now, whether you feel that or not, the night I got saved many, many years ago, beside my bed, I called on the Lord, Lord save me. What I did not realize at the moment was the Holy Spirit of God moved into my body So every person, whenever you see a saved person, you see a Christian, someone that's trusting Christ as Savior, you see someone that is indwelt by the Holy Spirit. Now how many folks here tonight, you've been saved, you know it. You've trusted Christ, you got that settled. Say amen. Amen. If that's true Then you are indwelt by the Holy Spirit. No Christian ever has to ask for God to give them the Holy Spirit. We already have it. He already dwells within us, and we spent a good bit of time looking at that. And then we noted that this fruit listed here that we're going to read in a moment is the fruit of the Holy Spirit. And what really hit me as I studied this anew, and I've preached from this before and over the years, but as I got looking at it anew, every one of these fruit Well let's look at it there, verse 22. It says the fruit of the Spirit, then he lists them here. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith. meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. Every one of those characteristics that are listed there already dwell within you and I. Now you're going to hear me say that. I've said it every message so far. I'm probably going to repeat that through the whole series. Because that is significant. I'm convinced to know that this is not stuff I have to work up This isn't stuff I have to go somewhere and find this peace. I'm trying to find this peace. I'm trying to find this love, this temperance, I'm trying to find this. That's a wrong approach All these characteristics are already within us in the person of the Holy Spirit. And so if we get that settled, it changes our whole approach to this, our whole understanding This isn't something I've got to get and I've got to produce. It's something I need to get out of the way of and let the Holy Spirit do it. That's a whole different approach. So let's have a word of prayer. And we're going to look at the second one listed here, the fruit of joy. Joy. Father in heaven. I ask now you bless our time in your word. We're grateful for what we heard from camp this week, the singing, the fellowship, all of it's been a blessing. And I ask now, in the few moments we have, that your Holy Spirit would take these fruit of his that he produces and help us see and understand what you want to do in our lives, what you're capable of doing. What we can experience on a regular daily basis. I pray that be true in my life and all of us here So I yield myself to you anew this hour, as always. I ask that you would fill me with your Spirit. I pray you'd speak through me, and that you'd help us to grow in this area In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you remember last week especially I mentioned that there uh just like Jesus Christ is absolutely necessary to get to heaven. Nobody gets to heaven apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen or not. We've got that settled. We know He's the only way. He's the only Savior. Equally so, nobody grows in their faith. Nobody matures as a Christian without the work of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit working in a believer develops Christ-like characteristics, enables us to go. For instance, one thing the Holy Spirit does is he takes the Word of God and He applies it to our hearts. Maybe we're reading the Bible in our daily devotions. In our daily devotions, we're reading the Bible. I need to do that. And as we're reading a passage or something we read comes across and it's like it's like God just wrote that for me. God's talking to me in that verse. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know what that is? That's the Holy Spirit that dwells within me, taking the Word of God, and He's applying it to my life. He's the word we use sometimes, he's illuminating Scripture. He's opening up, I'm seeing what He has for me, what He's trying to teach me, how He's trying to direct me in light And we need the Holy Spirit to do that. If not, we can't understand the things of God apart from the Spirit. The Holy Spirit convicts us. Now I Talked about this in Sunday school this morning, but how many people know what I'm talking about when I mention the conviction of the Holy Spirit? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Firsthand knowledge Sure, the Holy Spirit convicts us of our need to be saved before we got saved. The Holy Spirit deals with us, shows us how sinful we are, shows us how hopeless our situation is apart from Christ. And then he helps us see what Christ did for us and helps us understand. We believe. And he saves us. He convicts us in bringing us to salvation. But once we're saved The Holy Spirit convicts us. As we go through Christian life, sometimes we make stupid decisions or we tend to wander out of the will of God. And then the Holy Spirit steps in and does that conviction in our heart. Amen? You know what I'm talking about. Conviction. Maybe the preacher's preaching. Maybe you hear something on the radio. Maybe just a verse comes to mind say, man, I need to make, I've got to get this right. I can't go on like this. I can't continue to indulge in this. I have to address this. I have to adjust this. I need to start obeying the Lord in this area. I need to get away from that. That's the Holy Spirit convicting us. And leading us and helping us develop and grow in our Christian life. So, uh, and then the Holy Spirit empowers us To be a witness. All through the book of Acts, it says they were filled with the Holy Spirit. They spake the Word of God with boldness. Now I believe our church has a has a burden to reach the lost. Amen or not. We want to see people say We invest a lot of money in getting missionaries on the mission field. We put a lot of effort in that. We take mission trips because we want the whole world to know Jesus Christ as Savior. We go out every week knocking on doors, we're on buses, we give out literature, we give out tracts by the hundreds of thousands over the years. And um we have a burn to reach the lost, but It's the Holy Spirit of God within us that empowers our witness, that does that work, that uh uh empowers our witness and so people can believe and be saved. So the Holy Spirit, we can't grow without the Holy Spirit. He dwells within us. He's already there. And if we let him, he'll develop and help us grow. Now, we have these nine What I'm calling Christ-like characteristics here. And if you remember, again I'm kind of I know I'm being a little redundant here, but if you remember, they come in three sets of three, I believe Notice it says there, the first set is love, joy, and peace. I believe that's a set of Christ-like compassion. I love people the way God loves. The love of God is shed abroad in my heart. And we talked about that last week. Joy and peace. This is all part of this Christ-like compassion that the Holy Spirit wants to put in my heart. I tell you, our world could use a good dose of compassion. Our churches could use some compassion. And we live in a day when if something isn't just right the way I want, or somebody doesn't do something exactly the way I think they should, or somebody doesn't Isn't this or they aren't that. Man, we just go off. We don't like them. We're not talking to them. We're going to be hateful. I tell you, this whole world needs some compassion. And that's what this is. Love and joy and peace is all part of that. Then the second set there is our Christ-like conduct. Look what he says. He says, love, joy, peace, the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace. Then he says, long-suffering, gentleness, and goodness. Now long suffering is patience. We're going to look at this individually in coming months. Patience, being patient with people How many people are glad God's patient with you? Amen. How many people say, I need to learn to be more patient with other people? Yeah. It's Christ-like. When we're patient with others, it's Christ being patient with us, and I emulate that. It has the idea, and again we'll look at this in detail, but it has the idea of giving people the benefit of the doubt 1 Corinthians 13 says, Love thinketh no evil. You know what that means? Person does something, I don't understand. I give them the benefit of the doubt. I don't immediately assume they're they have some evil intent or they're being hateful. And give them the benefit of the doubt. So patience, long suffering, then gentleness, that's just being kind. Just being nice. Goodness. That has the idea in being honest, telling the truth, being a helper, helping people, goodness. So these are Christ-like compassion, love, joy, peace, Christ-like conduct. Longsuffering, gentleness, goodness. And then the last set is uh I put down as a Christ-like character. Says meekness. Bible says that Jesus was, he said, I am meek. Come unto me, all you that and lowly. And so we are are when we are meek, the Holy Spirit produced in our life, we're have Christ-like character. Faith and meekness and temperance. That's self-discipline. Would you agree with me? Jesus was a self-disciplined man. He had temperance. And so the point is, I'm trying to emphasize here over and over and over again, all these characteristics are already in us. They're already there. It's the fruit of the Spirit. And the Holy Spirit's in me. I don't know about you, but I could use a little more temperance in my life. Say, where do I go to learn discipline? Where do I go to learn temperance? I don't go anywhere. It's in me. It's already there in the person of the Holy Spirit. He bears that fruit. Faith. Is there anybody here wish you had a little stronger faith than what you have? Yeah. We have it. It's there in the person of the Holy Spirit. He bears that fruit. And that's the thing that grips me. Every time I come back to this and study for the next message, it's in me. It's potent. It's latent in me. I just need to Get out of the way of the Holy Spirit and cooperate with him so he can bear this fruit in my life. And it's Christ-like. Now we're looking at the second fruit. This fruit of joy. Now here's the question. What is joy? How do you define that? Um I looked every dictionary I have, every word study I could find. I looked how it's used all through Scripture. And I come to this conclusion, joy of the Holy Spirit, the fruit of joy, is more than just an emotion. It's not just some emotion of joy I have. It's more a condition of my heart and mind. Joy. I attempted to I put together some definitions, then I attempted to come up with my own definition. So some of the ones I found had this one, somebody suggests this, a content Gladness. Content, gladness. Another said, a peace of mind. Just having peace of mind, joy, peace of mind. How many folks would like to have some peace of mind? We do. We have it. It's available in the Holy Spirit. Inner cheerfulness. An inner delight and pleasantness about me. The fruit of joy Now here, I took all that, and this is my definition. How many people are very anxious? You can't wait to hear my definition. I knew it. Here it is. You ready? I like it actually. A peaceful Undisturbed satisfaction that delights my heart and soul. Well, I thought there'd be a great chorus of amens right there. That was a great definition. Ah we go Dorothy, thank you so much. I'll give you a free book. Maybe. Um A peaceful, now get this. Now think about this. This is already in us. What I'm defining here already resides in us. It's available. We can have it. We can live this way. A peaceful, undisturbed satisfaction that delights my heart and soul. Undisturbed Now, contrast that thought, and really all this fruit, with the works of the flesh. Come back up to verse 19. Now we have a clear contrast here. My flesh, my old sinful nature, produces what's listed in verse 19, 20, and 21. However, the Holy Spirit that dwells within me produces this list of nine characteristics In verse 22 and 23. Look at verse 19. I'm not going to list them all. Let me just highlight a few. Look there. It says, Now the works of the flesh are manifest, and he goes down, and some of these really nasty things. And um you get to um look at verse 20 idolatry, witchcraft. What's the next word? Hatred. Hatred. If there is a bit of hatred in my heart towards anybody that is not of the Holy Spirit, That is a direct work of my old sinful flesh. Man, don't ever say, don't ever think this way. I hate that person. That is of that old, rotten, nasty, condemned, sinful nature. I hate him. I hate her. I can't stand him. That is not the Holy Spirit. Look, he goes on. Now we're contrasting that with love, joy, peace, long-suffering. One of these two is controlling me, either my flesh or the spirit. Notice he says hatred, variance, he goes on fornication, uncleanness, lascivious witness, hatred, verse 20, variance, emulations, wrath Strife, fussing and fighting, not getting along. Seditions, that's dividing. I'm not talking, I'm not hanging out, I'm not being with them, I'm not talking, I don't like them, I like this person, I don't like that That's the flesh. And I don't know how you can have a clearer contrast between two absolutely opposite characteristics One is Christ-like, it's of the Holy Spirit of God, the other is of my old, dirty, rotten, nasty flesh. And so we have joy. We have joy as opposed to these other things listed. And I know what time it is, so bear with me. But I notice a couple things about joy. Number one, it's sincere This joy of the Holy Spirit, this fruit of joy that the Holy Spirit wants to and can and will produce in my life. is sincere. In other words, it's not something I work up. It's not some facade I put on. You know, I'm miserable Now I pull in the church parking lot and then before I open the door, hmm come on now. Praise the Lord Years ago I remember they used to have these commercials, they're stupid. They uh uh and it was about depression and they would have somebody that's so depressed And they would hold this little mask up, this uh little thing, and they'd hold it up and it was a smiley face. And behind it they were miserable, but they carried this smiley face around. Anybody happen to ever see that commercial? I tell you, that is a sad, sad testimony. No Christian ever has to put on a facade, a mask of joy. You and I already have it dwelling within us. I just need to get out of the way I just need to cooperate with the Holy Spirit and let Him give me joy. I'm convinced there are some people, there are some Christians that are that like being miserable. Have the opportunity. The Holy Spirit burns inside their heart to give them joy in their life. But they say, no. I want to be miserable. I want to be self-absorbed. I want to stew in my own selfish rhyme. This joy that the Holy Spirit produces is sincere. It's something that comes up from our heart. It's something that within us that springs up from the presence of the Holy Spirit in my life. I wonder, do you know what that is? Do you know what this joy That the Holy Spirit has in us and wants to bear in our lives. Have you ever experienced that? We can. In fact, I would suggest to you this characteristics of fruit of the Spirit is what God would like for us to be our normal Christian life. Live a life of joy. If we know Jesus Christ as Savior, we already have it in us. It's not something I have to pursue. It's not something I have to work up. It's a byproduct of walking in the Spirit. Somebody, and I I think I mentioned this in a previous message in this series, but somebody, I heard Dr. Lee Roberts say Robertson say years ago, he said, somebody asked them, how do you know if you're filled with the Holy Spirit? I think that's a profound question. Because the filling of the Holy Spirit is vital for the Christian life, and the Bible talks about it over and over. In fact, we're commanded to be filled with the Holy Spirit. How do I know if I'm filled with the Holy Spirit? Well, I can know if I'm filled with the Holy Spirit. I can know I'm not filled with the Holy Spirit if any of those works of the flesh are evident in my life, right? The Holy Spirit's not in control with that list there in verse 19 and 20 21. If they're if that if they're true in my life, then um Then I'm not filled with the Holy Spirit. And I'm convinced when I'm filled with the Holy Spirit, I will have this joy in my life. It's not something I work up, it's not something I produce. It's something that as I cooperate with the Spirit, I walk in the Spirit to use biblical terminology, and then the Holy Spirit puts it there. It's a byproduct. It's not something we pursue. This whole world is chasing after happiness. They're chasing after peace. They're chasing after, and they never get it. Because it has to be a product of the Holy Spirit within us. You follow what I'm saying? I hope I'm making myself clear. So it's sincere. It's not some show I put on. Think about with me. Think about this with me. To be sincerely joyful. For it to be real coming up in my life. What a way to live. Number two, number one, it's sincere. Number two, it's stable, secure, it's constant. Superficial happiness is unstable. This world has superficial happiness. I hope you're staying with me now here. This world's happiness is very superficial, it's unstable. It's up and down, in and out, on and off Um it's uh it's dependent upon my conditions. It's dependent upon my circumstances Sometimes I'm happy, sometimes I'm blue. My disposition depends on you. Right? Well if you're treating me right and I'm getting what I want and I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm being pleased and I'm comfortable and I got what I want and things go the way I want them to go and people are doing what I think they should do, boy then I'm happy. But one person says or does something that I'm not I don't approve of, and pfft, it pops. The bubble pops. That is not the joy that the Holy Spirit produces in us. The Holy Spirit's joy is stable, it's constant, it's consistent, secure. This Holy Spirit, the joy of the Holy Spirit, if I have the joy that the Holy Spirit bears in my life, heaven cannot take that away from me. No matter how he treats me, no matter what he does, my wallet cannot take it away from me. Here's the thing. I hope you bear with me. I'm afraid, and I hate to even say this, but I'm convinced it's true. The average Christian Functions just like the unsaved world. In other words, if everything's what we want, then we're happy. But if something isn't the way I want, somebody doesn't look at me, they look at me cross-eyed, somebody is this, or I didn't get this, or I couldn't do that, then we're not happy. We're all made. And I know how to look mad because I've been there. You ought to be up here looking at this crowd out here some But your average Christian, our joy is no different than the world's. You know a drunkard is happy when he gets his liquor Right? Fornicator is happy when he indulges his fornication. A liar is happy when they get away with their lies. Pull that one off. That is so superficial. That is so unstable. Because it comes and goes, comes and goes, comes and goes, comes and goes. But the joy of the Holy Spirit The Holy Spirit doesn't lead me. He doesn't go. I cooperate with him, I yield to him, ban, it's just there. The joy of the Lord. The joy of the Lord. Nehemiah said, the joy of the Lord is my strength. That's what the Holy Spirit does. It's secure, it's stable, it stays there. Um There's pleasures in sin for a season, but there's no joy in sin. Only the Holy Spirit can do that. As long as things please me, I'm happy. There's some Christians, you never know when you meet them, you never know if they're going to be happy or miserable. Because they're they're so inconsistent. Sometimes they'll come in and they're just, praise the Lord, everything's wonderful, God's so good. Next time you see them, oh, nobody loves me, everybody hates me, I'm gonna go eat worms. Fat ones, skinny ones, long ones, short ones, cut off their heads, chop out their guts, bloody and warm. Huh? Then the next time you see him, oh God's so good to me, it's so wonderful. Next time you see him, I hate everything. Okay. Alright? The fruit of joy that the Holy Spirit produces is stable, it's consistent, it's secure. Now, if you would, go very quickly with me to John chapter number 16. Jesus talks about this. John chapter 16, again, speaking of joy And look with me if you would at verse sixteen, John sixteen and verse sixteen. He says, A little while, and ye shall not see me. And again, a little while, and ye shall see me, because I go to the Father. Then said some of his disciples among themselves, What is this that he saith unto us, a little while, and ye shall not see me? And again, a little while ye shall see me, because I go to the Father. And they said, therefore, what is this that he saith a little while? We cannot tell what he saith. Now Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him, and he said to them, Do you inquire among yourselves that I said a little while and I shall not You shall not see me again a little while, and ye shall see me. Verily, verily, look at this. I say unto you that ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice It's when Jesus is crucified. That's what he's talking about. And ye shall be sorrowful. Look at this. But your sorrow shall be turned into what? Joy. A woman, when she is in travail, hath sorrow, because her hour is come. But as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish for the joy that a man is born into the world. Now look at verse 22. And ye now therefore have sorrow. He's going to be crucified. They're going to be sin. But I will see you again. Look at this. And your heart shall rejoice. Look at this. And your joy no man taketh from you. I put in the margin of my Bible, circumstances and people cannot take away the joy that God produces in my life. No man taketh it from you. It's stable, it's consistent, it's not dependent upon circumstances, it's not dependent upon conditions. I tell you, it is a miserable life Where everything has to be the way I want it to be, I have to be treated a certain way, or I'm not happy. You know where you find people who are never, ever happy. But if I yield to the Spirit, let the Holy Spirit control my life and have his way. Man, I have joy no matter what the circumstances are. How many people are familiar with this word? Catacombs. Anybody familiar with that from history? Catacombs were chambers, underground chambers in Rome. Uh there was a lot of martyred Christians were buried in these catacombs of Rome. They were underground They'd hide down there trying to avoid being eaten by lions and stuff. They were martyred. They were persecuted severely. The believers, early believers. They'd hide in these catacombs, and many of them were killed in the arenas for entertainment, and they were buried in these catacombs. And I'm told, I've never seen it personally, but I'm told that in those catacombs, there are engravings from 2,000 years ago, early Christian days. And there are engravings on the walls and on some of the tombs where believers were buried. All through there, they say there's engravings. And those engravings refer to, get this, the joy that those early believers who were being persecuted, the joy that they experienced and they displayed. even in the midst of violent, horrendous persecution. Their joy was not based on circumstances, it was not based on treatment of others, it was not based on on a situation. It was based on the fact that the Holy Spirit of God was filling them and producing it in their life. And I am with this. This joy is selfless. It's selfless. John the Baptist said in John 3, verse 30: He must increase, but I must what? I gotta get out of the picture. It's not about me. This joy, this fruit of joy that the Holy Spirit produces in my life is not about me. Oh, the Holy Spirit's going to give me everything I want. The Holy Spirit's going to make me rich. Holy Spirit, I'm going to No, no, no. It's not about me at all. John the Baptist said He's got to increase, not me. I got a decrease. Paul put it this way in Galatians 2. 20, for I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. The life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. You know what Paul said? He said, it's not about me. Too many of us, our whole lives, are wrapped up in ourselves. It's all about me. It's all about my world. It's all about my. Me, me, me, me. That is not what the joy is not what this joy of the Holy Spirit produces. This is a selfless joy. The filling of the Holy Spirit is not about me, but it's about the Lord Jesus Christ and others who need Him. The fruit of the Holy Spirit is not about me, it's about Christ and others. I wish we had time, and I never have time to do everything I want. But in Acts chapter 5, verse 41 and 42, it says that they were persecuted, the believers were being threatened and beaten by the Pharisees and the religious leaders. And it says in chapter 5, verse 41, it says they came out from the threats and the and the uh the abuse they were getting, and it says they rejoiced in that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for the Lord Jesus Christ. It truly wasn't about them. It's about I can serve God. And then the next verse says, they went out and they preached the word of God everywhere with boldness, and people were saved. This isn't some self-centered joy that I'm getting everything I want and everything's going my way, and it's all about me being happy and me, me, me, me, me, me. Oh, I gotta get out of the picture. It's about Christ. That's what the Holy Spirit does. He testifies of Christ. He empowers our witness. The Holy Spirit takes the focus off myself and directs it on Christ and the needs of others, and it produces joy in my life. What does the word gospel mean? Good news has the idea of glad tidings, is another definition. Good news. Glad tidings. News that brings joy. Joy. That's the fruit of the Holy Spirit. It's not about me, it's about Christ. I found the happiest Christians in the world are the most selfless Christians in the world. I found the most miserable Christians in the world, the most unhappy Christians in the world, they sulk and they mope and they complain and they criticize and are the Christians who are have ingrown eyeballs. It's all me, it's all me, it's all me, it's all about me. This joy is a selfless joy. I heard a preacher say years ago, he said there was a lady in his church. She was always moping, she was always miserable, nothing was ever made her happy. She came in and talked to him and she said, Preacher, I'm just I'm just miserable. He goes, Well, we can fix that. He goes, how do we fix that? He says, what I want you to do is I want you to go home. I want you to make a bunch of chocolate chip cookies. Well, big stacks of them. I mean dozens and dozens, make a bunch of them. She goes, How in the world is that going to make me happy? He says, I want you to pray. I want you to ask the Holy Spirit to lead you. And go to the local nursing homes. And in the nursing homes, ask the Holy Spirit to lead you room to room the room and you share those cookies with people who nobody has visited them in months and years. And you go to that nursing home, family, they haven't seen family forever, and you share those cookies with them and see what happens. She said, That's the stupidest thing I've ever heard. How in the world would that make me happy? How would that give me any joy? Her eyes were on herself. Now, a month went by. He said she showed up at church one Sunday morning smiling. Happy and joyful. And afterward he said, Miss So-and-so, you look great. Cheers, I've never been happier in my life He said, what happened? She said, I did what you said. I saw smiles on people's faces and happy and joy. And that the Holy Spirit used to produce joy in my life. Get to focus off ourselves. Amen? Quit looking up. Me, me, me, me, me, me. Let's die to self. Let that Holy Spirit put joy in our hearts. Father, I pray you take these thoughts. I pray they're helpful. And I ask you you'd help us to get ourselves out of the way. Get our focus off ourselves and look to Christ and just yield ourselves and let the Holy Spirit fill us. And have his way. Lord, maybe if there's some sin there, something not right, that you'd help us come and make that right and deal with that and confront that. So that we can experience this joy you have for us. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I can't I catch myself being self-focused, I catch myself looking in on myself. And and uh and losing that joy. Any like that? Has anybody God dealt with your heart tonight? Anybody at all? I'm tempted to ask this question, but I'm not going to. I wonder how many tonight you're miserable. I wonder if any b no um don't do this please, but I'm just curious. I wonder how if there be any say raise their hand, say preacher, I don't have joy I'm frustrated, irritated, aggravated all the time. I can't even talk nice to anybody. I wonder if that's true. I want to urge you, be on an old altar, say, Lord, please change this. Get myself out of the way and fill me with your spirit that I can have that joy. Father, bless our invitation. I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer is playing the invitation.