And it each each statement he makes through here is uh is very significant and is a message in and of itself. Um if you notice the first word there is what? What's the first word in verse 8 there? Finally, and what he means by that is this. He says the things that he's been addressing up to this point, the subjects that he has been covering up to this point What he's about to say is included into that. It's kind of like his his final statements. And what has been the subject? What has been the overall subject all the way back into the end of chapter two? What do we say it was? Submission. It's been submission. Submission to authorities at the end of chapter two. Submission to employers would be our context. masters and servants is is use the Bible terminology, being submissive there, even if the servant, even if the master is unjust, unreasonable. You still uh follow uh their authority, submit to their authority. And uh then he used Jesus Christ, if you remember, he used Jesus Christ as an example of someone who submitted to his heavenly father, even to the extent Of giving his life as a ransom for our sin, paying for our sins, and what that produced. Then he got into chapter three, and he talked about the wives and the husbands. Now finally He says, all right, bringing this all together, we're just going to kind of sum up what it means to be a submissive Christian. Now look at this here. He says, finally Be ye all of one mind. Now that's what we looked at last week. We talked about unity, being of one mind. Then he goes on. He has a little list here. Be ye all of one mind Having compassion one of another, love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous. Not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing, but contrary-wise, blessing, knowing that ye are thereunto called, that ye should inherit a blessing. So I've entitled it The Christian Life. I think what he's saying here in verse 8 and 9 is just kind of summarizing what the attitude, the demeanor. uh that of a of a submissive, mature, godly Christian is. So let's pray and we'll pick up that second one on this list here tonight. Father in heaven, Lord, it's sure been a blessing today to be in the house of God with your people. What a joy. And tonight to hear the testimonies, the youth report, to laugh and sing, Lord, my heart's just full. Now, when we finish up tonight, as we finish up today, I pray you'd stir our hearts from your word. You'd challenge us. Lord, we need to be challenged constantly. And your Holy Spirit and your word is what I'm asking you would use to stir us to be mature. Godly, submissive Christians, and we could have a good witness in this old sinful world. Fill me with your spirit, with all my heart, I pray. I yield my will Present my body anew. Lord, you be the preacher tonight. Speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. First of all, he says on this list is that of unity, having one mind. We looked at that last week, and we simply said Just to get us uh up the speed here, what we simply said is, if all God's people are going to be of one mind, then what we need to do, each of us as individuals, is get the mind of Christ. And if we all have the mind of Christ, if we see things from Christ's perspective, we uh have his values, his perspective, his principles we live by, then all of ours will be what? If all ours is is uh is uh we all have the mind of Christ, then we'll all be what? We'll all be of one mind. We'll all have the same mind. It's just simple logic And so we said that. And with that in mind, having one mind and having the mind of Christ, that means I don't have to set aside doctrine. I don't have to compromise biblical truth in order to be of unified with another believer, because we all have the mind of Christ. We all hold to his doctrine, his teaching And so uh and then we said also, real quick, I wouldn't touch on this, is that we said it doesn't mean we are all uniformity. In other words, we don't all wear the same collar tie, we don't all have cats. Um We don't all do everything the same. We have our own individuality. Now, he says, so that was one unity. The second one on his list here is compassion. He says, likewise, he says, finally, be ye of one mind, having compassion one of another. Now that's an interesting phrase. Having compassion one of another. It means this. That phrase simply means this: to share in one another's sorrows. To share in one another's joys, in one another's pain, in one another's grief. We share that I for years when I uh first became pastor, and a little before that when I was a youth pastor in Indianapolis, on rare occasions I did a funeral, on very, very occasions, usually if there was a death in the bus ministry Uh sometimes he would have me do the funerals uh for that. So I I did a few, but when I came here as pastor, and then particularly the years with hospice, uh I've done so many funerals over the years And something early on, I had heard a preacher mention this, and I thought it was a good idea, and I tried to practice this all these years. is whenever I have a funeral, whatever relation that person was, I would try to imagine in my mind that that was my father. Or my brother, or my wife, or my mother that was laying there. And how would I respond? How would I feel? What would I want to hear? What would I need from God if that was my loved one that had passed away? What I was trying to do was I was trying to enter into the grief and the sorrow And the loss that they were experiencing, and experience that myself to help me be a better blessing. You follow what I'm trying to say? A year ago, Monday, we were doing uh Brother Paul's funeral And it was a year-ago Monday that at the very moment that I was starting the funeral for Brother Paul, a year ago, I was standing beside my father's hospital bed, grieving, weeping over his home going to heaven. And I tell you, if we are able, if we can enter into the sorrow, the grief, and the heartache that somebody else is going through, I tell you, that sh that that enables God to use us to be a help and a blessing and comfort to them. You follow what I'm saying? I couldn't say, before a year ago, I couldn't say to someone, I know how you feel when your father passed away. I couldn't say that. I can say that now. I can say, yeah, I know how I feel. I know that heartache, that grief. And so that's what Peter is saying here. He's saying as a mature, godly, submissive Christian, one thing I need to be able to do is I need to have be able to have compassion one of another to enter into that sorrow. And not just the sorrow part, but the joy part. The rejoicing that they may be experiencing and enter into that. A young lady gets a new car and she's so excited. Stop and think, well, what would I if I was in those shoes? I would be so excited also And be able to enter into and with that joy and that rejoicing. Somebody's cat runs away. And I can enter into and rejoice with them in that I'm sorry, I don't know why these cats are coming up tonight. So the phrase means to enter into the sorrow, joy, pain, or grief with one another. has this idea to suffer or rejoice along with another person. I like this definition, to be responsive. To be responsive to the condition or the experience of another. I respond To what the other person is experiencing, a fellow church member, a brother or sister in Christ. I'm responsive to that, not indifferent. Not just uncaring about it. Somebody comes in and they're excited, they're happy about something, and I respond to that in like manner. Somebody comes in and they're sad and they're sorrowful. And I respond to that in like my heart. And I'm sorrowful with them. I'm sad with them. I found, I learned early on, I learned early on, sometimes when someone's grieving, the best thing to do is don't open your mouth, just grieve with them. Just weep with them. There was a little girl who came home from school late, and her mother was very upset with her, and her mother rebuked her for coming home late. And the little girl was upset that her mother rebuked her. The little girl was crying, and mother said to her, she says, Well, sweetheart, why were you so late coming home from school? And she said, one of my friends was very sad. She was crying, so I went over to her and I sat down and I helped her cry. I helped her cry That's what Peter's saying. Somebody's sorrowing, help them sorrow. Somebody's rejoicing. Go rejoice with them. Help them rejoice. Peter is writing, oh, just a reminder, Peter's writing to believers who were hurting deeply. We've emphasized it at the beginning of our study of 1 Peter. He's writing to many of them are new believers And because of their faith in Christ, because of their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ, they paid a heavy price Many of them were run out of their homes. Many of them had family members who had rejected them, no longer recognized them as part of the family. I don't know about you, but that would hurt. That would hurt. A lot of them had lost their vocations, been run out of their businesses, fired, run out of their communities. Some of them had lost loved ones. Maybe children had fathers who were martyred because of their faith in Christ, imprisoned, beaten. These were people who were hurting deeply. And they had suffered a great loss because of their faith in Christ. And he's saying, finally, listen, have compassion one of another. Have compassion one of another. I've been doing this long enough, and some of y'all have been around long enough. Anytime you get a group of people together, you've got some people who are hurting. Now we're not the biggest church in the world, but we're big enough to know that pretty much any time we have service, there's people in our service who are privately hurting. That are weeping. I venture to say, I I don't know, God knows. I venture to say, I'm talking to some folks right now. This week, you you wept yourself to sleep The pillow was wet with tears, maybe. Sorrow, heartache, hurting, disappointment, betrayal. Peter's writing to people who are hurting, and you and I, as members of the body of Christ, we have fellow members who hurt and sometimes are hurting very deeply. In any given service, we have people who are hurting and we have people who are rejoicing. Kind of dwelling on the sorrow, sad part of it, but the other side of that coin is In any given service, we have people that maybe are experienced blessings of God as never before. Now why we have this old simple nature. Why is it so, why is it have such a tendency when somebody's excited enough Sometimes we want to pull them down. Why is that? Well, they probably. It's not as great as what they think. You know, why don't we rejoice with them? Why can't we rejoice with those that rejoice and hurt with those who are hurting? Now look at this here. He says, finally, be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another. I want to point out here very quickly that he is instructing us to express compassion. not expect compassion. You follow what I'm saying? Uh sometimes we get hurting. Sometimes we we're hurting, we tend to get what? When we get hurting, we tend to get what? Well, angry, yeah, but we tend to focus on who? Ourselves You get, you know, uh Sarah gave birth this week, you know, as a man, I can relate to that. If I get a cold, it's very similar to a woman giving birth. But sometimes we're that way, aren't we? I'm being facetious, ladies But sometimes we're that way. We're not feeling will, we're not feeling uh up to apart, and boy, we want everybody to wait on us, right or wrong. Boy, our whole focus, our whole world revolves around that arthritis in my knee. And he's saying, listen, he's not saying listen, you go around and expect everybody to show compassion to you. You expect everybody to agree with you. You expect no, no, no, he's not saying that. You got your ingrown eyeballs back. You got to look and and express it to others. And I've found if you can get a Christian that can be a blessing to others when that Christian's hurting themselves, you've got a pretty good, growing, mature Christian there. That I can help and be a blessing to others even when my own heart is broken. That I can lift up others even when I'm struggling myself. And so he's instructing us to express compassion, not expect that compassion. I think we spend too much time looking for blessings. We spend too much time looking for compassion when in reality we should be looking to be a blessing. And look to be, have compassion and show compassion We've got our eyes backwards. I say this often jokingly, but you know, somebody walks in the back of the auditorium, pushes the doors open, and says, bless me if you can. Now we don't express it that way. And he's saying just the opposite I'm coming into a service. I'm coming into a congregation. I'm coming into some people. I'm going to interact with people. And a lot of them are hurting. A lot of them have private, personal heartaches. God, I want to have compassion one of another. I want to share in that heart. I want to be a help. I want to be a blessing. You sometimes just hear we say something like this, well I wonder what her problem is. I wonder what he wonder what his his pro what's his problem You know, the fact of the matter is if we knew what her problem was, we might be a little more compassionate. If we really knew what his compa it what his problem is, if we knew what it was, we might be a little more patient with them. Might be a little more helpful. Get on elevator. Remember back in the days you could go into public buildings? You get on an elevator and there's some people there and they look kind of grouchy and they're staring. You look at them and think, pfft. You have no idea what that person they might have just got word that their spouse is leaving them. You have no idea what they're going through. We have no idea what they're dealing with. We need to be very, very careful to cast judgment on someone we don't have any idea what's going on, because in reality they may be hurting deeply. The Bible tells us in Proverbs, I don't have the reference, but it tells us that gossip about other people who maybe aren't acting the way we think they should. are responding the way we think they should, and we get tail-bearing, the Bible says those wounds go deep into the belly. They hurt deeply What Peter is telling is telling us, God's telling us through Peter in our day, and what he was writing to those believers in his day was, he's saying, Listen, you have compassion one of another. You enter in with the hurts and heartaches of others. When we have compassion one of another and Let me give these to you quickly. I put three things down what we are. When we have compassion one of another. Number one, I put this down. When we have compassion one of another, we're obeying the Bible. We show compassion. We enter in with the heartaches and joys of others. We're obeying the Bible. If you got your Bibles there, let's turn, let's look at some verses real quick. I want to go through these as quick as I can. Romans chapter 12. And verse number 15, the reason I could just quote it and read it to you, but I want us to turn there because it might help to highlight or mark this in your Bible. If you're in that habit, I am. Romans chapter 12, when you get there, go down to verse number 15. Now he gives some tremendous practical instructions in this Portion of chapter 12. In verse number 15, if you're there, you got it. Look what he says. This is Paul writing the church at Rome, again, under the inspiration of God. And he says, rejoice with them that do rejoice. And look at the next statement. And what? Weep with them that weep. He's saying the same thing Peter's saying. Have compassion one of another. Show sympathy. Enter into the rejoicing of the one you're with who is rejoicing. Enter into the grief of the one who's grieving. Respond to it. And when you and I do that, we're doing exactly what the Bible tells us to do. We're obeying the Bible. Come with me, if you would, to 1 Corinthians chapter number 12. First Corinthians chapter twelve. Here he is describing, he's teaching on the church, and I think this was mentioned in our youth report. He's teaching on the church how the church is a body that's made up of many members. How many people here understand that your physical body has a lot of different parts to it? Right? We're not all a liver. We've got a lot of different organs and muscles and different things that make up this body. And he says here in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, look with me if you would at verse 26. Look what he says. And whether one member of this body of Christ, whether one member suffer, look at this All the members suffer with it. I wonder if we've ever done that as a church. Or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. Boy, what an instruction here. And when you and I do that, when you and I show compassion one of another, we enter into the grief and rejoicing and happiness. We're doing exactly what the Bible tells us to do. I don't know about you, but I find great fulfillment in doing what God tells me to do. Anybody here do something and you knew it God told you not to do it, and you did anyway, and then you felt terrible afterward? Anybody? Yeah We know what that's like, but there's another side to that when we do what God says, not pride, but fulfillment and satisfaction. And so when we show compassion one another, we're obeying. We're doing what the Bible says. We're Bible Christians. When we do what the Bible says. He says talks about the body here, one member uh uh uh uh being what's he say? One member is uh uh whether one member suffered. The rest of it suffers. A number of years ago, I started getting this little pain right inside. I'll show you where, right inside my knee, right there. And I thought it was um I had these different theories that come up why that was hurting right there. And it kept going on week after week and month after month. And one of the signs you're getting older is you talk about the aches and pains you have. And so it went on and on finally. I said, I need to go see the doctor about this. I thought it was I I had a little theory, what I thought it was. I'd go see the doctor, it's not going away. And they went They did x-rays and uh and examinations and poked my knee and pulled it and twisted it and did all this and they said we found out what's wrong. I said, Oh, what is it? Let me know. They said, you've got arthritis. I said, well what do you do? What's the cure? She said, she goes, you live with it So I was feeling sorry for myself and Dennis and Betty Kite were back there and I got talking. They said, Did you ever find out what was wrong with your knee? I said, Yeah, they told me I got arthritis. And they did what you did. They laughed. And Betty said, I said, I'm trying to find out, well, how do you treat that? How do you cure it? Betty's words, I'm quoting her verbatim. She said, suck it up, buttercup I said, you are disobeying scripture. You know what I found out? And by the way, it hasn't gotten better, it's spread. I found out when that thing's really bothered me, and some of y'all can relate this, when that thing's really bothered me, the rest of my body responds to it. And man, it's like, oh, ooh. And I think that's what he's telling us. The Bible teaches us when one member is suffering, the rest of the respond to that. And step in and join him with it. Having compassion one another. When we do that, we're obeying the Bible. I put this down. We were talking this morning, Brother Bryan, after church. Cold, uncaring, hard-hearted Christians. are not Bible Christians. That is not biblical Christianity. Cold, uncaring. Bible Christians that obey the Bible have compassion one of another. Number two, let me give it to you real quick. See, when we have compassion one another, number two, we're Christ-like. We're Christ-like. Matthew 9, 36, the Bible says, when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with what? Compassion on them because they were sheep, having no shepherd. He saw their condition, he saw their situation. They're out in darkness, they're wandering spiritually, they have no leadership, no direction And his heart went out to them. And Jesus Christ entered into their sorrow. In John chapter 11, I wanted to turn here, but we can't. In John chapter 11, verse 33 through verse 35, Lazarus has died. Martha and Mary are grieving, and they're upset with Jesus. that he had not come earlier. If he'd have been there, Lazarus would not have died. Jesus says, uh he says, God will be glorified. I'm not quoting verbatim. They said, oh yeah, we know in the resurrection he'll be He'll be resurrected. And uh Jesus interacts with them. And finally Jesus says, let's go to the grave. I'm putting my own words now, obviously. And the Bible says in verse 33, the Bible says in John 11, he says, he saw them weeping, the Jews weeping. And he saw Mary and Martha as they're going to the grave. He saw Mary and Martha weeping. They're crying. They're sad. Their brother died. One of the greatest verses about Jesus in all the Bible, verse 35, Jesus wept. Now you'll never convince me Jesus was weeping because Lazarus was dead, because he knew what he's about to do. You know what Jesus was doing? He was having compassion. They were weeping, he's going to weep with them. He wasn't sad about Lazarus' death. In fact, he was just telling them, God's going to get amazing glory out of this. This is going to be great. But they didn't know that. And he entered into their sorrow. And he wept with them. I am glad we have a Savior that loves me. I'm glad our God isn't a cold, hard-hearted, uncaring, indifferent God. Hebrews chapter 4 and verse number 15, the Bible says, For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. When we weep, Jesus enters into our sorrow. When we rejoice, Jesus enters into our rejoicing. And when you and I do that, we are like the Lord Jesus Christ. Having compassion one of another, we are behaving like Jesus. And let me give you the last one, real quick, number three. When we have compassion one of another, we're having an influence on people's lives. We have an influence. We make a difference in someone's life. I tell you, there's a great little verse in Jude. There's only one chapter in Jude, but verse 22. And some having compassion, making a difference. Caring Christians make a difference in other people's lives. Cold, hard-hearted, indifferent, self-centered Christians. We have no influence for the cause of Christ, for the gospel of Christ. The missing ingredient in many of our churches and many of our ministries is compassion. Compassion. You know, you know, we can hold to this book, we can hold strictly and tightly to this book, and we can still be nice. How about that? We can be an independent, fundamental, sin-hating, Christ-honoring, King James Bible, devil-kicking, hellfire, and brimstone preaching Baptist And we can still have compassion. We don't have to come we don't have to compromise one or the other. I've known some preachers over the years, they thought being a hard, strong preacher meant being mean and hateful. I don't see that anywhere in this Bible at all. In fact, I've found that those that are true to the Word of God are compassionate. And they make a difference. They make a difference in people's lives. I thought this afternoon, as we were getting ready for church, I was just kind of thinking back over. And I thought, if I could go back And do some things differently in my early years of my ministry. One thing I would ask God to help me to do is this: be more compassionate. I was so focused. I was so intense. I'm going to stand for Christ. I'm going to hold the standard high. I'm going to be true to that word. Sometimes we get so intense. We forget to care. We forget to show compassion. Understand, people are sinners struggling. They need a savior. Some having compassion make a difference. After I thought of that, I came back to my notes and I jotted this in. We need a pandemic of compassion. Compassionate people have a great influence for Christ and the gospel. I read, I came across a special Olympics event Out in Los Angeles, this was a number of years ago, probably 20, 30 years ago. And they had a large crowd in the big stadium out there is the national special Olympics competition. And one of the events that was going on that had center stage was the 50-meter run. So they got all the contestants up there. Of course, these are Special Olympics folks. It took a little while. They got them organized, got them all in place, and everything was ready, and the great crowds watching, and the start, and they shot the start gun, and the young people took off. And they were running 50 meter dash. They are just giving it our all. And one of the girls, a little girl with Down syndrome, was bleeding and she got right up to the finish line. She was right there and she happened to glance back and one of the other contestants, a friend of hers was running and he saw some of his friends and family cheering for him in the crowd and he got distracted and he got off the track and he was running over to his friends Up in the thing. And this girl in the lead that was going to win saw him doing that. She stopped and she called his name and said, No, come this way. The race is this way Well, he heard her calling and he saw his friends up here and he got confused. He didn't know what to do, and he just stood there. This girl about to win the race. Goes running over to where this boy was, and she linked her arm in his arm, and she said, This way! And she went with him linked in her arm, and they went running back to the race, and they ran the rest of the race. Anyone want to guess what place they came in? Last dead last. When they cross that finish line Report on it said when they crossed that finish line, that stadium erupted with a standing ovation. Compassion made a difference. Compassion. She was the winner. No matter who crossed that line first, she was the winner. I got thinking about that. I wonder. Hebrews chapter 12 tells us that we have a great crowd of witnesses in heaven. Now that you debate what that means. But I got wondering, just in my simple mind, wonder when a Christian has compassion on another person. I wonder if the stadiums of heaven doesn't erupt with a standing ovation. Says there's somebody that's being Christ-like, doing what the Bible says. We're starting a new week, the end of the month, beginning of April. Here's my challenge to myself and all of us. Let's commit ourselves tonight that we're going to show compassion this week We come across somebody that's sorrowing. Let's enter into that sorrow with them. We come across somebody that's crying. Let's cry. Let's help them cry. He's finding somebody that's rejoicing, let's help them rejoice. Having compassion one of another. And I believe Man, let's tell it Kathy. We've got radio station, we've got sword boxes, we've got sunny school buses, we've got yard signs, we've got signs in the store, we've got full-page ads in the Republican how to get saved. All of that, and we're going to keep doing it, thank God for it. But I wonder if we just go out and have compassion, if that might not just have as much, if not more, influence in all this stuff we're doing. Are you with me? Father in heaven, please teach us to be submissive, to be mature, and to have compassion one of another Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I know my old sinful heart? I need God to help me be compassionate I need God to help me see and sense others' condition, of the fear and sadness in others, be able to see that And then enter in and help them and share that with them. Is there any like that? My hand's raised. I know me. I have a tendency to be so focused on what I'm doing. I don't even see what's going on in others. I need God to help me. Any others like that? Any others like that? Maybe what we need to do is just ask the Lord to fill us with His Spirit so that the love of God be shed abroad in our hearts. We can love as we're loved. If you're here and you're not saved, I'm telling you there's a Savior in the world that loves you and has entered into and took your sin upon you. He didn't become a sinner, but he took your sin upon you. And he was judged in your place, the greatest act of compassion ever known to mankind. Rose again. He'll forgive you and save you, give you a new life, eternal life. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Help us in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed