And uh I thought Pat did a pretty good job, you know, filling in there. He loves wearing suits and uh I think uh I was thinking, man, you know, how do you have a doctorate in astrophysics and uh, you know, and then struggle with that and I thought, well, it's probably the tide choking to make our wild game dinner a success. A lot of people uh donated uh uh some high dollar things to uh give out last night. There's people working till I I left before the last people left, I would guess ten Ten ten thirty, probably maybe eleven o'clock last night, working still, putting things up and getting things back, and uh we praise the Lord for it. We had about two hundred folks out, we had six men trust Christ as Savior, so we praise the Lord for that And the interesting thing was uh one of the men that trusted the Lord also won the grand prize shotgun. And so I told Sunday school he went home with a shotgun and eternal salvation. Boy, you know And so uh what a deal. But uh we had a good time last night. Appreciate so much um everyone's involvement there and prayers of everything. Uh John asked Liz if she would be his girlfriend She goes, I can't be your girlfriend for medical reasons. He says, What do you mean? She said, You make me sick. And so um Did you hear about the two blondes that froze to death at the drive-in movie theater? They went to watch Closed for the Winter and um never came out again. Notice if you would Luke twenty and verse thirty-eight. For he is not a God of the dead, but of the living. For all live unto him. I'd like to uh speak this morning on the God of the living. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, thank you for the word of God. We ask now that you would Take these truths presented here. I pray that your Holy Spirit would apply them to our lives. God, I pray here that our faith in your word would be stronger when we go out the doors this morning. I pray that our hope for the future, our confidence in eternal life would be stronger than it was when we begin here now. So we need your Holy Spirit to do this, Father. As much as I'm able, with all my human ability, I yield my will to your will, Lord. I want to present my body completely to you. You can take me, Holy Spirit, work through me, speak through me, fill me, I pray. And uh be thus preacher this morning is my prayer. God, I have nothing of myself to offer of any eternal value. So Lord, uh, I pray that you would work through me. Have your way, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We are told that there are two inescapable things in life. One of them is death, and the other is Taxes, death and taxes. Nobody can get out of those. And no doubt this is probably true. But one of those two is a clear biblical truth. And that is this. Hebrews chapter 9, verse 12, verse 27 tells us, in probably the most succinct way, the most clear. uh way in all the Bible, and that is this it is appointed unto man once to die And then after this, the judgment. Now the truth of the matter is, man is able to find loopholes to escape taxes. Most of them hold office. Right? It's incredible. The people that make our tax code don't know how to pay their own taxes. But Man can find loopholes often and escape paying his taxes, but there are no loopholes that enable man to escape death Death is inevitable. Truth is, bad people die. And good people die. The world likes this little phrase. They like to use this little phrase, only the good die young. That's not true. Bad people die young, good people die young, bad people die old, but good people die old. People die. The death rate among humans is 100% Rich people die. Poor people die. Presidents of countries die. Paupers that live under bridges die. Godly people die, ungodly people die. Pastors of churches die, atheists die. Death is inescapable. So the issue is not whether somebody's going to die. We're talking about physical death at this point. The issue is not whether somebody's going to die or not I do have over the years done scores and scores of funerals. And um nobody ever took issue with the fact whether that person had died or not. That's not the concern at that point. That's obvious. It's inevitable. The issue is this Though death is inescapable. Death is not necessarily the end of life. That's the issue When a person dies physically, is that the end of their life Over and over throughout Scripture, we're told that there is life beyond death. That physical death is not the end of a person's life. Listen to 2 Corinthians 5. 8. We're confident rather, I say, and willing to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. The obvious meaning of that passage, what Paul is telling us through the inspiration of God, is the fact that when death comes, when a person is absent from their body They are present with the Lord. Take your Bibles if you would. Keep your place here in Luke. We're going to come back. But would you turn with me to the book of 1 Peter? And chapter 1. I want you to turn there and look at this because I want to explain through here a little bit. And I'm just pulling two verses out of uh scores of verses in the Bible we could use. But sec uh 1 Peter chapter 1 and notice the beginning in verse 3 with me, 1 Peter 1, 3 The Bible says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which, according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Now look at this To an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away. Look at this, reserved in heaven for you. Now what he's saying here is through the mercy and grace of God, because of the price that Jesus Christ paid on that cross when he was buried and he rose again, that you and I, those of us that have trusted Christ as Savior, we have a an inheritance that is incorruptible That is undefiled, that fadeth not away. And I like that last phrase. I circled that in my Bible. Reserved in heaven for you The issue is not whether a person is going to die or not. The issue is is death the end of life? And the Bible says that there is life after death. I did a funeral, this was years ago. I was chaplain with hospice for a number of years and I had done a funeral for a a family that I really didn't know. I'd got to know them through the uh my association there and I they asked to do the if I do the funeral for them and I did. And in the funeral service I mentioned 2 Corinthians 5. 8 absent from the body present with the Lord And there was one lady, a very distinguished lady, that I could tell in speaking that I had when I referenced that, that had caught her attention. And after the service was over and we were making ready to go out to the grayside, she came up to me and she says, You Quoted a verse in there about being present with the Lord. What verse is that? So I got my Bible out and I showed her, 2 Corinthians 5. 8. And she said this. She said, I never heard that before I had never heard that when a believer dies, when they're absent from the body, that they're present with the Lord. Ain't that something? Coming back to Luke chapter twenty, we find here that there have been throughout the ages Skeptics, or we'll say folks that deny the fact that life exists beyond the grave In spite of the overabundance of Scripture, there are still people that would say that death is the end. There's nothing beyond the grave. There's nothing beyond when you die, it's that we get out uh each week and we knock on doors and try and share the gospel with people and uh go throughout our daily lives. We try and share with others how they can have their sins forgiven. Know for sure they have a home in heaven, someday have new life in Christ here. We try and share that on a regular basis And inevitably you're out knocking on doors sooner or later, and uh it happens pretty regularly to be honest with you, somebody will say this. You w I what a part of our spiel we go through is do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven and you have a home in heaven. Do you know that for sure? Do you have that settled? And inevitably, somebody will say something like this. Oh, I'm dead, that's it, I just go to the grave. How many folks ever heard anybody say that? Anybody? I've had it often. That's it. The fact of the matter is, they're not new. There have always been people who have denied the reality. Of life after death. And that brings us back to Luke chapter twenty. If you'll come up and notice verse twenty-seven This is the context of the statement that Jesus made down in verse 38. And notice what's taking place here. Look at verse 27. Then came to him certain of the Sadducees Now that was a uh it was it was a group of people that believed a certain way. Then came uh unto him certain of the Sadducees. Now look what their belief was, look what their doctrine was, so to speak. Certain of the Sadducees which deny that there is any what? Resurrection And they came and asked him and they presented a question to him. Now the Sadducees, let me tell you a little bit about them. Here we're told that they denied the resurrection. They did not believe, in fact, they strongly refuted the idea that a person will eventually be resurrected from the dead, that will bodies will be resurrected. They denied that. But they went much beyond that The Sadducees not only denied that a person will ever be resurrected, they said when the body goes in the grave, it decays, that's it. But they denied that there was any type of spiritual life beyond the grave. They denied angels, they denied that there was any such thing as angels, they denied any such thing as devils, they denied the spirit world, they were deniers And they had heard of the Lord Jesus Christ, and they heard of his teaching, and they came to him, and they wanted to refute Jesus teaching that there is a hope of a resurrection someday, they wanted to refute his teaching that there is life beyond the grave. And so they came and presented this question about a man married um a man married a woman and um she this woman married a man and had no children and married his brothers and seven brothers, they all died. She married one brother, he died, she didn't have kids, so she married his brother. That was a custom he had married his brother. And uh well I'm glad I don't have to marry my sister in laws. But um She married one and uh he died, she married a second one, he died, she married a third one, he died, she married a fourth one, he died. Looks like by now, if I was one of those brothers, I'd say, You ain't marrying me Everybody you marry dies. So finally she marries all seven of them, and uh the last one dies. And so here's the Sadducees' question, these deniers. Alright. In the resurrection, life after grave, whose wife is she going to be? That's where Jesus comes in and confronts him. The point I want to make here is this. They had no evidence to prove that the Bible was wrong. When the Bible teaches there's life after death and that there's resurrection, they had no evidence. They didn't come to Jesus with any empirical evidence to say, hey, here's proof that there is no life after death. There is no resurrection. They had no proof. They had no evidence All they could do was raise questions, and I like the way one commentator put it, and try and cloud the issue They just try to confuse everybody. Well boy, that's a good question. Who's whose wife would she be? And uh how how boy this And so they're really not presenting any evidence. They're really not refuting anything. They're just trying to confuse it. And the truth is, their rejection of the Bible was based upon ignorance and arrogance. Not upon any real evidence. We meet people occasionally that that make a statement, oh, there is no God. I had a woman one time tell me She was absolutely certain there is no God. There is no God. I said, that's an amazing thing. That you can know that. You must know everything to be able to say emphatically, there is no God I said, maybe there's some information out there that you've not gotten a hold yet that says that there is a God. Now, think about that with me for a moment. For somebody to say emphatically, there is no God, you would have to be all-knowing. Right? If I would say There is no gold in West Virginia. I would have to know Everything about everybody, every situation in all of West Virginia, to be able to say that. I would have to know everybody's dental records Right? I would have to know everybody's safety deposit box. I would have to know the quality of everyone's jewelry. I would have to know what's in every seam of every mountain through the whole thing. I cannot, nobody can emphatically say, oh, there's no gold in West Virginia, because they couldn't know that. And for someone to say there is no God, it's impossible to say that. How can you possibly know everything? Now, a person could say, I don't believe there's a God. They could say that, but you cannot emphatically say it. So these Sadducees approached the Lord Jesus. They had heard him teaching about life after death, they had heard him teaching about the resurrection They had heard his teaching about eternal life and all of these things, the spirit world, and uh they absolutely denied it, and they thought, Well, we've got the question, we'll settle in We'll shut him up. And so they came with their question about the woman and the seven husbands. Jesus responded to the rejection of life after death, first of all, by explaining um what I'm calling interhuman relations after death And that's where you get verse 34 and 35. He says Jesus answered them and said, I think it's interesting. The Lord Jesus doesn't hesitate here at all. He doesn't come and say, Boy, you know, I've got to think about that for a minute He just has the answer. He says, the children of this world, in other words, physical life, this side of the grave, the children of this world marry and are given in marriage. But They which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world, eternal life, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage. Neither can they die anymore. For they are equal unto the angels. They are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection So he's saying, listen, you guys got this great question. The fact of the matter is, you're just ignorant. You don't even know what's beyond the other grade. You don't have all the information. Let me tell you a little bit what the case is and makes your question meaningless. He also responds to their rejection of the resurrection of dead. By making an observation about a statement that Moses made. Way back in Exodus chapter 3 and verse 6, when Moses Is at the um uh burning bush. Ma remember the story, how many people remember that story? Burning bush going on. And uh he sees that And uh he goes and God says to him, uh God says to him, I am the God of the Lord God of Abraham and of the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob Jesus takes that quote of God that he made to Moses and he uses that to refute the Pharisees or the Sadducees And I believe it is important. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. It is important for those of us that know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, those of us who are convinced That the Bible is true. And that what the Bible says is so. It is important for us to view life and death, to view it the way our Lord portrays life and death. Not the way the world thinks it is, not our human reasoning, but we view it the way God says it is. Listen, if anybody knows what's beyond the grave, it would be the Lord Jesus Christ. If anybody knows about eternal life and the spirit world, it would be our God. And so we come to God and we find from God Information about life after death, about uh the spirit world and all these types of things. Now, what does the Bible say about a believer whose body has died Now we touched on this a little bit, but the Bible will use phrases like this. They are with the Lord. They were gathered unto their fathers. They are in the presence of the Lord Jesus. Some places the Bible will refer to a person physically dying as they gathered up their tent. Like they moved to another place. And so it's for important for us as believers To view death and beyond from the perspective that the Bible gives us. So we have a clear perspective of it. Now look at verse 38 in Luke 20. Here's Jesus' conclusion of the statement Moses made. He says, uh Well come back to verse 37. Now if the dead be raised, even Moses showed at the bush when he calling on the Lord calleth the Lord the God of Abraham. And the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. For the conclusion of that, what we learn from that statement is that God is not a God of the dead, but of the living. In other words, Abraham was not dead at that point, although his body had been buried there in the promised land. Um uh Isaac, though his body was buried in the sand, Isaac was not dead. Though Jacob's body had decayed, and no doubt at this point had been dust for a long time, nevertheless, Jacob was still alive. It's important, again, as I said, for us to understand what the Bible says about this matter. Now I'm going to make a statement. Many of you have heard me make this before, perhaps some of you haven't So hear me out before you come to the conclusion about the statement I'm going to make. Alright? How many people are curious what my statement is? Come back next week and I'll tell you what now. The fact of the matter is, according to the Bible, you and I do not have a soul. We don't have a soul. Say, oh, wait a minute. That's the opposite of everything you were saying. No, no, no. We do not have a soul We are a soul. That's what I am. That's what I am, a soul. We have a body. I am a soul that inhabits a body. I am not a body that has a soul. You with me? Everybody okay with that? So we are a soul. So when the body dies, that is not necessarily me dying. Because I am not that body. How many people here, uh fellows or maybe ladies, you're hammering a nail and you hit your thumb? Anyone ever here do this? And you're having a way, wham, and uh, ah, and I won't repeat everything some of you guys said, but um your wife comes in and says, What in the world happened? What do you say to her? You don't say, I hit me, right? Because your body is not you. You say, I hit my thumb. It's not me. This body is not me. The spirit, the soul in the body, that's me. And so, when God when Moses made reference, and Jesus quoted the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. He didn't say I was their God or I'm the God of the one that was Jacob or the one that was He's clearly pointing out that though their bodies were buried and decayed, nevertheless they were very much alive. He's not the God of the dead. He's the God of the living. The living. God's people are alive, though their bodies may have long been dead. Now I want to give you a few observations from this here. Number one Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Their life after their death was a result of their relationship with God. Are you with me? The fact that they were still alive years, centuries, after their bodies had been buried. was a result of them having a relationship with the true God. Notice what Jesus quotes Moses here. For he is the God of Abraham. That phrase, the God of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, implies that there was some type of relationship between them. Abraham had recognized God as God. Abraham had trusted God as his God. There was a relationship that had been established at some point And the result of that God being the God of Abraham, the result of that was, is after his body was buried, Abraham was still alive. They had established a relationship with the true and living God. These were three different men. If you read the life of Abraham, you read the life of Isaac, you read the life of Jacob, they were as different as you can get But they all had a relationship with the same God. And it was that relationship with the true and living God that gave them Life after death. Now, maybe you're here this morning. Maybe you're under the sound of my voice. And you think, well, that would be nice to have life after death. That would be nice to know that even when my body dies, I'm still alive. I still uh in the presence of the Lord. How how can I know that And the way we can know that is by having a relationship with the true and living God. You say, well, everybody's born the child of God. That is not Bible teaching. In fact, that is what the Bible refers to as a doctrine of the devil that everybody is God's child. No, Jesus in John chapter 8 and verse 44 speaking to the Pharisees, very religious people, he said, You are of your father the devil. Now, what made these religious people a child of the devil rather than a child of God? They're very religious. They're church members, they've got their Bibles, they've got all everything, all the outward. Ah, but there's one thing they lacked. They did not have a genuine relationship with the true God. They didn't know him. They had not trusted Jesus the Messiah. They had not established a relationship with God. And I want to emphasize this, and we have over the years emphasized this Christianity is not some ritual I go through. It is a relationship I have with the true and living God, with the resurrected Savior Jesus Christ. It's a relationship. I know him, and he knows me. And that relationship is established at the moment I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. So Jesus says Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, they're not dead. God is not the God of the dead, he's the God of the living. He was their God. They had a relationship with the Lord. And that is why they're still alive. Three very different men all submitted to the same God and found eternal life that only God can give. Let me say this again. We've said this a thousand times. I'll say it a thousand times more. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot give you eternal life. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot forgive your sins, cannot give you eternal life, cannot get you to heaven when you die. The only thing we can do is introduce you to the one that can do that. And that's the Lord Jesus Christ, God Almighty. So number one. Life after death, a result of a relationship with God. Number two, their life after death was clearly stated by the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are not dead. Now here's the neat thing about this. I believe Abraham understood the reality of life after death. It w it wasn't something that boy Abraham didn't know that and he died and All of a sudden he woke up dead. I don't know how you wake up dead, but he He died and man, he shows up and here he is. With eternal life. Wow, my body died, but I'm still alive. Wow, I didn't know that. He wasn't surprised by it. He was very much aware of it. Um again keep your place here if you would, and we're winding down, believe it or not. I'm not going to say it's a short message, Brother Ed, but uh come with me to Hebrews chapter 11. Here Hebrews chapter 11 is a fascinating chapter. Notice with me, if you would, verse, Hebrews chapter 11, verse 15. This is making reference to Abraham. And my this is my argument. Abraham knew before he died that he would have eternal life after he died. Wasn't surprised. Look at Hebrews eleven and look at verse fifteen. And truly, if they Referencing back to Abraham and those before. Truly, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came, Abraham and Sarah and his associates. If they had been mindful, that word mindful there means to hold in your memory. If they'd have kept thinking back about where they came from. They might have had opportunity to have returned. In other words, he wasn't thinking about the world, what God called him out of. Look at verse 16. But now they desire a better country. That is a what? Heavenly Wherefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. Now wait a minute. Where was Abraham When this verse here tells us he was still looking for a heavenly city, Abraham was already in the promised land. This is not Abraham looking for, boy, that promised land God told me, someday I'm going to be in a promised land. No, at this point in time, he's already there, but he's still looking for a city. Abraham is still anticipating the day when he will dwell in the city of God, the heavenly city. And this is the argument I'm trying to make right now. We can know before we die that we are going to heaven. You say, well, big deal. Tell you there's a lot of people don't understand that. I wonder how many times we've been out knocking the doors or in some situation, a counseling type situation, and somebody is, and I'll ask this the age-old question, do you know for sure? And when you die, your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven. How many times folks have said this to me? Oh, nobody can know that. Nobody can know you're going to heaven when you die. Abraham did. He was anticipating that's it. He's already in the promised land He's anticipating that heavenly city. Abraham knew it. The implication is Isaac knew it. Jacob knew it. We can know for sure. Now stop and think with me for a moment Somebody says, oh, nobody can know for sure they're going to heaven when they die. You just have to wait till you get there. Now think about that for a minute. How cruel, how cruel would God be? If he said, you don't know whether you're not going to know whether you're going to heaven or hell until it's too late to do anything about it. How cruel would that be? After death comes the judgment. Well, I don't know if I'm going to heaven or hell. I don't know if I'm going to heaven. Then I die. Stand before the Lord because you're going to hell. Well how could I have known that? How could I prepare for this? There's no way I can know. Well, you just do the best you can and hope so. My God is not a God of hope-so. My God's a god of no-so. Abraham knew it. He had it settled. He was anticipating that heavenly city. He was anticipating that after his body died he would still exist and continue on with the Lord. He understood this, and because Abraham understood this, he trusted and submitted to God, even under the even with the most precious things in his life And if you'll notice verse 17, 18, 19, and I'm not preaching on that, but because Abraham Anticipated life after death, because he was anticipating the heavenly city, he was able to, in full confidence, offer up to God the most precious thing in his life, his own son Isaac. Accounting, in other words, confident that if he obeyed God and killed Isaac, and we just Preached on this a month or so ago. If he offered Isaac up as a sacrifice and killed him, Abraham was confident that Isaac would still be alive and God would raise him up again, just as God had promised. And that's what verse 17 and 18 tells us. The fact that I can know that when I die, it's not the end of my life, but I can go on, I'll go on and live for God and be in the presence of God Can give me the confidence and the assurance that if that's true, I can give everything to the Lord. I can trust God with my family and my finances and my future. I can put it all in God's hands because God is the God of the living. Does that make sense? The assurance of my salvation, the confidence that I have a home in heaven someday, enables me To trust God here and now. You know what I found to be true? It's a lot of churches, our community, I'm not being judgmental, I'm just making a statement here. It's a lot of churches, our community teach that you cannot know for sure you're saved or that you can lose your salvation. A lot of churches in our community teach that. Now I want to give you an observation that I've made. I found that those, generally speaking, there's exceptions. But generally speaking, those that have assurance of their salvation and are secure in their salvation, generally speaking Live for the Lord much stronger Christian lives than those who are continually afraid they're going to lose it. Generally speaking. And I believe the assurance of our salvation, the confidence I know that when I die, I'm going to go and be with the Lord, enables me to live a stronger Christian life than when I'm constantly under this fear or this uncertainty whether I'm going to heaven or hell. Abraham had that settled. And because he had it settled, because Isaac had it settled, because Jacob had it settled, they could trust the Lord. God, it's interesting. Come back to John here. 20 verse 38. For he is not a God of the dead, but of the living. For all live unto him. I'm glad it doesn't say that he is a God of the non-existent. I don't know. He's the God of the living. The grave does not end it. Say, well when I die where are you gonna go when you die? Brave, I'll just rot the worms, I'll just eat my body, that's it. Anybody ever say that to you? I've had a lot. I say that's not what the Bible says. Now maybe you know more about it than Jesus does. But Jesus says there is life after death. Let me give you my third thought. There, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, their life after their death. Is presented as literal life. They were literally alive. Now some folks have this idea, and this is what I'm addressing here. Some folks have this idea, yeah There's life after death, but it's just kind of like a state of mind, and it's not you know, it's not a literal heaven, there's not a literal hell. It's uh it's just some kind of spirit Limbo, nebulous. I'm just using words I don't know what they mean. I'm just throwing them out there. Uh these are words Pat knows what they mean. And uh just stuff like that It's nothing real, it's nothing literal. This Jesus presented here as if they're literally alive. God is, it's a literal life. Notice they are persons. I am the God, the Lord God of Abraham. Abraham was a person, is a person. Isaac, Jacob. Let me tell you something profound. Abraham is Abraham. Isaac is Isaac. Jacob is Jacob. They're individual, actual people. And after death, we live as individual, actual people. The other observation I make from this about the literal life, their persons, they have literal identities. They're known by their names. It's interesting when Jesus went on the Mount Transfiguration, Peter and a couple of guys went up with them. And the Bible says Moses appeared to him. Moses and who was it? Elijah? Brian? Is that right? My mind went black dirt. Moses and Elijah appeared. And the interesting thing is Peter recognized them. As Moses and Elijah. They were identified. Somebody asked me, I get this asked occasionally, not as much as I used to, but occasionally somebody asked me this: we get to heaven, are we going to know other people? Well, I don't think we're going to be dumber in heaven than we are here. Right? I mean I know people here I get to heaven. Yes, we'll know people. We'll be identified. We'll be individuals. I believe to some degree we'll have some of the same characteristics. Of course, we're gonna have the characteristics of the Lord Jesus Christ. But there's going to be some individual characteristics to identify us and to distinguish us from other individuals. The Bible makes that clear. He says he's the God of Abraham. He's the God of Isaac. He's the God of Jacob. He doesn't say I'm just the God of these clones. I had a preacher say one time, and I agree with him to some degree. He said you're gonna walk down the streets of heaven and everybody's gonna look like Jesus. You're gonna say, Oh I thought you were Jesus. Oh I thought you were Jesus Now I agree we're going to take on the characteristics of the Lord Jesus, but we're not going to be a bunch of clones. You follow what I'm saying? Bears going to look like bears. Awful as that seems. But I'm teasing you, brother. Uh uh I'm awfully good at running people off, aren't I? But um uh we'll uh we'll have something about us. We get to glory, are still gonna identify us as who we are. So they live as persons after the grave. They live with identity. And I like this. They live in a specific location. They are with the Lord. Now, here's the question. There's no doubt a saved person after their body dies is with the Lord. Now, here's the question Where in the world is the Lord? He's where's the Lord? Where? I can't hear you. He's in heaven. He's on his throne. So ask the Jehovah's Witness when they come by your door. Say, Do you know for sure you're going to heaven? They'll say, Oh no, we don't want to go to heaven. Uh we don't stay here on earth afterward for eternity Eternal for eternity. They say, well, where does a person go when they die? Well, they go with the Lord. Where's the Lord? Well, the Lord's in heaven. Heaven. I've not I've yet had them be able to answer that. If a saved person goes to be with the Lord and the Lord's in heaven, how do you not go to heaven? You follow what I'm saying? And so we know today where Abraham is. Yeah, he's buried someone in the Middle East. No, that's his body. Abraham's with the Lord. He's at an actual, real, literal place. Isaac, Jacob, is with the Lord. This Friday evening we have six people from our church are going to drive down to Baltimore or to Washington. And if they survive the drive down with Jerry driving, they're going to fly to Puerto Rico. The flight to Puerto Rico is safer than the trip to Washington on the in the Did you notice I'm not driving with them? But um they're gonna fly down to Puerto Rico for a week and distribute this literature that we've put together. Somebody com all right, Jerry's down, Connie's back here. Somebody comes up to Connie and we says, Boy, we're sorry you lost Jerry. You say, What do you mean? Well he's not here, he's gone. We're so sorry he's gone I know where he is. He's not lost. He's in Puerto Rico. It's just a different place. Somebody comes, you have a loved one, believer that's died. Somebody comes out and says, Boy, I'm I'm sorry you lost your daddy or your wife or whatever it is. You say, Oh no, I didn't lose them. They're just at another place. I know where they're at. It's a real literal place. Now you say, all right, prove to me that there's life after death. Prove to me that there's a place called heaven and hell. And I'll be the first to admit I can't prove it. There's no chemical formula, there's no astronomical Uh thing telescope That you can look through and say, oh yeah, sure enough, there is a heaven. Look at that. There's no mathematical formula. I cannot prove it. Hey. And nobody can prove it isn't. I believe it's so because the Bible says it's so. Because Jesus teaches that. And I am convinced that Jesus is exactly who he says he is. And the Bible is exactly what it claims. I have seen nobody offer any evidence that convinces me that the Bible is not true. And so, God is not the God of the dead. He's the God of the living. And those who have known the Lord and have gone on before us are just as alive as you and I are. In a real place, identified as themselves with the Lord. Now I read this this past week. I think it was Monday morning. I read that passage. And one of our members, Mike, was in bad shape. Had his brain surgery. And I read that passage, and man, it's like God gripped my heart. And I thought, praise God. Whenever the day comes for any one of us, if we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, it is not the end. It's really just the beginning. Now there's one word of caution that I have to end with. I don't particularly enjoy talking about death, but to believers it's not a bad thing. Right. But perhaps you're here this morning or you hear my voice And you cannot honestly in your heart and soul say, I know that Jesus has forgiven my sin and saved me. If you've never genuinely, sincerely trusted Christ and established that relationship with God, you cannot claim this verse. Great preacher, far better man of God than I'll ever hope to be, made a statement. He said the thing that impacted the most was when he realized that he is that everybody's going to live forever somewhere, either heaven or hell Now I take a little bit of issue with that statement in this. I do not view it going to hell as living. I don't mean there's not conscious existence, but you can't call that living in hell. Exist, but it is not living. Yeah, preacher, I get to hell, we're gonna have a time. Yeah, you're gonna have a time. It ain't going to be what you think it is. Huh? It's not the God of the dead. It's the God of the living. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. To take this seriously, to understand that our life is not just what we see and touch and feel and experience here, but it's beyond that. I pray you'd give us a burden for others that don't have a relationship with Christ, that we could bring them into the fold. They could come to know Christ as Savior and they could be one of the living. God, make us soul winners. God, give us peace about loved ones that have gone on. Give us peace about our own. By the end of this year, no doubt, perhaps some of us will be in on the other side. I pray our salvation be settled. There'd be peace about that. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, there's someone dear to me? They knew Christ. They've passed away, their body has died, and this morning I rejoice and I find encouragement in the fact that because they knew the Savior, they're still very much alive, just in another place. anybody like that, someone dear to me that's already crossed over and I find