The sermon I have is six pages long. They say, how long is six pages? Well, let me put it this way, I usually preach, I usually have about a four-page sermon, and that usually takes me about forty-five to fifty minutes to get through. So if you if you it's about an hour and twenty minutes. I don't want to preach an hour and twenty minutes this morning. Um so I'm so I'm not going to. If you guys make a deal that you're gonna come back tonight to hear the other half of the sermon. So I so if you guys don't want to come back tonight, don't want to come back tonight, go ahead and say, hey, we're not coming back tonight. That's fine. I'm going to preach the whole sermon now. So uh so uh if you uh if you're coming back tonight, say amen. Not good enough, we're preaching the whole sermon. Uh no, I'm just joking. But uh we talk about we're uh we're in first Samuel. Um and uh this is uh like I said, this is a it's a six-page sermon, which so I just was like, you know what, I'm gonna cut it off Uh since I'm gonna do it in two parts, part one this morning and part two tonight, I should just cut it off at page three, so we might end in a really awkward place, who knows? Uh but uh that's where we're gonna end and uh But I do implore you, come back tonight because the first part of this sermon is uh it's I I I like it, I enjoy it, but really it's all introduction to the second part of the sermon. In which I really do enjoy, and I really think that you guys will actually learn something and glean something from that. So please try to come back tonight. Um I might have saved it till next week, but Pastor's not going to let me preach next week I'll be in Michigan, so that's one of the reasons. Uh and the other reason is because he's back and he's a better preacher than I am, so that's just true. But uh anyways, I'm excited to be here. I'm excited that you all are here. I hope you uh I'll try to speak slowly Um but as I said last time, if I speak slower, y'all are here longer. If I speak faster, we can make lunch. Alright. So, but uh I'll try to speak slowly and clearly uh for those of you who uh who can't listen to uh million words a minute. So The Man You Would Have King, or The Man You Would Be King, is the title of the sermon. The Man You Would Be King. Now there's uh there is a uh I believe a book called The Man That Would Be King, but uh But this is a uh title call or the title of this sermon is The Man You Would Have or Would Be King. The Man You Would Be King. You see, one of the interesting uh phenomena, we'll get into this in a second, is how men strive to have a king. Now we're Americans and we we're one of the few countries in the history of the world who have who were uh born without a earthly king. Like our nation's never had a king except for God, and that's a blessing. And that's and that's a wonderful thing. And we'll get into why that's so cool here in a second. And I'll tell you the history behind how amazing it is that we were actually born we our country was made without a king and how rare that truly is But most of most most nations have a king. And and the funny thing is, is kings while kings are born, don't get me wrong. Um kings are born usually into uh and usually into a family and then they they're the only they're the oldest so they become the king. Every country's monarchy had to start somewhere. Um whether it was it was uh England, it was with the uh with the Gaelic tribes um across England and and they had all these different clans If you play clash of clans, you're your own king. But anyways, uh you're they'll had all these little clans and uh and they all had their leaders. The thing is those leaders just didn't become leaders. They they they were put as leaders. They were set up as leaders by the men beneath them. Here's the thing. Men just don't become kings. Now they do in if the society is already set up and the monarchy is already there. But when a society is starting up, someone always puts up a king Now I'm gonna be honest, usually the people who put up or who uh the king that gets put up is usually an egotistical person. Because anyone who says, hey, I'm gonna be king over everybody, has a big ego. It's just kind of honest. Uh but what is a king, by the way? A king, one definition, is the most important piece in chess. But that doesn't really make much sense here. Um you play checkers, you know that it's um two dudes stacked on top of each other. Um it's a king. Checkers a joke. No one plays checkers anymore and I think that's a shame. But um And I got in this massive argument over checkers once. Man. Man, you throwing stuff. Doesn't matter because the board is so Doesn't matter, so you're just throwing things at people. And uh but checkers that's what a king is there. But uh I I like the term ruler of an independent state. Ruler of an independent state. What's that mean? First of all, ruler. They rule. They have authority. They're the ones that give direction. They're the ones that make the rules. They are rulers because rulers can make rules, right? And of an independent state. So an independent state would be a group of people, uh, and and say thereof and they're ruling over the state. Very simple, right? So here's the thing. Think for a moment about you being your own independent state And and you're you're you're the you're in charge of your own independent state. You're in charge of yourself and what you believe and who you're gonna set as a king over you. And then think of who that should be. You see, the Bible says in Isaiah 22, 33, for the Lord our judge. Or the Lord is our judge, the Lord is our lawgiver, the Lord is our king, he will save us. I like that verse. He is our judge. He not he not only and he's our law giver, he not only makes the rules, but he also judges what's fair and what's not fair. By the way, this is the problem, like listen, I if if you Get me in a back room somewhere, I will tell you how much I love the American system and how uh and how our uh our Constitutional Republic is an unbelievable system. It was genius when it was put together. It's also a flawed system. You wanna know why? Because we created it. And everything we create kind of ends up falling apart. And one of the reasons is is because it it we we judge our own laws and then we and if you think about the Supreme Court for a second, even if we these great laws, look at the Constitution. Even if we have these great laws, it's the person interpreting them that makes the rules. See, God's such a great king, because he makes the laws. Well, first of all, because he's righteous, holy And a and is actually a very humble God. But besides all that, he makes he's he's completely righteous, he makes the laws, and he judges the laws. So that's why he's the perfect king. See the pr and he never dies, which is awesome, which means there never needs to be a new king. You see that's the problem we do just at uh Um one of our Supreme Court justices, probably our best Supreme Court justice. Clarence Thomas is pretty awesome though too. So uh but one of our top two Supreme Court justices in my mind passed away um in the last couple weeks. And and that and really that's heartbreaking to me. Um not because I knew the guy, 'cause I didn't know the guy, not because uh I think that we would have been friends, 'cause I I don't know, I I hope so. I don't know. Maybe he would have hated me. He's like a little jerk. I don't know, I g he might have, I don't know. But I tell you this I loved his I loved his idea. I l I loved that he thought that words actually meant what they say, which is incredible by the way. And now we're gonna have new Supreme Court justice. You know, since he died it doesn't matter what he thinks anymore. Uh now that he's dead doesn't matter. They they can they can replace him and again we'll don't get into politics, I don't need to get into that but They're gonna replace him with someone and most likely he's not gonna and whoever they replaced him with is not going to be as good. Because he was, again, the best. And they replace him with someone who is wicked and someone who does not believe in the Constitution, then guess what? That's what the court's gonna go. If they replace him with the exact same person, then that's great. But the fact is he's dead. It's not his decision anymore. The great thing about God being our lawgiver and our uh and our ruler and the man who interpret and the God who interprets the law is he's not going to die and he's not going to change. God deserves to be king over your life. A because he made you. Alright, and that you know, you usually w listen, I I I'm not a great craftsman, but usually when I make stuff, I don't let it like spit my face. If I if I had carved a little wooden block from a block, which means I didn't do anything I made it. See I I'm I made this thing. It's this little block and I painted a smiley face on it. And I painted that smiley face block I don't let this block just totally like rebel against me. I'm kind of its master, even though it has no will. And it's just a stupid block. I can't do anything. But like this, God made you. He owns you. He gave you free will. So he gave you a choice. You can run from God, you can not. You can make him king over your life. You can make someone else king over your life. Fact is everyone has everyone either is a king or has a king over them. You're saying we're in America. We don't have a king, we don't have and we don't uh and we don't have a king and we don't make we've never made a king over us, we're not kings, and I say, yeah, but let's talk about principle here A king is someone who rules over you. And that is either going to be God or it is going to be someone else. Or you yourself will be ruling over others. Now Psalm forty seven seven says, For God is the king of all the earth. Sing ye the praises with understanding. Listen, we know that God owns us or that God is the true king, but it does not mean that we cannot set a king. You see in uh in first Samuel eight, what we're talking about right here It's kind of amazing. If you know the Jewish system, they had their law given by God, and then they sent judges to judge the law. But other than that, pre pre king days, pre monarchy days in in Israel, other than that you were kind of free to do what you want as long as you didn't break the law. And the judges would help you decide, but they didn't make their own laws back then. And they didn't have a king telling them, hey, you have to do this, you have to do this. God actually gave them a pretty liberty-based society. A fairly liberty-based society, except for his rules and his laws. And by the way, they were God's laws, so they're pretty good laws. And he was their king, he was their lawgiver. He was their ruler. And then they stand up and say, We don't want him as our king anymore. Now they didn't just say that. What they said is we want a king. You see, here's the difference. Instead of them saying, we don't want God as our king, all they had to say was, we want a king. Because God looks it down, and when Sanail tells God this, God says that's because they've rejected me as their king. They don't think I'm good enough. So I will give them a king. I will give them an earthly king. Why did they reject God? Couple couple of uh couple of reasons. Why did they reject God as their king? First one was uh with with at least with these guys, was uh discontent. Discontent. You see, discontent will, in my mind, always be the reason that people want a new king. Because they're not happy with their situation. They're either they're either fearful of what might come that they're eat so they give a man power. They're either either angry at what's happened around them, so they give a man power. They're either greedy and they want more, so they give a man power. They uh they either want uh they either want revenge on someone, so they give a man power They don't have faith in their current king, so they give a man power. They're prideful So they give they give a man power. They worship this man, so they give him power. You see, um, this entire world has a history of setting up kings, and it's always for different reasons. But the problem is, is God has always been our king And when we place someone above God to rule us, because here's the deal: when you give someone power over your life, you're taking that power away from God. Let me say that again. When you give someone power over your life, over your decisions, and you let them make all the calls, you are taking that power away from God. You can do this in a multi- multitude of ways. By the way, you can make yourself your own king. But the moment you take that uh that rule away from God and put it on yourself, you are taking God's kingship, God's rightful kingship, and giving it to someone who is unworthy. Now, how do you do this? Well well sometimes sometimes we do it because because someone is uh we do it in our just our uh social circles. Um and and I preach to teenagers, but this happens with adults. Someone that we really look up to We follow their advice no matter what. Now usually we try not to do it in our social circles because we're rebellious and angry people inside and uh and we don't want to listen to people around us. And if we really like someone, usually we spurn their advice. But if someone is on TV, or someone uh wrote a book, and they said, This is how you do this, and it goes a little bit against God's will. Or it goes completely against God's will. And you say, you know, I know what the Bible says, but this guy, he's very smart. That is when you make a man king over God. You know, I got and I know God said this about uh about about this subject. Um what and by the way, whether it be finances Listen, if you're if you're reading a finance book and it says that you shouldn't give to God until after you're out of debt and you listen to them You're making that man king over God. Set him a king. If you're watching TV and a preacher tells you Um and and he even if it's a T V preacher and he tells you to do something that goes against God's will and you know it and you have the Bible for it, or he lies to you and you say, Yeah, but he's really smart. You're making him king over you. When you listen to a politician say something absolutely vile, and you or or you say, I'm gonna follow this person no matter what they do. The only person you ever owe service to, no matter what they do, is God. The fact is, guys Us putting kings over God is one of the greatest sins that we can do. And you know who committed that sin? And maybe we'll get in, I guess that's probably on my next page. You know who committed that sin originally? Alright, so on this next page. Way at the end. We'll we'll get we'll read it anyways. In uh Revelation twelve, three through nine says Uh in Revelation 12, 3 through 9, it talks about the fall the angels following Lucifer, a third of the Bible called innumerable angels following Lucifer against God. The first real act of sin that we see in the Bible is people making a king over God. Listen, these angels are what we would call devils or demons because they're fallen angels. These angels Followed Lucifer over God. And what makes them so different than us when we put someone as lowly as a human above God? You owe loyalty to no one before God. God is your king, God is your creator, God is your lawgiver, and God, by the way, died for you. You owe no one loyalty before God. Now anything that fits under God, anything you can do, anyone you want to follow, by the way, you can you can follow people. You can learn from people. You can respect people. You can be loyal to people. Don't get me wrong, loyalty is great. I hope all of you are loyal to me, and I hope I'm loyal to all of you But as long as that's under the blanket of God, we're fine. But the moment that we go out of our way and go out of that cone and become and and start sinning and and and start doing things that we know are wrong and we know God wouldn't want and we know Jesus Christ. Wouldn't want the moment we do that. We're making someone else the king of our life. By the way, um if we're talking about um about uh political science, um there are a few times when people have put kings over them. This is crazy. You guys have to realize how stupid this sounds. And we'll get to that. I guess we'll get into that in a second. But people give up their freedom for kings. Why would we do that? Why would we do that? Why would you ever give up your freedom so you can have a king? But you know what? It happened with Hitler The German people had a pretty good uh had a pretty uh good democracy going until Hitler, and then they elected him and he kind of took away the democracy. But he did that out of pride and out of vengeance and out of anger. Stalin came from greed and anger. Castro came from greed and discontentment. Mao came from greed, uh came from greed. Lucifer came from discontent and lack of faith, by the way. And I might give you what is an American one. You guys might not know this and I I don't know if anyone and listen, if I offend you, don't ever get offended at what I say up here. You might disagree with me politically, I don't care. But FDR Our president, Franklin Delinor Roosevelt, was a dictator over America. Listen, if you guys don't believe me, read books. The man did more uh did more executive orders that were unconstitutional than any other president. The moment he died, they'd overturned about a hundred of his uh of his executive orders. Because there was a bit the people loved him. Longest serving president in history. He's the reason we have the constitutional amendment that says you can only serve two terms. Because he didn't think that because while that was the tradition, he didn't think it applied to them himself. By the way, it happens anywhere, including America. People set kings over them. I think it's strange. It still stranged me that people would give up their freedom and their liberty to follow someone, to let someone tell them what to do. To let someone tell them how to feel, how to act. And someone, by the way, let's just be honest, someone who is just as human as they are. It's not like they're telling listen and again we we're not to worship angels, so don't get me wrong here. We're not to worship angels. But it's not like an angel is like, hey, I'm your buddy, I'm gonna tell you what to do. And you're like, well you're an angel, you're probably smarter than I am, so I'll do it. It's not like that. It's like, hey, that guy um that guy made a bunch of money, or that guy speaks really well. I'm gonna follow him What? I'm gonna give I'm gonna I'm gonna make him the ruler of my life. I'm gonna do whatever he says. What? But it's the same strange phenomenon, in my mind, as the children of Israel when they built and worshipped the golden calf in Exodus 32. Like I said, it's stupid for a man to be like, hey, I'm gonna follow that guy because he's good looking. By the way, Canada totally elected, I think a prime minister, because he was good looking. It that that's a pretty sick guy. He is he's not a background in economics, not background in leadership, but he's good looking, he's kind of famous, and he talks good. And by the way, I love Canada. Canada I mean they ruined Bacon, honestly. But uh but but Tim Hortons, one of the best chains in America Comes from Canada. Donuts, by the way, they're they're really the donut I mean, I love Canada, but that's why they elected a guy. Because he was good looking. I don't think it's any better to elect someone because they're rich. I don't think it's any better to elect someone because they can speak good. I don't think it's better to elect someone because they're black, white, or Asian. I think those are all stupid reasons to put someone over you But it's the same idea as the golden calf. Here's the thing. And we'll get into the golden calf in a second. But Actually I'll tell you about the golden calf. So, all right, think back with me. You know, put on your Charlton Heston goggles. Um Uh, you know, four of you got that. But uh that's fine. No, go back to the Ten Commandments when uh when uh Moses up on uh Mount Sinai and the peop children of Israel down below and they're like, Oh, Moses has been gone for a while, God must have killed him, let's make a new God. Out of our earrings. What? And Aaron, by the way, a very spiritual man, a man our first the first high priest of Israel, was like, Yeah, okay. Wait a second, wait a second. God, the God, the invisible God, just showed you how much he loves you and took you out of Egypt in some of the most miraculous ways the world has ever seen. And you're like, you know what? Moses has been gone for a couple days. God he uh he's dead. Let's let's make a new God. And that's what they did. And they made a new God out of their earrings and it was a golden calf. Which listen? I'm not gonna say that. That's terrible. I that's an awful statement I was about to make And it'll make a bunch of people mad. I don't know if anyone here would be mad. I'm just I was just gonna talk about worshiping calves and uh worshiping cows and just uh how we kinda do it today. But anyways, but um the fact is is that listen, who f who worshiped a cow Like I mean, listen, I get it. I get it means plentious and I get that oh cows give milk and cows you kill for food and such. I get it, but who worships a cow? And and it's a golden cow. Like they couldn't even make a whole cow, they didn't make a calf because they didn't have gold. I see it anyways. So they make this golden calf. And Moses comes down with the Ten Commandments. And he sees them worshiping an idol. Breaks the Ten Commandments, makes them grind up the cow, and makes them drink it. They had to drink gold dust, by the way. That's how the story ends. So And you're like, well those guys are idiots, man. Like God just separate God just part of the Red Sea God just rained down fire from heaven. God blocked out the sun. Got God God showed that he had control over every animal. God sent disease on the Egyptians, and a few days later they're worshiping a cow that they made You wanna know why that happened? First of all, because humanity is rebellious It's in our nature to be rebellious. It's in our nature to hate things. It's in our nature to rebel against the will of God. And so you're thinking, well, if we're rebellious, shouldn't we hate all authority? No. See, because still as creatures, when God made us, what he did was he made us to want to worship or follow something, and he wanted it to be him. And so we still have that drive to worship or to make a king over someone, but we rebelled against God, so automatically that drive doesn't go away, which is what most people think. Well, it goes away because they just want to be a rebel. No, they follow something else. And let me give you an example of this. You talk about And listen, I'm deal I'll talk about teenagers for a second. You guys can just listen in. Listen, teenagers, friends, dudes, uh dudettes. There you go. So guys We when you talk about a uh a uh a real punk kid in school who's who rebels against authority, he rebels against uh the teachers and his parents and and he dresses in and you know we'll we'll go back to the Greasha days, he dresses in all leather and has his hair slicked back. But no, seriously. And we talk about this kid who just rebelled against authority, and you say that kid is a rebel. He doesn't follow anyone. James Dean is what I heard just now. You say, Oh, he doesn't follow anyone. Where do you think you're going to dress like that, talk like that, listen to that music? Oh he's following someone, by the way. It's just not the people we th it's just not the authorities. Listen, every every uh every uh every gangbanger in the world idolizes someone. Just because you don't follow the right person does not mean that that uh that ability or that need and that desire to follow someone isn't there because honestly it is. We want to follow someone. Now here's the thing. We should take that ability and we should follow God. And when we rebel, like I said, it doesn't go away, it just gets directed somewhere else. Now, but it's another form of idolatry. It's another form of idolatry. What is idolatry? Is the worship of a physical object as a god. Or, number two, I like this definition too: immoderate attachment or devotion to something. Let me say that again. The worship of a physical object as a god. We don't have too much of that around here. Maybe maybe we might have some things like I what we would call idolatry, where we put our TV or we put Music something like that above God. But but I'm talking about actual worship. But a moderate attachment or devotion to something. And let me add this, or someone. King setting is a form of idolatry. Wiping away someone's flaws and saying that they are perfect and wonderful and let's let's use political right now. I haven't talked about politics too much, and saying that you would vote for them no matter what. That's called king setting. That's called idolatry. Period. Putting someone or something up on a pedestal above what God would do, above his word, is idolatry. First John 5 21 says, Little children, last book in the ver l okay, by the way, has anyone ever done this? You read the last page of a book before you buy it? Is anyone that weird? Okay. Okay. There's actually a few people here and they're wa that weird. Alright, I'm not with ya. You guys are weirdos. But um no, my my little sister does it, uh my older sister does it, they they read Chris, do you do it? Krista has done it, she's weird, man. But um the last page, these by the way, if the last page is like, and they all died, you're like, I don't want to read this book. Um by the way, if you read the last page of the Bible, it ends great. It ends awesome. Uh but uh but go ahead and read the whole thing. It's just good. It's all good all the way through. Um and there's certain parts that I can't even tell you about, so you just you just gotta read every part You gotta r you gotta read all of it. So, anyways, but you read the last page of the book and you're like, Ugh, I'll do it. Here's the last line, because the last page is very important. Here's the last line in the book in the letter, uh, first John. Little child children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen. After this great book about love, the last thing is, hey, stay away from idols. In Colossians 3 5 it says, Mortify therefore your members which are on earth, fornication, uncleanliness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and uh covetousness, which is idolatry. But here in America, here in this century, we stopped making wooden things our idols. In in in America. In other places they still do it, by the way. And instead, we like to set people up on pedestals. And instead, we like to set um ideas or philosophies up on pedestals that go above God in our mind. Let me say this one more time just for uh clarification. Anything that goes above God, anything that has more importance to you than God is an idol. And what is worship? Because it's the worship of a physical object as God or moderate attachment. Worship is to honor or respect someone or something as a God. To show respect or love for God or for a God, especially by praying, having religious services, etc. To love or honor something or someone, very much or too much Listen, you're like, can I ever love someone too much? Yes, but only by comparison. You see, here's the thing If uh if I love God more if I love God so much it's ridiculous, then up until that point I can love you that much. But if I only really love God a little bit, then every time I love something more than God, I'm sinning. Let me say it again. If I don't have a lot of love for God, and I love someone more than I love God, then I'm sinning. In that instance, love can be a sin. Now it's not a pure love, it's not a godly love, but love can be a sin. So if you put something, if you respect something, if you honor something above God, that is a sin. And that is where we get the idea of idolatry from. Matthew 22, 37 said unto them, And Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. As I said, God is the only person you should ever say, no matter what, I love him. No matter what, I'm following him. No matter what, I'm going to do what he says. No man should ever have that honor. No man should ever have that honor. By the way, I told you how that works out. I told you about Hitler. I told you about Stalin. About Castro, about Mao. By the way, people think that Hitler is so awful. Hitler is awful, by the way. Was an awful human being. Um awful person. Uh and yet we still teach in uh we still teach in schools that uh so that uh socialism and communism are okay. They just haven't been tried uh well enough. Uh communism kills about a hundred million people. in China. Almost almost a hundred million. I'm I think it was like ninety-two million people in China. Last century. Because they followed a man. And and here's my problem with communism, give me one real quick and I think I can say this because I think it's Bible based. Here's my problem with communism is it makes man God. It makes the government God. That's what it is. Because God should be able to give you what God believes is uh is yours, and you should have to be able to earn things But what communism and really part most of in socialism is just communism light, but we'll get to that maybe some other time. Um but what it is is saying, I will give you what I will give you. The main reason men sent God men The reason men send set a man over them is the same as the sorry, let me the main reason men set gods over them And idols over them. Not our God, but gods and idols over them. Is the exact same reason that men put up kings, and that is discontent. You're unhappy with your situation? This strong man, this this this smooth talker uh will fix it. You're not happy with your finances? Just listen to this guy. You're unhappy with your uh with uh your uh your uh relationship and your marriage? Listen to this guy. And that guy will often be pointing away from God. You want your country to be uh to be great? Follow this guy. You you want you want uh you want more? You want more of the pie? Listen to this guy. You're just discontent. You're not happy with what God has, not you, but but someone who sets a king over them Someone who sets a strong man who will rule over them and he sets them up. Those people are just discontent with what they have. And here's the problem Discontentment is a sin. Because you're saying I'm not happy with what you gave me, God. I'm not happy with my lot in life. I want someone to give me something. I want to win. I want someone to come over to me and say, God, I want you I uh God I don't need you. I want this man to do it. I want that man to do it, I want this people to do it, I want this philosophy to give me what I actually want. Which is more, more, more, more, more. Philippians four, eleven through twelve says, Not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am I am therewith to be content. I know both how to be abase and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I'm instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and suffer need. In every state you're in, you're supposed to be happy. Because this world is just this world. Listen, money is just money. Money is just money. Power is just power. Listen, you got I I hate to break this to you. I know it's gonna hurt. But just hold on to your seats, because this is a revelation. In a hundred years, y'all are gonna be dead. Most likely. I mean, even these teenagers who are like thirteen, it's a real good chance in a hundred years they're dead. And thing is, is after those hundred years, you get to live for eternity through God. So are you going to be that little child who says, I want it now? Or are you going to be an adult about it and say, listen, I'm suffering through this right now? Doesn't mean you don't want to change it. Doesn't mean you don't try to change it. We change it in God's way. See on the follow of God no matter what. And I know at the end of this. But I get my reward. Instead of saying, I want this loop I want you ever seen someone fight over something really stupid? Like like a like a kid finds a quarter and the other kid's like, That's my quarter so I fight over a quarter and you're like, dude, I'll give you a quarter, I don't care, or like just stop fighting, you annoying little kids. That's what God sees us as he's like You guys are fighting over this thing called gold, which I use for asphalt in heaven. I mean I'll give you asphalt. Is that what you really want? Let's keep going. See, one of the reasons men uh men choose God, God err I'm sorry. A lot of people we often choose God's or man's ways over God's ways. Let's use man's solutions, they're what we want to hear. When you don't have enough? Man says take from other people. Man's solution. We're like, you know what we should do? We should take that kind of stuff. God says, Be content. When you want vengeance against someone, when you're angry and you truly want vengeance against someone, man says, you go and take that vengeance. God says, vengeance is his. When you say, Oh, we need a change, I don't like how this society is going, man says, start a revolution. By the way, the American Revolution, great, I love the American Revolution. You wanna know why? Because it worked out really well for us and it was based on God. You wanna know that every other revolution on this planet has turned out really badly For everybody. The French Revolution, they beheaded everyone. People who started with the French Revolution are like, yeah, we're gonna revolt, and then like, well, I don't want to necessarily go as far as you, and they're like, you don't want to go as far as me? Off with your head. That is fact. You want to talk about uh revolutionaries in uh in Africa right now, where the uh people in charge are as bad and the revolutions revolutionaries are as bad and they will just murder people. That's because revolution is an evil thing. And by the way, revolution is evil because You know, God was like, hey, respect your king. Love your king. Love your master. You realize there's a part in the Bible, guys, where God talks to slaves and he says, hey, love your master. That's an incredible thing. I mean slavery in and of itself is awful. But even to someone in that position, he says, Hey, love that love him. See, when we want change, man says revolution, revolt, rebellion. God says, pray, because this might be my will. When man says we need to win, we need to win, they'll say, Well, man say gives man absolute power. Let me say it again. When man says we need to win, man gives man absolute power. Look at history, please, for a second. And we'll get in and then honestly, if you guys like history at all, please come back tonight. We're gonna we're gonna talk about the steps that man takes to putting a king over them. And what it leads to. And what it leads to. And how it all starts usually out with someone just being just not happy with their situation. And it ends up leading to them being in chains, them being enslaved. And then they're really not happy with their situation. When you need to win, man gives man absolute power. When you need to win, God says, I am your leader Isaiah 55, 8 through 9 says, For my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways. Saith the Lord. For as the heaven are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts higher than your thoughts. Listen, trust God. Attribute nothing else to this message except for me saying, trust God. Don't put a man over him, don't put a thing, don't put an ideology. Don't put a don't put a philosophy over God because those are all created by men if they're not men themselves. And those men, their ways are the same as your ways. You know how corrupt and sinful you actually are in your heart and what you want to do? The men that you put over you, listen. I have some people that I that I that I love, I think I respect, that I would follow a lot of places, but the fact is, in my heart, I know they're as sinful as I am in my heart. So if you're going to choose a king, choose one that's actually above you. Choose one that's actually smarter than you. Choose one that is so much more so much more intelligent. And so much more uh forethoughtful that uh that his ways are higher than the heavens are from the earth. Choose him The biggest problem with choosing man over God, and this and this is my last point, so we're almost done. Is it choosing man over God? And this is from God's word just a few verses ago. Let me let me read this again for you. And the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee, for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. What did the children of Israel say? They did not say we reject God. They didn't say that. They said we want a king. We want a king. See, often when we do do these things, when we do worship a man When we do when we do follow man outside of God's will, often we say, no, God is still my God. I'm just gonna follow him. I'm just gonna follow him. I want him to be king over me. Do you know what God hears when you say that? God hears, I reject you, God. I reject you, God. Even if you don't say it, even if you don't mean it that way, but when you put God, when you put someone else before God, you are rejecting God. God help us when we do that. God help us to see to see how stupid we are that we would put a man above him. And that's how God feels, and by the way, God is no stranger to feeling rejection. As I said, his angels. Beautiful, powerful creatures. An entire third of them rejected God to follow Lucifer. An entire third of them. Every time we follow a man and attribute to him this uh the righteousness that God only deserves. Or say we'll follow him no matter what, or we'll follow him anywhere. We're attributing him the status of God. And Lucifer did not want to be above God. You just wanted to be equal with God. No one deserves to be equal in your life with God. By the way, just because you go to church and claim Christianity doesn't mean you don't reject God to follow man. You know what going to church is? It's going to a building. It's what it is. Alright? Murderers can walk through this door and come to church. It's true. And just because you claim Christianity doesn't mean you're a Christian. Just because and by the way, when I say Christian, I'm not talking about saved. I'm talking about being like Christ. And that's very different. Just because you claim Christianity doesn't mean you don't reject God. Even if you're saved, it doesn't mean you haven't rejected God at some point after your salvation. It won't send you to hell. But it'll ruin your relationship with God. You can come to church, you can talk to people, you can be nice to people, but just because you can do all of these things does not mean that you don't have another king over you. Doesn't mean you don't have another king over you. Listen. The Catholic Church made a deal with Hitler and they joined forces. Not a lot of people remember that, mostly because not a lot of people were born. The fact is they joined forces with Hitler. They said, hey, listen, we like what you're doing. Let's join forces. Listen. Religion does not exempt you from making someone a king over you. Love for God does not exempt you from making a king over you. Love for people, it doesn't necessarily make you a bad person, it just means that you're rejecting God. The people of Israel, when they rejected God, did not see it that way. They saw it as saying, hey, we don't we we have bad leaders now and we want new ones. That's what they said. They said, we don't like who's judging us right now. Samuel and his sons are not following in our ways, so we want a king Listen. John fourteen six. John fourteen six. You could turn there, that'd be great. John fourteen sixty four. Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. The most important word in that sentence is not way and it's not truth and it's not life. It's not even I am. Say it's the because the signifies only. In fact, you can actually put only with the word the. I am the only way. I am the only truth. I am the only life. And so while while everything is important at verse, don't get me wrong, it's not. But the fact is that you are not getting to heaven without Christ being your king at least once. Like I said, if if you after salvation, if you say, you know what, I I I if you reject God, I I don't think God will send you to hell. I know God won't send you to hell, but but it's a sin. But you know how? We have to remember the way that we get saved, the way that we secure our eternal life in heaven. Is by asking Jesus to save us from our sins. And you say, well, wait a second, save us from our sins? Okay, I know that. How does that make him king? Listen, because only the king can pardon you of your sins. How you get saved is by recognizing God as King. Like I said It's a different way to think about it, maybe. But saying, God, forgive me my sins. Thank you for dying on the cross for me. The only way you get to heaven is by calling out for God to save you. But no one can save you but your King. In John 3, 36. You turn there, it's just a couple pages back. And we'll be done. John three thirty-six says he that believeth on the Son hath life. And he that believeth not on the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. Let's pray. Dear Lord, just thank you, God, for your uh for your blessings, God, for your power, God. Lord God, thank you for uh Lord being a gracious and a loving and a kind King, God. Lord, I pray, God, that if we would keep you in the forefront of our mind, that we would keep you as King, God, that we keep you as the true ruler of our life, and not turn to man, not turn to philosophies. Not turn to ideas and groups, God. Not turn to things, but keep you you as the forefront of our life, God. Your name. Amen. Sandy place, uh you're all a stand. Uh I invite you to come down. I invite you to at least think of how high a pedestal you put people on