The the setting of the the book here of Revelation. Of course John was the apostle that God used to pen this down. Was exiled there to Patmos. And uh the Emperor uh Domitian uh was very, very ruthless. Persecution of course was intense um throughout the uh Roman world there. Some of these churches faced more persecution than others, but they all faced some. Uh this morning we saw uh that in Ephesus. There was definitely some persecution there as far as uh banking, commerce. Um employment and just uh things like that and uh some some other things that went along with that. We'll definitely see a little bit more intense uh persecution with the Church of Smyrna uh tonight. But tonight that's what we're going to look at is the Church of Smyrna. Now Ephesus, they were what we looked at this morning. They kinda had had everything going on the right way. Um the only thing in question there was their motive. Um they were doing everything right. Their works were right, their labor was right, their patience um labor for the uh his name's sake, they stood firm on doctrine and things like that. But of course they left their first love referring to Christ. And we looked at that this morning. And we were able to take application from their good points and from their weak points. So uh tonight we're going to look at the church of Smyrna. We're going to re uh read uh verse 8 through 11 And then we'll just look at the church of Smyrna this evening. So verse 8. And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna, write, these things saith the first and the last, which was dead and is alive. That's Christ, right? I know thy works in tribulation and poverty. But thou art rich, and I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan. Do none of those things which thou shalt suffer. Behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison that ye may be tried, and ye shall have tribulation ten days. Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. He that overcometh shall not be hurt the second death Just a few verses here, but quite a bit going on, so we'll pray and we'll look at the church of Smyrna this evening. Lord, we thank you uh for the day you gave us. It was It's sure encouraging to hear the different testimonies, um Lord, and to hear the the the music and it's encouraging to be here this morning. Lord, I just thank you for this church and um I just thank you for it. Thank you for giving your life for it, Lord. Lord, as we go through these churches through Revelation, Lord, help us to learn from their strengths, learn from their weaknesses, help us to apply uh the things that we've learned and we ask that you would speak to us Lord. Bring conviction where it's needed, I pray. Bring encouragement where it's needed as well. Lord, I ask that you would hide me but behind you this evening And if there's anything that I'm about to say that's contrary to truth, I ask that you would keep me from saying it, Lord. And uh we love you. We thank you for loving us in Jesus' name. Amen. So we look at uh Smyrna, and there's something that should jump out to you right away. Um When he goes through these churches, there's seven of them, and the majority have their good points and then the their bad points, the things that they're not doing correctly. For instance, Ephesus this morning, they were doing things correctly, but left their first love. The last church, Laodicea, they were doing things Um but um they were lukewarm. That was the thing he had against them. But um if you look here at the Church of Smyrna, we don't see w a rebuke Um at least I don't see one. Um I might be missing something here, but I don't see a direct rebuke from Christ. And um that's a statement. If there's one thing that can sum up, I think, one word that could sum up the church of Smyrna, it would be that of faithfulness. They were very, very faithful to the Lord. And we see that. So first I kind of want to talk about the city of Smyrna itself And then we'll talk about the church and then some instructions that Christ gave to them. I should have asked you this before, Jamie, but do you still have that map from last week? I gave you no heads up and that's totally my fault. If you don't, that's fine. Okay. So the church of Smyrna was very close to the church of Ephesus. We looked at it this morning. Ephesus was a seaport uh city. And um there was most of they were very, very rich, very wealthy because of their uh seaport trade. So you see Smyrna right there above Ephesus So the most of the other churches that are mentioned are kind of inland a little bit, but now if you look at Smyrna, right there above the city of Ephesus, and of course Patmos, where John's writing this from is right below uh uh Ephesus, the island off to the west. But if you go straight west from Smyrna, the port there in Smyrna, you will hit Athens, which is of course is the gateway to Europe at that time So very, very rich, very wealthy in terms of economics. Smyrna um Oak was okay financially, if you know what I'm saying. They were rich. They were wealthy. There was a few reasons for that. You can you can go ahead and and take that down. But there was a few reasons. One was because of their location. Obviously they were only thirty some uh miles from Europe and so there in Asia Minor uh they were able to um do a lot of trade uh there But there was another thing that they kind of had going for them. They um were the at the time they were the sole producer of myrrh. This spice we see in the Bible several times, that's where the myrrh came from. And in fact, that's where it got its name, Smyrna. Um so little thing interesting there. I thought that was cool. So you know you you t you hear about uh different times in the Bible were myrrh, uh gold frankincense myrrh, of course, with cr uh at Jesus' birth and different times they would use myrrh for anointing, uh for burial procedures and things like that. So um They kind of had a monopoly on that, and that was another thing that made them wealthy. Everyone in the whole known world got their myrrh from Smyrna So that's kind of interesting. Uh considered one of the most beautiful cities, but it was also extremely populated. Um now the the population of the world was obviously less than than it is now. The city was estimated to be about a hundred thousand in population. About a hundred thousand people. So that's a lot of people now, and then that's even more so, a lot of people. Big, big city, uh about a hundred thousand people. But along with that, um well the different types of of people obviously came a lot of of pagan temples and things like that. Um there was several that s uh stood out. Um but they're they they were all covered there. And just about every um god or goddess you could think of, pagan deity, there was a temple there. And uh pagan um Worship, idol worship, uh was very, very prevalent um in Smyrna, um, as was the case of most of the uh Roman world. Um so it actually, and this was interesting, um to have if if you were a big enough city and y to have a Coliseum, you were a big city. If you had a Coliseum, you were you were big stuff. They had two. They had two Coliseums. So when we think of the Coliseum, we think of Rome. Well, they had two here in Smyrna. And actually, when you look at um if you go through history and you read maybe even like Fox's Book of Martyrs, or if you read accounts of different uh uh Christians that were martyred, many of them Actually a lot of them, and one specific we'll look at tonight, was martyred there in one of the Colosseums in Smyrna. So of course there was very large persecution. Now, um they would host uh games in the name of Zeus every year, of course with it being there near Athens. It was kind of a blend of Greek gods and other um um Other junk like that, really. So anyway, the city was uh well known also for its wine and its level of drunkenness So they were a big um they had the monopoly on MER, they were a um um uh seaport uh uh city, but they also uh were had a lot of Wine and things like that. They were known for their grapes and they were known for uh being drunk. It was really sad, actually. Something else kind of interesting, just to get your mind about what this city looked like. In 600 B. C. The Lydian king, king of Lydia, conquered Smyrna and pretty much destroyed it, and it was wasted. It was all but gone. And not many people still live there after um the city was conquered. But then fast forward a few hundred years and Alexander the Great had a had a thing and he decided he was gonna go ahead and rebuild Smyrna. And people in Smyrna had a slogan And there was a claim to fame, I guess, if you will, that this set city was dead, but now it's alive. And you can see that and when you go and look at the archaeological digs and stuff, you see writings like that, the city that was dead but now is alive. And so I think that's interesting that Jesus addresses himself to the church that way. When you look at verse number eight, he says, these things saith the first and the last, which was dead and is alive. So that's very interesting, I think. So anyway, that's kind of what the city was like. But as far as the church, um this is the only place that I know of in the Bible that it's mentioned. Now if if I'm wrong about that, let me know after the after the service because I'd like I'd like to find out if it's mentioned anywhere else. But that I could find this was the only time the church is Smyrna was mentioned So it was probably established during Paul's uh one of his missionary journeys, probably third missionary journey, is what uh I had one commentary tell me, but Now, what is interesting about this church as well, if you read church history, the um great um church uh leader, Polycarp was um a pastor of the church there. He was a leader in the church there. And he was, of course, one of the ones martyred there in the Colosseum for his faith. So when we look at the the city there, we look at the church, and we talk about the church's problems, I kind of already mentioned this But the church's problems were not that they were doing something wrong, but that they just had issues because of the persecution going on. And so just to look at some of these, he says in verse 9. I know thy works, which is exactly how he started addressing the church at Ephesus. I know, I know thy works, I know their works. And of course he addresses the other churches that way too, I know. And it's important to know that God knows. So he says, I know thy works, and um I'm looking here. He doesn't ever say anything negative. as far as what they're they're doing something wrong. The main message of this letter to the church at Smyrna is really a message of encouragement. And that's that's encouraging. But verse nine says, I know their works and tribulation and poverty, but thou art rich, and I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan. There was a cult there and and and people claiming to be Jews and they were stir if you study it, these people claiming to be Jews were stirring up uh trouble reporting to the the officials there in Smyrna and making up lies and slandering the the church there and what because under Roman law Uh you were allowed to be a practicing Jew. That was a a a religion that uh Rome acknowledged, but you you weren't supposed to be a Christian. That wasn't acknowledged. That wasn't a an approved religion. So These um Jews were going around and trying to stir up trouble, so he says, you know, um the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews, but are not the synagogue of Satan So those at the first church of Satan were stirring up trouble pretty much. So they had persecution and tribulation, there's no doubt about it. And they were f- I mean the the the the the amount of of persecution they were facing was very, very intense. Um kind of like some stuff you'd see earlier in the book of Acts. They were they were punished heavily for their faith. Now when we think of persecution, we think of name calling and you know maybe even someone getting fired. Now that's kind of more along like what was going on in Ephesus. They were You know, maybe had some economical persecution. But the level of persecution that was going on here in Smyrna was very intense Um people were getting arrested daily, people were getting killed. People I mean it is just th that they would feed 'em to the lions in the Coliseum there in Smyrna. I mean it was just awful. That's what was going on. That was a level of persecution that was going on in Smyrna So the problems they had, one was persecution. And um i i one of the other big things that was going on in uh Smyrna was because there were so many uh people, there were so many um different trades, they had these trade guilds and each trade guild had their own deity and you had to worship that deity to be a part of that trade guild. So of course as a Christian you wouldn't you wouldn't be a part of that trade guild. And so you you you economically you were uh very, very poor, which leads to the next thing he says, thy poverty. And how c how the city was so rich, they so wealthy, but the Christians were poor because they couldn't do commerce. They couldn't They they couldn't buy, sell and trade. They they were just pretty much on their own and in a city of a hundred thousand people it's hard to grow enough crops and raise enough cattle. You know what I mean? So they were very, very poor and um because of their stance for Christ And so we the pr the great persecution, uh poverty was uh very, very intense, and um The church leader Polycarp, the story goes like this, if you read uh the church historians, the the story goes like this. He w he was an older man when he was arrested. And of course he was arrested just for being being a Christian and preaching the gospel and and and he wouldn't say Caesar is Lord. So he uh was arrested for that. And when the the Roman soldiers came to arrest him and take him off to the authorities there in Smyrna, he had them sit down and he made them a meal. He made a supper for them. And um he provided a meal for his uh um persecutors that were there to arrest him. He asked for one hour to pray, and he went and prayed for an hour, and the soldiers fell under conviction uh during that time. And so that's very interesting there. But um he then stood before the magistrate and again they tried to give him opportunities because they didn't want to kill him. He was such a kind, loving man, and they kept trying to give him opportunity, opportunity, opportunity. And then he made the comment, I've served my Lord these eighty and six years. How could I uh deny him now So that quote came from this man, Polycarp, who was a leader in Smyrna, and this is about the time that John is writing to them. So the persecution of course was very, very intense. And so the poverty was very intense. I mean if you can't I if you can't buy, sell, or trade, you know, how would how I mean I don't know exactly what the economic setup was like there, but I imagine there was some sort of rent to pay or you know, bills to pay of some kind. I don't know what they're you know, they didn't have electric, but they had bills. You know, I don't know what it looked like. They had to buy food. But if you can't buy and sell You're kind of in the pickle. But you don't have any pickles because you don't have any food. So they they they were kind of in a tough spot there. So a and the Lord provided for them. Now though there was persecution, there was poverty. And there is also a lot of pressure from outside sources, not just from uh the community pressure to give in and worship Caesar, pressure to give in, worship these gods, pressure to uh just go along with that, but there is pressure. Um from those that uh these I guess you would call it false doctrine, those that say they're Jews and are not, they're a synagogue of Satan. And so th much like Ephesus, they they took their stand there against false doctrine and things like that. So there was a lot of pressure that they did not give into. And then, of course, they were um they were imprisoned. That was part of the tribulation there. That was part of the persecution. Verse 10, uh fear none of these things which thou shalt suffer. Uh behold, the devil shall cast some of you in um into prison that you may be tried. And so That's kind of that would be intense, wouldn't it? To know at any moment someone could come and take me and throw me in jail. Now, Smyrna's not unique to this. There's there's places a lot of places like that now Uh probably most of the world I would guess is like that now. Um and throughout history that's kind of been what's normal for Christians. Because Jesus is king, Jesus is Lord, not Caesar. And so that would have me making that statement would have had me put to death very quickly. Uh there is lots of of of uh persecution through um uh you know imprisonments, through killings, through poverty and pressure and things like that. So then in the midst of all of that, no doubt they were probably exhausted just from trying to not get eaten by lions. So they were probably pretty worn out, I would think, and in need of some encouragement And this is what this letter that Jesus is writing is for, is to encourage them. And so um he points out some things. And the first thing I notice he points out is their worth. Look at verse number nine. I know that works in tribulation, in poverty, in parentheses, but thou art rich. And that would have been something that that they need to hear. That would be something that we need to hear when it seems you ever feel like the world's prospering and it's like they've got it all, they've got everything they need here. I'm trying to serve the Lord and and You know, just just trying to make it till the next paycheck and trying to figure out how I'm gonna do this and I'm broke. You know, that's they were. That's the spot they were in. But Jesus says, Whoa, whoa, you're rich You're rich. And I wrote some things down here, and this isn't the main part of the message, but there's just some things that kind of stuck out to me. Why am I rich? Is it because of power? No, is it because of money or fame? Absolutely not. I'm rich because I'm a joint heir with Christ. I'm rich because of the of the home in heaven I have. I I I'd rather be walking on streets of gold than having a few bars of gold You know what I'm saying? So I I consider myself very wealthy. I consider myself very rich. And he's reminding them of the rich riches they have in Christ. And um godliness with contentment is great gain. Um there's some other verses that talk about things like that. But uh we have riches in Jesus. Join heirs with Christ. We have a God we ha that loves us, we have God's word, which is invaluable, we have um uh a home in heaven and and we could go on and on about that uh about different blessings that God has given us. Actually one of the things specifically he mentions at the end of verse 10 is a crown And a crown was a symbol of victory. They would use those at the games there in honor of Zeus at the Colosseums. It was a a sign of victory, a sign of power, a sign of wealth. And so he's saying, hey, you got a crown coming for you. And so he was telling them that they really are rich, even though they might be broke here, they are definitely rich in heaven. So I find that encouraging. They're worth And uh their worth is not based off of uh in our worth it's not based off of what we have. A man's life consisteth not of the things that he has. There's the story that Jesus told of the rich man uh who tore down his barns to build bigger barns to bestow all of his goods, thou fool. This night thy soul will be required of thee. And so uh we need to keep that in mind. Jesus said a man's um uh wealth consisteth not of the things that he had. My wealth is not my stuff. My wealth is what I have in him. So there's that. And as we keep going, um he he he he talks about their worth and he talks about um Uh things like that. Very, very encouraging. Then he makes a few statements in the way of encouragement here. Um he says uh uh well right there in verse Number eight, these things say that he the first and the last which was dead and is alive. Here they're in a city that used to be dead and is alive, and that was kind of the slogan. of uh the motto, I guess you could say, of the city of Smyrna. And here they're not very much alive in terms of the of the way the world would look at it, but Jesus reminded them, no, you you we I I'm alive, and because I'm alive, of course you are too. And So there's some encouragement there. And he's telling them that he has uh the power there and so anyway, so then in verse ten he says, Fear none of these things. I mean that uh he's just encouraging them. Don't be afraid Don't be scared. Don't fear of these things. Um what things should he's or should what what things is he telling them not to be afraid of, not to fear of? Well, getting eaten by lions I'd be scared. I don't know about you. And um I mean then the other things, so being burned at the stake, they did that. And uh it's it's said that while um the you know people would pack out these colosseums to see these uh Christians killed And they you know it was entertainment for 'em they'd pop popcorn well maybe not popcorn. Well but you know they they'd eat their their Cheetos and whatever and watch Christians being killed Um and and they would that that's awful. And but but what what it said is that while the Christians were being you know burnt at the stake or while they were being fed to the hungry animals or or set out there with the to try to fight gladiators, which of course they couldn't. Uh while that stuff was going on, it wasn't uncommon for the Christians to all sing together, sing hymns, and then Of course everyone in the Colosseums was trying to figure out what is it that they have that they can be singing hymns uh while they're dying. And so actually the Lord used that persecution and many other people got saved as a result and the church spread. But um I forgot where I was going with that. Oh yeah, he said be fearless. Be fearless. Um fear none of these things. Sometimes, I don't know how exactly I want to say this, but there's things we're scared of, and there's things we're fearful of. And when someone just comes up alongside of us and says, hey, it'll be okay, that can go a long way, can't it? But hey, it'll be all right You know, you're going through a trial. You're going through a tough time. I mean, I don't think any of us are getting fed the lines tonight, but if we're going through a trial, nonetheless It can be pretty encouraging just to have someone say, hey, I'm praying for you. Hey, I'm here with you know if you need something, let me know. It'll be okay. Don't don't be afraid. It'll be all right You know, if there's some unknown thing, if there's some uh life decision that you have to make and you don't know uh what the result's gonna be and there's something fearful of what the future will be like No, don't be afraid. Don't be fearful. You're doing what God has called you to do. You're doing right. Okay. And so if if that's encouraging, if one of us comes alongside of each other and says, hey, don't be scared, how much more encouraging is it when Jesus says Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. And so there is a this was a great encouragement to the church, no doubt. Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer. That's encouraging. And then um he says this in verse ten. He says uh at the end, be thou faithful unto death He's encouraging him, don't be afraid. And then he's encouraging him to just keep going. Just keep going. Just stay faithful. Just keep at it. That's consistency. Faithfulness is consistency even when things are difficult. And we think of the word faithful. I've used this illustration before in the Soul Winning Club class, but if we talk about faithful If a man is married to his wife and he's faithful 364 days of the year, he's not faithful Right? Faithful is every time, every day, consistent, without stop, without fail, regardless of circumstances, regardless of persecution, regardless of tribulation, regardless of poverty, but faithful. Um and he's just encouraging them, keep going, stay faithful. And I I i can I just Just share our our hearts here tonight. I I don't know that we're we're that faithful. I don't know that there's many people that are as faithful as this church at Smyrna was. I I don't I'd like to think that I would be But I don't know. Looking at lions that are pretty hungry, I'm I don't know. I don't know. You know, if we we get invaded by a another country and it's illegal to be a Christian, I like to think that I'm gonna Be like that that one uh pastor we just mentioned and say, you know, that I'm not gonna say Cedar is Lord. Um about but um anyway that Jesus is coming along the church here and saying, you know, don't be afraid. You're doing right, it's okay And just keep going. Just be consistent. Just stay faithful. And that's a good lesson for us to learn. Just stay faithful. So, a couple things just by way of application tonight, a few things that uh um I noticed from this that I think we can apply. We look at the church here at Smyrna and Man, they're going through it. And and when you when you think about it and when you study it and you look at the the city they were in and the environment they're in, it makes you almost just want to cry to know that our brothers and sisters were going through that But they were, and they were faithful. And so there's a few things I just want to point out about that, and um and then we'll be done here in just a second. But if I look at verse number eight and I look at verse number two, it starts out the exact same way. Two different churches, but it starts out the sack the exact same way. If you see that, I know thy works. I know thy works. Talking to Ephesus, talking to Smyrna. I I think this would be Wise for us to understand this concept that Jesus just doesn't look at Ephesus and Smyrna, but he looks at every church. God's not unaware of any church. You know what I mean? God knows. And He knows our works. Um Now if I try to only focus on the other churches And we go through the series, it can be real tempting. Well, this church had this problem, this had this problem, this had this problem. God also wants us to look at our problems. Because we every church has them as we're going to look through this series. And every person has their problems. Every home has their problems. We're humans. We have problems. But here's what I'm trying to get to. I think it would be bad to try to compare ourselves with another church, like we're better or worse Um 1 Corinthians 1012, if you want to go there, you can. It says, for we dare not make ourselves of of the number or compare ourselves with some of them uh that commend themselves, but they measure themselves by themselves. And comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. If we measure ourselves against another church That's not smart. That's not wise. If we compare ourselves among ourselves, that's not wise. It's important for us to learn from each other. Sure, we're learning from these seven churches here. But if we try to make them better or worse than us, or the church across town better or worse than us, or a church across the country better or worse than us, comparing ourselves among ourselves, it's not wise Each one of us is important to God, regardless of the size of our church, regardless of the capacity of our church. Every church is important to God. We talked a little bit about that last week, but each one of us is important, and it's not good to compare ourselves. And it's not good to compare ourselves among um each other that way. So I think what we ought to do is just start comparing ourselves to the Lord and see where we fall short. I think that's what we should do. So uh second thing just by way of application and and and most of this I think is encouraging tonight. Considering the nature of the letter Jesus has to the church here at Smyrna. But um people that are doing right have problems. Smyrna wasn't doing a thing wrong. Um and they had some problems You know, it makes me sad, it makes me upset when people will judge someone's spirituality based off how much God is blessing them, as if blessings are all material. Blessings aren't all material. I talked a little bit about that in Sunday school this morning, I think. I've got a pretty wealthy life. Maybe not in terms of of material, but in things I have in the Lord. Um I'm pretty happy with the wealth he's given me and my family and uh the church I grew up in, this church here, and um the home I have in heaven and the the the thing that the the the the things here uh that he's given us it I I like to think that I'm I'm pretty wealthy in him But we we're gonna go through problems. We're gonna have trials. Just because we're struggling doesn't mean we're not doing right. I mean again Job I think is the perfect example of that. What did he do wrong? He couldn't figure it out. In fact, with his mouth he never sinned. And when it was a long time before he even asked God, how come? But bad things happen to good people. And so if you're in that spot right now where you're going through something tough, I I mean something seriously tough and you're wondering what have I done wrong? Maybe nothing Quit trying to base your Christian success off of your earthly success. They're two different things Quit trying to base your Christian success off of of your economic success or your financial success. But what I'm trying to say is good people go through hard times Rain falls on the just and the unjust. If you're doing what God has told you to do, if you're trying to live your life by the Bible, you're trying to do what's right, you're trying to make decisions based off of what God says And bad things happen, just keep doing what's right. Maybe you'll end up being thrown in prison, maybe you'll end up being persecuted, maybe you won't be able to buy and sell in the marketplace, maybe you'll lose your job, maybe you'll be thrown um to the the the lions or something. But keep doing right. And God sees that and God recognizes that. And at the end of verse 10 he says there's a crown of life to those that stay faithful. So to me this is very encouraging. So um and that was the the next point. We should just stay faithful Just stay faithful. It's required in stewards that a man be found faithful. First Corinthians 4 2. God has required us to be faithful. When the bus route is low, run it anyway. When you have one kid or two kids in your Sunday school class, teach it anyway. If if if if if you you s if you seem like things are tough or the attendance is down or things are are are rough, just stay faithful. If you're having a hard time at home with some things, just stay faithful. Just stay faithful. Stay consistent. If you're reading something in your Bible and you can't figure it out, keep reading it. If there's something that you've been praying for, and God hasn't answered your prayer yet, yes or no, and you are still praying for this thing, keep praying for it. Stay consistent. Stay faithful. It's required, insured, that a man be found faithful. And in the midst of the persecution that the church here at Smyrna was going through. Jesus says, just stay faithful, just hang in there, just hang in there. And he makes this comment in verse Number ten. He said, Fear none of all uh fear none of those things that thou shalt suffer. Behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison that you may be tried, and ye shall have tribulation ten days Now I was I was wondering about that ten days. It's very specific, right? So they're only going to go through this for ten days. Well of course they went through it for much longer than that It kind of has the idea of it's like a like a slogan or a phrase or a metaphor that people use then. So if I'm like, hang on a minute, that could be a little more than 60 seconds, could be less But it's just a phrase, you know? Um or or like uh w if you haven't seen someone in a while and say, Yeah, it's been a minute since we've seen them, well it's actually been like years. And you said a minute, all right? So it's a it's it's a um a specific time length, a minute, but we use it as like a phrase or a metaphor, if that makes sense. And so it was common then to use that ten days. So it means a brief period of time is what it meant So what he's saying is this is just for a moment. This is just for a minute. Yes, the persecution's intense. Yes. Uh things don't look good physically speaking. Yes, you're being outcast out of society. Yes, you're having a hard time even providing for your family because you can't even buy and sell. You're being kicked out, you're being uh excommunicated from the communic uh community, and things uh the persecution is intense, but it won't be for too long. Just hang in there So in that that's true, like we can apply that today. Are things tough? Yeah, but not for long. You compare this little lifetime to eternity. This is just a minute. It's just ten days. So yeah, there might be persecution, yeah there might be trials, there might be tribulations, you might have struggles going on at home, you might have financial struggles, you might have struggles with a member in your family, you might uh have struggles with someone at work, there's trials, or something bad is happening, I don't know what it is. Just for a minute Just ten days. Hang in there. Because there's a pretty good day coming. And I'm excited about it. Where there won't be any trials, there won't be any heartache, there won't be any diseases, there won't be any cancer, there won't be any persecution, there won' There won't be any hatred towards Christians. There won't be any and he's encouraging the church at Smyrna here, and I think we can get encouraged from it as well Just hang in there. If you're going through something, it's just ten days. Just ten days. Of course, again, that's a metaphor for just a moment, just a little bit of time. And then after that Ten days, be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life. It's just a little bit, and we'll get rewarded for this thing. But let's stay faithful. Let's stay faithful. So I I'm I'm pretty much done here. If if if there's really one point I wanted to make tonight it would be that of just staying faithful. Just finish faithful. Just just keep going Just keep going. Um that bus route's just a grind. Just keep going. If there's issues at home and you're trying to do things right and you're and but there's just struggles, just keep just keep going. Just stay faithful. Maybe someone is going through some lesser form of persecution compared to Smyrna. You know, like I said, no one's getting thrown to lines. Maybe I've known people that have gotten fired. I've known people that have gone through stuff like that Don't quit on Christ. Just stay faithful. Listen, I don't know what the struggles are. I don't know what the trials are in your life. That I know we have them. Just stay faithful. Keep doing what you know is right. Keep doing what God's called you to do. I mean stay faithful to church. Don't quit going to church when things don't go well. It's not God's fault. Yeah, rainfalls on the unjust. Dude, just stay faithful to your family. Don't quit on your family when things get tough. Stay faithful to your Bible reading. Stay faithful to your prayer life. Stay faithful to God. And it's just a minute. And then a crown of life. Lord, we thank you for this encouraging letter to the church here at Smyrna. Lord, I I pray that we would just say faithful, Lord, it We don't know what's going to happen in the next ten years, let alone the next ten days. But I pray whatever Trials come our way, whether they're personal, whether they're trials of maybe the country or you know inner struggles or outward struggles, whatever these trials are, whatever these persecutions may be down the road. I pray that we can just stay faithful to you. Because Lord, you've been faithful to us. You've been good to us. And I pray we'll stay faithful. No one looking around. I just want to ask you how many say, you know what, the Lord spoke to me about I'm going through some trials. Lord spoke to me. I want to stay faithful. If that's you, can you raise your hand? I just want to stay faithful. Again, my hand's up. I just want to do what's right. Just want to keep going. Put your hands down. As we stand to our feet. I don't know how God's dealt with you specifically tonight. But um when she begins to play the altar is open