Wonder who he is. It's an old preacher. It's an old preacher. An old prophet. That's who he is. The pronoun he It's an old preacher man. He said unto him. All right, who is him? That's a young preacher boy. Yeah, a young preacher is listening to an old preacher An old preacher man's talking to a young preacher man. He, the old man, said unto him, the young man, the old man said, I am a prophet also, as thou art. And an angel spake unto me by the word of the Lord, saying, Bring him back with thee into thine house, that he may eat bread and drink water. And then one of the most tragic sentences in the Bible, but he, the old man, the old preacher, he lied unto him. Absolutely tragic. Tragic that the old preacher man lied to the preacher boy. Well, let's get some background on this passage. Let me bring you up to date what's going on here in 1 Kings chapter 13. And let me give you some opening thoughts. Let me give you some opening thoughts before I bring the message. Some of us, some of us that have been saved for a while, have been saved 40, think, wait a minute, about 48 years How many in this room have been saved over 40 years? Raise your hand. I've been saved over 40 years. Alright. That's a good number of hands. More and more hands You had to do some math too, didn't you? Yeah. I got saved in nineteen seventy-two. May of nineteen seventy. Some of us think that once we've been saved for a long time, well, I've been saved so long, there's no chance of Spiritual failure now. Be careful of thinking that way. That is dangerous thinking. Why is it so dangerous to think that, well, I've been saved a quarter of a century, I've been saved 40 years? Why is it dangerous to get thinking I've been saved so long that I just can't fail God now Why is that dangerous? Well, there's three reasons I can think of immediately. Number one, the desire of Satan. The old devil loves to destroy mature Christians See, number one, he doesn't want anybody to get saved. But if you get saved, he wants you to fail God. And if you've lived for God 40 years, 25 years, 18 years, 10 years, 5 years, He wants you to backslide on God. He wants you to get far off into sin. That's what the devil wants. And here we've got an old man. Oh, old man, you had spiritual failure. Is it possible for senior saints to fail? It is. We could tell stories about it of people that used to be in our church right here. That now we don't know where they are. They abandoned the work of God. It's spiritual failure in their lives. It's very dangerous to start thinking I I'm I'm so old, I'm uh been so uh uh saved for so many years that there's no chance of spiritual failure. Oh, it's dangerous because the devil is trying to destroy people. And then it's very presumptive to think this way. That's being very presumptive. Let me ask you, does life change? Oh man, what a change this entire year has been. This year has been something like the cowboy that got on the Bronco at the rodeo. He gets on that Bronco and he has no idea where that thing's gonna go. You know what I'm saying? That's kind of like 2020. He just don't know where this thing's going. Lots of changes And, you know, as you get older, your body changes, life changes. And it's being very presumptive to think there's no chance of me failing. God have been saved too long. That's dangerous thinking. Because of the devil. And that that's being presumptive, thinking that life would never change, nothing would never change. No, it's very presumptive. And then there's a lot of pride in that statement. There's a lot of pride. Be very careful about getting proud. Pride leads you right to a fall. We need to keep ourselves humble before the Lord. You know, it's possible, it's possible for some of us to start thinking, you know, I'm a pretty good Christian. We better be careful that kind of thinking. Um I'm a baby boomer. I am a baby boomer. That's my group. I am I was born in the last year of the baby boomers. I'm the baby of the baby boomers. That's my group. I'm not a millennial I love the millennials. I'm not Gen X, what all these groups are. I'm in the baby boomer group, and a bunch of y'all are too. And we baby boomers, if we don't have be careful, we start taking credit for all the blessings God has poured on this country and even on our church. No If we allow pride to rise up in our lives, it's almost A foregone conclusion that there will be spiritual failure. Oh, pride leads to failure. We've got to just keep our eyes on the goal. As a Christian, it's better to look how much farther we have to go rather than look back to how far we've come. No, we Christians, we keep our eyes on the goal. We keep going forward. For the Lord's people, it's always onward. No matter if there's a virus in the country, no matter if shutdowns in the country, God's people always go forward. Amen to that. Now, when are we nearest? The danger of falling. Now here's an old man who fell. Hmm. When are we the most in danger of falling? Let's see. If you had to fall, if you had to fall off of a ladder Now look, I don't want to fall off a ladder. You know, I'm way beyond that, you know. I've learned the bigger you are, the harder you fall. I I've learned the older you get, the longer it hurts. I mean I I I don't want any of that, man. I don't want to fall. But if you had to fall off a ladder, would you rather fall off the bottom rung Or the top rung. Man, if I've got to fall, I'm going off the bottom rung. When are we in most danger of falling? As we've climbed that spiritual ladder. Oh dear God Almighty. On my ordination certificate in my office, I looked at yours this morning. Have some men's names. Several of those men have already died. But one of them was a very illustrious preacher, and actually his name was known by a lot of people in the country. And as you got to be an old man, this preacher became a drunkard. Can you imagine? Got arrested twice for public drunkenness Lost his ministry as an old man. He had a big ministry at one time. Right until he got to be an old man. He had a big ministry. And he blew it at the end. Dear God Almighty, don't y'all want to finish well? Oh man, this fella in this passage, he blows it. Now, before I go much further, let me say this. I love mature Christians. Praise God here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We've got some mature Christians. Now I love baby Christians too. Every church wants to have baby Christians. Who's a baby Christian? Someone who's just been saved. Our pastor at one time was just a baby Christian. He got saved, and he's a baby Christian. Everybody starts in their Christian life as a baby Christian. You don't start as a mature Christian, you start as a baby. And that's just the start. That's just the start. Getting saved is just the start of God's goal for our lives. You mean God has a goal for our lives? Yes. It's to become a mature Christian. It is to be conformed to the image of Christ. That's God's goal for our lives. Amen. So I love mature Christians. I love folk that have some experience. And you know, that's who I seek um advice from, you know. You don't go to some kids say, hey, you're 16 years old. Tell me how to be a granddad. You know, the kid has no experience being a granddad. You know, um that's the wrong source Um and we love the young people. And I'm hoping to go soul winning with the young people at four. Any of you kids going? You raise your hands? Oh good. They're like this. That is a hand, you know. Yeah Praise God for young people who want to go soul winning for today. Amen to that. Hallelujah. But mature believers, and by the way, mature believers ought to be encouraged in the young believers. Amen. And thankful for them Are there some perils for mature believers? Oh yes. I hate to admit, a lot of Christians don't finish well. So let's get to our text. 1 Kings 13. Let me tell you what's going on. Solomon has died. No, Saul was the first king of Israel. He committed suicide. One of six men in the Bible commit suicide. Then David becomes king, a man after God's own heart, a warrior, a bad sinner, but he's a good repenter. He died. Then Solomon becomes king. Then Solomon has now died. Okay, so the first three kings are gone. Who's going to be king now? Well, Solomon had a son named Rehoboam. And Rehoboam is trying to establish his kingdom. And so Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, is trying to establish his kingdom. All right. So he goes to the mature people of the kingdom and said, Nation of Israel, My dad, Solomon, is dead now. It's my turn to be king. And folks of Israel, you senior citizens of Israel, what kind of king should I be? And the senior said, oh, your dad was a great king, but your dad made it very hard on us There was a lot of taxes. Oh, he kept us safe. We had safety. There wasn't war while he was king. It was wonderful. There were many illustrious things went on. But Rehobam, your dad put the burden on us so heavy. Rehoboam, we implore you, ease the burden. Okay, so that was advice Rhiaboam got from the old people. Then Rhobohm said, you know, I think I'll go to the young people and ask them. So he went to his peers. P-E-E-R-S. He went to his peers. He said, you young citizens, what kind of king should I be? The young people said, oh yeah, we've got some good advice for you. Yeah. Your dad was a great king, but you can be even greater. Make the burden even harder on everybody. Raise taxes. Make it where you're going to be the greatest king there's ever been. Tell the nation that. Tell them that your little pinky is going to impact them more than your dad's leg did. Well, Rhoboam heard that and said, woo! Huh, I like that And he took the advice of the young people. How did the country respond to that The country by and large said to Rehoboam, No, a great big no. So there's 12 tribes of Israel. There's 12 tribes. There are 12 tribes. So here's all these tribes, down here in the south, up here in the north, there's 12 tribes. And so ten tribes, if you're listening, say amen. Ten tribes up here said, Rehabam, we reject you as king. You're not going to be our king with that kind of attitude. Two tribes down here said, oh, we don't like it, but we're going to stick with you, Rioboam. So Rehboam lost ten out of twelve tribes. He re retained two little tribes. Wow. Okay, this is what's going on leading up to this. And so who's going to be the king over the ten tribes? Well, another man named Jeroboam. All right, we got Rehaboam, and now we've got Jeroboam. Their name's very similar. Both four syllables long, all that. Jeroboam. What kind of king does Jeroboam, what kind of king of the ten tribes, the northern ten tribes, what kind of king is he? He's wicked. That's the Bible word for it. Wicked. Evil. Okay, so Jeroboam, he's got his ten tribes. And he begins to notice that at worship time, that people out of his ten tribes, they were going down there to Rehoboam's kingdom, to Jerusalem to worship. Jeroboam's like, I I don't want my people leaving my ten tribe kingdom, go down to my competitor down there, go down to the south to be with Rhiaboam. I don't want my people going down there So Jeroboam comes up with a scheme. He builds some pagan false religion worship centers. He builds some little idols for the ten tribes to come in there and worship these little idols. And he implores the ten tribes. Tribes. Hey, you don't need to go to Jerusalem. We've got a brand new way of worshiping. Come on, friends. Come on, citizens. My ten tribes, come on. Come on. Come worship God. This Newfangled way. Now, I hate false religion. How about you? I have a hatred in my heart. Or false religions. I don't hate people. You hate Muslims, Brother Fox? Well, of course not. For forty-some years I've been asking God to put a love in my heart for everyone for whom Jesus died. I love those caught up in false religion. But as far as the religion itself, I hate it So, Jeroboam's coming with this brand new scheme, this new false religion. Got his false worship services, his sinners. Was God aware? Absolutely, God was aware. Now in the Ten Tribes was this old preacher man. We'll get to him in a little bit. But there's a young preacher boy from over there. And God calls this young preacher to duty. God says, young preacher, boy. I want you to go and find King Jeroboam and confront him about this idol worship that he's instituted. This mandatory false religion. See, Jeroboam made it mandatory. God says, Young preacher boy, go confront him and tell him a message from me. And God says, Young preacher boy. Get on your animal, get on your beast, go over there, confront the king, get back on your beast, don't eat anything, and don't drink anything. Get back on your beast and go home. So the young preacher voice said, Yes, sir, Lord, we'll co. We'll comply. Yes. That's what we're supposed to do with the Lord. Amen. Yeah. Whatever God says, just say yes. So the young man says, yes, I'll do that. So he gets on his animal. He goes. And he finds the king. And here's the king at his false worship center. And the young preacher boy comes in. Man, what a confrontation takes place. The young preacher boy comes in there and says, King Jeroboam. And he begins to deliver the message from God. That the false mandatory religious practices that were being forced upon the ten tribes of Israel, that God was aware. And man, the young preacher, boy, he is delivering the message to the king, and that king is angry. Hey, you hear this preacher boy talking to me this way? Guards, come get him! He gets his hand out, and man, the king is gonna let that young preacher boy have it. Who do you think? I'm the king. What And as he puts that hand out, God's watching. And God is in charge. And God withers the king's arm up. Ho! Ho! Preacher boy! I'm sorry God, I'm sorry. Preacher boy, will you pray for me? I didn't mean what I said. Oh, preacher boy, ask God to have mercy on me. I mean the king's arm withers up. And people are watching. They've heard what the preacher boy said. They began to hear what the king was declaring. And then God, Almighty. Who made everybody worthy up the king's arm. Let me tell you something. God is pleased with humility. And the king momentarily humbled himself before God. And God in his mercy restored the king's arm. Oh, oh, preacher boy. Oh preacher boy, thank you, Lord. Oh, preacher boy, thank you. Preacher boy, you must be hungry. Oh, preacher boy, you must be thirsty. Hey, let' Bring him the best food we've got. Bring him the best drink. Preacher board, we're going to give you a feast. No. No, King, you don't understand. God told me to deliver a message to you. And then not to eat anything, don't drink anything, just get on my animal and go back home. So the preacher boy leaves. He gets on his animal, he's going back home. There were some boys that watched everything happen. There were some sons. There were some boys who had watched everything take place. And these two boys, man, they went back to their dad's house. Who, these boys, the king, they saw the arm, all that, they saw the young man get on his beast, and these two boys over here They had seen everything. And they went back home to their dad. Who was their dead? He was the old preacher man. The sons of the prophet had observed everything that had taken place. And so these two boys, well, they went and said, Dad, whoo, Dad, you should have seen it. Dad, God is alive. And they began to tell their dad what they had just seen. And that leads us right here to this verse, to what happened for the old man. And this sermon is going to be this morning and tonight because that's just the end of the introduction, okay? Don't get nervous, okay? It's a three-point message. Probably going to get point one in right now, and you gotta come back. Amen. Point number one. Alright, so all this has taken place. The young man confronts King Jeroboam, the arm withers up, the Lord restores the arm. Jeroboam uh offers him some refreshment Man says, uh-uh, I'm not doing that. And uh so then we come to point one of the sermon. If you want to write it down, I wrote it down this way in my notes. Number one, the lethargy that marked the old preacher's service. The lethargy. What in the world do we mean, lethargy? We mean lethargic. What do we mean? We mean just totally inactive. We mean silent. This old preacher man, in this passage, that pronoun he that starts verse 18, this old preacher man has been right in the country And this king has set up mandatory false religion, and this preacher man has not even raised his voice. He has been inactive. He has been silent. He's not stood up for God. He has settled down. He's coasting. Do you know that it can be a sin to remain silent? Amen to that. There's times we Christians cannot remain silent. No, no, no. And now look, the older you get, the More tempted you are to just throw in the towel, throw in the towel. That's an idiom meaning I quit. Well, I just give up. Let me tell you something. It's not time for any of God's people to give up. Why is the old man so inactive? Why is he so lethargic? Was he tired? Was he tired? You can get tired. When I went to bed last night I'll just tell you, Brother Fox was on his last fume. You know what I'm saying? I was tired. That was quite a week. Every time I uh moved, I was getting on that plane and flying to the next place, getting off the plane, trying to find the next church, finding it. Man, it was a busy week And you can get tired. Is it a sin to rest? Well, no. Praise God for rest. It's a sin to be lazy. But it's not a sin to rest. I got some great sleep last night. I'm planning on getting great sleep again tonight. I got it planned, man. I don't know if it'll happen, but I got it planned. Now the old man, you just tired Or is it, old man, is it that you want everybody to like you Now look, our pastor, he wants people in this whole county to like him. Well, you know, you want people to like you. I mean, if you're in here saying, I hope everybody in this room hates me, you're bizarre. You're a weirdo. You know, you want people to like you. I actually have people assigned to try to hinder me There are groups of Americans that despise me, that harangue me, that threaten me. They don't like me. They don't like me because I say that a marriage between a man and a woman. I I I'm not the author of that message. The message comes from here. I'm just a little echo. He's the author. He's the one that designed marriage, not me. But I want to stand with God. How about you? There's people who hate me because of that. Listen, old man, you do want everybody to like you? It's probably not going to happen. Maybe that's why he's become so lethargic. He was afraid of getting anybody upset with him. But making waves. Maybe just got weary and well doing. Wait a minute. Um let's get a Bible perspective of lethargy. Being lethargic. There is no such thing as a lethargic Christian who is filled with the Holy Ghost. If a Christian is filled with the Holy Ghost, he will, she will not be lethargic. No, God's people are always active. No, uh the opposite of the presence of God is to be lethargic and to be indifferent and doing nothing and no response whatsoever. But when you Filled with the Holy Spirit of God. There's movement, there's work, there's toil, there's effort, there's dynamic when you're filled with the Holy Ghost. But see, old man, I don't know if he wants to be filled with the Holy Ghost And you see, all of God's people are to be active. Not just the old preacher man in verse 18, but all of God's people, active in the cause of Christ. That's universal. There's no exception. Every Christian to be filled with the Holy Ghost and busy for God. So I repeat. It can be a sin to remain silent. See now, um The parents in this room. This old man, his sons saw God work. Grandparents, this man, his kids saw God work. They're like, God is real. God's alive. Don't we want our kids to know that God's real? And that God is alive? Don't we want God at work in our homes? In our very lives? Shouldn't our kids see us trying to win folks to Christ This past week I've got to lead two people to Christ. Hallelujah. Listen, soul winning is always the right thing. Oh, listen, we've just got to keep going forward in the cause of Christ. Oh, like a clap of thunder, the boys came in and said, Dad. Oh, you should have seen these tremendous events this morning. Oh, and the old man, the silence is broken. He's been found out. He's been found out that he's not been living for God. Okay. How are you doing? Living for God? Do you want to live for God? Can we become lethargic? It is not time for our church to be lethargic. Our pastor of 27 years, it's not time to settle down and just coast Oh, look, you can get somebody else to move the tables. Let him move them. Let them move them. But as far as the things of God, it's not time for our pastor to be lethargic I don't want him to be lethargic. I want him to be on fire for God. You know what I want for you? I want every one of you to be on fire for God. I don't want you to be like this old preacher man, the failure and the when he should have been at his apex. When he should have been right at the pinnacle of his ministry, he is a spiritual failure. Would you bow your heads? Oh God Almighty. Oh Lord. That poor old man. Every time I read that passage, I'm just so hurt to the bone, Lord, that that man failed you. But Lord, my own failure just stinks. I can't stand it. Oh God, help me. And help our people not to be lethargic. Not to be inactive. Oh no, Lord. I want us to have a holy zeal, a passion for the work of God Oh Lord, help us. Lord, if I may, I'm going to talk to the people a moment. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. I'm looking now, nobody else please. How many of you know for sure you're saved? You know you've received Christ. Would you raise a hand and say, Brother Fox, I want you to know. Brother Fox, I know for sure that I have received Christ. Would you raise a hand real high and let me know God bless you. Is there some in this room this morning who would say, Brother Fox, that first step of serving God, that first step of receiving Christ? Brother Fox, I'm scared I'm going to die and go to hell. Brother Fox, I don't know that I'm saved. Is there anyone in this room who would say, Brother Fox, would you pray for me? I don't know I'm saved. Would you raise a hand right now and let me pray for you? Is there someone from front to the back of the room? Between me, you, and the Lord. The Lord Jesus is looking right now. To anyone who would say, Brother Fox, pray for me. I don't know that I am saved. All right. How many of you God spoke to your heart? Oh boy, it's me. I'm raising my hand. God spoke to me. Yes, God spoke to you. Good. What are you going to do about it? Mental exercise, or you're going to do something about it. What am I going to do about it? I better just say yes to the Lord, repent of whatever needs to be repented. Restore whatever I need to? Make some new commitments to God? Just offer yourself to God? How many of you have been baptized since you've been saved? Would you raise a hand? Good. How many of you need to be baptized? You haven't been baptized since you've been saved. How many of you need to be baptized? Raise your hands. If you need to be baptized, okay. Then you ought to do something about that What should you do? In this invitation, I want you to come to Pastor, who will be in the front and say, Pastor, I'd like to make myself a candidate for baptism. Would you talk to me, Pastor, about baptism? You see, don't be lethargic about baptism It's one of the first steps of obedience. Do that in this invitation. What else has God been speaking to your heart about? You're behind in your tithe? offering place are around here, get it caught up. Get it caught up. You've been lax in your Bible reading Lethargic in your prayer life? How's your prayer life? It's about a five on a scale of ten. You mean it's lukewarm? Oh boy, we all need to make some incredible decisions for God today. Would you stand? I want to ask our pianists to find, I am resolved no longer to linger, charmed by the world's delight. Let me close my prayer to the Lord And she'll start playing, oh Lord, we're going to open these friendly altars of yours for men to make holy commitments for young people. To give their lives in the cause of Christ. Lord, please, may this invitation please you. That would be good. We pray in Jesus' name.