Colossians chapter three Trust you had a good Christmas and uh got lots of loot and everything But uh we're in praise the Lord for the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ. Police officer pulled over a fellow for speeding and asked to see his driver's license. Calmly the driver responded, I don't have a driver's license. It was suspended when I got my fifth DUI. The officer said, May I see your registration? He says, it's not my car. I stole it Now obviously the car is stolen. He says, yeah, but now that you mention it, I think I did see a registration in the glove box when I was putting my gun in there He said the officer said there's a gun in the glove box? Yes sir, I put it there after I killed the lady who owns this car and stuffed her in the trunk. The officer said, There's a body in the trunk? He said, Yes, sir Hearing this, the officer immediately called his captain. The car was quickly surrounded by police. The captain approached the driver. And the captain said to the driver, Sir, can I see your license? He says, sure, right here it is. He showed him his license. It was valid. Captain said, Whose car is this? He says, it's mine, officer. Here's the registration The captain said, could you slowly open your glove box so I can see if there's a gun in it? He goes, yes, sir, there's no gun in there. Sure enough, there was nothing in the glove box. The captain said, Would you mind opening your trunk? I told I was told there was a body in it No problem. Trunk was open, no body. Captain said, I don't understand it. The officer stopped who stopped you said you told him you didn't have a license. You stole the car, you had a gun and a glove box, and there was a dead body in a trunk The driver said, No kidding. I'll bet you he told you I was speeding too much. Now we do not advocate dishonesty, but you gotta admit that was creative Colossians chapter three, verse number sixteen. I'd like for us to read that together in unison, if you would. Verse just verse number six sixteen of Colossians chapter three. Ready? Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom Teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. This morning I want to speak on the subject the Word of Christ dwelling in us. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless. Father, I ask now you bless your study of your word. I pray that you would speak to our hearts. God, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to yours. I present my body anew. Take me and fill me, I pray, Lord, and open our hearts and minds. Lord, I pray this coming year that we would see spiritual growth in each of our lives My request, Lord, as a result of this message this morning, that our love and commitment to the Word of God would grow. Have your way, I pray, in Jesus' name, amen. I feel like the monitor is a little strong up here, Sam, if you would Last Eve I passed beside a blacksmith's door and heard the anvil sing the vesper chime Then, looking in, I saw upon the floor an old hammers, worn with the blasting years of time. How many animals have ye had? said I, to wear and batter these hammers so Just one, said the blacksmith, and then with twinkling eye, he said, the anvil wears out the hammers, you know And so I thought, the anvil of God's word, for ages skeptics' blows have beat upon. And yet, though the noise of falling blows was heard. The anvil is unharmed. The hammers are all gone. Just like the anvil in that blacksmith shop wears out the hammers, so God's word wears out the skeptics. who try to disprove and discredit the Word of God. For thousands of years this book has stood. It's been attacked. It's been criticized. It's been burned. It's been banned and outlawed. Nevertheless, the Bible stands. I think it's significant in Colossians chapter 3 and verse 16 that the Bible is referred to here in this passage as the Word of Christ. That's an interesting title for the Bible. Throughout the New Testament, Jesus Christ is referred to as the Word of God What does it mean that Jesus is the Word of God? John 1. In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Verse 14, and we beheld his glory. The word became flesh, and we beheld his glory. What does it mean? What does the Bible mean when it refers to Jesus Christ as the Word of God? Well, without spending a lot of time on that, I think we can safely say that Jesus Christ embodied the Word of God to all mankind. Jesus Christ was the embodiment of what God has to say to man. Jesus Christ personified the will of God. For all mankind, Jesus made this statement: For I do always those things that please my Father. Through Jesus Christ, the character of God was revealed. Jesus said, He that has seen me has seen the Father. Now let me ask you a little bit of a theological question here. Does God the Father have a physical body? No Jesus said in John chapter 4, God the Father is spirit. Throughout the Bible, we're taught he has not flesh and bones. God the Father is a spirit. So when Jesus said, He that's seen me has seen the Father, he wasn't talking about the physical appearance of himself. He was talking about the character of God So, in Colossians chapter 3, verse 16, the Word of God is referred to as the Word of Christ. I am glad that we have a God that communicates with us. We have a God that has something to say. That has a desire to express himself to mankind. And God communicates with man in two ways. For 33 and a half years, when Jesus was here on earth, God communicated, well, particularly the last three and a half years, God communicated through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. God communicated to mankind. Since Jesus Christ ascended to the right hand of the Father, now God speaks to us through His Word. The Bible is God's communication. Somebody says, what has God had to say in the year 2011? Open your Bibles. You see exactly what God has to say. This is God's communication to mankind. Like Jesus Christ, the Bible is alive. I like Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 12, where it says, the word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. That word quick there is a fascinating word. It means to be alive. This book is alive. This book, you read it, I remember back in um the spring of nineteen seventy-nine. That was what, about a hundred years ago or something like that. The spring of 1979, I was an unsaved 18-year-old boy. Living just whatever I wanted, doing my thing, and making a mess of my life. And I began to cry Cry out to God that winter January. I began to cry out to God late at night. I come home. God help me. God help me. I'm making such a mess It wasn't an audible voice, but it could very well have been, something as clear as you could possibly imagine inside my heart and soul said, read your Bible. Read your Bible. I remember one night, it was early January, uh I came home and had this impression I needed to read my Bible. I went through my dread And found a Bible that had been given to me as a child by a Sunday school teacher. Thank God for faithful Sunday school teachers I got that Bible out and I began reading it. I'm telling you, it was like it was written that day just for me It was the I just opened it up anywhere. I didn't know anything about the Bible. I just opened it up anywhere. And what it was saying dealt directly with what was going on in my life. It could have been God sitting there in person Talking to me about my situation. I'm telling you, this book is alive. Just like Jesus Christ, the Bible is alive. Just like Jesus Christ, the Bible is a judge. Jesus said in the Gospels, he said, the Father hath given to me, Jesus Christ, all judgment. Every single individual, every one of us here this morning, every man, woman, and child that ever has lived, that ever will live, will someday stand individually, personally before Jesus Christ and give an account of ourselves. Bible teaching. But the Bible also says that the Bible is our judge. We will be judged by the teachings, the words, the principles given in the Word of God. Say, what does God expect of me? Open your Bible. This is what God expects of us, what's taught in here So, like Jesus, the Bible is alive. Like Jesus, the Bible is our judge. Like Jesus, the Bible is unchanging. Yesterday, today, forever, Jesus is the same. And this book is unchanging. I have some, I have quite a few books in my library I use for study and various things over the years. And I have some commentaries that were written back in the 1600s. I have some sermons that were written by men from back in the 1500s, 1600s. You know what the interesting thing is? I can go open those sermons from three, four hundred years ago, and what the Bible said back then still says the same thing today. Unchanging. Jesus never changed. The Bible never changes. Like Jesus, the Bible is pure and without error. Jesus never was wrong. Jesus never did wrong. And this Bible is never wrong, and this Bible will never lead you wrong. We take it for what it says. Somebody says, oh, the Bible's full of mistakes. You know what my first response to that is? Show me one. And nobody yet has been able to show me one. That Bible's full of contradictions. Show me one. Well, I know they're there. Like Jesus, the Bible is alive. Like Jesus, the Bible is our judge. Like Jesus, the Bible is unchanging. Like Jesus, the Bible is pure and wit Thou there. Like Jesus, the Bible is eternal God, Jesus will live live forever, and this book will last forever. The Word of God for all eternity. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. So it's fitting in Colossians chapter 3 and verse 16 that the word of God is referred to, as I said, the Word of Christ. Now there's an interesting passage, and I just want to take a moment, if you would, and turn over to 2 Corinthians chapter 1 It kind of ties in with what our thought is this morning. And so, if you would, 2 Corinthians chapter 1, and notice with me verse 19. Talking about the Bible and Jesus Christ. Second Corinthians chapter 1, verse number 19. Now notice carefully, the wording here is a little Unique, so we have to pay careful attention, but I think you'll catch what he's saying. Verse 19, 2 Corinthians 1. For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us, even by me and Sylvanus and Timotheus, was not yea and nay, but him was yea. Now, bear with me here. Look at verse 20. This is significant. For all the promises of God in him, who's the Him there? Who's referring to? Jesus Christ, verse 19. For all the promises of God in him, Jesus Christ, are yea, and in him, amen, unto the glory of God. By us. Now, what is he saying here? As I said, the wording there is a little obscure. What exactly is God saying? I believe this is what the Lord is telling us. Every promise in the Bible is given to us through the Lord Jesus Christ. Every promise to Israel, every promise to the church. Every promise to the individual believer is given to us through the Lord Jesus Christ. See verse 20? For all the promises of God in him Are yea. And amen. In other words, without Christ, I can claim no promise of God Now, can I give a stern word of warning to all of us here this morning? You cannot simultaneously reject Jesus Christ. And claim his promises. I cannot say no to the Savior And yes to the promises of God. If I want to claim the promises of God as given in the Bible, I must first accept Jesus Christ. If you're here this morning, you've never been saved, you've never been born again, you've never trusted Christ as personal savior, however you want to word it. If you're here this morning and you are without Christ, I can say to you, based on the teaching of the Word of God, you are without the promises of God. Say, well, I have some needs in my life, and the Bible promises God shall provide all my needs. Not if you have not trusted Christ, you cannot claim that promise. You are on your own. Say, well, you know, God will supply all my needs, God will take care of me, God will protect me. If you don't know Christ as Savior, you cannot claim those promises. So again, we come back to Colossians. The Word of Christ is the term God uses to describe the Word of God, the Bible Once I trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, the door is open for me to grow spiritually, to grow in my faith, to grow in my purpose in life, to find meaning and fulfillment for my life as a believer. The promises of God are made available to me. And let me say this: when I trust Christ as Savior. The Bible becomes my most important possession. The Bible. The Bible Job put it this way. I have esteemed the words of thy mouth more than my necessary food. Think about that. Job was a godly man. No doubt about it. He went through trials like we can't imagine And he made this statement: the Bible is more important to me. He didn't say the Bible is more important to me than dessert Now I be feel like dessert is very important. Amen? In fact, if it's green beans or dessert, I'm vote for dessert. He doesn't say I've esteemed the words in my mouth more than dessert. He doesn't even say I've esteemed the words in my mouth more than a turkey dinner. And I'm all for turkey dinners. You know he said, oh by the way, my mom and my mother-in-law got spooked because of the snow coming in. They were supposed to be here today, and they pulled out, left early, went home yesterday. You know what that means? The whole turkey's left for me. It's gonna be a good week You know what Job said? He said, I've esteemed the words of my mouth more than my necessary food. And we read that and we hear that and we don't really give any thought. You know what he's saying? The Bible is more important to me than the most minimal amount of food I need to stay alive. Think about that. Let me put it this way, maybe we can clear get a clearer picture in our mind. Job is saying this. This is a godly man. This is the man, or one of the few men in the Bible that Jesus said was perfect and upright in all his ways. You know what he's saying? Let me just word it this way. Doug was saying, if I was stuck, stranded on an island And I had the choice of just enough food to keep me alive, or the Word of God, I would choose the Word of God. How about that? The Word of Christ, the Word of God, the Bible. As a believer in Jesus Christ, that book needs to become the most important thing in my possession. We cannot, let me say this very emphatically, we cannot neglect our Bibles. We cannot. That is not an option in the Christian life to go day after day, week after week, month after month, with little or no input from the Word of God. That is unacceptable. We cannot neglect our Bibles. Now let me give you two thoughts this morning. First of all, the Bible must have a home in my life. I'll explain what I mean by that in a moment. The Bible must have a home in my heart and life Look with me again at Colossians chapter 3 and verse 16. Let the Word of Christ help me now. What's that next word? Dwell in you. Dwell in you. What does it mean for something to dwell in something? It simply means to be at home To make something one's own. This is where I dwell. This is where we live. This is our home. This is where we spend our time. This is where we raise our family. This is our home. Now, how do I let the Word of Christ be at home in my life? How do I get the Bible? To have a home in my heart and life. Well, I jotted a few thoughts down. One If the Bible is going to be at home in my heart and life, it must have entrance to my heart and life You cannot dwell somewhere you can't get into. Where do you live there in that house? What's it like? I don't know. I can't get in it. You can't get in it, you ain't living there. Aren't you glad they came to church, found that out Listen, there's no way in the world God's word, the word of Christ, the Bible, is going to be at home in your house in your heart and life if it ain't getting in. Spard in the English I must read the Word of God. God has blessed us in so many ways. We have such a prosperous country. We have such a Christian-influenced country. We live in a day and time when the Bible is so uh um available, prolific, I would venture to say every one of us have at least one copy of the Bible in our home. And if you don't, we've got cases of them here, we can get you one. And if the Bible, if the Word of Christ is going to dwell in us, We have got to read the Bible. If there is one thing that I can influence you in the few moments I have with you this morning, before you leave those back doors and go about your w uh Go on your way. There's one thing I can influence you. I wish it would be this that I could motivate you, stir you, get you to commit yourself to reading your Bible on a daily, consistent basis. That is the one thing I would like to be able to influence people to do. It must have entrance into my heart and life. The Bible ought to be read personally. Hey, I believe the Bible ought to be read in a family altar setting. Particularly with small children in the whole. I would like to see the mothers and fathers of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church make a commitment this coming year 2011 that we are going to read our Bible with and to our children on a regular basis. Powerful, powerful influence. It must have entrance. I must read it personally. Hey, can I suggest this? I must hear it preached. Hey, church is God's idea. We'd come up with this. Preaching in church is God's idea. God knows us better than we know ourselves. And God has established and declared His Word that we as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ Need not just that personal intake of the Word of God, but we need the preaching of the Word of God. Now, regardless of who the preacher is, whether he's dynamic or not, whether he's clever or not in his delivery, whether he's Good looking or not, I mean not everybody can be like me. And so um uh regardless of the messenger, if the message is the word of God, we need it So it must have entrance in my life. Personally reading it, hearing it preached, grasping its principles. Now here's a danger for some of us, been in church a long time, we've been known the Lord for a number of years, we've been all around it. Here's a real danger. We come to church, sit down, the preacher says he's gonna uh the bulletin says the preacher's gonna preach on the Bible. I've heard a thousand sermons on the Bible I read my Bible. I've read my Bible through fifteen, twenty times. You know, it's just and if we're not careful, it just goes it just goes in one ear and what? And it never lodges. It never takes root. It's not what God has in mind when he says, let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. That's not dwelling. Where do you live? At the drive-thru at McDonald's? What? Just drive right through it. You're not living there So I've got to read it. I need it to read it personally. I need to hear it preached, but I'll also be able to grasp its principles. You know what's disappointing to a pastor when you have folks perhaps that have sat under your preaching for years and years, and yet you talk about the most basic things of Christianity with them and they have no idea what you're talking about. And you wonder, why didn't you grasp that? Why don't you understand this? Why why can't you see that? Young people in school are going to have a test. And I remember, now I never did this, but a lot of others I heard had done this. You know what to do? The night before the test, huh? I better get studying. And they cram it all in their brain, and they're able to, excuse me, regurgitate the facts back out. But a week later you ask them about it and they have no clue. You follow what I'm saying? Hey, that's not what God wants for us as Christians. He says this thing's got to dwell in you. That means it has to have entrance in. It needs to get in and stick. Which leads me to my second point on how do I let the Word of God have a home in my life? Number one must have entrance into my heart and life. Number two, it must have endurance in my heart and life. Let the word of Christ dwell in you The word dwell implies a long-term dwelling. All of us have done it. You travel sometime, one way or another, you go somewhere, and you stay in a motel You don't say, well, that's my home. That's where I live in that motel. No, you're just there temporarily. A couple days, a couple nights, and you're on your way. The Word of God must be more than just a fad. Sometimes people get saved, sometimes the Spirit of God will work, we'll have a revival, or God will be moving in our church in a particular way. And sometimes you have, maybe it's a young Christian or whatever, will get captivated by the Bible, and boy, they're going to read the Bible, but it's nothing more than just a fad It's nothing more than just a curiosity, and it lasts for a little while, then soon it fades out and fizzles off, and they never pick their Bible up again. That is not the Word of Christ dwelling in us Listen, how many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. I got news for you. Christianity is a long-term commitment. It's the whole life. I've got to establish in my life this matter of ingesting the Word of God on a consistent, long-term basis. Just reading it over and over and over and over. You say, good night. Doesn't that get old? How many people ate a meal last Sunday? Well, how many people ate some meals since then? Doesn't it get old? No. Some of us that's obvious You know what? The Word of God's just like that. Now, I hope you don't misunderstand. I hope you don't see this as anything other than a challenge and an encouragement to you. But this May, this coming May 2011, it'll be 32 years that I've trusted Christ. This coming Friday, I will have finished reading my Bible through 31 times. Now I'm not saying that to blow my own horn or get you to amen me. What I'm saying is it can be done. That may be a little easier for me because I study the Bible. It's my life. But what I'm trying to say is just reading something once or twice, three times, four times, it's a lifetime endeavor We must the Word of God must have entrance in my heart and life. It must have endurance in my heart and life. Some people view the Bible as a magic lamp. Or I like to do it as a vending machine. Don't even think about it, don't even give it any thought until some need comes in my life. And all of a sudden, man, what was that verse that preacher said Um, God will supply all your need according. Uh ching ching, ching ching, pull the lever, oh good, God took care of me. You follow what I'm saying? Or it's like this. Oh, oh God, please, I need you to do this for me. Follow what I'm saying? It's not that at all. It needs to be lodged in my life. It needs to be a part of my life. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. I'm afraid for some people, novels Romance and exciting novels become more important to us than the Word of God. Please don't I'm not trying to be unkind, but I'd venture to say there's many, if not most of us, could name the top ten actors out of Hollywood and couldn't name three, four of the disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Huh? Boy, we can name the music stars. Who was that fifth disciple? Huh Isn't that sad? We're the people of God. We're the light of the world. We're the salt of the earth. And we know more about the world than we knew about the Word. The Word of God must have entrance in my heart and life. The Word of God must have endurance in my heart and life. Then I put this down, if the Word of God is going to have a home in my life, it must have enforcement in my heart and life. Um get it in, keep it there, but then it must have authority over me Here's an interesting thought. I'd like to challenge you to look at life this way. God did not design us to live independent of God. He's designed us to live in submission to him. That's the way we're made. We're not made to live out here independent of the Word of God. calling our own shots, doing our thing, determining what's right and wrong for us. That's not the way we're made. Did anybody notice? This world's a mess You know why? Because the world is trying to live independent of God and it does not work. God's word must have authority in my life. It must be an enforcement in my life I am not designed to live independently of God. I cannot live independent of God and think that the results are going to turn out okay Say, preacher, I haven't paid any attention to the Bible for a long time. I don't give it any thought, everything's going fine with me. It ain't over yet, either. Must have enforcement in our life. This Bible must be a manual. So, number one, he says here in Colossians chapter 3: Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. Dwell means to have a home there, to abide. How do I do that? God's word must have entrance in my life. It must have endurance and it must become an authority. The second thing I want to give you, real quickly, is this. If I do that, if I get to the point where the Word of Christ is dwelling in me I'm reading it, I'm meditating, I'm getting the preaching of God's Word and the teaching of the Word of God. I'm holding on to it, it's taken root in my life, it has authority in my life. What's going to happen? It will help me in my life. The Word of Christ must have a home in my life, and the Word of Christ will be a help in my life. What will committing my life to the Word of God do for me? What do I get out of it? Here's the sad thing. Some folks view God as some mean, hateful thing that just doesn't want me to have fun. Is all this list of do's and don'ts, I can't do what I want, I gotta do what he wants, and all this stuff, and he just hates me and he just doesn't want me to have fun. I was um youth pastor for four years in Indianapolis and um we came in and I uh uh we had a good time, the youth group Grow, grew, we saw a lot of them make decisions. We got a number of the young people in there out in the ministry now, missionaries in Africa and various places And so we feel like it was fairly successful. But you know, when we came in and first established some rules and convictions and some standards we were going to operate by, which by the way, the Bible does give us some convictions and standards that we're to operate by. We tried to implement them into the young people's lives and teach them to make a part of the youth group. Those kids at first bristled, some of them always did never stopped bristling. But at first they bristled with that. And they had this idea. Man, Pastor Leather is just some hateful thing. He don't want us to have fun. And I know they pictured it this way, that the pastor of the church and I would be in the office and it would be like, woohoo, ha ha ha. What are the kids doing that's fun and will not allow it? Now the fact of the matter is we work very hard to have a great time. But you know there are some things that are detrimental. There are some things that hurt us. I've got news for you. The devil's not stupid. He's not an idiot. He knows that he can't just show up in your life and say, hey, do all these things and it'll destroy you and mess you up. He doesn't do it that way. You know what he does? He goes, hey, you can have a lot of fun. You can get what you want, and there won't be any negative consequences. Go ahead, ignore the Word of God, ignore the principles, do your own thing. It'll be alright in the end. God just isn't telling you the truth Read Genesis chapter 3. That's exactly what he said to Eve. God's lying to you. Fact of the matter is God loves us very dearly. And God has a plan for your life and my life. And God wants our lives to kill. God wants our lives to have some purpose and meaning. And when it's all said and done, we stand before the Lord Jesus Christ, He can say, Hey, you had a positive, powerful influence in the world. You fulfilled the purpose for what I had for your life. Now, how does that happen? By letting the Word of Christ dwell in me. What does that do? First of all, the help I get out of it, what I get out of it, I get a correct perspective on life. Take your Bibles if you would and turn with me to Proverbs chapter number two, if you would, just real quickly. And by the way, Proverbs is a great book. I would challenge all of us, particularly our young people, in the year 2011, read one chapter of Proverbs a day to correspond to that calendar date. It's 28 chapters in Proverbs. There's about 30 days in a month, and you can read that thing through over and over. It will change your life. Look at Proverbs chapter 2, if you would. For James, that's Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, somewhere after that. Proverbs chapter 2. Look with me at verse 10. When wisdom entereth into thine heart. Doesn't that sound a little bit like Colossians 3. 16? Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly? Look what happens. Let wisdom, when wisdom entereth into thine heart and knowledge of the word of God is pleasant unto thy soul Discretion shall preserve thee. Do you know what the word discretion means? It means to make intelligent judgment. Discretion. You shouldn't discriminate. I agree. In some situations you would shouldn't. But there are some things we ought to discriminate against. There are some things that are wrong. We ought to have discretion. We ought to be able to make the right decision. You know what's killing our homes? You know what's killing us? I mean, adults and young people, it's killing us. We don't have the wisdom, we don't have the right perspective on life to be able to make decisions that are not detrimental to our lives. And you see people making the stupidest decisions. And you can see it's a train wreck coming. And you think, why can't you see that? When wisdom entereth into thy heart and knowledge is pleasant to thy soul, discretion shall preserve thee. You know, there's a lot of people in hospitals today because they did not exercise discretion. Huh? I'm thinking I'm tempted to give a bunch of illustrations, but I'll not do that. There's people in the graveyard today. Because they did not exercise discretion. We were watching a game or something last evening and a commercial came on. It says, and they always do these commercials. They say, if you drink, don't drive I told my wife, I said, why don't they ever have commercials? Don't drink. Then you can drive all you want When wisdom entereth into thine heart and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul, discretion shall preserve thee. We could keep ourselves out of a lot of trouble if we just get our nose in God's word and find out what he says. Get a right perspective on life. Verse 12, to deliver thee from the way of evil, man. From the man that speaketh forward things, who leave the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness Why is it you have Christians just follow somebody that's ungodly and just follow them right down the path and end up in the same mess? Why don't they have a little discretion? Who rejoice to do evil, delight in the forwardness of the wicked, whose ways are crooked, and they're forward in their paths. Look at verse 16. Deliver thee from the strange woman. Even from the stranger which flattereth with her words, which forsaketh the guide of her youth, forgetteth the covenant of her God. You write in the margin of the Bible where it says, forgeteth the covenant of God, her marriage vows Just disregards them. For her house inclineth unto death, her paths are unto the dead. None that go in unto her return again, neither take they hold of the paths of life. That thou mayest walk in the way of good men, and keep the paths of the righteous. For the upright shall dwell in the land, the perfect shall remain in it, but the wicked shall be cut off from the earth, and transgressors shall be rooted out of it. What happens when I let the Word of God dwell in my heart richly? They have a home in my life, it has free access and entrance It dwells there, it endures there, it has authority in my life. I'm going to get a right perspective on life. I'm going to be able to accurately determine what is right and wrong. I'm going to be actively determined what success is and what failure is. Let me just throw this out A person can be the most successful family man. You can be the most successful businessman in your town, and you can be the most successful citizen in your community. But if you don't have Jesus Christ as Savior, you have failed to die and go to hell We need the Word of God to give us perspective on what genuine success is and what genuine failure is, on what is really right and really wrong. I've preached this for years. Don't do what you think is right. Do what God says is right. Gives the right perspective on life. Gives me uh help me determine the right from wrong, success from failure, the end from the beginning. What else happens when a word of God is at home in my heart and life? It gives encouragement in the times of discouragement. I'm telling you, there are times when life can be absolutely overwhelming. Can I get a witness? I know for a fact, I've passed here 17 years. I know for a fact I'm talking to some folks that have been through some deep valleys. I mean heart-wrenching. I'm here to tell you when we get to those areas, when we get in those times of life, this book becomes very, very precious. And we find strength. We find encouragement. So it gives a correct perspective on life. It gives encouragement in a time of discouragement. Jot this down. It gives concern for others Anybody notice America is becoming very selfish. I mean the people that make up this country, very selfish. Did you see the news reports when they had Black Friday and Christmas sales? People literally running over top of others. People going to the hospital. I saw somewhere where some lady pulled a gun over cabbage patch dolls or something. I I don't guess they make cabbage patch dolls anymore. Selfish. I tell you, nothing will kill selfishness like submission to the Word of God. Gives a concern for others. You know what will give you a real burden for the lost? Study what this book says about the lost. Read what the Bible says about somebody that doesn't have Christ. Tell you, stir your heart Stir your heart to try and share the gospel with them. I was thinking this week when mom and her husband were visiting and we were reminiscing on different things and talking about things that could have been and different stuff like that. And I don't if you know me very well, it becomes painfully obvious I'm not much of a handyman. I'm not I'm not very good at fixing things. In fact, when I fix something, it usually takes about five others to come in and fix what I fixed. And uh stalling around and said, you know, I probably could have been, if I'd have been trained in different things, probably, I'd probably be a great handyman But I'm not. But I'll tell you what I've tried to give myself to. I've tried to perfect sharing the gospel with the lost. I've studied that, and I've given my life to getting the gospel to unsaved people. And to be very honest with you, when I'm studying that Bible, I don't see anything more important than that. Now thank God for handyman. Thank God for good mechanics, like no not Tom. Um No, Tom's a good mechanic. What else what else happens when uh in fact you have need work on your car? See him. He'd love to work on your car for you. He's saying thanks, Pastor. When a word of God dwells in my heart, it brings closeness to the Lord. Now this sounds hokey to folks that don't understand it. But there's nothing like sensing the close presence of the Lord in your life. Now that doesn't sound cool by the world standards, and it isn't macho, and it isn't all that. But I tell you what, when you experience the presence of God in your life, leading you and directing you, the fullness that brings to your heart, the fulfillment and satisfaction, the purpose and confidence that comes. There's nothing like it. When I spend time in this word, there's so many kinds, and there's people all across this auditorium Could stand and testify. We got alone with God and God began to speak our heart, and it was like God settled down and was speaking directly to me. Am I right or wrong? Word of God. I want to challenge you this year. We're finishing up 2010. I want to challenge you this year. Take Colossians 3. 16 to heart. And let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. Give it access. Let it take root there. Let it have authority over you. And you'll see God give you a whole new perspective on life. You'll see a greater concern for others. He'll give you wisdom. And you'll see God working your life. I don't know if you're familiar with the name, Captain Blythe. He was captain of a ship out of England called the Bounty. Maybe you've read or heard about Mutiny on the Bounty. It's actually a true event. And there was a fellow that was part of the mutineers on the bounty that m not mutated. Led the mutiny against Captain Blythe. His name was, of all things, John Adams. There were nine men that led the mutiny. They failed Captain Blythe apparently was a very notorious, hard captain, but they led the mutiny against them and they failed. And I don't know exactly how it worked out, but these nine guys ended up on a little island called the Pit Cairn Island. According to my records, it says it's a tiny dot in the South Pacific, only two miles long and a mile wide. They were stranded there for ten years. They drank, they fought until only one man was still alive, John Adams. On that island lived 11 women and 23 children. I have no idea how they got there. But it was John Adams, a drunken, fight, hateful, mutinous man, eleven women and twenty-three children That's where the story usually ends in the books and whatnot. But the rest of the story, Paul Harvey Is that after a while, John Adams found among the the loot that they got off of their mutinous, uh off of the bounty He found in the bottom, true story, you can go to Wikipedia and find it. He found a Bible. A drunken, atheistic, adulterous man, hardened by years at sea, found a Bible And lo and behold, there's nothing else to do. He started reading the Bible. He got under conviction God saved him. He led those eleven other women to the Lord and taught those 23 children scriptures. The entire island was saved. And according to my records, as of 1988, that little island, every person on that island claims to know Jesus Christ as Savior. Hundred years later. Isn't that amazing? The power of God's Word. Listen, I challenge you this year. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. Let Christ have his way in your life. You'll be amazed. You'll be amazed what God will do. How different things will be. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray, Lord, you'd help myself and all of us to take the challenge to heart this morning. That we would commit ourselves. To give your word entrance into our hearts and lives on a daily basis this coming year, through the reading and through the preaching of your word, that it would have authority. And God, you can make us into the men and women you'd intend for us to be, that our homes to be what you intend for our homes to be. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, and I don't want you to do this for me. Please don't misunderstand. But I'm asking this morning for God's people Would you be willing to make the commitment and seek the Lord's help this coming year to commit to giving God's word entrance into your heart and life on a daily basis? Preacher, I'm going to commit myself. I'm going to ask God to help me. I'm going to do everything I can to spend time every day in the Word of God. Let it have access to my life and give it authority in my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, by God's Grace and with his help, I want to do all I can spend time every day in God's word this coming year. God bless you, hands all around Now listen, if just five people could get a hold of that, I think it would be a powerful, powerful thing If every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church commit themselves to let God speak to their heart on a daily basis with the Word of God, what a powerful thing that would be. How God can give us a fresh perspective on things, give us wisdom, protect us from harmful decisions and wrong paths. Maybe there's someone here this morning to say, Preacher, I've never been saved. I don't know for sure. If I die now, I'd go to heaven. You say, Preacher, I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. I'd like to know that I'm on my way to heaven. And you'd like for me to pray for you that God will help you settle that in your heart and life, just slip your hand up. I'll pray that God will help you. Is there any like that at all this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I'd like to know for sure I'm going to heaven. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I need to know that I've been saved. Pray for me that God will help me. Father in heaven, thank you for the hands that were raised. I can see the hands. God, you know our hearts. And I pray that you would help us. To follow through, to let your word have dwell richly in our hearts and lives. We'll give you the glory for all you do in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Kathy's going to play just a few verses of invitation. God spoke to your heart. Maybe you want to end up the year. At an altar saying, God, I want to give myself to you to be faithful in the Word of God, to let your word dwell in my heart and life richly. What a wonderful way to spend the last Sunday in the house of God in the year 2010 at an altar saying, Lord, here am I. God, I ask you to help me commit through this coming year that your word would take root in my life, that your word would dwell richly in my heart Lord, that you would give me wisdom and perspective, give me peace and a burden for others. How about it? Uh Well I'm not a question. Oh yeah. And I will So that's Father in heaven, thank you, Lord, for speaking our hearts. Help us, Lord, to follow through with these decisions and that your will be done in our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Thank you. May be seated. Yes, there's coming down as we'll take our offering up. While they're coming, we have a number of prayer requests. If you would remember Marie Taylor, this is Connie Vogel's mother, is not well. She was taken to the hospital Thursday morning, early Thursday morning. ICU She's in her regular room now, but very much needs our prayers. Um Steve's traveling back to his home, and then also Sam's flying out tomorrow out of Washington. So pray that the flights and everything go through uh there and that the fellows have safety in their travel. I know there's other family members traveling, so we want to remember that. Wilda Fitzwater needs our continued prayers. Mike Stubler needs our prayers And um so let's bring these before the Lord. Before we pray, just very quickly, uh just something came in the mail this week. I thought I'd share with the church we got a little uh envelope, no return address. There was a $20 bill in it. It said, this is not much, but please use this to spread the gospel wherever needed. Isn't that a blessing? Just a little thank you in the mail. And then uh on Thursday we got a uh a letter in the mail, had a check in it, thirty-five hundred dollars. So we praise the Lord for that. And I think probably we want to put that towards our radio station, is what I'm thinking. So we praise the Lord for it. And uh at times like this one of my favorite verses is go thou and do likewise But um let's pray. Tom, would you pray for us please? Heavenly Father, thank you all three beings in the house, Lord, thank you this message. Father, I just pray for wisdom for all Lord, that we'd spend more time in your word. Especially I need to get the wisdom of your word, Lord. We just ask that you would bless us with it. Father, we pray for a Marie Tale, Lord. We ask that you would You do with her, you strengthen her, bring her back to health, Lord. Father, pray for Wildo, Brother Mike. Others, Lord, not mention that we know we need your healing touch. Father, we just lift them up to you and ask that you You would heal them if it be your will. Lord, we ask now that you would take this offering and bless it for the firmness of your gospel. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. For any order you reasonables. All right, I just had two quick announcements for the teenagers. We have our sled riding event this uh January the eighth. So I encourage all young people to be there. It's all on Paul Harvey's farm. So if you need to break this out there, just give just see me. So that's January the eighth at twelve o'clock. I encourage you to be a part of that, all teenagers, I guess anybody who feels young enough to be a teenager. teenager and wants to go sled riding. So that's January the eighth. And also Teens Alive. We have Teens Live on Wednesday nights at seventh, so I encourage teenagers to come out. We'll have the message and we'll have our little prayer meeting. as well. And we're working on memorizing some scripture verses that have to deal with the Word of God. So I encourage you young people get out, be a part of this. And I look forward to see you then All right, if you have your bulletins handy, I encourage you to take some time, look through there, and notice the upcoming events. Things I want to touch on is this Friday night, it's New Year's Eve Love to have you come on out to church New Year's Eve uh uh service. It starts at 730. And uh Brother Jamie Lewis is going to be preaching, Brother James is going to preach And uh we have a bunch of refreshments and we're gonna play games and whatnot, bring in the new year with God's people in God's house. And I challenge anybody to grain with Scrabble, I'll cream you, I guarantee it uh Friday night. So come on out. Have a lot of fun together. Fellowship together. Wednesday we have our regular midweek service. Encourage again on that. Now tonight we have a real special blessing. Brother Chip Paul is and Vicky are heading back out on the road. They're with Beacon of Truth Baptist Ministries. And I was wanting him to preach some time before he got back out. And so tonight, Brother Chip's bringing a message, and uh as I said, they're pulling out. Frey and Betty are going with them. And uh how about that? Frey surrendered to the ministry. How about that Actually, he did, but uh actually they're going down to South Carolina and they're gonna be at the headquarters of FBN helping out down there and spending the winter down there where it's a little easier. So we're excited for them. So be back out tonight. Choir practice. Are we going to go choir practice at six o'clock? And uh come on out for that, men's prayer meeting at six thirty, and then of course the service tonight. Now, it's the end of the year and we always like to give out for the new year a little calendar we have. It's a daily Bible reading calendar. These fit