Chapter five, if you wouldn't if you're already there, um there's no doubt in my mind that God has been prompting our church the last couple months. prodding us to pray. With our series that we've been doing on Wednesday nights from the Sermon on the Mount We went at least two, maybe three months, that every message, and it wasn't by design on my part, I assure you, but every message was on prayer. How to pray, how not to pray, the significance of prayer. Last Wednesday was forgiveness and the importance of forgiveness so that our prayers are not hindered. And then of course here on Sunday nights as we're preaching through James, this last section in the book of James chapter 5 has been prayer, prayer, prayer. And so if you would notice James 5, and I want to read just uh the two verses here, verse uh 17 and 18. Says Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are. We noted that last Wednesday. He's just like us, no different. And he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months. And he prayed again. And the heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. As I said, I'm convinced God is prompting us to pray. And this is what I want to do this evening. We have Lord's Supper coming up in just a bit, in a few minutes. This is what I want to do. I want to make a few statements about prayer. I want to give you a few points In the message. And then I believe our church ought to pray. I believe we ought to s ought to pray. We need to pray for our country. Amen. We need to pray for our country. We need to pray for the children and the homes of these children that came through here this past week. They've got a lot of word of God that's been put in their hearts and minds this past week. Let's pray that God will use that and impact those homes. And let's pray for our church. Let's pray for revival. My message tonight, the title is this, The Power of Prayer. And it just notice here, it says, Isaiah, Elias was a man subject like to passions like as we are, and he prayed earnestly. And the weather was affected. That's the power of prayer. So let me pray, ask the Lord to bless. Now make a few statements, share a few thoughts. And then um and then we'll pray. Father in heaven, we come to you this evening. Our hearts are full after a busy week, hard work. and seeing results and seeing good decisions. And then today, what a blessing today, see the house of God full and folks baptized and decisions made. Lord, now as we finish out the Lord's day here in a moment with uh uh this message and then the the Lord's Supper, a little fellowship afterward, I pray our hearts to be stirred. I pray that we would be able to go into this coming week. Knowing that you're working, knowing that we're on right ground with you, and that you can bless us and use us and help us. Please fill me with your Spirit, I ask, dear Lord. Speak through me is my prayer on this subject. In Jesus' name. Amen. Genuine, earnest biblical prayer. And by that I mean prayer that actually changes circumstances. Prayer that is effective. Genuine, earnest, biblical prayer. Prayer that, as we noted here, alters the weather. Prayer that heals sick people. Prayer that brings revival to a nation. That type of prayer, that caliber of prayer. Prayer that breaks the hearts of hard, rebellious unbelievers Prayer that'll break that heart down, where they'll open their hearts and believe and be saved. That caliber of prayer. Prayer that reclaims a wayward child. Think of the prodigal son and how far he got from his father and from his God. And yet, nevertheless You came home. And the prayer that will return a prodigal child or maybe a spouse that's wayward, away from God, unsaved or backslidden or whatever. and the prayer that stirs that heart and brings them back to God. That's the kind of prayer. That caliber of prayer is not a trivial matter. When we pray, when as we study what the Bible says about prayer, and we see prayer that is powerful, that is effective. It's not something light. It's not something trivial, as I just said. There are conditions that need to be met There's faith that needs to be exercised if we're going to see those kinds of answers, if we're going to see that kind of power in prayer. There's conditions that need to be met. There's faith needs to be exercised. There's time and effort that needs to be invested into prayer if we're going to see Prayer of that caliber. I like what Ian Bounds said. Ian Bounds is a tremendous writer on prayer. If you can find any books on by Ian Bounds on Prayer, boy, get them. They are tremendous. He said this He said, no lazy saint actually prays any more than a cowardly soldier ever wins a battle What is he saying? He was saying if we just are not willing to invest the effort Into praying that God requires we are not going to see power in our prayers. There must be effort put in. There must be conditions met. There must be faith exercised. Delicate prayers have no impact on Satan's forces. Dull, lazy prayers do not move mountains. We cannot separate the power of prayer from purity of life. In other words, If my prayers are going to be effective, if there's going to be power in my prayers, my heart and mind must be pure. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord won't hear me. He will not hear me. My prayers are powerless. They're ineffective. They have no effect on consequence on circumstances or situations. So I cannot divorce. The power of prayer from a pure heart. I must have a pure heart. I must have a pure mind. You cannot separate the power of prayer from a passionate heart. I said this often over the years. I believe it. If I don't care, God's not going to answer. But when I'm passionate about it and I'm earnest, did you notice the word earnest, how it's used through here? Earnestly. Earnestly. I cannot separate the power of prayer from the price tag of time and effort. Here's the point I'm trying to make. Powerful prayer does not stand alone. It must be backed up by a life that's devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ, a life that is is lived by faith in God and committed to God. If I'm half-hearted in my Christian life, I'm not going to be My prayers are not going to be powerful. They're not going to have that effect. And so I cannot separate the power of prayer from the caliber of my Christian life. I'm talking to some folks, and you have a rebellious, wayward child. No doubt there's folks listening in through the internet website that have rebellious wayward children. Those those hearts, children like that, are not going to be turned back to God with lazy prayers. Some have overwhelming debts. And see no way I can ever financially get my head above water. Those needs are not going to be met by shallow, half-hearted praying. Some of us desperately need revival in our lives. We need revival in our homes. Our homes are spiritually cold. Homes are spiritually indifferent. And there's not, the revival is not going to come to our homes through just saying words, empty words being thrown up. We must be earnest. Somebody put it this way, if we're satisfied with unanswered prayers, then nothing is going to be done. But we get to the point where we say, I'm not satisfied with unanswered prayers. I'm not satisfied with the status quo. God has to do something God has to turn this around. Whatever the price is on my part, whatever the cost is, I'm willing to pay it. And when we get to that point in our prayers, then prayer becomes powerful. Becomes powerful. If we want to see the power of God in our prayers, we must take our Christianity seriously. Seriously. Now those are my statements. I believe them. They convict me. Now let me give you a few thoughts here, a few points in my message. Number one. I put this down. Prayer is not some abstract theory. It's not some idea that people came up with, kinda like they come up with this thing, I don't know, where this far east somewhere, but they come up with yoga and you just sit there and meditate and clear your mind. Oh Oh you know, that might relax you a little bit. It would put me to sleep if I did it too long. But that's some man's idea. Some man came up with this idea, we'll do this and that's some form of prayer. That's not prayer. Genuine prayer is God's idea. It is a very practical thing. It's a powerful thing. And I've used this illustration before, but I read years ago of urban India, you know, they have thousands of gods, tens of thousands of small g gods And one of them may have a statue, and as I understand it, as I read of it years ago, they take their prayers, they write them on a piece of paper, they'll wad the paper up, make it wet. wad it up and they'll throw it against the statue and the idea is if the prayer that little paper with the prayer request on if it sticks and stays on the statue then that prayer will be answered. But if it slides off or they miss, then the prayer isn't answered. Listen, prayer, biblical prayer is a divine arrangement between me and God. It's an agreement where I come into the very presence of God. And make my petition and God responds. That is where the power in prayer is. It's not just some theory that, oh, we're talking this. No, no, no. The world has plenty of that. I'm telling you, it has been proven prayer is extremely effective when we come God's way and we're willing to pay the price. We have a biblical record right here of the power of prayer. We're given the illustration of Elijah prayed, and the rain stopped for three years because of one man's prayer, a man just like you and I. And then he prayed again, and the rain fell, and the earth brought forth its fruit. We can read biographies of great missionaries, and John R. Rice has some amazing testimonies in his book on prayer about the power of prayer of practical real everyday effects of prayer We must not understate the effectiveness in prayer. We must not underestimate the power of what prayer is when we meet the conditions and we pay the price. Number one, prayer is not some abstract theory. I put this down. Number two, prayer is a core factor in the Christian life. God has designed the Christian life, the life of faith. God has designed it for prayer to be a core factor, a very fundamental of living the Christian life. When prayer is missing from my life as a Christian, when prayer is very shallow in my life as Christian, and it's just something, just a little ditty I go through. Just mumbling words, just kind of rattling something off. If that's all my prayer life is, then I can guarantee you this, that's all my Christian life is. Because prayer is a vital core factor in the kind of Christian I am. When prayer is missing or shallow the Christian life is empty, shallow and very frustrating. I think one of the reasons we have so many frustrated Christians, so many angry Christians, is because we have so many Christians who pray so little. Pray so shallow. Just empty. We don't get serious about coming before God, investing the time and meeting the conditions for God to do great works in our lives. Our country desperately needs God to do something. And until we care, more than just talking about it, more than just putting stuff on the computer about it. But I mean getting a hold of God, getting serious, and meeting the conditions, investing the effort. I don't think we're going to see much happen. Number three, there are only two limitations to prayer. I find two limitations to prayer And neither of these limitations involve God's ability to answer prayer. I want to remind you this morning, and we're going to be preaching on this throughout the summer on Sunday mornings, but I want to remind you this morning, our God is all-powerful. There's not a problem we have that God cannot solve. There's not a situation we we face that God cannot turn around. There's not a need we have that God cannot meet. And there's not a nation in the world that is so far from God that God can't turn it around and bring it back to where it ought to be. And there's not a church so dead and so cold that God cannot send revival. And there's not a child so far from God that God's arm cannot reach out and grab them and bring them back And there's not a heart so hard that God Almighty can't break that heart and humble them before Him and trust them and let His will be done. So the limitations on prayer are not on God's side as far as his abilities are concerned. With men, it may seem impossible, but with God, all things are possible. So what are the limitations? I see two. One limitation is God's promises. And what I mean by this. I cannot claim what God has not promised. Now I think this is important because we've got a mentality in Christianity today. uh among certain circles in quote unquote Christianity today where it's kind of a name it and claim it you just tell God what it is and God will do it. We have people claiming promises that God never made And so I cannot come to God and demand and pray and earnestly pray for things that God hasn't promised me. God has not promised me that I will be rich. I can ask them to meet my needs. I can ask them for things. But I'm limited to what God's promises are. So if I have a need, if I have a situation, find the promise from God. And claim that promise. And so God's, my prayers are limited to the promises of God, and they're abundant. But here's the second limitation. My prayers are limited by my willingness to meet the conditions. God's promises have conditions. We touched on this earlier in a previous message Matthew 6. 33. A lot of people take Matthew 6. 33 as their life verse. And it's a great one. I had it for a while in college. I claimed that verse. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. I'm here to tell you, God met my needs through Bible college when I had struggling to get week by week, day by day, God met my needs and got me through. But there's a condition there. Seek ye First, the kingdom of God and his righteous. And all these things will be added unto you. If I'm not willing to meet the conditions that God has given me in his word to have my prayers answered, I cannot, my prayers are limited. If I'm unwilling to do what God said needs to be done before my prayers can be answered, they will not answer them. God is under no obligation to fulfill his promises when I am not willing to meet the conditions. But when I'm willing to meet the conditions, and I say, God, I need you. And whatever it is you say I need to do to have you act, I am willing to do it. Prayer is not a trivial thing. Here's my question. And I hope you understand, I'm preaching probably at myself as much as anybody tonight. Prayer is not a trivial thing. Here's my question: how badly do I want God to answer my prayer? How many people, if we were sitting one-on-one in my office or somewhere, it's just you and I, if we were sitting there and we're talking, and I would say something like this to you, do you have one thing? Above everything else, if God never did anything else for you, you have one thing you would like, you want, you need, you're desperate for God to do. How many people would be able to answer that and say, preacher, like that I know exactly One thing I would like for God. Now I'm not asking you to tell me, but how many people say, yes, I have that in my heart? There's one thing. More than anything else, I want God to do it. I'm the same way. We have two. And we ask God every single night. Do this, God, do this. Here's my question is, how badly do I want God to do that? Well yeah, I'd really like for him to do this. Am I at the point where I'm willing to meet the conditions? Am I at the point where I'm willing to invest the effort and make whatever changes and exercise the faith? Bring this to God and pray that God will answer this and God would show his power and turn this thing around. Now that requires faith, it requires pictures. God doesn't always operate on our timetable. How many people here want God to answer that prayer tonight? Of course, that's the way we are. But we trust them and we have faith in them. But what we've got to get away from, we, what we have got to get away from, is trivial praying. Shallow praying, lazy praying. If anything's going to change, and we desperately need some things to change, we have got to take this matter of prayer seriously. Elijah prayed earnestly, and the rain stopped for three years. And he prayed again. And there ain't bell. What power! You know what that reminds me of a little bit? Jesus standing in the front of a boat in the middle of a storm and saying, peace, be still. That's the power behind that prayer that Elijah prayed. The power of God I can't find anywhere in my Bible, I cannot find anywhere in my Bible where that power is not available to you and I To me, well, I can go out and pray God's sovereign rain. No, no, that was instructed by God. That was a specific issue. But I'm telling you, in the areas where God has promised us, that same power is available to you and I. I'm convinced of that. So here's my concern. Here's the challenge that I've got in preparing this, and I'm communicating on to you. As let's pray. Usually, I found usually if something, if there's a condition not being met in my life, there's something out of whack, it doesn't take long to figure out what that is. God's Holy Spirit says, all right, Leatherman, here it is. Is this, you need this, this here, that is changed, this stop, this is start, this here, that and it doesn't take the Holy Spirit long. My struggle is taking it seriously. Alright, you're right, we gotta do this. Be serious about it. Um, and I I I hope this isn't that place. I don't think so. But for years I was overweight. significantly. You all know that. And I didn't really care. And I diet. Alright, I'll only eat two donuts. You know. And I toyed around, played around with losing weight. And the doctor told me to listen, you're gonna be in bad shape. And I got serious. And I said, all right, I can't horse around anymore. That same thinking we have to apply to our prayers. Alright, God, this has to change. I need revival in my life. I can't go on a carnal, dead, empty Christian. I need revival. I can't go on The situation the way it's God, I I'm gonna take it seriously. And we meet the conditions and we do what needs to be done, and God's power is in prayer. Am I making sense? So here's my thing. Let's pray tonight. We're going to go into Lord's Supper. Let's take this seriously. This is very serious. We're going in to follow up on Bible time. We're going into some big meetings later in this summer. We need God. Our church needs God desperately. And let's pray. Let's pray. That God will teach us to pray, that God will provoke us to be willing to do what we need to to get in that position where we have God's power in our prayers. If you're here tonight and you're not saved, good heavens, you need to be saved tonight. But let's pray. Amen. Father in heaven, I hope you can use this in my heart and life, in our church's life, individuals. I look around everywhere I look, I see needs, I see challenges in my own life. I look in the mirror and I see needs And so we're looking to you tonight to provoke us and turn us and do what needs to be done in our lives so that we can see the power of the prayers that you've promised so prevalently in your word. We want to see that and we need you to help us. Don't leave us alone, Lord. Don't let us be satisfied with shallow prayers. Lord, stir us to get earnest, as Elijah was. Let's stand together. Our heads bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's gonna play a few verses of invitation. And I don't know, maybe tonight we finish out the day, a week of Bible time. We're going into some big things this summer. Maybe God's people want to just kneel at an altar and say, God, I need you to do that. Give me that earnestness. God give me that concern that Elijah had.