John chapter number four, Pastor Matt read up through verse number fourteen. I would like to begin reading in verse number fifteen and read down through the end of this whole discourse between the Lord Jesus Christ and And this woman at the well that he meets at the well there. And so Pastor Matt read the first half of this event. I want us to pick up at verse 15 and read the second half. So if you'll follow along, verse 15 The Bible says, the woman saith unto him, Remember, Jesus had just said to her, I'm living water, I can give you living water, it'll be a well springing up within you to everlasting light The woman saith unto him, verse 15, Sir, give me this water that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw. Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband, for thou hast had five husbands And he whom thou now hast is not thy husband. In that sayest thou truly. The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me. The hour cometh when ye shall neither in this mountain nor yet at Jerusalem worship the Father. Ye worship ye know not what. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. But the hour cometh and now is when true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth For the Father seeketh such to worship him. God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. The woman saith to him, I know that m that Messiah cometh Messiah cometh, which is called Christ. When he is come, he will tell us all things. Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am He And upon this came his disciples and marveled that he talked with the woman, yet no man said, What seekest thou, or why talkest thou with her? Then the woman left her uh the woman then left her pot water pot and went her way into the city and saith to the men, Come see a man which told me all things that ever I did. Is not this the Christ? I want to speak this morning of the woman at the well. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you this morning. With very grateful hearts, Lord, what a beautiful, beautiful weekend you've given us. And now with the privilege of assembling together in your name as a body of believers on this Lord's Day morning I ask, Lord, that your presence would be here now with us. I pray that you would take some truths and principles from this event recorded in your word, and I pray you'd apply them to our hearts and lives as you know we have need. Father, you know us better than we know ourselves. And I ask God that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me and address those areas in our lives that need to be addressed. I ask, dear Lord, you would encourage those this morning that need encouragement. I pray you'd convict those of us that need conviction. Challenge us. Lord, prompt us to step forward in our Christian faith. Lord, if there's someone with us that does not know Jesus Christ as Savior, I ask that today would be the day of salvation. Again, I ask you to fill me with your spirit. I yield my will and present my body anew this hour. If you would speak through me, I'd just be a tool in your hand. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. My father's been with the Lord now about a year uh two and a half years. It's hard to believe. But he used to have something he would say every now and then that stuck in my mind. He used to say this, when you get up in the morning When you put your shoes on in the morning, you never know who may take them off at night. And what he would say with that, there's a lot of different things you apply that, but what he was saying was, you never know what's going to happen in a day. You never know what's going to take place in a day. When you get up in the morning, you have no idea what may happen by the time you go to bed that night. I was thinking about Moses. 40, he's raised there in Herod's, in uh Pharaoh's uh household. You know the story, the little ark, and the Pharaoh's daughter finds him. And raises him there in Egypt. He ends up killing an Egyptian. He flees out into the wilderness. And for 40 years, he's out on the back side of the wilderness watching sheep. Just living in the wilderness there, discouraged, no doubt, defeated, out in the wilderness. One morning he gets up, just another day, just like every other day. He gets up that morning and he's watching the sheep, and lo and behold, around the side of the hill, he sees some light gleaming, something burning. Makes his way over, and God speaks to him out of that burning bush, Take thy shoes off thy feet, the ground wherein thou standest is holy. And God calls him to lead Israel out of Egypt, and he becomes one of the greatest leaders history has ever known. Got up one morning, discouraged, out in the wilderness. By the time he goes to bed that night, his life is transformed. I thought about King David, just a young boy. Uh as a young boy, just taking care of the sheep, uh, just uh doing what his daddy says. He's got older brothers and One day a prophet shows up, gets up in the morning, just another day, got his chores to do, got his business to do, responsibilities That day a prophet shows up. He goes through across all his brothers, and finally they call out David, and that prophet anoints David to be king of Israel. He got up in the morning, just a shepherd boy, nothing different really. But when he went to bed that night, he was the anointed future king of Israel. What a difference a day makes. One day, David gets up in the morning, does his chores, goes about just daily routine, just another day, and his daddy says Son, the boys are out at war. Israel's at war with the Philistines. I want you to take some of these snacks and some of these food here. You take it out, you check on your brothers, get them these things, see how things are going Just another day, goes out there, he gets out there, he sees this guy, Goliath, and he hears him defying the nation of Israel, the armies of Israel, and defying the God of Israel. David gets stirred up and he says, somebody's got to do something. By the time he goes to bed that night, he's killed a giant and he's routed the Philistines and victory has come. Just a day. You never know when you get up in the morning. What the situation may be by that night. Proverbs 27, 1 says, Boast not thyself of tomorrow. And I like the last part of that verse, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. I got thinking about my salvation. May 7th, 1979. The day after my birthday. May 7 my birth my birthday is May 6th, just to mark that down there Got up that morning just a punk, sinful, nasty teenage boy, and uh took off work. We're out just my friend Denny and I just drinking and partying all day. hard drugs. I come in that night. I get in bed and God's working on my heart. Get my Bible out of all things and read my Bible for a little bit. Laid in bed there and thought, I need to get saved. I need to get saved. Slipped on my knees. Called on Lord Jesus Christ, come in my heart and be my Savior. I went to bed that night. I got up that morning, a nasty, dirty, drug addict, teenage boy, and went to bed that night, a child of God. I had no idea when I got up in the morning. Now God had been working in my heart, but I had no idea that that day would be the day of my salvation. I had no idea that when I went to bed that night, I'd be delivered from those sins. I'd have a new life. I'd have eternal life. I had no idea. What God was going to do that day. And I think of this woman here, woman at the well. She got up that morning, just a sinful woman. We're going to see here in a little bit an outcast in a lot of ways. She does her daily routine and does her chores and drudges out to the old community well out there. She makes her way out there. There's a man sitting on that well. She didn't know him. She didn't recognize him. Some Jew. She's a Samaritan. And as she approaches, he engages her in conversation. That conversation ends up changing her life. And when she went to bed that night, she went to bed a child of God. A new woman with eternal life. She had no idea when she got up in the morning what was going to take place in her heart and life that day. This our text here, this account of the woman at the well, I think is probably one of the most well uh well-known events in the uh in the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you've been around a Bible preaching church any length of time, you're familiar with the woman at the well, right or wrong So we know about this gal. We've heard of her. We know her story a good bit. And I'll be honest with you. I I got looking at this this week, studying it. And I came to this conclusion. I think, and I mean this, I think I can preach a thousand sermons just on this account of um of uh this woman at the well. Now I want to assure you, I'm not preaching them all today. Alright, but this is a rich, rich story. What I want to focus on in my message this morning is this. I want to focus on the conversation. And that's pretty much this whole account, but I want to look at the conversation between the Lord Jesus Christ and this woman at the well. The conversation on, I believe this conversation is one of the most unusual conversations in all of the Bible You think of different conversations in the Bible that are unusual, that stand out. I thought about the conversation between the serpent and Eve. Would you agree with me? That's pretty significant conversation. When the serpent comes and entices Eve to eat of the tree, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. What a conversation. You know, Eve should never have listened to Satan. I just want to throw this out there. Don't listen to Satan. Don't even listen to him. Uh don't listen to his music. Don't don't listen to his movies Don't read his books. Don't go to his websites. Satan is alive and well on planet Earth, and he'll be glad to engage you in conversation. uh whether it's through the uh media or through a book or some way, he will be glad to engage us in conversation. But I guarantee you anytime we get in a conversation with Satan If we're not careful, if we're not scriptural about it, he's going to beat us out every single time. And so the conversations in the Bible, I think of unusual conversations, Satan and Eve I thought about the conversation, I already referenced it, but Moses and God at the burning bush. I'm glad Moses listened to the voice of God. I'm glad Moses engaged God in that conversation. And out of that conversation, Israel is delivered out of Egypt. They become an established nation. in the promised land, and out of Israel comes our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. One man, listen to God. One man engaged God in a conversation. So here we have this woman at the well, and she's in a conversation with the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want us to notice several things about this encounter. this conversation. Number one, I want us to notice this was a planned conversation. This wasn't just a chance meeting. This doesn't was This wasn't just a coincidence that Jesus happened to be at this well while this woman showed up there. If you would, look with me at verse number four. And notice the wording here in verse number four. Jesus had been down in Judea and he's leaving. He's departing again to Galilee, kind of going back to his home area. And it says in verse 4, he must needs go through Samaria. I underscored in my Bible those two words, must needs. I got looking that up. That phrase must needs means it was an absolute necessity. This meeting with Jesus and the woman of will was not just a chance encounter. This was planned by the Lord Jesus Christ. I've got studying this route to get from Judea to G Galilee, and there are at least two primary road. There's at least two routes you can take to get from Judea to Galilee. Some suggest there are three. One's very obscure. Hardly anybody ever used it, according to history books But there were two others. The primary route to get from Judea to Galilee, and the most popular route, particularly with the Jews, was a much longer route. You would have to go way out of the way Um it was an easier route. It was level along the river there. It was flat land. It much a lot easier to walk and take cargo and and uh donkeys and whatnot Um and uh uh it was it was um uh the Jews would use this. The Jews would take this primary route, the most traveled route. It's out of the way, but it's a lot easier But the main reason the Jews took that route was they wanted to avoid the Samaritans. They wanted to stay out of Samaria. They didn't want to encounter any Samaritans. And we'll talk about why they did that here in just a moment. But the primary route to get from Judea to Galilee was this out-of-the-way route, this uh much smoother, easier to go route, and you're not going to encounter any of these undesirables You're not going to have to be around these kind of people, these Samaritans. So the Jews would take that. That was the primary route. That's when somebody was traveling between Judea and Galilee, you assumed they were going to take that roundabout route. Wait. However, there was a secondary route that was actually much closer. It was a shorter route, but it was more difficult You had to go through some wilderness areas, had to make some difficult terrain, and you'd go smack dab through Samaria. And if you're going this secondary route, there's no doubt you're going to run into some Samaritans. Sooner or later along that route, you're going to hit Samaritans. So it was the less traveled uh by the Jews. Jesus deliberately chose that secondary realm He deliberately went the more difficult and the less desirable route for a reason He must needs go through Samaria. Now when it says he must needs, when it's necessary, absolutely necessary, and that word mean that phrase means unavoidable It wasn't necessary and unavoidable because there's no other options. There was at least one other option, and that was the more popular and the easier of the two. But Jesus chose this one deliberately. He knew there was a woman there that needed the Lord Jesus Christ. This was a self-imposed necessity on the part of the Lord Jesus Christ. This was necessary if Jesus is going to encounter this woman. I think Jesus is making a very clear statement just in that one statement in verse 4 where it says he must needs go through Samaria. It's not, he doesn't have to because there's no other options. He has to for a reason of his own design. There's a woman there that he needs to see. And I think he's making a very clear statement to us, is this there is uh to he's making this clear statement to his disciples and through the scripture to you and I, and that's this There is nobody outside the care of the Lord Jesus Christ. Everybody else in the world may have hated these people. Everybody else in the world may have hated this woman. But Jesus' concern wasn't whether she was popular or not, or whether she was acceptable or not, or she was the right nationality or not. Jesus' concern was she was a person that God loved dearly. And he must needs go. He planned this. There's a woman that needs God. So he's making a very clear statement. No one is outside the love and I like what Dr. Sheldon Smith said one time from our pulpit here. He made this statement. He said, You'll never look in the eyes of someone who is not loved dearly by God. And I agree with that 100%. That's what Jesus is telling us here. I must needs go through Samaria. He's making a clear statement: no one is outside the love and compassion of God, and no one is outside the offer of salvation. You can find the lowest of the low, and the offer of salvation stands. You can find the high and mighty in society, and they are not outside the offer of salvation. This woman was important to Jesus Christ. This woman was of value to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'm here to tell you this. You and I, regardless of what our standing in society is, regardless of what our financial status may be, regardless of our level of education, regardless of the color of our skin, regardless of the standing in society. You and I are loved by God to the degree that he is willing to go to the cross and die for your sins and my sins. Nobody is outside the love and compassion of God. This woman was important to Jesus Christ, and this woman desperately needed what only Jesus Christ could give her. And that was salvation. So number one, I notice here, this is a planned conversation. He deliberately went this way and deliberately sat at that at that well waiting for this woman to arrive. Number two, I want us to notice this. Not only was it a planned conversation, this was a peculiar conversation. Now what does it mean if something's peculiar? Well, I looked the word up because I wanted to have a good definition, and it means what you think it means, unusual, something uncommon or out of the ordinary. The fact that Jesus Christ, the fact that Jesus Christ not only was willing, but deliberately determined to encounter and engage with this woman was a pretty unusual event for three reasons. Number one, it was unusual be that he would talk to her because she was a woman. You say, well, I don't understand why that I don't understand why that would be an issue. Why would it be unusual for Jesus to speak to a woman? Well, you've got to understand in that culture, women were little more than a possession, especially in pagan society. They were very disrespected. You didn't just walk down the street and just talk to a woman or greet a woman. That was unheard of. And that's, by the way, that's still true in some Muslim countries. Well women are very restricted. You cannot drive cars. You cannot talk to them unless you have permission from their husband. Very restrictive. And that's a little bit the way things were there. For a Jewish man to speak to a Samaritan woman would ruin his reputation for the rest of his life. I'm glad Jesus isn't concerned about his reputation. I'm glad Jesus was willing to save a teenage boy that everybody hated and was just a drug addict and punk. Aren't you glad Jesus loves sinners? In fact, one of his biggest issues in his whole ministry was the Pharisees condemning him for the people he associated with. And so this is unusual for a conversation, first of all, because Jesus is speaking to this woman of all things. Now, let me be quick to point out: Christianity has changed that culture. The Bible says, and we're taught, as Christians, we are taught that a husband is to love his wife like Christ loved the church. I'm telling you, you love your wife like Christ loved the church. She is, man, let me say this. Your wife is not your possession. She's your lover. You love her like Christ loved the church. Not just another piece of equipment. Jesus Christ and Christian, the Bible, the New Testament particularly, but the whole Bible, has elevated womanhood far above anything this world ever dreamed of. And so Christianity has changed a lot of that. A husband is to love his wife like Christ loved the church. Ephesians chapter 5 tells us that men and women are to be mutually submissive one to another. Sometimes these guys like to get on our horse and ride, oh, the woman needs to submit to the man. Did you know the verse just before that says, submit yourselves one to another? It's a mutual agreement. And then in Galatians chapter number three and verse twenty-eight As far as God's concerned, there's no difference between men and women, and God's eyes are equal value. They're equal standing So this concept in the Muslim world and in the pagan world back then that women were under men, of less value than men, were less important than men, is an absolute lie of the devil. So, nevertheless, in that culture for Jesus Christ to engage a woman in conversation, a Samaritan woman of all things in conversation, that was very peculiar. Very unusual. It was unusual also, second of all, because she was a Samaritan woman. You say, well, what's the big deal about a Samaritan woman? Samaritans were hated by the Jews. And the reason being was is during the captivity, remember Israel went into captivity. First the northern kingdom went into captivity to Babylon. with uh uh the the i Israel, the eleven tribes of Israel went into captivity. A little bit later, Judah went into captivity. When Israel, those northern kingdoms, when they were taken captive by the Assyrians, I should say, when they were taken captive Over a period of time, those Jews from that northern part of the nation of Israel, that northern kingdom of Israel, they mixed together with the Assyrians. They did not hold to the truths of God had given them. They did not hold to the true worship of Jehovah. And they merged and they compromised and they fuse together the pagan worship of the Assyrians. And the true worship of the true and living God Jehovah. They compromised in uh in uh in uh tragic ways They adopted their culture and they became what they would call half-breeds. They were half Jewish and half Assyrian. They were half the true worship of uh worshipers of Jehovah and half pagan. Some denominations uh in our world have done a very similar thing. Some quote unquote Christian denominations they would go into a country to uh uh send missionaries in there and rather than converting folks to the true uh gospel, to the Lord Jesus Christ, They would take their customs, they would take their uh traditions, and they would just merge it with Christianity and come up with uh uh uh a perversion of what Christianity was. I'll just say this, the Catholic Church is notorious for doing that. And so this is what happened with the Samaritans. They were half-breeds and hated by the Jews. The Jews considered the Samaritans dirty in every way. Just the fact that they were born a Samaritan, they were hated. Something they had no choice over. A little child born into a Samaritan home. Would grow up hated by the Jews for no other reason than that's what they were born as. That's what they were. Their character was not a consideration on whether they were respected or not. They could have impeccable character, yet because they're a Samaritan, they're hated. Their conduct could be above reproach in every way, yet simply because they were Samaritan, they were hated. They weren't judged on the quality of their character. They weren't judged on them as an individual person. They were judged solely upon what they were born into. And I'm here to tell you that is wrong. That is wrong And Jesus Christ completely pushed that aside and said, I'm going to go engage this Samaritan in a conversation. In fact, if you would, notice her surprise At Jesus talking to her. Notice there in verse number nine. Then saith the woman of Samaria, then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou being a Jew askest drink of me? which am a woman of Samaria. For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. She was shocked That this Jew would even talk to her, let alone ask her for water. Didn't matter what her character was, it didn't matter what her conduct was, it didn't matter what the condition of her heart was, she was hated by the Jews. simply because of what she was born into. So number one, this is a peculiar conversation, first of all, because Jesus is talking to a woman This is a peculiar conversation, second of all, because she's a Samaritan woman. And I see a third reason this is peculiar is because she was what we might call a fallen woman. If you would notice with me verse number seven of John chapter 4, it says that Jesus on the well about the sixth hour, that's probably about noon. Verse 7, there cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water. Do you notice she's coming alone? It's kind of an unusual thing for a woman to go to the well alone. Could be dangerous. But nevertheless, she's coming out here alone in the middle of the day. Generally, they would come out of the mornings and the evenings to get water, but she's coming when no one else is around and she's coming by herself I'm telling you there's a reason for that. If you would come over to verse number 16, and Jesus points out something for a purpose about her life. And about maybe what you say, what kind of person she was. If you would notice in verse number 16, Jesus said to her, Go call thy husband and come hither. It's a legitimate request. Nothing out of the ordinary there. But notice her response. The woman answered and said, I have no husband. That was true. And Jesus points out and said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband, for thou hast had five husbands. And he whom thou now hast is not thy husband, and that thou sayest truly. One thing we see about this woman, at least in that culture. She would have been considered a fallen woman. She'd been with a lot of men. She was pretty good at getting married, but she was terrible at staying married. She knew how to entice the men, and she knew how to win the men's hearts over. She was pretty skilled at her trade there, so to speak. She would be what would be considered a loose living woman. Can I just say this? There's nothing good about sin. Whether Samaritan, Jew, or American, there's nothing good about sin. Sin condemns our souls. The wages of sin is death Uh sin corrupts our heart. You read Psalm 51 when David committed adultery with Bathsheba and how that corrupted his heart and How in Psalm 51 he pleads with God to have mercy on him, to restore a right spirit within him and create in him a clean heart again. And sin had taken David, the man after God's own heart, and corrupted his heart, and made his heart and mind so dirty. He came to the Lord to find cleansing. I'm telling you, nothing good comes from sin. This dear woman had made, can I just put it this way? This dear woman had made a mess of her life She had made such terrible decisions and lived such an ungodly lifestyle. Here she is, alone, a Samaritan Coming out to the well in the middle of the day. Sin crushes our joy. David, after his sin, he cried out to God, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. There was a day when Jay when David was happy going to church. There was a day when David had the joy of the Lord in his life. There was a peace there, and there was a deep-seated joy in his life. And sin took that all away from him. You say, God, I want that back. I don't want that back. Sin condemns our soul, it corrupts our heart, it crushes our joy, and it confuses our witness. Now here's the thing, you get a Christian and start living in sin. A person claims to be saved, and a person claims I'm a Christian, I love the Lord, but they're living in sin, it puts a confusion up about their witness. You alright, girls? Okay. And we need to be very, very careful. If we're going to be a witness for the Lord, if we're going to win people to Christ, our life needs to match our lips. And so I'm just injecting here a real caution to be careful. Sin is an awful thing. Nothing good ever comes from sin. And this dear woman's life was eat up with sin. And so Jesus engages her in this conversation. It's very unusual that a man, a Jewish man, would be doing this. First of all, she's a woman, number one, a Jew wouldn't be talking, a Jewish man wouldn't be talking to woman. Of all things, a Samaritan woman. And then a Samaritan woman in this condition. In this condition. So number one, it was planned. Jesus planned this out. He has to go up through here because there's a woman there he's going to talk to. It's very peculiar that he would talk to her for these three reasons, but I want us to notice thirdly the purpose of this conversation. There was a reason for all of this. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 10 He had asked her for water, and she goes, How is it that you, being a Jew, would ask, drink of me, a woman of Samaria? And Jesus answered and said unto her in verse 10, If thou knewest the gift of God, aha! This is what he's about. If thou knewest the gift of God and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. Well, that picks her interest. And notice how she responds. The woman saith to him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. From whence then hast thou that living water? Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well and drank thereof himself and his children and his cattle? She's getting a little snippy with them. Do you catch that? Oh, who do you think you are? You're going to give me living water? You don't have anything to dwell with. And so she's kind of being a little uh snippy here with them. And he answers her, and he said, verse 13, Whosoever drinketh of this water here in the well that you're talking about, they're going to thirst again. You can drink all this water you want, you're going to end up back here. But, verse 14, whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him. So now he's counting her. I'm not talking about literal physical water here. The water that I shall give them shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give them shall be a well of water springing up into everlasting life. You know what Jesus' purpose was? He wanted her to know that God cared about her, and that God could forgive her sin, and God could give her a new life, an eternal life That was the whole purpose of this whole conversation. She was a value to God. She could be forgiven, and she could have new and eternal life It's interesting here Jesus talking to this fallen woman of Samaria, and he's talking to her about the gift of everlasting life, the free gift of salvation. Free gift of forgiveness, the free gift of a new life here on earth and eternal life in heaven. He's talking to this fallen woman about it, but if you go back to chapter three, or chapter three There he's talking to a completely different person. In John chapter 3, he's speaking to a very wealthy man. If you would, come on back there. Chapter 3, come a page back. He's counseling this man who comes to him by night. He's a very wealthy man. He's a very respected man, and he's a very religious man. Look at verse 1. There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God, for no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. Do you see a difference in his approach to Jesus and the Samaritan's woman's approach? This man, Nicodemus is being respectful. He says, we know you're from God You're a teacher from God. Nobody can do what you're doing except God's with them. The Samaritan woman is saying, oh yeah, who do you think you are? Oh, where are you going to get water from? Well you you uh you you're older you know uh you're older than our forefathers? What in the world? Two whole different approaches, two whole different attitudes And Jesus says, And so this guy, Nicodemus, he's a ruler of the Jews. He's wealthy, he's respected, he's religious. But notice what Jesus says to him, verse 3: Verily, verily I say unto you, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Because you may be very wealthy, Nicodemus. You may be very respected. You're a religious man, there's no doubt about it, but you need to be born again. You need to be saved. He goes on and gives a lengthy conversation about the new birth and what it means to be saved. And he ends with and then he includes that tremendous statement in John 3. 16, For God slowed the world, He gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. But everlasting life. Nicodemus was religious, but he was lost. He needed to be saved. He needed to be born again. God loved him and wanted to give him eternal life. And now, in John chapter 4, we have the exact opposite type of person. It's a very sinful woman, despised, an outcast. And yet she can be saved too. I hope you see where I'm trying to go with this. She can have eternal life too. She's valued and loved by God. I'm here to say this. God didn't love the rich, respected, religious man any more than he loved the poor, outcast, despised woman. God loves, regardless of what our standing and status in life is, regardless of whether we've been successful in life or we totally failed. God, we are a value to God, and He loves us, and He offers salvation to all. I thought about, when I was studying this, Nicodemus and this woman at the well, kind of thought, and forgive me for being a little personal here, but I thought about my father. I doubt my father wasn't a rich man, but he worked hard. He was financially stable. My father was very respected in the community. My father was very religious. He went to church faithfully, read the Bible, believed God. He was baptized as a young man into the church there. He's a very religious man. But in 1970, when I was 10 years old, in 1970, dad began seeking the Lord in earnest. And he realized that he was religious, but he was lost. And he needed to be saved. Down in the basement of our house where we were living at the time, I was, like I said, just a ten-year-old boy that had fixed up the basement into a like a den area. We would call it a man cave today, I guess But he had that all fixed up, and down there one night, late at night, he got on his knees beside the sofa down there, and he called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be his Savior. And I'm so glad God saved my daddy. Fast forward nine years, my daddy's son wasn't respected by anybody. Financially, he blew all his money. Every penny he got went immediately into drugs and drink and fornication. His whole life was lived in debauchery. Late at night, that boy knelt by a bed and called on the same Jesus. And believed the same gospel, that is respected daddy believed, and God saved the boy just like he saved the daddy. And God saved Nicodemus, a wealthy, respected, highly respected man in the community. God saved him the same way he saved an old fallen, a dear fallen lady God is no respecter of persons. God is no it isn't our status in society. It's not It's not uh uh what our financial status may be. It's not whether we've succeeded or failed in life. We are loved by God. We all need to be saved. We're all saved the same way So I see this is a the purpose of this conversation was to bring this lady to the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm glad God saves sinners, aren't you? The drunk on the street, and the rich in the palaces, the poor and unlearned, and the men of degree. They all have a soul in need of salvation, and they all have to come by Calvary. I'm so glad that God saves old sinners. I'm thrilled and amazed how He sets them free. But the biggest surprise in redeeming old sinners is that he would save an old sinner like me. God wanted this woman to be saved. Nobody else cared about her. Nobody else, in fact, people tried to avoid her. Jesus loved her and he went to her. And last of all, what's the product of this conversation? Notice with me if you would, verse 25. The woman saith unto him, I know that Messiah cometh, which is called Christ. When he is come, he will tell us all things. Jesus said unto her, I that speak unto thee am He. The woman then left her waterpots and went her way into the city and saith to the men, Come and see a man which told me all things that I ever did. Look at her last statement: Is not this the Christ? She believed that Jesus Christ was the Savior. She believed that He was what she needed. She received Christ as her personal Savior. God didn't give up on her, and she was arguing with him all through this conversation. Jesus didn't give up on her. He kept on engaging her, kept on engaging her. And she's trying to argue with him. But he spoke very kindly and very directly to her. And he won her to a saving faith in Jesus Christ. And then if you would, notice verse 39. And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman which testified, He told me all things. He told me all that I ever ever I did. And when the Samaritans were come to him, they besought him that he would tarry with them, and he abode there two days. Unthinkable for a Jew to do that. Jesus loved them And notice, and many more believed because of his own word, and said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying, for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this indeed is the Christ, the Savior of the world. Two things happen. One, she received Christ as Savior, and number two, she starts reaching others with the gospel. God had a purpose. I think God's waiting. Maybe you're here this morning. God's waiting for you. Maybe God's working in your life. Jesus Christ put everything in place for this woman to come and meet him at that well. And I look back on my life, just a testimony, I look back on my life before I got saved, and I can see now how God was working, putting people in place, setting things up to the point where I needed to trust Christ as Savior. I'm here to tell you, if you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven. I'm here to tell you, God is working in your life, whether you realize it or not. And he's trying to get your attention. And he's trying to engage you and get you to consider your spiritual standing, your spiritual well-being. So uh God is working there. God is trying to get uh your attention, God is active. Sometimes I'll ask folks when I'm out witnessing and talking to people. Uh just a couple weeks ago I talked to a fellow and I said um I asked him, I said, Do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? And he goes, Well, I think so, I hope so. And we began talking. I asked him this question, has God, has has things been happening in your life recently to make you think About God or the Bible or religion, about heaven and hell. Has anything been happening in your life? He says, you know, there has been. So-and-so died. I'm telling you, God's working in people's lives right now. Yesterday we gave out a lot of tracts at the uh fair before the parade We went a gabe out of gazillion tracks. I tell you what, we had those little smiley face tracks. Everybody know what I'm talking about? The ones we got, the yellow ones, little ones You get smiley face tracks and about five girls that are about six, five, six years old, there ain't nobody turning those tracks down, I'll tell you right away. Little girls walking up. I mean ladies, everybody took them My wife and I had devotions last night and we were praying together and we prayed for those tracks and I thought, wow, you know Last night there may have been somebody while we were praying sitting in their living room or sitting in a car reading that gospel, plan of salvation. And God had us go down there and give little gospel tracts out. There's somebody that needed that message, somebody that needed Christ, and he put everything in place just for it. God's working in people's lives, I have no doubt about it. God's working in your life. God wants to deal with our sinful past and our sin. He wants to He wants to make things right in our life. He wants to, and he can. I can testify to that. God can take the mess that we make of our lives, and if we'll trust him and believe him and do what he says He can turn that thing around and make something out of that life. Doesn't matter how bad we may have messed up, doesn't matter how low we may have gotten. Our God is, nothing is impossible with God, and He can turn it around. And God wants to use you. God wants to use you. There was a little boy in Chicago years ago, and he was walking down the street. He had a big little big Bible under his arm one Sunday morning. He passed by a couple fellas standing there and they watched the boy walk by and they said, Hey son, where are you going? He said, I'm going to church. I said, where are you going to church at? He told the name of the church and the fellow there, the stranger, said, Son, that is a long way off. You're walking all the way to that church, it's a long way off Why in the world would you go that far to go to a church? The boy looked at the man and said, Because the people there love me. The people there love me I tell you what, we can have we can have the right doctrine and I think we should We can have all our theological ducks in a row. We can have the most beautiful buildings and new auditoriums and new activity centers. We can have the shiniest, cleanest buses in the county. But until we start loving people like Jesus loved that woman at the well, we're just sounding brass and tinkling cymbals. We need God to give us a heart for people, rich and poor, young and old, red and yellow, black and white. Just caring for people like Jesus Christ cares. Would you pray with me on this Autumn Glory Sunday that God would give us a heart for others? That love that Jesus Christ had for this dear woman would be shed abroad in our hearts. We can just share the gospel with folks and see them saved off our bus routes. off our door-to-door, whatever, our daily lives, just that God would use us. Father, we ask now that you'd help us to learn from this woman at the well. I just see this great love that you have for mankind falling in sin, and the opportunity and the hope you give us through faith in you. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. I've got that settled. I really need to have a love for others like Jesus had. I want that in my life I want to care and be able to share Christ in a genuine way, regardless of what the other person's condition is. Anybody like that, preacher, I want that in my heart. I want the love of God to be shed them upright. God bless you all around. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I'm so glad God loves someone like me. I'm so glad that God's patient and willing to accept me when I trust in the Savior And love me as I am. Is there any like that? Preacher, I'm so glad he loved me. I thank God. I just can't get over it. Can't get over it And maybe there's some here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know that I'm saved. I don't know for sure my sins are given on my way to heaven. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. Any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get my salvation settled. Any at all. The church can't save. The baptistry can't save. Only Jesus can save a soul. We need to come to Him. Come to Him. Maybe there's some area in your life as a Christian that's not what it ought to be. Why don't you make that right today? Trust the Lord. Let Him have His way. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's