Matthew chapter sixteen and verse thirteen When Jesus came into the coast of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? They said, Some say thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, others Jeremiah, one of the prophets. He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjonh, for flesh And blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say also unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. We'll pray, and then um the message this evening, um I've just titled it, The Church Wins. The Church Wins Heavenly Father, Lord, again we just thank you for this day you've given us, Lord, and we thank you for this opportunity we have to come here and uh assemble here together, Lord. We're very, very grateful for that. Lord, we ask now that you would um just be in the rest of the service here, Lord. I ask that you would um just kind of take over me, Lord, and fill and just I want your filling with the Spirit, Lord. I need power to say the things that you want said So Lord, I ask that you would just kind of get me out of the way here and take over, Lord, and that you would uh you would bless uh this service and it's in Jesus' name. Amen. We'll pretty much be saying most of the time here in verse 18. Keep your Bibles handy because we'll be going to a few other passages. But the church wins. I like to win. I don't I don't know, um I I mean I guess this is probably most people. I I don't like to lose at at all Um I I got very good at losing when I was in high school. I played ball my junior and senior year. In my junior year we went uh with a perfect record, a perfect losing record We went oh and ten. It was great. It was great. And then uh it made the next year so much more meaningful when we won one game. And man, I I know what it's like to win a football game. A one football game. Um but uh anyway, I like I like to win. Um and what's funny is I ended up playing in college for a couple years and my first year of college we didn't win one game. I think it was me. I think there was something to that. But I I didn't like losing. Um I d I don't I don't like I like to win. I I get kinda competitive. Um some of you know that. And then when I do lose I make up reasons and excuses why I lost This is what I that's not a good quality I guess. But anyway, I think most people are like this way. We like to win. Uh we don't like to be labeled a loser by any stretch of the means Um you understand what I'm talking about. We have some very competitive y uh young people. Uh we have some very competitive teenagers. Maybe that again that's just part of the territory of being uh a teenager, I don't know, but uh if that's the case I haven't grown out of it yet. I'd like to win. Um in fact, I like so much to win. If I think I might lose, sometimes I just don't play. That's just how I am. Um But I I that I like to win, right? And um I I like to prevail and I see I see here it says in verse eighteen Jesus said, uh thou art Peter, upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail. So the so the gates of hell won't win. Which means that we win. I like this. I like this. And right off the bat, that's that's the title. The church wins. Alright, I might have lost every single football game I ever played. I won one Uh but I'm on the winning side right now. Uh I love it. I love it. And I I I have assurance of this. I have proof of this I'm gonna win. I'm on the winning team. And I like it. Now let's get some a little bit of background here, uh, what's going on. Um it's a shame we have to even bring this up, but but that's that's what we have to do. The verse here says I say also unto thee that thou art Peter upon this rock, I will build my church. This does not mean that the church is built on Peter. Uh that's not what this is saying. Uh uh and we know uh a certain religious group likes to claim that. Um I'll tell you later afterwards, but they're they're Catholics. And um and I don't mean to pick or anything like that, but um that's that's what they go to for that. And um I don't again I don't mean to be unkind or mean, but that's not what this verse is saying. It's very clear. And that's why I read the first uh few verses before that. Verse 16, and Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ. This is the statement that the church was built on. On Christ. The church is built on Christ, right? And now we need to define what the church is. Now There's um the three little things I want to give here real quick and then we'll get into the rest of the message. This is all just background here. But uh what is the church? Now we know the c the the the the saying and it's true the church isn't a building, it's the people, right? And that's true, right? The church isn't uh mortar Stone and wood. No, that's I'm glad we have that. I'm glad we have air conditioning, praise the Lord. But if we didn't have air conditioning, we we could still have church, right? Uh a few weeks ago we had a service out there. It was wonderful. Um we had church, right? Uh so we we know that. The church is not the building. Um There the there's a couple w things I want to point out here. One, um, is there a universal church? Well well yeah, okay, and I'm not saying that, you know To get rid of the local church, there's a local church. We'll talk about that in a second. But there is a church throughout the world, right? There's different individual local churches, local called-out assemblies. But there is the overall church. One day Christ will call the church up. We'll go to the marriage supper of the Lamb. I'm still trying to figure out what we're going to eat there. I think it's oysters though, because of the the Pearl Gates I don't know. And by the way, those that it's gate it's a gate of pearl, right? Not pearls. Not many pearls for one gate anyway. So that's a big voice. Anyway. So there is a church collectively as a whole, but there's also, and this is very, very important, there is a local church, a local called-out assembly of believers. Right? So there is a local church. That's what we are. We are the local church. Okay? And those of us that have assembled together, Uh we're a part of the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Okay, we're we're here together, right? Um Yes, at the rapture, all the local churches all over the world, and people that aren't even members of churches, but they are saved and they're the bride of Christ, they're going to go up with the rapture uh with the rest of us, right? Amen. So there is a universal church, sure, but there's a local church. Okay? And that's really what we're going to focus on tonight: the local called-out body of Christ, the local called-out assembly of believers. And I'm so very glad I am a member of this one, of the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Guys, I don't know if you realized it, but we got something special here And um just in our pastor alone. He oh man, he is such a uh I love him. I love him. I don't know big enough words to say how much I like him, but he's awesome. Okay. And we have something special here. We have something special here in the in the people too. Like Mark was saying, man, we all just get together and and it's we're not where's Mark? Where is he? There all the way in the back. Back row Baptist, I love it. Uh but uh I mean w w we weren't there was no are you in yesterday, there was no it wasn't like a normal work zone. We we were were Brothers, you know, or brothers is just something special here. I love it. I'm glad I'm a part of this called out assembly. But I uh I believe um uh that's what we're gonna focus on the most tonight is the local church, right? Now there's three points uh no there's more, there's five. Sorry, there's five points I have. Um don't worry, the message this morning I had four papers. I have one. Okay So this pro just hang on, okay? I have five points real quick. I'll give them all to you, and then we'll come back and look at each one. That helps me sort through things that way. Number one, the church has the best foundation. The church has the best foundation. Number two, the church has the greatest builder. The church has the greatest builder. Number three, God will build. God will build. Number four, God will keep it. God will keep the church And number five, God's church wins. So we'll go back and we'll look at this first one here. The church has the best foundation. Go to 1 Corinthians, please. 1 Corinthians chapter 3. And verse eleven. For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the foundation of the church. Um on uh Wednesday nights uh down in youth group we've been going over um Baptist distinctives and what makes us different and things like that. Not not so we can force people to be Baptists, but so people can decide for themselves, right? But we've just been going over those things. But anyway, I'm saying that to say this. We were we we looked at a few weeks ago what we base everything off of. We base everything off the Word of God. We base everything off of Jesus Christ Jesus Christ is the foundation. I am not a Mason, I am not a builder or anything like that, but I don't have to be to understand the best foundation we can get is Jesus Christ. Different organizations build on different principles, right? Um you'll have you'll have good intentions, you'll have different uh organizations um throughout uh any given town or even schools or sports teams or or what have you, whatever. But people have um something that they're building on. People have a foundation uh what the basis of their uh organization is, right? Um Ours is Jesus. It's what we base everything off of, right? Jesus is the foundation. And it's the greatest foundation. One reason the church is going to win is because it's the greatest foundation. If the foundation be destroyed, what can the righteous do? Remember that verse? If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? Ours can't be. You can't destroy God, right? You can't destroy Jesus Christ. So we have the best foundation. The church has the best foundation. Um remember that song you used to sing as is as a kid or used to sing with the kids in children's church? Uh the wise man built his house upon the rock. Wise man built his house upon the rock. The wise man built his house upon the rock. Let me remember the rest. I'm not going to keep saying it, okay? But um and the foolish man builds his house upon the sand, right? We know it's wise and we know it's foolish. It's wise to build upon Christ. Um the past few weeks Pastor has been talking about uh the the stone, the cornerstone. Uh and uh man, that's been a fun study, hasn't it? But that's what the church is built on, Jesus Christ. Not a man, not an idea, but it's built on Jesus Christ. So number two has the greatest builder. As the greatest builder. Again, this is Jesus Christ. He's the one that builds it. He said, Upon this rock I will build my church. Um we have a lot of builders in here. Um that's that's that's you what you do. And um I don't know anything about it. I I I have a hard time like nailing two by fours together. I I I do. They they'll they'll fall apart. So then I'll just flex seal them. Right? Um Anyway. But um I'm not an I'm not an uh expert builder. I don't know anything about it. Okay? Now that being said, there's a lot of people in here that are great at it. Um there's there's several men in this church that I'm gonna ask to build me a house one day. Um but until then you won't know who it is. But um anyway, I'm getting off subject. Here's the point No matter how good of a builder we are, you can't find you can't come up with a architectural structure, you can't come up with a blueprint, you can't come up with a design any better than than Jesus can. You can't I mean we look at the the detail that's done on a building. Um I used to read uh when I when you know a few years ago I I sold plumbing supplies and one of the things I'd do is read the blueprints to tell how much piping and how many toilets and stuff like that I had that to to bid a job for like a a building. Apartment complex or whatever. And so man there's so much detail. I had no clue what the rest of it was. I knew about like pipes, okay? And that was it But there's so much detail that goes into a blueprint for a building. How much more detail goes into the things that God builds, right? I mean we look at you look at the structure of a of a human Oh man, detail like crazy. Okay, with that being said, God is the best builder. Jesus is the best builder, and he's the one that builds the church. Which tells me this, no matter w how hard we reason, how hard we plan, whatever we do, if we're doing it without God, it's not going to get done right. Right? Jesus builds the church. Christ builds the church. And he's the best builder we can get. Right? So the first thing there was um Church has the best foundation too. The church has the greatest builder. Now the third thing, God will build it. I love this. Go back to the text here in Matthew chapter 16. Uh Give me just a second there, and I'll catch up with you. Matthew chapter 16, verse 18, of course. And I say also unto thee, thou art that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will I circled the word will build my church. That's a fact. That's a guarantee. He will build his church. He will build his church, right? You can take that to the bank, I guess is what I want to say. It's a certainty that he will. We need to understand this. It's not the pastor's job to build the church. It's not the staff's job to build the church. It's not even the church members' job to build Turks It's God's job to build the church. Now He's given us a job, right? Go into all the world to preach the gospel. Right? It's our job to do our job, but God's going to do his job. He will. It's a certainty. He will build the church Um and I I I find a lot of comfort in that. Because if it was up to us to do it, we wouldn't be able to do it But he's doing it. And and and you look at what I mean just what's happened over the past year. I mean there's been some chaotic stuff happening. I mean we didn't even have an in-person service for what, seven, eight weeks, something like that. And yet the the church was full this morning. You can't explain that other than God builds his church. He builds it. And he will build it. Go to Acts chapter 2. We are just supposed to do what we are called to do, and God will do what He said He will do. Tell others about Christ, go soul winning. Maybe some of them will join the church, maybe some of them won't. But if if our motive for soul winning And our motive for sharing the gospel with someone is just to beef up numbers for the church. We got the wrong motive anyway. Right? Let let God take care of building the church, but you go do what God's called you to do, right? Soul winning and things like that, sharing the gospel. Okay. Um where did I tell you to turn to Acts 2? Acts chapter 2. Let me catch up with you here. In verse uh 47. Uh look at verse forty six. And they continued daily with one accord in the temple and breaking of bread from house to house. To eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church. The Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. So here we see in verse 46 where they're going door to door. They're preaching, they're getting the gospel out, but but who who does Acts attribute to the building of the church? It's God. And we understand this, and when we get to the point where we think that we're doing something without God, we're mm-mm It's God that builds his church. Right? And we we get that. Okay. Um so that's number three. It's a certainty. And Acts chapter 2, verse 47 shows us. Number four, God will keep it. God will keep his church. Again, go back to the text in Matthew chapter 16. In verse 18, upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. He's gonna preserve his church. He's gonna keep it. It's all it there's always gonna be a local body believer somewhere. Until he takes us out of here. There's always gonna be a local called out assembly somewhere. Might be underground, right? Might be in hiding. Might be real big, out in the open. But if there there's gonna be a local called out assembly somewhere. Uh there always will be. He will preserve it. Just like it's not our job to build a church, it's not our job to preserve it. I'm glad it's not. Um I grew some tomato plants, I tried to. And um I ha I grew 'em from a seed, right? Put 'em out on on the balcony and all that. I forgot to water 'em for like a while, right? I'm not good at preserving tomato plants. How good do you think that we would any of us would be at preserving the church, right? It's God that does it. Um He will preserve His church and I can find great comfort in that Um God will preserve it. Now, we're going to spend some time on this next one. Number five. God's church wins. So we see our the church, what you're a part of, what I'm a part of, it's got the greatest foundation, has the greatest builder. God is building it He is going to preserve it, and it wins. The gates of hell hell shall not prevail against it. The church wins. Nothing is going to stop there from being a church somewhere until we're raptured out of here. Right? Now churches may move, location. People pass off and go on, and the churches might be a different makeup, sure. But until until we're raptured out of here, there's gonna be a church. A local church where believers meet together, sing together, pray together, and the Bible is preached He promises this. The gates of hell will not prevail against it. We see a lot of attacks on the church. And I'm talking across the world. Right? I mean w we're not facing huge attacks here on the church. We're facing some. But man, you you go to some of these other countries. Man i it It's not good. Um but the church is here There's local churches in those hostile places. There's local churches. There's believers. Now I'm not saying the whole world's reached. That's why we've got to raise up missionaries, right? Because most of the world's not reached. But God's people are here. There is a church. That's what the point I'm trying to make. Right? And and God's church wins. The gates of hell will not prevail against it, no matter how bad the attack is. Now, of course, someone has probably pointed this out to you before. I'm not the one that uh found this or came up with this or anything like this, but it says the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Um that means that hell's on the defense, right? And we're on the offense because that's where the gate is. Gates of hell will not prevail against it. I think that's interesting. But Um if the gates of hell prevail aga won't prevail against it, then crazy people trying to attack the church won't either. I don't know of a nicer way to say that. Um but there's people that are uh try even in this country trying to attack the church. We see that. We mentioned that this morning, you know, people burning Bibles and stuff like that. It gets me irritated beyond measure But they're not going to win. They're not. They're not going to win. And we see examples of this throughout history. Um we see now that a virus won't prevail against the church. It's a hell won't the virus won't, right? We're here, right? We're we're gonna be here for a little while, okay? If the the that if the gates of hell won't prevail, virus won't prevail, right? Government restrictions won't prevail against the church. Might get irritating But the church is going to be here. We're here, right? There's other churches that are meeting. There's some that still aren't, but there's they are in some fashion, or however they see fit. It's up to them. But um if the if uh i we look throughout history where the where where things have happened, like Nero, he tried to kill the church off. Uh he tr tried to kill the Christians off with the Colosseum and things like that It didn't work. In fact, it uh spread the gospel faster, right? Guys, the point I want to make tonight is we're we're gonna win. The church wins. We you know the song I'm on the winning side, I'm on the winning side, you know what I'm talking about? We are. And I I get excited. Right? Because we see we see you know we see riots, we see violence, we see uh people uh you know just uh attacking God, attacking the church and not just here but across the world, and and it could get kind of um saddening, get kind of depressing, right? But don't get don't get down, because you're on the winning side. The church will prevail. It'll prevail against the gates of hell, it'll prevail against uh a virus or government restrictions or um you know whatever. Um Hitler tried it too. Remember? He he he got together, burnt all the Bibles, made it, you know, try to get rid of Christians and Jews. Um it didn't work. There's still believers. People have tried so many times to get rid of Christianity. You can't get rid of it. It's not possible. It's not possible. Now, there can be attacks and there can be persecution, but um don't let that get you down because you win. Well ha well what happens if I end up losing my life? Alright, that probably won't happen here, but it could. Okay, what if it did? Well then you win. Heaven's a win, people. You understand that? That's a win. You mean I don't have to live here? I can live there? That's a win. I I I I kind of want to just be encouraging tonight and share these few points with you. I don't really have a whole lot, I guess, but um guys, we're on the winning side. And if you haven't trusted Christ as your Savior, then you're not on the winning side, but you can be Right? Like I said, the the like okay what happens if something happens and we do die? Alright, we go to heaven. If you don't know Christ is your Savior, you can't say that You don't know Christ is your Savior, you have not accepted him and you died, your alternative is hell. And that's not a win. That's a major lose. So be a winner. Trust Christ as your Savior, right? But um man, we're on the winning side. I hope this was encouraging. Just a few things as well for way of application, real quick. We see we see chaos. So I know I'm on the winning side, but how how do I get through tomorrow? How do I get through tomorrow? One, just trust God. Because he told you that you're going to win. Gates of hell will not prevail against the church. Just trust God. Okay? Trust him. Number two, stay in church. Stay in church. Alright, with all the chaos going on, and there's a lot of it, we need this. I I I need to see Dave's face. I need to see Garrett's face. Alright? We need interaction with other believers. We need fellowship. It's uplifting, it's encouraging. We need preaching from the Word of God. We need pastor to come up here and give us some encouragement. Right? And bring some conviction where needed as well We need we need this. We're gonna win, so what do we do in the meantime? One, trust God, two, stay in church, and three, do what you know is right. Him that knoweth to do good, it doeth it not to him is sin. Okay? If there's something you know you're supposed to be doing, do it. Share the gospel. Share the gospel. Witness. Learn how to do it. Get good at it. Practice it. Okay? Do what you know is right. Tithe. Come to church. Read your Bible. Oh, please just read your Bible. Pray. Earnestly, fervently. Country's in a mess. It's okay. We win. I mean really, we win. Well what it what if, you know, someone gets elected that takes everything away? Well, we still win I hope this was encouraging. It was to me a a much shorter message, I guess, but I j I just want I just want everyone to to understand that if you trust Christ as your Savior, you're a winner. You're a part of the local church, you're a winner. So let's praise God. We don't have to get all down and depressed every day because we're watching the news. Right? And you watch the news long enough, you will get down, right? But rejoice. I know whom I believed in. I'm persuaded that he is able. To keep that which I've committed on him against that day. Hey, I'm I'm excited. I am excited. Why? Because I am on the winning side And if you know Christ is your Savior, you're a winner. The church wins. Gates of hell won't prevail against us. Heads bowed, eyes closed for just a moment. Just a couple questions. Um How many of you would say, you know what, God's dealing with my God God's dealing with me about something like God spoke to my heart about something. Could you slip your hand up? God's dealing with me about something. Man, you can put your hands down. How many of you would say this, you know what, I I don't know that I'm on the winning side. I don't know for sure that if something happened to me, I'd go to heaven. I don't know that I have that win, but I'm I'm interested in In this. I'd like to know this. I'm concerned about my my eternity. Could you pray for me? That's you. Could you just slip your hand up? I just want to pray for you. I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. Could you pray for me? Okay. Now if if you could just stand to your feet please uh for just a moment. Still no one looking around. Uh heads bowed, eyes closed. If if God's dealt with you tonight Maybe we just haven't been grateful that we're on the winning side. I don't know, whatever it might be. If God's dealt with your heart, you know, I encourage you to do business with God. The invitation's open.