Exodus chapter number three is where we're at. We started this last week and actually I've been for about three, four weeks now. We're just picking up in the middle of a message and just kind of working our way through. Um it's uh Moses' call, God's uh calling Moses, and it actually we began back in chapter two, if you remember. where we had the preparation of Moses for this call. He spent those 40 years in Midian. We spent a good time on that. Then the last part of chapter 2, verse 23 down through 25, we noted the purpose of the call. Israel was crying out to God in their bondage. And the Bible says that God heard their cry and he remembered his covenant. So we had the preparation of Moses for this call God's going to give him, and then we had the purpose for it, is Israel's Crying out to God, their bondage there in Egypt. Now, what we started last week, if you remember, we started the particulars of the call. In other words, we're looking at exactly how God called him. And we're given quite a bit of detail here about God calling Moses to lead Israel out. So we'll pick up in verse number one. We've already looked at some of this I'm going to read down through verse 6. Alright? Notice verse 1 it says, Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law. the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the back side of the desert, and he came and came to the mountain of God, even Horeb. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. So the angel of the Lord appears, flame of fire. And uh he's in this bush. And behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. It's curiosity's picked. He got his attention. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to seek, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses. And he, Moses, said, Here am I. And he said, Draw not nigh hither, put off the shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground Moreover, he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. the particulars of this call that God extends to Moses. Let's pray, and we'll pick up here tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you for this passage of Scripture that you give us a fairly detailed account of your interaction with Moses initially, and then all that follows is just amazing. So I pray that in this portion that your Holy Spirit would open our eyes and our hearts, our minds, and we could see some truths here that would help us be the people you want us to be. And Holy Spirit, only you can do that. You have the mind of the Lord, and you can reveal to us your intentions for recording this and how it applies to us. So, Father, I yield myself to you again tonight, my will, my mind. I present my body, and I ask that you would take your Holy Spirit and dwelling me and fill me And preach your word and teach your word through me as my prayer. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We pointed out last week, just to briefly recap, that God's plan for Moses' life is starting to take shape now. Up to this point, no doubt, he could have been uncertain what in the world is going on in his life. He had it figured out that He was going to deliver Israel. He knew the promises, apparently, that he had been taught as a child by his parents that God was going to bring Israel out of Egypt. And he got in his head that he would be able to overthrow the Egyptian government, lead them out. Well, we know how that turned out It was failure, total failure. The Egyptians hate him. Uh the the Hebrews don't trust him, and so he flees for his life forty years in the Midian desert. And so I would assume at this point He's thinking, I'm done. There's nothing I can do for God. I'm done. Well, God wasn't done. Sometimes we may think we're done, but God wasn't done. Well I was going through this a little bit just kind of reviewing I thought uh you know I'm coming up on anniversary. It was actually last Friday, I believe, four thirty-two years ago, I preached my first sermon as pastor here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And I was going over that Moses thinking that he was done and God said, I'm not done with yet, I thought about our church. You know, when we were back thirty-two years ago, we thought maybe God's done with the church, but God wasn't done. And I'm glad for that So uh so here's Moses. And uh God's his plan God's plan for his life is starting to take shape. Now if you remember we pointed something out, and I just want to pick up a little bit here First thing God does in this call of Moses out of the Midian, he's going to send them back to Egypt. He's going to use him to bring the Hebrews out of Egypt, establish an entire new nation, never existed before And they're going to do all that. And so the first thing God does is he gets Moses' attention. And that's the whole purpose of this burning bush, is to get Moses' attention. He's preoccupied perhaps with himself and with the sheep and his family. And if you notice there it says verse 3, Moses said, I will now turn aside and see This great sight, why the bush is not burnt. And so God gets his attention and uh brings him over there. We pointed out, if you remember, we pointed out the place. It's the back side of the desert, the mountain of God. In a little while, God's going to give the Ten Commandments and the law to Moses on this very same mountain. But now he's being called. So we noted the place where God got his attention, and the person, and the particular way that he got his attention. And uh there's something I wanted to bring out there, and I want to make sure I'm not going uh missing this. Uh okay, we're gonna get to that. So then God, first of all, he gets his attention and uh He does that. He attracts Moses' attention. Then God announces his purpose. Look at verse 4. And I'm trying to remember where we ended with this, but it says, And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses, he said, Here am I. And then he goes on, he says, Draw not nigh hither, put uh uh put off thy shoes from off thy feet, and he went he goes on there And I think we pointed out the significance of the fire there. It represented God's presence. And then this is what I wanted to get to, God's call. The Lord called out unto him in the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses Now it's interesting that God speaks to Moses after he gets his attention. Here's the thing I wanted to touch on. This is what I want to make sure I covered. It wasn't enough. This burning bush, as as amazing as it was, and as miraculous as it was God needed to speak to Moses to communicate his message and what his purpose was for his life. He does this event. There's this amazing thing that takes place. It gets Moses' attention, and then God speaks to him. And the point I'm trying to make here is this. I wrote it down this way. Symbols and experiences do not confirm spiritual realities. Only the word of God confirms spiritual truth. Now, this is what I'm trying to say. Just seeing this amazing thing Moses wasn't left to himself to interpret what God was trying to tell him. Moses wasn't left to himself to try and figure out what this means. God spoke. He had the word of God to tell him. And here's where we have to be very careful, and I would like to think that our church folk are careful about this, but it's very, very prevalent Where people will say, well, God showed me this and I saw that and I had this experience and I had this vision or whatever. And then they say, Well, this is what God was saying to me. Listen, an amazing thing. God may use a dream God may use an event or an unusual circumstance to get our attention, but he speaks to us through his word. You follow what I'm saying? And God does this amazing thing, and it gets Moses' attention. But God's not just going to leave it up to him to try and figure out what this burning bush means. God's going to speak to them very clearly, very plainly. God will get our attention through maybe a dream. I've had people say to me, I had this dream. What do you think it means? Well, I don't know what it means, but I know what the Bible says. And so our we know what God says through the Word of God. And we have to be very, very careful about experiences and dreams and stuff like that. Um God was not leaving it up to him, as I said, to speculate whether this was of God or not. God spoke to him. I had a fellow year, many years ago. passed away. I did his funeral uh many years ago. But he came in my office one time and it was a weekday, called me up, said I I uh something's bothering me. Can I talk to you? I said sure come on in And we went in there and sat, and he was a friendly fella, and uh he he was saved, I had no doubt about it. He didn't attend church, but I'd known him for quite a while. And uh he said, something happened to me the other day that really bothers me I said, okay, what is it? He said, I was taking a nap, I was laying on the sofa, I was taking a nap, and I had a dream. And he said, in my dream, I saw the sky was open up and it was all clear, beautiful blue sky And he said, Jesus, and I have no doubt he had this dream. He said, I saw Jesus come down approaching with his hands out. And he said, when I looked up to Jesus and kind of gestured up towards him, all these clouds came in between Jesus and me, and Jesus closed his hands up, and I couldn't approach him. And he says, what do you think that means? I said, well, I don't know. He says, this is what I think. He said, I think Jesus is rejecting me. I think Jesus is turning me away, and he's saying, no, he doesn't want anything to do with me anymore. I said, well, let's see what the Bible says. And we went to Matthew where it says, He that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. I said, Now you know the Lord is Savior, right? And he goes, Yes. And I said, uh you trust him, he dwells within you, you're a child of God. All that's established. And he says, well, what does this dream mean? I said, well, to be honest with you, maybe you ate pizza at lunch. It may just be a dream. And he says, well, no, I'm sure this was of God. This was of God. I said, all right, now we have a dilemma. The Bible says God won't turn you away. Jesus won't turn you away. He won't reject you. Your dream seems to you at least suggest that Jesus is rejecting you. They can't both be right. Either the dream is true and is of God and He's rejecting you, He's turning you away, or the Bible's true and Jesus would never turn you away. I said, which of these two events do you think is true? They can't both be true. Only one of them could possibly be true. Which one do you think it is? He said, well, the Bible's true. I said, bingo And he said, Well, what does this dream mean? I said, I have no idea what it means. That's what I said. You know, it may just be a dream, it may have no meaning at all. But I know this When God speaks to us, he doesn't leave it up to our speculation whether he's speaking to us or not. He speaks to us very clearly through the Word of God. And so we have to be very, very careful. Now he might use something, a dream or experience or some strange weather formation to get our attention. And make us think about God and think about our spiritual well-being, but he is only going to communicate to us through his word. You with me? You follow me? That is vitally important. We understand that. If we start interpreting all these events and all this stuff and trying to come up with what God is saying, I tell you there's several problems with that. Number one, our mind is very limited and we have a corrupt, sinful nature. Our understanding can be very wrong. Do you ever have something you thought it meant something, you looked at it, and later on here it meant something else? Yeah. We're very limited. So it leaves it too open to misinterpretation An experience. And the other thing is, and I don't have the reference, but if we would go to Revelation, we find that in the end days, Satan will use wonders and miracles to deceive people. In fact, if I remember correctly, this is 25 years ago probably or more, but if I remember correctly, this fellow I said, you know If what you're thinking this is saying is contrary to Scripture, we know it's not of God. I said, there's one other source that this could be from. He said, You think the devil gave me that dream? I said, it's a very real possibility. To discourage you and defeat you. And so the devil can do amazing things, and he is a counterfeiter And remember right all the way back with Adam and Eve, the very first thing he did was undercut the Word of God in Eve's mind. And if he can use some sort of vision or a burning bush and replicate that and counterfeit that to get us off track. So the point I'm making here is if you notice God got Abra uh got uh Moses attention through this burning bush, but he didn't leave it at that. God spoke to him And the word of God came, so to make it very, very clear. And so I think it's very careful. We need to be very careful. So God is announcing his presence. He's saying, Moses, what you're seeing is of me, basically I have a message. I got your attention. We have some bitch business to transact here, so to speak. And so notice God's call. The Lord saw that he turned aside to see. God called unto him in the midst of the bush, and what's the next word? Said, are you there in the middle? God said, there's the word of God. That's what he uses. He said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here am I. Again, it's after he has his attention to speak to him. And God uses unusual events to get our attention. And then so he can speak to us. The miracles of Jesus Christ. Jesus would do a miracle, great crowds would come. And then he'd preach to them the Word of God. He'd preach to them the gospel. He'd teach some significant truth. He'd go somewhere else. He would heal a lame man. Great crowds would come. He'd get their attention And then he communicated to them truth. And we see that all through the Gospels, miracle after miracle after miracle. The purpose of the miracles were more than just make that person's life a little better, although that was no doubt part of it. You know, he could have healed everybody. He did. It's very selective, very certain was. Why? Because he was getting attention. He was confirming Old Testament prophecies so that he could communicate who he was. So God uses different things to get our attention. Paul on the road to Damascus Right? Bright light shone, blinds him. He said, Who art thou, Lord? God got his attention. God intervened. Jonah and the whale. Right? Jonah's fleeing from God. God sends a storm. He's getting his attention. They throw him overboard. And God sends a whale. Do you agree with me? God knew how to get his attention. Good night. And so God will do these things. He'll do things to get our attention so that he can speak to us. I thought of my father. Uh very good man. I talked about him a lot, I know, but uh very good man, religious in church, just kind of doing his thing, not far from perfect, that's for certain, but um but there was trouble in the home. It got daddy's attention Began seeking the Lord. He found Christ and God changed his life and through him me. And so God will allow things and sometimes God will do things to get our attention. If you pay attention, when you're reading through the Gospels, Jesus has a little statement he liked to say. And he repeated it numerous times. He would say this He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. You know, he's saying, he that will pay attention to what I'm saying. And he would often say that after a miracle or after something. All right, I got your attention. Now, have ears to hear. Listen to what I say. Listen. You know there's a difference between hearing something and listening to something, right? I know about you, I have the radio station on the background just all the time. And so I hear it, I'm here it, but I'm not always listening to it, right? And sometimes God will do something to get our attention so that we listen. We listen. chapter 3 and verse 20, it said Jesus makes a statement to the church there. He says, Behold, I stand at the door and what? Knock. He that heareth me, my words, and open the door, I'll come in with him and sup with him, and he with me. So, what is that knocking at the door? What's Jesus doing? Getting our attention. And then we decide, am I going to open the door? Am I going to let him come in and make things right? And he's actually talking to state people there, actually. Are you going to let me come in and make things right and get things right and be in fellowship with each other or not? But he gets our attention. And that's what this whole burning bush is. Is the Lord knocking on Moses' door, so to speak. And getting him to pay attention. Notice there in verse number four, he says this. It says, And the Lord saw that he turned aside, and God called unto him. I got looking up that word cause. I do just about every word. And it means this, I thought this was interesting. It means to summon loudly. It means to summon. What's it mean if you're summoning someone? You're what? You're calling them, you're inviting them, you're getting their attention. And the word there, what it comes from, emphasizes the fact that this is very loud. And it's used in cases where there is great authority This isn't just a little, well, if you like to, come on, Moses, hey, you know. This is loud. It's with authority. It is a commission. It says, and uh God called unto him out of the midst of this bush, these things burning. It's probably a very large bush, this thing's burning. And out of the midst comes this loud, authoritative verse a voice. Moses, Moses. He wasn't going to miss this. This is very clear. God's calling Moses to himself And that's an interesting principle through Scripture. Before God sends anyone out, He calls them to Himself. He wants Moses to come to Him and submit to Him and understand who He is and what He's capable of. and his authority. And then once Moses understands that, then he says, all right, I'm going to send you out. Same thing he did with the disciples He called them to himself, come follow me. And then later he says, go ye. And so God always calls us to himself before he sends us out. A submission to the Lord always precedes service for the Lord. And we're going to see here as we work our way down through, there's some things taking place that Moses has to get straight in his head. before God's going to be able to use him in any significant way. There has to be submission. There has to be a uh uh uh humbling myself before the Lord and obedience to the Lord before I can go out. and serve the Lord. Jesus put it this way. He said, Follow me, and I will make you fishers and men. Do you notice he didn't say, oh, I'm going to make you guys a fishermen. First they've got to do what? They've got to follow him. And that's what God is doing here. He gets Moses' attention. He calls him to himself. There's an experience here that takes place. Moses is gonna, we're gonna see here in a bit. He humbles himself before the Lord. He submits himself to the Lord, and then God is able to use him in a great way. Here's our problem a lot of times, I think in our churches, Lord willing, not so much in ours, but I It's there, it's very prevalent throughout Christianity, is we want to serve God, but we want to do it our way. We want to serve God. Oh, I want to have this position. I want to do this and I want to do that for the Lord. And maybe we're very sincere in our desire. To serve God and do something for Him and all that. But before we can do that, we have to submit to His way. It's not just what we do for God, but it's how we do it and why. And so mo God's getting all this straightened out in Moses' heart and mind before he ever sends them down to Egypt. All these things have to be in place before they ever get sent down to Egypt. And it's true for us. I don't know about you, I want God to use me. Anybody here feel the same way? I want my life to count for Jesus I want God to use me, bring other people to Christ, and help people grow for the Lord. But I have got to be close to the Lord, and I've got to be submissive to the Lord if He's ever going to be able to do that And that's what's happening to Moses. That's all part of this call here. He's calling Moses to follow him. And then notice there again in verse 4 at the end. When he calls Moses, do you notice anything interesting about that initial words from the Lord? And it says, look at verse 4 there. God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Do you notice anything interesting there? I'm trying to get your thinking caps on. He says Moses twice. Now I don't think he did that because Moses was hard of hearing. My wife has hearing aids. She sent them in to get repaired, and it's been a couple of weeks, and we haven't heard she hasn't heard anything from them about where those never mind. But uh so he says He says, and remember, this term call means loudly, authoritatively. And so out of this burning bush comes this thundering voice This call. Moses. Moses. Now why in the world would he say his name twice? It wasn't because Moses is hard of hearing. Believe me, when God says something and he wants you to hear it, you're going to hear it. There's some significance, I believe, to the Lord using that term twice, his name twice. I believe it's deliberate. I don't think he's just saying it It's a uh he's doing this deliberately, and uh there's several reasons that possibly he is repeating this name. And by the way, this is not unusual on God's part. One reason he may have said Moses, Moses twice, or used his name twice, is he's indicating to him the seriousness of this call. Moses, Moses. The urgency of it. This isn't some casual thing that God is engaging in conversation with Moses. This is very serious. This is very urgent. Every time you go through the Bible, if you'll study this, and I have, and it's fascinating, every time God repeats a name. It results in some some dramatic turning point in that person's life. Every time he says their name twice. And he uses other terms. You get to the New Testament. Jesus would make this statement. See if you don't recognize this. Jesus would do this. He would say, verily, verily I say unto you, anybody ever notice that? Why don't he just say verily, I say unto you? Why don't he just say, I say unto you Why? Because the statement he's making, he wants to emphasize the fact that what I'm the statement I'm making is very serious, is very urgent. And he says, Moses, Moses. And immediately, it's very clear in Moses' mind now what's about to transpire, this message he's about to get is incredibly serious and incredibly urgent. And so he uses this term twice. Every time, every person in scripture that God does this, it's an urgent issue in their life at that point. Something's going to happen. We won't take time. I'd like to, but we're not going to take time. But we could go through back in Genesis 22 and verse 11. We won't go back there. But this is where Abraham Has been instructed by God to take his son Isaac and go up in the mountain and offer him up as a sacrifice. How many folks are familiar with that event? Sure. I mean, would you agree with me? Pretty serious issue. I mean, this man of God is told by God to offer his son as a bloody sacrifice. And without hesitation, at least as far as we know from Scripture, without hesitation, Abraham trusts God, he believes God, and he obeys him. And he makes this journey up on the mountain. He gets the altar together. We're told in Hebrew or he in Revelation or Romans, I believe, uh that Moses uh that um I'm getting all these names In Romans, we're told that Abraham believed that God would raise him up. I believe it's Romans That God would if he did this, God would raise him up because that was the son who God promised his offspring would be through. So whatever he's doing, he's not dead forever because God already made this promise. So regardless, it's very, very serious And he's about to strike the knife down into the chest of his son Isaac, and God calls out, Abraham, Abraham, twice. Twice. Would you agree with me? Life and death situation, pretty serious? Yeah. Yeah. Uh we go through here in In Genesis chapter 46 and verse 2, Jacob's making his way down to Egypt. He's found out Joseph is still alive. The family's going down there. He stops off at Bethel and he offers some sacrifices. I think Jacob's just trying to make sure, God, are you sure I should go down here? And God and as he's offering that night, God appears to Jacob and he says, Jacob, Jacob Fear not to go down there. I'm with you. There's a turning point in the life. Everything changes from that point on. They never come out of Egypt until here, 400 plus years later. Samuel, anybody familiar with Samuel as a child? Samuel, Samuel, in the middle of the night. Samuel misinterprets. He thinks it's Eli. He runs over to Eli. What do you want? He said, I didn't call you, go back to bed. Samuel, Samuel. He runs over to Eli. Eli, what do you want? And he says, nothing. I go to bed. And um Samuel, Sam, and he goes back, and finally Eli figures out that's the Lord speaking to you. And Samuel is giving a message to Eli, a very, very difficult message, and it's basically his call to be a prophet. And we see this all through Scripture. Peter. The Lord said, Peter, Simon, Simon, Satan had desire to sift thee, but I prayed for thee. It was a turning point in Simon's life. Satan was going to sift him, derail him. And the Lord said, No, I prayed for you. Um, Pause on the Damascus Road. And so we see this over and over and over. This dual name using the name twice. And so he says, Moses, Moses. I think he's indicating Moses What we're doing here is serious. It's urgent. But I think it also indicates that God to Moses that God is aware of Moses. I know you. You're not just a name to me Moses is not just being sent back to Egypt on his own. I think the it communicates here, and it this bears out later on, that the Lord's going to be with him Moses, Moses. It's a little bit of a personal, intimate method of communication to use his name twice. And so the Lord's going to be with them. I think it's very similar to the Great Commission. Matthew 28, go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptize the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost. And teach them to observe all things whatsoever I command you, and lo I am with you always. And so this use of these two names is very significant, saying his name twice. And so God calls him and God's going to be with him. I put a few thoughts down about this call. Everybody doing good? Everybody with me? God's call If you study throughout Scripture, when God calls someone, it's never to an easy task I tried finding in Scripture somewhere where God called someone, male or female, whatever, go through the kings uh the history of Israel and throughout all of Scripture, I can't find anywhere where God calls someone to just some easy little task. It's always challenging. It's a lot of times it's dangerous. Without exception, it's a very difficult thing. Usually, God's call to these people is going to involve hard work. It's going to go to hard places. Jonah, God calls him to where. Nineveh, the most ungodly people on the planet at the time, violent, vile. In fact, that's what his struggle was. Go to these people God's call is never to an easy task. It involves usually hard work, hard places, hard people. Do you ever read Jeremiah? God calls Jeremiah. He says, I'm going to put my words in your mouth. And he said, Their faces are going to be hard against you, but don't pay any attention to their faces. You just keep on preaching. You just give the message I've given you. Don't you pay any attention to how they respond? And, brother, how did they respond? They threw them in prison. They threatened to kill him. They have starved them. Accused them of all kinds of things. And he had bouts of discouragement with them. God's call is never to an easy task. I think it's important for us, and we want to try and serve God, and we want to try and live for God, we need to understand we live in a world that is opposed to everything this book stands for. And we are going against the grain. And we are never going to be the heroes. We are never going to be the darling of the world. God's call is never to an easy task. At some point. I believe this with all my heart. At some point, the will of God and the need of people for the gospel has to take priority over our comfort and our convenience. This world is never going to be reached until we're willing to be uncomfortable in serving God. Are you with me? Until we're willing to be inconvenient. Serving, here's a good statement for you: serving God in a fallen world is never convenient. It's always combative. There's always a spiritual warfare involved. And at some point, we have to get to the point. We have to make the decision. Doing God's will and reaching people with the gospel is more important than me being comfortable, than me being safe and secure in my little hut. The nations of the world are never going to be reached with a gospel by people who are comfortable doing nothing. But God calls people. He stirs their heart. And they step out in faith and they serve them even when it's hard, even when it's uncomfortable, even when it's dangerous. They serve him. The call of God. And at the same time, the call of God is never without his presence. He doesn't call us to some difficult thing. He doesn't instruct us to go into all the world, preach the gospel in places that are difficult, places that are hard, and then just send us on our own. He says, I'll be with you, I'll be with you. Though God's call is to hard places and hard tasks, it's never without his presence. It's never without his power. And by the way, it's never without pleasure. You say, yeah, well if I serve God and I get involved in soul winning or whatever and people, you know, it's going to be hard and it's going to be uncomfortable You know, I'm just going to be miserable. No, no, no. There's a joy that comes in serving Jesus. In spite of what the world does, in spite of the difficulty of the task There's a joy. You know, pastoring a church has its ups and downs. You know, you can be a hero Sunday morning and be a goat Sunday nothing. You know, everybody loves you one week and everybody's mad at you the next week. But you know there's a peace when you sit, say, God, I'm in this. God, I'm sorry, you call me, I'm committed to it. Lord, I'm yours. You use me however you see fit. And you know there's a joy there, there's a pleasure almost there that comes to our heart when we know we're in the will of God. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Understand? Say, well, you know, every way it works mad at me. Yeah, but if I'm right with God, there's a peace in my heart I would rather be serving God in the middle of His will and the whole world hate me and have the peace of God and a peace of mind. That I know I'm doing what God wants than to have the whole world love me and be out of the will of God. And so God's call here to Moses, Moses, this is not going to be an easy job And God's assuring him, I'm going to be with you. I'm going to be with you. I thought about Adonairam Judson. Anybody recognize that name? Great missionary to Burma, Myanmar today Back in the 17, late 1700s, early 1800s, he buried two wives on the mission field when he left England. When he left and got there, he buried two wives over there, didn't come home, stayed there, buried several children. Two years he was in a prison, and if you read the accounts of what that prison was like, it was unbelievable, filthy, just hard to imagine. Went through such severe doubts, bouts of depression, where one time he literally dug his own grave Or he got so down, but he stayed faithful, and he knew it was God's call, and God's presence was there. Through all of that, he pressed on, he ended up translating the entire Bible into the Burmese language. And in the end, thousands and thousands and thousands saved. Churches that are still there today, the influence still felt today. God was with him, a hard call, difficult, wasn't comfortable. But God said, I'm with you. And he stayed there in spite of all that. God used him in a great way. William Carey, David Livingston, Hudson Taylor, we go down all through these. John and Betty Stam, we don't hear much about them, killed by the Chinese during the Boxer Rebellion, I believe it was Martyred, shot in the back of the head for faith in Christ. But they were there in the will of God. And their testimony, thousands went to the mission field when they heard of it. Jim Elliott and the Alka Phi. And gave their lives. Tough, hard work, dangerous. They lost their lives. But God raised up thousands of missionaries. Some are still in the field today as a result of their faithfulness. And so God's calling Moses. Moses, Moses, it's going to be a hard job. It's going to be difficult. It's going to be dangerous. But God says, I'm with you, I'm with you, I'm with you. And I tell you, in the presence of the Lord, there is fullness of joy. And it's worth it. It's worth it. And then we have Moses' response, and I think I'm going to end there. And we'll pick this up next week, Lord will, and but how Moses responded, and there's profound Truth in that. Look at the last part of verse 4. He says, And he, Moses, said, Here am I. There's a lot to learn from that statement there. So let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, That you would help us, one, to hear your call, help us be willing to let you get our attention. God, when you speak to our hearts, Lord, maybe through a message or through devotions or something on the radio or some way, you speak to our hearts about something you want us to do. And you press on us very clearly. Your will in serving you, I pray you'd help us to trust you and be willing to give up our convenience and our comfort to step out and be used of you to make a difference. I want her with heads bowed, eyes closed, I want her to some say, preacher, I want God to use me. And uh and uh um maybe it makes us nervous. You know, I want to be a witness, I want to share the gospel, and I know it's not easy, but I'm gonna trust God. And I want them to use me. Is there any like that by the uplift of hand? I really want God to use me. God bless you. And God will If we'll trust him and be willing to do what he says and do what Paul what Moses said, here am I. Here am I, Lord, here I am, take me. And we'll look at that. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.