It's right smack dab in the middle of this event taking place that we've been looking at. But let's follow along as I read verse 15. Then said Hushei unto Zadok and to Abathar, the priest Thus and thus did Ahithophel counsel Absalom and the elders of Israel, and thus and thus have I counseled. Now therefore send quickly and tell David, saying Lodge not this night in the plains of the wilderness, but speedily pass over, lest the king be swallowed up, and all the people that are with him. Now Jonathan and Ahith and uh Ahimez stayed by Enrogel, for they might not be seen to come into the city. And a wench went and told them. And they went and told King David. Nevertheless, a lad saw them and told Absalom But they went both of them away quickly, and came to a man's house in Bahuram, which had a well in his court, and whither they went down And the woman took and spread a covering over the well's mouth and spread ground corn thereon, and the thing was not known. And when Absalom's servants came to the woman to the house, they said, Where is Ahimer and Jonathan? And the woman said unto them, They be going over the brook of water. And when they had sought and could not find them, they returned to Jerusalem. And it came to pass after they were departed that they came up out of the well and went and told King David and said unto David, Arise and pass quickly over the water, for thus hath Ahithophel counseled against you. And David arose, and all the people that were with him, and they passed over Jordan By the morning light there lacked not one of them that was not going over Jordan. And when Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed He saddled his ass, and arose, and got him home to his house, to his city, and put his household in order, and hanged himself, and died, and was buried in the sepulchre of his father I've entitled this. I first was calling it Where is Thy God? And then I've kind of titled it The Unseen Hand of God. And so let's pick up where we left off before and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven Lord, we have these Old Testament events that you've recorded for us and preserved. And you've told us that all Scripture is profitable for doctrine, proof, correction, instruction righteousness. So we ask Lord that you would teach us from this passage something in our lives individually that can be applied and help us in our faith, our walk with you, our confidence. And so, Lord, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray, dear Lord, that you would be the preacher tonight as I yield my will and present my body anew. And pray you would meet with us and teach us. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. I think we all, for the most part, if you've been in on this it's mini series and the major series of uh David is fleeing Jerusalem, Absalom has rebelled against him. We all understand that. And he has left the city and he sent Hushei back. He's one of his counselors when he was king, sends him back to be his spy, his mole, and to present himself as a counselor to Absalom, his son, who has usurped the throne. There was two sons of the priest, these two fellows we read about here, they stayed back also, but they're kind of in the shadows. And the idea was this that whenever Absalom takes over the throne, that Hushiah is to try and get information for David and let him know what's happening so he can respond. If you remember last week we looked at the counsel that was given. Absalom has two counselors here. Ahithophel is his man, loyal to him. Hushei convinces Absalom that He's loyal and that he will advise him in what is best. So he listens to their counsel. They give contradictory counsel. Ahithophel says, let me go out there. I'll get just David. I'll bring everybody back. It'll be wonderful. Hushi says that's not good counsel. Tell you what, uh don't go out immediately. Uh Ahithophel says, let's go out right tonight. Get him before he's ready for us. Hushai says, no, no, no. David's too smart for that. We need to get the whole nation together and just overwhelm them. And we'll just wipe them all out. Of course he had no intention of doing that. And so, miraculously, Absalom goes along with Hushiah's advice, giving David time to respond to that. So that's where we're at. Now in verse number 15 here, we have Hushei is now trying to get this information to David And let him know what's playing out here so he can respond appropriately. My outline, if you remember, the first point we had was I put Hushiai's clever conversation. That's him winning himself over to Absalom. Then we noticed last week Hushai's courageous advice. He contradicted what Hithophel said and And God miraculously turned Absalom to agree with Hushai. Now, number three, here's where we're picking up tonight. We have Hushai's covert mission. Alright, he is trying, he has to get this information to David somehow without Absalom knowing it. Now they had a plan in place. When David first sent Hushai back, he says, listen, you be my ears. I got the two boys of the priest here. You let them know, they'll come out and they'll tell me what's going on. So he has this covert action going on. In verse 15 through 17, the first thing I notice is Hushai has immediate communication with David. As soon as he finds out what Absalom's going to do, he sends word out to David. Look at verse 15 Then said Hushai unto Zadok and Abiathar the priests. Thus and thus did Ahithophel counsel Absalom, the elders of Israel, and thus and thus have I counseled him. And uh thou therefore, now therefore, send quickly and tell David, saying, Lodge not this night in the plains of the wilderness, but speedily pass over, lest the king be swallowed up, and all the people that are with him So it's impossible for Hushei, the this uh counselor to David, he can't go out and get a hold of David. He can't go out there. He'll be followed, it would be obvious So he has these two fell fellows and he sends them out and they have this intelligence system that they put in place So he gets the information to these boys to the priest, and he's going to get it out to David. Then, so that's his immediate communication with David. Notice his message is this is what we were counseled. Hithephel said, we're coming out tonight. We're going to overwhelm, we're going to catch him before he's ready. We'll just uh kill David, bring everybody back. He says, no, no, no, we got to wait. Take a long time, get everybody together and come out. That's what we told. So he communicates that message to David. But I noticed in verse 16 something interesting. I don't think Hushiah fully trusts Absalom that he's going to go along with his advice. Look in verse 16. He says, Now therefore, send quickly and tell David, saying Lodge not this night in the plains of the wilderness, but speedily pass over, get over Jordan, and get some distance, lest the king be swallowed up, speaking of David the king. Be swallowed up in the people that are with them. That was Ahithophel's advice. Ahithophel said, let's go out tonight right away. I'll get 12,000 guys. We'll go get them Hushiah advised, no, no, no, let's give some time, get everybody together. And so, and and Absalom agreed with Hushai, but Hushi says, David, you better get out. And I'm thinking that Hushiah is a uh he doesn't trust David, he doesn't trust Absalom that he's going to stick to what he said. Absalom is not a man to be trusted. He had lied. He had undermined David. He is a dishonest man. And Hushii knows that. You know, it is difficult to trust someone that has been dishonest to you. Right or wrong? Somebody you know they have no problem speaking wise. Somebody that you know they have no problem saying untruth and presenting things that are not true It is difficult to trust them. And I think Hushia is very wise in saying, David, listen, this is what we counseled, and Absalom agreed with me. It'll be a while until anybody comes out there. But you better get out of here anyway, just in case. This guy is not reliable. He may change his mind. He advises David to put more distance between himself and Jerusalem. And then it's interesting these messengers he employs. Look at verse number 17. Now Jonathan and Ahhemaz Stayed at this place called Enrogel. Now, Enrogel was an area just southeast of Jerusalem, just outside the cities The city, there was a large spring there. Very a lot of water. Would you agree with me? In the Middle East, a place where there's water is important So it's a very significant position. And they put themselves here deliberately. It's very wise on their part. As I understand it, this place called Engrodale, it has this very fairly large spring here, a water source. And around it are a bunch of caves, they tell us. So these caves would be an excellent place for these guys to hide out. They can back up in these caves. Nobody sees them there. And the other thing interesting about it, this spring where this water source was, this is where women. Would come out and do their wash with this water source. They'd clean. So there's these women coming and going constantly to this spring. During the day, at night when it's cooler, they would go out there sometimes And so notice what it says here. Now keep that in mind. Jonathan and Ahimah stayed in Engrodale. They're in these caves, no doubt, out of sight. For they they might not be seen to come into the city, so they're not coming to the city. And a winch, who she I sent a winch out to them. Now, what in the world is a winch? Not a wrench, a winch. No, it's it's a woman, but it's not necessarily an old woman. The word here is simply this And this is uh this is the definitions I got, is a country girl. She's probably from West Virginia My thinking. And I and she's probably barefoot. But it's just this probably a young lady That's just a country girl, just a common. She's not royalty. She doesn't hold any positions in the city of significance. She's a country girl And Hushi very wisely sends her out. Now what would be the wisdom in sending a young, just uh unassuming Young lady, out to this place where these guys are. What would be the wisdom of that? Nobody would suspect anything Because the the women are coming and going from this place and doing their wash and getting water for cooking and different things, and it's not somebody that would stand out or be unusual for them to go out So Hushi has this lady, probably a young lady, just a dear sweet, ordinary country girl And he sends her out there with this message. And I don't know if he told her, if he had it written down. I don't know. We're not told the details. But a couple things about this gal that kind of are implied at least. Number one, she obviously was loyal to David There was still people in the city and in the country that were still very loyal to David. They didn't leave with him out into the wilderness. They stayed back home. But they still supported him, they still were loyal to him. I think they saw through what Absalom was doing And you know, God always has his people, God always has people who are what they ought to be Anybody ever say this? Ah, this whole world's going to pot. Anybody ever say that? Yeah. But you know what? God still has people that love Him. God has still has people around that are loyal to him. And here's this dear country girl, just an ordinary gal, and she loves her king, I think. And she's loyal to her king. And she's willing to put herself in danger to an extent to help do what is right. I tell you, my respect for this winch sounds a terrible word, but it just means just a country farmer girl. And so I have respect for her. She's loyal to David. Obviously, Hushie trusts her. She's somebody that's trustworthy. And uh he's not going to fall out. And I think, then I I'm speculating here a little bit, but I think she's probably fairly intelligent. I mean she's on a pretty insignificant mission. And uh, you know, if things go haywire, I'm sure Hushii wants somebody that can think that through and not just uh do something stupid and spill the beans and and uh destroy the the mission. And so I think she's fairly intelligent gal. She is loyal to her king, and she's trustworthy. She's trustworthy. So I like this gal. Again, I thought, you know, we never heard of her before. We never hear of her again. We don't know what her name is. But she plays a very, very significant role in the will of God being accomplished here with David being re-established as king, getting him back where he's supposed to be. My hat's off to this gal. And uh by the way, she's a little bit courageous there too. And so loyalty, faithfulness, uh uh common sense Some good things about this gal. So the messenger he employs are these two young fellows, these sons of the priest. He sends this wench out there. Then in verse 18 through 20, they nearly get caught Notice what happens, verse 18. And nevertheless, a lad saw them and told Absalom. They're spied by a lad. I looked up the term lad there. I thought well what do they mean? Just some kid out playing in the streets and he sees this this wench going down there and sees her talk to this and hand up maybe it was uh I just thought of this Maybe she had a little briefcase, you know, and stood there and dropped it off. And the other guys came walking along, you know. I don't know. Stuck it under a park bench You know, a little message and the other guys come by later. I don't know. I don't know if she was in CIA training or not. But whatever the case is, this uh this lad sees this taking place And he sees these fellas taken off. Now the lad here, I thought, well, was this just some kid out playing hopscotch in the street? Or, you know, who is this lad? Apparently, this lad was actually a young servant of Absalom's. The word lad there means a servant, a youthful servant. I'm wondering if this lad wasn't a lookout For Absalom. If Absalom didn't have some unassuming servants kind of scattered around, listen, if David makes a counterattack You see something coming on, you know, and maybe he might have had this guy positioned and others positioned in strategic places. I don't know But whatever the case is, this fella sees him, sees them, and he comes back and he spills the beans to Absalom. Now here it gets a little interesting, verse 18. Nevertheless, Aladd saw them and told Absalom, but they, these two fellows, Zadok and Abiathar, Uh they went both of them away quickly. I mean they hightail it. They realize they were spied. And so they're getting out of there quickly. They're they're on the run And they came to a man's house in Bahurim. Now apparently Absalom's servants that he sent out when he found out, they're catching up to them. And apparently they realize we can't outrun them. We're not going to make it across the river before these guys come on us. So they they uh ba they uh they pull off here at this fella's house, this farm in Bahuram And the fellow had a well in his court, and they went down inside that well. Now here we find another couple that is loyal to David. And they realize what's taking place, no doubt. They explained to them the situation. They said, yeah, we'll help you. And they get these two fellows, they put them down in the well. And then the woman, the wife of this fella, she spreads a cloth across the top of the well and spreads corn on it like she's drying it. Apparently that was very common, so when they come by and see that, they don't think anything unusual there. And they help these fellas get this message to David. Again, I thought of this. God Here you see God's unseen hand working on David's behalf again. This wasn't planned. This hiding in the well and putting corners. That wasn't part of their intelligence system to get messages out to David and back and forth. This was a spur of the moment. They had to do something. And here's the thing: God had just the right people in just the right place with just the right circumstances to accomplish what he needed done. I tell you, our God's an amazing God. God's unseen hand. The right person, they're loyal. What if they'd have gone in here and these people were loyal to Absalom? It's all over. They're loyal to David. The right people. They're in the right place, right along the route these guys are going. And they had the right circumstances. They had a well there. They could do this very easily and unassuming And I just see the unseen hand of God working on David's behalf. Now remember, David doesn't know anything about any of this happening at this point. He's scared to death out in the wilderness. We're going to see here in a little bit. In fact, he's at the point where he's wondering if he's even going to make it through this. But God's working on his behalf, working on his behalf. Have you ever been in a situation you thought, I don't know how I can ever get out of this situation I don't see any answer. I don't see any solution. I'm here to tell you, we have a God that has an answer and has a solution to every situation his children get themselves into. He has a way. Can you think of anyone else, particularly in the Old Testament, where things looked bad and God had the right person at the right place at the right time? Think any other time God did this? All right. Joseph, those two guys came down, had the dreams, set it up perfectly for Joseph to interpret for Pharaoh, the right guys. They're from the right situation. They were right with Pharaoh, so that opens that door. Any others? Moses. I thought of Moses when uh they they take them as hopeless. They're killing all the children. His parents take Moses, put him in a little ark, put him out on the river. Can you imagine taking your child, put him on a river, and just push him out there and say, I'm going to trust God? And lo and behold, of all people, the daughter of Pharaoh happens to be there. She happens to have the right frame of mind. So, oh, I'll take that. Miriam runs up and says, um, oh, do you need somebody to nurse the baby for you? I just happen to know someone. Oh, sure. Again, Rahab brought the spies in. And uh and so you see it over and over and over and over and over all through scripture Where God has a situation where it looks hopeless, but yet he can bring that together. I don't know about you, but I was studying this. I thought, what an amazing God, what a tremendous God. We can trust him. Even when it looks like a mess. And so we notice Hushia immediately communicates with David and he Sends these a message to this wench. She runs out to these boys. They're running out to David. They almost get caught. They uh uh they ba they uh uh what's the word I want? They uh uh sidetrack to this little farm they hide 'em. The fellows show up, uh we can't find them, and uh they go back and the boys run off and uh they get to David. They get the message to David. Notice So that's the immediate communication with David. The second thing I notice here quickly, verse twenty-one, David quickly responds. Notice verse twenty-one, and it came to pass after they were departed that they came up out of the well. Here's the boys. And they went and told King David and said to David, Arise, pass quickly over the water, for thus hath Ahithophel counseled against you. Now this is the first inkling that David gets that anything is happening back in the city on his behalf. Can you imagine? Put yourself in David's shoes and you're in the dark, you're hiding here, you're trying to determine what to do. We're going to see here in a little bit. You're pretty down. And somebody says, hey, there's two boys here came out of Jerusalem. They got word from Hushiah. You think David perked up a little bit? Oh, yeah, send him in. Send him in. What do they have? Hey boys, tell me, what's going on? He's in the dark And I said, all right. Uh Hithophel said that um that uh Absalom should get 12,000 men. Lethophel get 12,000 men. They're going to come out tonight immediately. They're going to jump on you. They're going to kill you and bring everybody back and win them over. That's what Ahel said. And David's his mind's probably racing. All right, how do I deal with that? All right, we got to do this And they said, well wait a minute, wait a minute. Hushia said this, that Absalom should wait a while and get the whole nation together and organize and overwhelm you and and uh overwhelm you buying you time. It'll give you, it'll take them no doubt several days at least, maybe a week or more. And that's what uh Absalom that's what Absalom agreed with. And so you've got some time But Hushia said, you need to get out of here now anyway, because he doesn't trust Absalom. And he thinks maybe he might change his mind and come after you tonight. And so David's taking all this in, he's absorbing this information, and his military mind is just clicking, clicking, clicking, clicking. He goes, all right, load them up, everybody get organized, we're moving out. And on the spot, at that very moment, they move out. He responds immediately. Now, this is the first evidence David gets that God is working on his behalf. Though God is, here's the interesting thing. When God works on our behalf, that doesn't mean that you and I don't have a responsibility. God's unseen hand is putting things in place so David can get through this, but still David has to, he has a role. He needs to get out of there. I thought of the proverb, the horse is prepared for battle, but safety is of the Lord. So God's working on David's behalf, but David still has to do his part and get himself out of there and respond to what God's doing. You follow what I'm saying? God will save anybody, but they still have to turn to him and trust them to find salvation. God will meet our needs, but we've got to trust him and follow his instructions and do what he says. And so, though God is working, and David is no doubt very encouraged, he still has a part to play. He has to cooperate with what God is doing if this is all going to come together. I was thinking at this point, I wonder what's going through David's mind as he's processing this. He's out there, doesn't know what's happening, he gets this information. And lo and behold, in Psalm chapter 3, we find out. What's going through David's mind? Go over there to Psalm 3 with me real quick. Psalm chapter 3 was penned right at this very time. And David, whatever the immediate how this played out, I'm not sure, but he penned it down under the inspiration of God what he's thinking and what he's praying. And what's going through his mind at this time? I don't know about you, but we've been studying David a long time now. I'm captivated by David's thinking. How does he think? And in Psalm chapter 3, look what it says here. Look right above verse 1. Here we have some information given to us. A Psalm of David, look what it says, when he what? Fled from Absalom his son. So this he's penning this while he's fleeing, while he's out in this situation. And just a few things here to notice. He says, Lord, how are they increased that trouble me? Many are they that rise up against me. Many there be which say of my soul, There's no help for him in God. I'm wondering if David wasn't surprised by how many people followed Absalom. He says many, several times there. And he's out there and he's thinking, man, alive. I don't know. I'm just, this is my thinking about David's thinking. Man, alive. There's so many people that are loyal to Absalom. You know, God's, this is just a little aside, but we might as well accept the fact we as God's people are always going to be in the minority. We're not going to be the majority. And so David's first thought here as he pens this down is just the overwhelming numbers of people. That have turned against him and have turned and stayed loyal to and been loyal to Absalom. But look at verse 3. Here's where his faith kicks in. But thou, O Lord, art a shield for me, my glory and the lifter up to my head I cried unto the Lord with my voice. What do you think he might be referencing there? He says, I cried unto the Lord. I prayed to God. What do you think prayer he might be referencing there? Remember when he prayed, make the counsel of Ahithophel, uh how do you say it? Uh um confound the council of Ahithophel? I wonder these boys show up and they tell them what happens And he says, God, you answer my prayer. I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill. He answered that prayer. He's doing what I asked him to do. And David finds a little glimmer of hope here. He says, selah. Do you know what the word sila means? Stop and think about that a little bit. Just pause there and meditate on that a bit. I cried to the Lord. And he heard me out of his holy hill. And David pauses there and says, man, what a wonderful God. What a wonderful God. Verse 4, and I just see confidence is coming back to David, where hopelessness was there before. Now he sees God's unseen hand working, he sees evidence of God working, and confidence comes back. Thou, Lord, art a shield for me. You are my glory. You are the lifter up of my head. Look at verse 5. I laid me down and slept. I wait, for the Lord sustain me. Now look his whole attitude. Verse 1 and 2, it's good night. Overwhelming. Now look at verse 5. Boy, I can sleep now at night. God is working. For the Lord sustain me, I will not be afraid of 10,000 of people that have set themselves against me roundabout. His confidence is turning back. Arise, O Lord, save me, my God, for thou hast smitten all my enemies upon the cheekbone. Thou hast broken teeth of the ungodly. Salvation belongeth in the Lord. Thy blessing is upon thy people. David's hope is returning. He knows God is working on his behalf. Psalms 3 is written at this time, and his confidence comes back, the Lord is sustaining him, and hope responds. Now, real quickly, I want to finish out this sorid event here. Come back if you would. There's one last thing that takes place. David flees, his hope is coming back. And all these three these three main characters here we've been looking at, Absalom, David's son that usurped the throne Ahithophel, the counselor that's been loyal to Absalom through all of this, and then Hushi that comes back from David and convinces Absalom he's loyal to him. So you have these three men. Now we come back to Ahithophel. And look here at verse number 23. And when Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, question, was his counsel good or bad? It was good counsel. Come back verse 14. The Lord had appointed to defeat the good counsel of Hephaphael. He knew what he said was right He knew that's the plan they need to do. I think Ahithophel knew that Hilshai's advice was not good. That was not going to work. And when he saw that his advice, his counsel was not followed, notice how he responded. He saddled his ass. He arose. He's at the palace with Absalom. It's nighttime. Goes out, gets his ass. Gets on him, rides home, goes back to his city, wherever part of the city he lived in, got his family together, got his books in order, wrote out, paid his bills, signed his inheritance And hanged himself and died. And they buried him. That's apparent he got to the point where that was his only recourse. He thought, my only thing I can do now, Absalom didn't listen to me. I've been loyal to him. He takes his foolish advice. The only thing I can do is take my life. I tell you, that is always when we when someone gets to the point and they say the only thing to do is take my life, that is always the wrong response. That is always a tragic response. We get to that point. Now my thinking was, this is an intelligent man. This is a fellow that we were told earlier that his counsel was like the counsel of God. I mean he was almost flawless in his advice. It was You know, it's hard to get better advice from anybody than Ahithophel. How does he get to the point? What prompts him on this situation to say, my only recourse is to is suicide? Well, I'm speculating here a little bit, but let me offer some suggestions what I think maybe might have been going through his mind. First of all, maybe there was personal guilt there. Maybe he dawned on him, you know. God's working on David's behalf. Man, maybe he's thinking I messed up I'm trying to help a rebel kill an innocent man. I don't know. Maybe it just settled in and realized what he'd been doing and what a terrible mistake he'd made. And he's out plotting to kill the man anointed of God to be the king of Israel. And I don't know, maybe that guilt just overflowed. You know, guilt is a powerful, powerful emotion. That can flood over us. And I tell you, the wonderful thing as a Christian, no matter how bad we mess up, we can come to Christ and find forgiveness. And doesn't matter how badly somebody may have messed up, it doesn't matter what mess serious the mistakes may have been 1 John 1. 9 is still true. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us of all unrighteousness. So we must not allow guilt to prompt us to make foolish decisions. We need to bring that guilt to Christ as believers and come to Christ and find forgiveness and renewal. And so I don't know. I'm thinking here, why in the world would this guy so overreact like this? Maybe it was personal guilt flooded on him. I put a net second possibility down. Maybe it was just Nothing but just raw pride on his part. He knew what his reputation was. His counsel was like the counsel of God. He'd been doing this a long time. He knew what he knew, and he knew what he was. He knew what his reputation was. He knew what people thought of him And now all of a sudden his advice is completely rejected for Oceai coming in, which is obviously David's going to get away. This is not going to work. And maybe his pride just says, listen, you will never recover from this. You'll never be held up in the eyes of people. Maybe he loved the praise of men more than he loved his own life. I don't know. I don't know. Pride. Pride. Would he lose his position? He'd been in a pretty posh position for a long time. Advisor to the king. Is he going to lose that? You know, remember well we don't remember, but if you read the history books back in the Great Depression, there's a lot of very, very wealthy men in New York City and Chicago and different places. and they lost all their possessions and they lost their positions and their only recourse that they thought was what? Suicide. And there was a massive suicide when that market crashed You know why? Because they were living for stuff. Their life consisted of money. and materialism and when that was removed they saw they they they believed they had nothing. Maybe that's what's happening with Ahithophel. My whole life has been this position. My whole life has been this job. And now I'm probably going to lose it. I have nothing to live for. I'm telling you, there is something to live for far greater than anything this world has to offer. And they can take it all from us. I like what Mark uh Jesus said in Mark, what shall it profit a man? He goes in the whole world and lose his own soul. You know what he's saying? There's more to live for than just what this is under the sun, what's in this world. But Ahithophel was for all his wisdom. Maybe it was pride that took him out. Pride will cause us to overreact. Pride will cause us to make bad decisions. And then maybe I put a third option down here. Maybe it was personal guilt, just overwhelmed. He realize what he's doing. Maybe it was pride. Maybe it was preemptive. And what I mean by that, maybe he knew that Hushii's plan is going to fail And David's going to come back, and David's going to be king, and maybe in his mind, if David comes back and is king and finds out what I advised, he's off with my head Maybe it's like the Philippian jailer when he thought the prisoners escape and he knew if these guys escape the room, Romans are going to kill me, authorities are going to kill me. The punishment of letting prisoners escape, so I'll just go ahead and do it, take care of it before it happens. Maybe that was his thinking. David's uh I'm dead meat anyway. Anticipate David's retribution on him. Now, if that was his thinking, I would guess that he was mistaken. Because I can't find anywhere David is killing God's people. He didn't kill Saul when he had the chance. He didn't kill Shimei when he's saying stuff about David. He's one of God's people. And I have a hard time believing that Dave would have Dave Dave, I call him Dave sometimes. I have a hard time believing that Brother David, I have a hard time believing that he would have taken Ahithophel's life. My the pattern we see of David's behavior is he perhaps he probably would have forgiven him. probably would have said, okay. Now he might not have kept his position. You know, when we forgive someone, it doesn't mean we have to continually trust them. Follow what I'm saying? Somebody's robbing from you over and over and you forgive them, you forgive them, but I wouldn't let them keep your wallet So I don't know how David would have responded. My guess is David would not have killed him, but maybe Ahithophel assumed my life is over. I'm a dead man either way, I'll just go out on my terms Either case, it was a tragic mistake, and that was not the answer. So all of this is in place. God's unseen hand working on behalf of David Now, a few conclusions, and we'll end this, and then we'll pick up another the next stage of this drama. Here's what I put down for conclusions. Number one, God is active in the lives of his people. God is active. You say, well, I just don't see God doing anything. That's what David would have said sitting out there in the darkness. But God was working. God was working. Though often unseen by us, God is working. I thought when I thought of that, I thought of my dad for eight years. He got saved when I was ten, nine years really. He started praying for his boy's salvation. And for nine years, by all outward appearances, his boy was getting farther and farther and farther and farther away from God. Going deeper and deeper and deeper and deeper into a hopeless pit. But dad kept praying, and dad kept praying, and dad kept being a witness And God began working in my life inwardly. And Dad never saw that The conviction that was there for months. Reading my Bible late at night, Dad knew nothing about any of that until That Monday night I got saved. He was out on the road all week. He showed up Friday, got back in town, parked the truck, came home, and I was home on a Friday night, which was unheard of. He's like, what are you doing home And I'll never forget, we're down in his study. I was down there, he came in. He says, What are you doing home? I said, Dad, I accepted Jesus as my Savior. You could hand him over the head with a cement block. He could not, he was just dumbfounded. You know what? God was working that whole time answering his prayer. God was responding to his prayer, and he never saw it, never knew it. Listen, you just keep trusting God. I don't see any evidence God doing you just keep praying. You just stay at it. I thought about our building out here. We prayed, the trustees know, the deacons know. We prayed for what? Months. We get together Wednesday night. We all got downstairs. We prayed, God we want you to pray. God, we won't want to do this if it's not your will. God, please lead us. God, please. You know that whole time there was another fella in town here ordering a metal building. We had no idea. And for whatever his plans were with it, I don't know, but those plans didn't pan out the way he anticipated and For two years, while we're praying and raising money, he had a metal building setting out behind his barn. He didn't know what to do with it. And finally, he heard that we're doing. Calls up and says, hey, by the way, I got a metal building. Would you be interested? I said, well, let me pray about it. Okay, yeah, we're interested But you see what I'm saying? God was putting all that in place. We had no idea. We're praying and seeking the Lord, and boom, God puts it My point is this. God is active in the lives of his people. Number two, I put this down. In our darkest hours, maintain faith in God. Boy, Psalm chapter 3, the first two verses, David's pretty down. Oh, I don't see there's so many people against me. I don't know. But he kept his faith in God and God came through. You keep trusting God, I believe God will come through every time. And then last of all, I put this down, and this is a principle we all know. All things can work together for good if we will just trust God and follow His Word. Do what He says, trust Him and do what He says. What verse do you think I'm thinking of? Romans 8:28. And we know that all things work together for good, to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. And I thought of another one at the end of Genesis chapter 50. Joseph's brothers come up to him and they lie to him again, and they said, Oh, by the way, Daddy's dead. By the way, before he died, he told us To tell you, don't do anything to us for trying to kill you and selling you. Well, that was a lie. Old Joseph understood this principle, and he says, You meant it for evil. But what? What's the next statement? But God meant it for good. I'm saying we can trust God. We can trust God. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I asked her, Lord, you would help us When all seems dark and when it seems like you're missing, Lord help us just to believe that you still are active. You're still working on our behalf. If we'll just be patient, we'll just follow your directions and trust you that you'll come through. I wonder if there's some this evening say, preacher, I'm in a situation, I don't see it, I don't know. You say, well, God stirred my heart. I'm going to trust him. I'm just going to stay at it, stay the course. And I'm going to trust that he's working. Anybody like that? By the uplifted hand, there are some situations. Sure. God bless you. They're part of life. The key is just staying faithful, trust in the Lord, following his word, and let him work that out. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name, amen.