Matthew thirteen. I've enjoyed being here very much. I love this church, love Brother Mrs. Letterman, they're pre special to me, dear friends, and uh I I love this area here around Deep Creek Lake. Matthew 13, I read from verse 53. And it came to pass that when Jesus had finished these parables, he departed thence. And when he was coming to his own country, he taught them in their synagogue, insomuch that they were astonished, and said, Whence hath this man this wisdom and these mighty works? Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary, and his brethren, James, and Joseph, and Simon and Judas, and his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these things? And they were offended in him. But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honor, save in his own country and in his own house, and he did not many mighty works there. because of their unbelief. Now, several things in this passage. Number one, you find out that Mary was not a perpetual virgin, as the Catholics teach She had four boys and at least three other four four other boys and at least three other girls. He said, Well the girls are not named, no, but if you look at it, and his sisters, are they not all with us? Had there only been two of them, I think the passage would have said, Are they not both with us? But when it says, are they not all with us, it very strongly suggests three or more. So we got a pretty good-sized family here. But when Jesus came home to Nazareth, he went to the synagogue. And you might say, well, uh, okay, is that ecumenicism? No, it's not. In those days, the synagogues had open forums. That was the centerpiece of the community. And uh when the when the reader would stand up and read the Torah, the law, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Number, Judah. When when he would stand up and read that, the reader would sit down, and then me anyone who wanted to comment on it uh would have privilege to do so. And it's that setting in which Jesus, the apostles, Paul, and others found their way into the synagogue, not by invitation. They were not there on somebody's evangelism committee. They were not there growing salary. They were there in a public forum expressing what they wanted to say. Whole different whole different scenario. But he went into the synagogue and he began to talk to them, and they uh verse number uh 54 says they were astonished And they were astonished at two things, uh his teaching and the works that he was doing. And you notice that verse says this wisdom, talking about his teaching, and these mighty works. And when you get down to verse 58, it says he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief. Now, obviously he did some. Uh they got a little taste of what he could do, but when they balked, the the big stuff stopped. Now, uh what we're looking at here is a crowd who verse 54 indicates they questioned his teaching. He said, where is he getting all this stuff? Where where I mean this I mean he grew up here. Don't we know uh I mean didn't he grow up in the carpenter's shop? I mean uh isn't his mother Mary? Don't we know his brothers and his sisters And he comes here to Nazareth talking like this, where did he get this? So they questioned his teaching. And thereby, uh follow-up, they they questioned his works as well. How is he doing this? How is he doing this? And in the process of that, they are questioning his credentials and his identity It's like, we know who he is, but he's claiming to be something, and we know better. So ultimately they are questioning his authenticity and his right to do what he is doing. Now, you get out of verse 57, and there is a very pronounced statement. And they were offended in him. If you check that word offended, it's the same word from which we get our word scandal. And what it is saying is they They took offense. And the kind of offense that they took, the passage indicates, was an offense of sufficient magnitude that they balked. They backed up. They didn't go with him. They quit on him. Now If if you say something or do something that upsets me, what we often say is, well, you you offended me. That's kind of a modern vernacular use of offense. See, an offense that is an offense, like the Bible talks about offense, It's an offense that is so intense that it discourages you and it maybe demeans you to the point where you back up and you say, no more. Enough is enough. I'm done. I quit. And when it says here they were offended, that's exactly what it is. We don't like his teaching. We think his credentials are not in place And so we are backing up. We are not going with him. We are not buying this. You you say what you want to, but we are not in on this. Now, the result of them taking offense and backing away Was that Jesus did not do many mighty works there? He would have done much more. But what he had done so far, they looked at it, they said, No way, we're not buying that. We take offense at that. And because they did not believe his teaching and his works, He didn't more. Now I I look carefully at this. And um I I I I really believe this is still going on And it's going on not just with the Episcopalians and the Presbyterians. And others like that. Some of this is happening in our circles. Now let me let me let me just remind you of a few other things. Matthew chapter 5, he said, Ye are the light of the world. What's a light supposed to do? Light's supposed to shine. A light that doesn't shine is not a light at all. Uh sometimes we turn the light on and uh uh creates heat and all at once we start saying, uh you know uh I I feel I feel the pressure from that. I mean it it's getting a little hot for me And uh and so we decide that uh maybe maybe uh uh dim the light, turn the light down, don't turn the light on so so high And every time, every time, listen, the the gospel light, the Bible light, we uh I mean we ought we ought to be living that exerting that in our life, shining that light in our life And if we decide we don't want to shine in 21st century America, could it be that we are taking offense at Jesus? Same passage in Matthew chapter 5, he said, ye are the salt of the earth. Now I I know salt seasons, salt preserves, but um Say now you want me to be light? Well, okay, maybe a little bit. Uh but you you want me to be uh be salt and that salt uh That means I'm going to be involved in preserving some things. I mean some things are about to uh rot. They're about to go to uh oblivion. They're about to to to go down the tube and you want me to step in and be the preservative in that thing. And sometimes we look at the scenario and we say, Man, if I step into that Uh I'm gonna get scratched up. I'm gonna get scarred up. I'm gonna get some hurt on me. So I back up and I say, Jesus, I know you want me to be salt and I'll I'll I'll be a little bit of salt, but don't expect me to just jump in whole hog and and be Salt big time. Once again, could it be that we are expressing offense at the expectations that Jesus has of us? I think about passages like 1 Timothy 4 and verse 12 that says we're to be an example of the believers. An example. An example is something that you can look at and say, you know, I think I can do that. I think I can be like that. An example is something that you showcase. Now If I want to hang on to garbage music, if I've got old garbage habits, some of which smell the high heaven Some of which would cause me to drive my automobile like a crazy man. If I want to hang on to my bad habits, smoking, drinking, cussing, carousing, if I want to hang on To my bad habits like that. And I said, well, well, okay, I got baptized and I joined the church. Uh and uh and and you know I I even I even went out bus calling or I sang in the choir. But uh but yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm still doing some of that. And all the while the Bible is saying, be Now, an example of the believers, let somebody see Jesus in you. Let somebody know that there's a difference in your life. Let them see that the old you is no longer you, that you are now a new you. But if we balk at that, could it be that we too are taking offense at Jesus? Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 10 says, For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. We are his workmanship. You look up that word, it's uh it's like a poetic creation. Uh you know, I I'm not a poet at all. I play with it a little bit sometimes. And uh my wife always looks at me kind of out of the corner right like, yeah, I don't think you want to print that, you know. Uh you know, I like some of these little ditties, you know, like you know, Mary had a little lamb. It would have grown to have been a sheep, but it joined the Baptist church and died from the lack of sleep You know that's that's uh it's a ditty, but uh somebody cracked me and every time I think about it I laugh. Now But when God when God crafts his workmanship in us, crafting something poetic, you know, I think about Robert Frost saying, and miles to go before I sleep. And miles to go before I sleep. You look that little piece up. I mean that that's poetic. Somebody crafted that. And and other such things as that. You know, well God, you're working on me. You're working on me. You're you're you're trying to make it look like, man, a a a a a real purposeful piece of something that you created. And when I begin to balk at that, once again, maybe I'm opposing What it is that God intends for me to be. I look at passages like 2 Corinthians chapter 5, where in verse 20 it says, now then we are ambassadors for Christ. Now, to be an ambassador means I've got to represent somebody. Means I am there on behalf of somebody else doing their bidding. Looks to me like the Lord is after me. He says, be light, be sought, be an ambassador. It looks to me like that he is after something from me. And it's an ambassador. I've met some ambassadors. And uh if you know, I'm sure maybe there's times uh They they probably they probably don't sleep in a suit and tie, but every time I see them out in public, I mean those guys are, I mean, they're pretty well presented Now, ambassadors for Christ, am I going to be the ambassador or am I going to just say, hey, I'm just me. I'm just going to be me, what me wants to be? Listen, if I'm going to be an ambassador, I'm going to pay attention to the embassy where I serve. I'm going to I'm going to say now what what the what would the boss What would he want me to do today to represent him? And on and on. There are other passages. Second and fourth work of an evangelist. He too says endure the good soldier of Jesus Christ. First Corinthians four says, Let a man so account of us as the ministers of Christ and as stewards of the mysteries of God. And whenever we whenever we run from that kind of stuff, we balk at those kinds of things. It seems to me that we, like the residents of Nazareth, are taking offense at the things of Jesus. Because I've noticed I've noticed that sometimes we look at things like, just look walk through here, we we look at them, and we look at them kind of, and then then we back away from them. We back away from them. Is there any doubt in our mind that the Lord wants us to be soul winners? But so often we we back up. We back away. We back away. Some somebody somebody criticizes you. You sang a song last Sunday. You had a solo part in the choir, you sing in the choir, I mean somebody at you and say, What are you doing in that choir? Now the question is Are you going to take offense at something the devil throws at you and quit doing what the Lord has you doing? Well I've I was running that bus route, but man, I don't know. I I had some people, you know, they weren't very nice to me Or pastors. You know, I had a couple of families in the church. They got mad and they I'm sure it's never happened to you guys. But the question is, the question is when we know what we are to do, what we're supposed to do, and yet something will Sometimes it is uh promoted by something on the outside, sometimes it's just some insecurity on our part, but we start backing up and we say I know what the Bible says, I know what I'm supposed to do, but But I I just don't think I'm going to go there. And so we do not do. I mean we take offense and we back up. And here is the consequ I mean that's the cause and here is the consequence Whenever we back up on Jesus, the mighty works do not come. The mighty works get shut off. I I I may sound a little fussy, but I don't mean to be fussy. I'm not a pr I'm not a fussy guy. I really am not. I'm not a fussy guy. You know, I I I love to I I love to tell stories about Spurgeon and Moody. And Dr. John Rice and Oliver B. Green. I love to tell. I mean, I George and every one of you preachers, we know stories about those guys. But a good while back, a good number of years ago, said, Dear Lord, dear Lord, if you if you if you're not willing to use me, if you're not going to let me have a little taste Of your mighty works, I'm going to quit telling John Rice stories. I'm going to quit telling Billy Sunday stories. I'm going to stop telling oratory stories. I don't have a little something to show myself. I I like the Billy Sunday stories and I like the John Rice stories And I want to tell them and I want you to tell them. But what I'm saying is, I think you and I ought to dry up on that a little bit. If we're not walking close enough that at least ever once in a while God does something in our neighborhood, amen. Every once in a while Every once in a while I would lead a drunk to Christ. Every once in a while, I mean I ought to take one of my little short two before sermons. I mean some little ditty of a sermon. I ought to take that thing and preach it and shut my eyes and and and Say amen and down deep inside say, Lord, that thing did not fly, but in the midst of me looking at my sorry little sermon I look up and somebody has walked forward and they cried their eyes out and they're ready to get right with God. What are you talking about? I'm talking about the power and the and the Spirit of God raining upon the ministry that He's given to me. Give me, give me, oh God, give me a little taste of the mighty works. And he said, wait a minute here Who do you think you are? And who do you think Dennis Lethalin is? And who do you think Norris Belcher is? And who do you think Byron Fox is? Let me let me plug on one more piece here. You remember John fourteen twelve? Jesus said, Verily, verily, that's like saying Pay attention here, my friends. It's like saying, truly, truly, verily, verily, I say unto you, he that, watch it, he that what? He that believeth on me. Go back to the other passage. They heard him. They took offense. They said, We don't like the sound of that. Where did he come up with this? Why why why didn't he go up in the carpenter shop? I mean who does he think he is? And they backed up and backed up and backed up and backed up. Taken offense until they were not even in the neighborhood where he was. And because that they backed up and backed up and backed up, he shut off The works that he had been doing already, mighty works, but he did not do many mighty works with them because they backed away. And the verse says, Because of their unbelief. Verse 12 of John 14 says, He that believeth on me. The works that I do shall he do also And greater works than these shall he do. Now, I didn't write that It's in the Bible. God gave that to us, and He is saying to us Don't back away from the great things. Don't back away from the mighty things. You say, I'm in a little town. I know a lot of guys are in little towns. Most of our churches are in little towns. And y you know what we we have in our midst We we have a club. We really do. We have a club. It's the it's the It Can't Be Done club Right. And and some guys are paying their dues every week. Can't be done. Not in my town. Not in my town. What what are we saying? What are we saying? That can't be done, Club. What are they saying? They're safe. Gospel doesn't work. Bible's probably not as true here as it is in other places. It's like say, well, I know when Dr. John Rysnell was seen, or I know when Billy Sunday was here, I know when Dwight El Moody was at work. I mean uh the gospel worked, the Bible was powerful, the Spirit of God worked in great power But uh must be a different God on the throne now because uh none of that happens around me. Oh my goodness, I am getting fussy, aren't I? Now I I'm uh sometimes you know uh you walk on a guy's toes to get to his heart. You know how that works. Now, you say, what am I after? I I'm I'm I'm I'm hoping. And listen, what I what I'm preaching to you, I preach to me I I'm hoping that I don't come to a place in my life where I stop believing what he has told me. I want to believe what he has told me, and I want to believe that it that if I'm in Oakland, Maryland, it'll work in Oakland, Maryland, and if I'm in Westminster, Maryland, it'll work in Westminster, Maryland And if I'm crossing the line in West Virginia, it'll work in West Virginia. Now I'm I'm not going to c compare to you or you to me or you to somebody else sitting near you. Worst thing in the world that you and I can do is start comparing ourselves among ourselves. Dr. Belt and I could not be the good friends that we are if we compared ourselves to each other. I was there and had a 17-year run that still, I mean I I just I can't even half believe I was there. God was so good to us. He's been there almost 22 years now. You say, well, and you guys are good friends? Yeah, we're good friends. And a part of the reason that we've been able to be good friends is because we haven't tried to outman one another. And he's he's set he's set new attendance records since he's been there And you know what? There's nobody any happier about that than me. Amen. I prayed. I prayed that they would outdo everything that we did in the years I was there. Yes. And they have. Most of it, maybe all of it. You you say you say, What's the deal here, man? I I I want to believe God. I want to believe God for the good stuff. I want to believe God for the great stuff And whatever whatever happens, it's not me competing with you, or you say, well, you're in a bigger town, so uh none of that. Let's let's just say God planted me here. And I'm going to believe God for what God can do in this place in my town. Some people are in a tougher spot than others You say, well, our work hadn't grown all that much. But you call me up on a Monday and you say, you won't believe what happened at our place. I said, what happened yesterday? They said, man, we had a twelve-year-old boy saved. Now, you know what I ought to do? If you call me up and tell me that, I ought to rejoice with you. I ought to thank God for that. And if some other guy calls me and tells me he had a day when all kinds of great things happened And I ought to rejoice about that. And if somebody's getting things that I'm getting, I ought to rejoice with them. Now. So I'm I'm I'm I'm trying to break down a bunch of this old junk that happens among us. Because here's what I'd like for us to do. I'd like for all of us to take a fresh new look at just believing God. And doing so, so that when he says great things, great things, great things, we'll get the hunger for it and we'll say, Dear Lord, could you give me some of that? Instead of backing up and saying, well now, you know, I don't think can be done here. It can be done here. I'll tell you very honestly, if when Betty and I moved to Maryland You can probably tell by the way I part my hair, I didn't grow up in this part of the world. But when we moved to Maryland, right at the end of 1978 I came to Maryland with the attitude, I want to see if the gospel will work here. I couldn't I I couldn't wait. I couldn't wait to get the stuff unpacked. So I could get out and knock on a few doors I found out between Wednesday and Sunday, the first week that I was in town, I found out it were it worked. Because I one I got one person down there saved and down the aisle. One more the next week, three the next week. And it was more the next, more the next. And this boy, this boy who grew up, grew up down in the river bottoms of western Kentucky. I mean, I mean, I'm saying, glory to God, it works here, it works here, it works here. And it does. But if you and I do like these characters did and we take offense and we start backing up The flow of the mighty work will be shut off. You say, why is that? Same reason that it shut off with them, because of their unbelief. So I don't want to camp where that crowd is. I want to camp over here in verse 12 of chapter 14 of John where he said Greater works, greater works than these. The works that I do shall he do, and the greater works than these shall he do. Why? Because he believes on me One of the greatest challenges that I have is getting over myself. See, it's it's not it's not really about me. If if if little me gives out the gospel and gives out the word of God Remember, the gospel is the power God unto salvation. Remember, the word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. And so I don't have to be nine feet tall All I have to do is believe what the Lord's told me. Give the gospel out. Get the Word of God out. And if I do that, and do that with the anointing, the power and the filling of the Holy Spirit of God I'm just convinced God will let me taste a little something once in a while. So the cause of the problem, they were offended at him. The consequence of them being offended was the flow of the mighty work was shut off. So Let's get back to the main things. Amen. Yes, Lord. Sunday comes, Sunday night comes, Wednesday night comes. Whatever the size of the crowd Large or small, or if half your crowd's taken off and gone to grandma's. Get up. Open your Bible. Preach. I mean, don't don't I mean don't don't you know it? I mean the the the the Sunday the Sunday that that half Last Sunday of the year, between Christmas and New Year's. I dread to see it come. Forty percent of the crowd, I mean they're gone to grandma's, they're gone to Aunt Joseph's, they're gone to Uncle George's And that is the Sunday when three or four of my preacher buddies from across the country show up in my town and show up at church. And if I'm not careful, something will well up in me and I'll get up in front of my folks and say, well, you know, we got a lot of people gone now, got a lot of people gone, all that kind of stuff. Now, hey, do we notice that? Do we notice it? Absolutely. If people are gone, we notice it. But please don't get up and honk about it Please don't get up and tell your folks you're discouraged. Get up, open the Bible, preach like a wild man on those Sundays. Make make your folks dread to have to be gone. Amen. Hey, just because there's snow on the ground Or because it's hot in the summer, or because it's vacation season. Let's not only preach, but let's let's keep going after sinners. Let's just keep going after suspects. I mean let's just go keep f you say, well who who who are the folks we're gonna read? I mean whoever they are, if they're breathing, go get 'em. Just drag 'em in. Let's keep going after sinners. Wait a minute. It's not the can't be none crowd that we're going to join. No, no, no. We just we just signed off. I'm withdrawing membership from that crowd. The crowd I'm going to be in, that I want to be in, is the crowd that believes on him and is trusting him to use these little pudgy fingers. Use my little eyes and ears to get some sinner in. A crowd in Nazareth, they took offense. And unfortunately that offense has shown up in a lot of places where it ought not to show up in twenty sixteen. We don't do what he said and believe him, the mighty works won't come. But I'm counting on seeing it. And I hope you will as well. Let's pray together. Father, thank you. Thank you for the privilege we have to serve you, the privilege we have to be your children I pray, dear Lord, that you'll, in these days together here, you'll just relight the fire in every heart. And may the sweet blessings come our way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.