2 Peter chapter 3. The second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you, and both which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance. That you may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets and of the commandment of us, the apostles, of the Lord and Savior Knowing this first, that there shall come in the last day scoffers, walking after their own lust, and saying, where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation. For this they willingly are ignorant of that by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water, whereby the world that then was being overflowed with water perished. But the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same word, are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing That one day is with the Lord is a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness But is long suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance Now, verse number nine, I read again, and is the primary text for what I want to give you. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise. As some men count slackness, but as long-suffering to us, we're not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Uh I I I've I've struggled just a little bit about the title for this message and I've wanted to call it The Sun's Gonna Shine Again. And that would be okay, I think. But the text suggests that I should call it the Lord is not slack. And you may hear the repeat of both of those before I'm finished here. The Lord is not slack. That word slack has to do with being slow. And uh when it says he is not slack, that means he is he is never remiss. He's never sluggish. He's not inattentive. We use the word sometimes like this, and we say so-and-so is a slacker Now that mean that may mean he's loose or in some way not quite up to par, a slacker. A slacker can be someone who is a cheat. It can be someone who is a recluse or a coward. And the Bible tells me that the Lord is not slack, meaning he's not loose, he's not in any way slow, not sluggish. He's not a slacker, not a cheat, not a recluse, not a coward, none of that. Now, I read here in 2 Peter And there are some things said about, well, like chapter one, verse sixteen. Chapter 1, verse 16, 2 Peter. It says, we have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power. and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we're eyewitnesses of His Majesty. So there are cunningly devised fables available There are those things that people thrust forward. They want you to see them. And uh and they create all kinds of uh narratives that will take you down trails that'll not be productive. Now remember the text says the Lord's not slack, you can count on him. But there are men who will bring you programs, they'll bring you ideas, they'll bring you things that will send you off down somewhere and you'll be gone a month, a year, a half a lifetime, and wonder where you w uh uh have been And uh and what has happened and what happened to your dreams and your goals. Well, you followed a manual, you followed uh uh a roadmap that did not go the direction that it should. Cunningly devised fables Chapter 2 and verse 1 says that there are false prophets also among the people, as even as there shall be false teachers among you who privately shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction, and many shall follow their pernicious ways by whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of. So uh not everybody that calls himself A preacher or a Bible teacher is somebody to whom we ought to be listening because the Bible says that there are these Pseudo-prophets and pseudo-teachers. They're false. They do not propagate the truth. They're purveyors of lies. And uh they will uh preach uh a plan of salvation that doesn't bring salvation at all. Uh they'll bring all kinds of other things to your attention that do not merit consideration. They are false prophets and false teachers. Chapter 2 and verse 6 talks about the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. Now that's a southern pronunciation Uh the Jews uh say Sodom and Gomorrah and uh those two cities that were destroyed uh by the hand of the Lord And uh it uh talks about them uh being turned to ashes under the condemnation uh of God. And God made an example out of them uh that uh uh should uh ever be mindful of those that live ungodly. So if people follow those false prophets and false teachers And they follow those cunningly devised fables, they're headed off down a trail where things are I mean, uh ultimately it's gonna turn to ashes. It's not going to be the thing that you hoped that it would. Chapter 2 and verse 12 talks about those that the Lord calls natural brute beast. I mean that we're talking about people that are so absolutely uh devoid of character They are so absolutely devoid of common sense and reason that they create mayhem in society. They go out and do all kinds of violent ugly, wickedly despicable things. And they they're they're they're they're worse than the barnyard. They're worse than the than the beast out in the field. And they speak evil of the things that they do not understand. And the Bible says there in that verse, they shall utterly perish in their own corruption. Now, folks, our world Our world has got all of this happening. We're living in a time where, I mean, you you have no idea what kind of idiotic moronic, imbecilic thing that is going to unfold in your presence on any given day simply because somebody uh has uh headed off with the cunningly devised fables. They've headed down the trail where some uh politician or some preacher or philosopher has um uh taking them where they want them to go and uh all of that unfolds and so the Lord says they're not they're like natural brute beasts. They'll do every kind of a deadly, wicked, ungodly thing just to fulfill their own agenda. Chapter 2 and verse 17 says that they are like wells without water Like clouds that uh come up. Uh they're like a tempest uh to whom the mist of darkness is reserved forever. You know, um Water is a precious commodity. There are things that are absolutely essential to your well-being. And uh sometimes you say, well, I I need a source. Well, uh a well is a place where you draw water where water can be uh accessed. And you say, I'll go to the well and I'll drop the bucket down and I'll draw water out of the well. But when the well is dry, you're not going to get water. The cunningly devised fables are dry wells. The false prophets and the false teachers are dry wells. The uh complications of Sodom and Gomorrah are dry wells. The uh brute beast are dry wells. And there are precious people. They're little boys and girls and their teenagers and their spouses. They're taking them to the well. And they're saying, draw from the well, but they're drawing up dirt and sand and garbage and trash that has been thrown into the well, and it does not feed them well, it does not nourish them, it does not provide for them what they need. Now, chapter 2 and verse 19 says that all of these off-the-wall characters promise liberty. And they themselves are the servants of corruption. They're rotten to the core. And It's going to produce bondage for anybody who signs on to it. You get down into chapter 3, and verse 3 talks about the last days' scoffers. Now see in the midst of all of this corruption, the Lord still has some ambassadors that are their post of duty. The Lord still has some lighthouses for the light is on. Amen. But these bad guys, they're looking at the lighthouse. They're looking at the Lord's ambassadors And they're they're saying, hey, you guys, you all going to church again? And other such things as that, mocking and scoffing all of the good things They speak evil of the things that are good. And so what do they do? They mock and they say Uh so you're preaching on the second coming again. Uh I mean we've been hearing about that all these years, and he hadn't showed up. I mean, and they'll mock, mock, mark all of the great truths of God Now, right in the midst of all of this, it comes this becomes very clear, men will deceive Men will offer detours and they'll bring disappointments all along the way. But here's the good news The Lord's not slack. Amen. It's true. We live in a world like what's laid out here and described. And it's not just Detroit and Chicago and LA and the Big Apple. All of this stuff is coming down 219 to Deep Creek Lake. Little by little and piece by piece, it's coming to your town. No matter how big, no matter how little your town is, it's coming. And it's coming down your street to your house as well. Now, I remind you though The Lord's not slack. I I I don't as a preacher I don't do a lot of alliterating. You know, all the points are start with the same letter or whatever. I I I don't do a lot of that Unless it works. In this case it kind of works. The Lord's not slack concerning his person Concerning his person. You think about who the Lord is, his unique attributes. Even in a world where so much is going sour, he remains omnipresent, omniscient, and omnipotent. His his person has not been diminished one iota. His uh unique character Absolute purity has not been tainted, has not been diminished. His unique history. Who else can acclaim To have eternal background and to have an eternal future. I mean, all all all of the things that are laid out here, his eternality. His deity. All of that is absolutely uh amazing is so much so. I mean his abilities in creation, his abilities in regeneration All of those precious things remind me the Lord is not slack. He's not in some way diminished about his own person. He is absolutely who he has always been. And because of that, I'm convinced the sun's going to shine again. Not only his person, but he's also not slack about his plans The end-time drama that's hinted at here in this passage unfolds in great detail in Daniel and Revelation and other portions of the Bible. God has plans about how all this world is going to shape up and take go toward the end. His great commission plans, what he wants for us to build great churches and and uh uh win people to Christ Uh all of that, I mean every single bit, God's plans are not slacked, they've not slowed down. They're not they're not in any way diminished, they've not been relegated to the back room, none of that. In fact, because of God's person and because of his plans, not being slack, I'm convinced, the sun's going to shine again. And not only that, but he's not slack about the provisions that he's made for us. This passage says God is not willing that any should perish. Salvation is available to everybody. Everybody Everybody who lives and breathes, He is making salvation available to them. He guides through His Word and uh and effects his will into the his servants and and as a result the blessings that he provides they come in great abundance and dear folks listen Yes, because of his person. Yes, because of his plans. Yes, because of his provisions. I submit to you, the Lord is not slack. And consequently for me and for you, for my family, for your family, for my church and for your church, oh yes, the sun is going to shine again. And not only that, but I'm convinced the Lord is not slack about his program, the local church. The local church is where it's at He calls individuals, preachers. He wants all of us to get in the mix and be soul winners and help with the work and the ministry and the uh the the distribution of the of the gospel and and all of the things that he's got in mind about that, his program. Uh I mean it's it's not a matter uh every once in a while I'll have someone say, uh well what's the newest thing And uh, well, you know, talking about the church and how to do church knowledge. What's the newest thing? And I said, got a wonderful book on that. It's called the Book of Acts. That is the final word. Just read it and pull out of there all of the precious principles and put them to work. They'll work in Oakland, they'll work in Berkeley Springs, they'll work in Martinsburg, they'll work in Hagerstown. I'm convinced God will make it work if we work it. And consequently, I think about his person and his plans and his provision and his program and I submit to you, I believe the sun's going to shine again. Amen. Yes, sir. And not only that, but the Lord's not slack about his promises. Amen. Ever everything he's promised, he knows how to perform. Yes, sir. He's not slow about that, not hesitant about it, not saying, well, this is the 21st century now. So you know you can't do what you did 200 years ago. Oh, hogwash. I hear that so much that it makes me nauseated. The fact of the matter is, I'm convinced that God is not slack. in any sense of the word. He's not slack about his patience, according to what this passage says. He's long-suffering usward. You say, man, you'd think that he would uh, well yeah, but uh he's patient. He's he's long-suffering to us, and consequently I mean, I see some some guy who's down and out and who's been through every kind of a rehab program in the world, but he gets born again. He gets regenerated. He gets his life back And he began, listen, because I see that happening, I say, listen, the sun's going to shine again because God's able to make that happen. And he's patient with us. He's patient with us. And I believe God's not slack about his power either. His power, his almightiness. God is able, the Bible tells us again and again. The gospels of the power of God into salvation. The word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. Therefore, we just we get the word out You know, sometimes I shouldn't admit this to you, but I will. There have been some times when I when I've gotten up and preached my heart out, and when I walked away, I said, man, I bombed that time I just said to myself, that didn't go down well. I know it didn't go down well, but I went ahead and gave the invitation anyway And some of what I thought was some of my sorriest preaching, the Lord blessed it. And so we're saved. Now you say, what does that tell you? Well that tells you that don't don't get to thinking too hot of yourself. And it tells you to be reminded the Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than a two-edged sword, and the gospel is powerful Just give it out. I I tell people all the time about their soul. Well I don't think I'm good at it. Well just go and be not good at it, but go ahead and do it anyway. You know, quit quit trying to think you're such a big deal Just give out the word. Get it out. God will help you. Lord's not slack about his power. And uh I will say also, Brother Harper, he's not slack about his pen and his pronouncements. So what he tells you in this book You can take it to the bank, make a deposit, and write a check anytime you please, because it's true. It's reliable. It's trustworthy And I'm telling you, because of what he preached of a little while ago and what I'm saying to you here now about the pen of God, the pronouncements that he makes, what he says in his precious word. I'm convinced the sun is going to shine again. Now folks, the Lord, this passage tells me is not slack. Not about his person, his plans, his provisions, his program, his promises, his patience, his power, or his pronouncements. On all counts He is able at all times. He is faithful. So, when your burdens are heavy, Remember, the Lord's not slack about his person, his plans, his provisions, his program, his promises, his patience, his power, his pronouncements. When your day grows long, when your night turns dark, when the road gets rough, when your friends become foes, when the economy sours When you can't figure things out, remember the Lord is not slack, not about his person, not about his plans, not about his provisions, not about his program Not about his promises, not about his patience, not about his power, and not about his pronouncement. He is not slack. And consequently, for me and for you and for my church and your church, my family and your f Family, I am convinced beyond any shadow of doubt that the sun is going to shine again. You and I don't have to live in a dark corner somewhere The darkness may gather in around us, but the light of the Lord shines in us and through us. And I'm convinced He can make it shine where you live. Amen. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long suffering to us for, not willing that any should perish. Amen. But that all should come to repentance. That's my message. Dear Lord, help us. Help us, I pray. Strengthen our hands these days. Lord, our country's in a lot of trouble. We got a lot of people doing crazy things. Lord, help us to find them before they do the crazy thing. Help us to latch on to them and do with them what we can. Give them the word and see them sign on to it. Lord, I pray, help us. Help us, I pray. Restir, uh, rebuild, rekindle our encouragement today So that we'll get up on the morning and say, I know the sun is going to shine today. Thank you, Lord, for what you'll do in Jesus' mighty name. Amen.