Number 23. This is a good verse, I believe, to underscore in your Bible. This is a very significant statement on the part of Samuel the prophet on the subject of prayer. And notice what he says here. Let's read it together. Verse 23, altogether. Moreover, as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you But I will teach you the good and right way. I'll speak this morning on the subject the ministry of prayer. Ministry of prayer. Now I want to say this. I was a little hesitant on this message. It came I was reading through my devotions all a week or so ago. came through here and um just kind of impressed some of my heart, maybe bring a message on that. And uh but I know that Pastor Brett, when I was out of town, he preached kind of a little series on prayer. I think when Brother Caldwell was here about a month or so ago, he preached on prayer. So I was a little hesitant, but uh it just stayed in my mind, just stayed on my heart, and so I want to bring the message this morning, the ministry of prayer. And I found one thing to be true in my own personal life. I have never yet attained the prayer life that I believe I ought to have. I'm still working towards it, still falling short. And so I believe the Lord has this for us this morning to challenge us and help us and prod us forward as believers in this ministry of prayer. So let's ask God to bless the message. Now, Father, we pause now as we look before we look into your word and try and glean some thoughts and apply it to our lives. We're asking your blessing on this hour now. I pray that your presence would be here and that you would take your word and these thoughts and principles from your word, apply it to each of our lives. as you know uh we have need. God, you know our hearts better than we do. And Lord, uh we readily, I readily acknowledge many times I think of myself stronger in my faith and a better Christian than what I really am. And so we want you to challenge us and help us and prompt us in this matter of prayer. Lord, by chance there be someone that does not have the assurance of their salvation settled, do not know for sure they have a home in heaven, sins forgiven. I pray that today would be the day that gets settled. Give us a burden. Stir our hearts to reach others with the gospel, I ask. And Lord, I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. The nation of Israel was God's people in the Old Testament. And by that I mean this. The nation of Israel were was the people, was the uh organism, I guess you could say, that God worked through in the world. That's where the prophets came from. That's who the law was given to us through the nation of Israel. They were God's people. And as God's people, they had enemies. And I don't know however long you may have been saved, but for me, I wasn't saved very long, and I realized that in my Christian life and in the spiritual realm God's people have enemies. There are forces out there, seen and unseen, that want to keep me from growing That want to keep me from being the Christian that God intends for me, that want to keep me from uh living a life of faith. And obedience to the word of God. And Israel was no different. They had enemies. One of their uh relentless enemies was the Philistines. On Wednesday nights, we're studying the life of David, and we noted how the Philistines were absolutely relentless in assaulting the nation of Israel over and over and over and over. And Israel had a very, very difficult time defeating them and having victory. And it seemed like the Philistines, when they were defeated, when Israel would defeat them in a battle or a particular war, it was like in no time they bounced back. And they were right back at them. They brought much pain, much heartache to the nation of Israel, the Philistines. And of course there was other nations. But the Philistines stand out as one of their major enemies. But Israel had a second enemy that I want to suggest to you caused more pain. And more mischief and more heartache than any of the surrounding nation enemies they face. And that enemy was themselves themselves, their own sinful nature, their own sinful hearts. Israel continually over and over and over Would wander away from the will of God for their lives. Over and over, they tended to lean on their own understanding rather than taking God at His Word They would figure things out for themselves. They lean on their own understanding. They'd go off on their own way. And every single time they did that, they lost God's blessings. Every time they did that, they lost God's protection. Every time they would wander from the will of God, every time they ignored God's clear instructions and they failed to claim his promises and they failed to heed his warnings and they lean on their own understanding. Every time it brought tremendous heartache and tremendous sorrow Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 12, and again in chapter 16 and verse 25, the Bible says this: there is a way that seemeth right unto man. But the end thereof are the ways of what? Death. There's a way which seems right to man. But the end thereof are the ways of death. And we can see that truth played out in the nation of Israel. As they would go their own way, they'd lean on their own understanding, they'd establish their own priorities, they'd establish their own standards of right and wrong. And every single time it led to disaster. God loved Israel, and still does today. And God would send prophets and send men of God to warn them. of the direction they were going. And God would send prophets and men of God and later on he used kings to try and keep Israel trusting God and living for God. and living for them. These men of God would help in the campaigns against the Philistines and try and conquer them. But they would also help them victory have victory over their own selves. They declare God's word to them. He declared God's will. They gave strong warnings to the nation of Israel. In fact, in the passage here that Brother Mark read earlier, the earlier passages, verse 16 down. You find Samuel, the great prophet of God, he's warning them. Listen, you messed up. You did very, very wickedly. But listen, get up and go on and live for God and trust Him and follow His instructions. I don't know about you, but I like Samuel. I would like to have heard Samuel preach I would like to have sat in a congregation when Samuel would declare the Word of God. What a powerful, powerful prophet Samuel was. I believe in my mind he was one of God's greatest prophets. There's a number, of course they're all great and and as as far as that goes, but Samuel stands out in my mind He was the last judge of Israel. When Israel crossed the Jordan, established their presence there in the Promised Land. They had skirmishes and would then all play out the way God intended for them to. They had failed in some ways there. And Israel, God would send judges to Israel and help them, provide leadership And they go through a series of judges, and things seem to just deteriorate, deteriorate, deteriorate. Samuel was the last of those judges, and he was a powerful judge. And he was the one that God used to introduce to Israel the reign of kings. Really against the will of God, yet God allowed it. They chose Saul to be their king. They wanted a king. Samuel warned them about it, said, God is your king. You don't need a man to be your king. God is your king. But nevertheless, their will prevailed and God allowed it. They paid a heavy price for that. In our text here, we see Samuel speaking. Samuel is in, is late in his life. If you would, look at me at verse number two, 1 Samuel chapter 12. Let me start in verse 1. Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto your voice and all that you said unto me, and have made a king over you. He's saying, Listen, you got what you want. You wanted a king, God warned you of this, I warned you of this, but you pressed it, you insisted, you got what you want. Let me just stop there and say this. You know, getting what we want isn't always the best thing. How many here ever had a child and demanded something, demanded something, demanded something, you knew it wasn't based for them, they just kept demanding it, demanding it, says, alright, you want it, there you go, and boy they regretted it. Anybody know what I'm talking about And in our own lives. And so he's saying to them, listen, you'd insisted on this. Alright, you've got you a king But we learn something about Samuel here, and I'm getting back to my thought, is uh he's late in his life. Verse number two, and now behold, the king walketh before you. Now look what he says about himself. I am old and gray-headed. This is Samuel is late in his life. He's been faithful to the Lord for many, many years And I tell you, I thank God for every young person gets saved and goes and starts living for God right off the bat. Amen? That's a good thing. That's what we want to say And getting a right start in the Christian life. That's why I always emphasize when a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, I believe they ought to get baptized as soon after that as possible and just establish Right up front, a life of faith in God, trusting Him and obedience to Him, and having a testimony of somebody who says, Yes, I'm saved, I want to be identified as that, I want to live a life of obedience to the Lord So we're very grateful when there's somebody early in their Christian life starts out strong for the Lord, living for God. That's what we want. That's what we look for. But I'll tell you what, I take my hat off To that old saint of God that's been living for the Lord decade after decade after decade after decade, just staying faithful to God, just staying faithful to the Word of God, not wavering. And that was Samuel. What a great prophet. He's late in his life. He started out young as a young boy in the ministry. And here he is, faithful to the Lord. And his ministry is kind of winding down. So a lot of things we could say about Samuel. Tremendous man in so many ways. But one thing stands out in my mind about Samuel, the characteristics of Samuel, and that is this. His prayers for God's people. Samuel prayed for the people of God. And over and over and over, throughout the record of his life given to us in the Word of God, we find Samuel referencing his prayers for God's people. I will pray for you. I will pray for you. Samuel had a powerful ministry of prayer. A powerful ministry of prayer. Do you know you and I? How many people here, how many people are familiar a little bit with Samuel in your Bible reading or you're familiar with Samuel? How many people here like me you have a tremendous respect for Samuel? I certainly do. Goodness. What a great ministry. Let me tell you something. Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 16 tells us that you and I that know Christ as Savior, those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we have just the same access to God he did. Now think about that. If I got a message, you know, hey, Samuel is praying for you, Dennis. Samuel's praying for you. I think, man, that's amazing, this powerful man of God, faithful his whole life to the Lord, used of God. He's praying for me, wonderful thing. But the Bible tells me I have just the same access to God Almighty as Samuel did. As Moses did. Listen to Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 16. Let us therefore, speaking New Testament believers, let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. The Bible tells us that because of the blood of Christ, because I've trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, I can come boldly to God's throne. I don't have to be timid. I don't have to be cowardice. I don't have to hold back. I can come into the throne of God and pray and pray boldly. Just as these great men and women of God throughout the Old Testament did, throughout the Bible did. What a tremendous thing. I know I've shared this so many times, but uh I've noticed this past week, I think this past week, how many people remember Nina McRoby attended here for many, many years. I think she was almost a charter member maybe She's been with the Lord quite a while now. I think she would have been 87 this week, if I'm correct on that. I think she would have turned 87. I think I'm right on that. But uh her husband, just before he died, he got saved about a year or two before he died. And I mean old Jim, he got saved He was very, very ill, his liver was bad and all all kinds of things. He was dying, he knew it. And uh shortly after he trusted the Lord, he had to go to Pittsburgh. They were looking at a maybe a liver transplant and different things And he got up there, and I used to visit with him just about every day, two, three, four times a week. I'd go by and pray with him just down the road here. And uh he got up there in the middle of the night I found this out later. One of the nurses had told us. In the middle of night he's in Pittsburgh, he woke up and he got very, very scared. This is after he was saved. And he says, you've got to get a hold of Pastor Leatherman. You need to get a hold of Pastor Leatherman. He needs to come in here right now. And the nurses would say, well, we don't know who Pastor Leatherman is. We don't know where he is. He goes, well, he's my pastor back in Oakland, Maryland. He says, well, he could never make it up here now. And they went back and forth. And after it was all said and done, he says, You know, I learned something up there. He says, I found out I can go directly to God myself. I can pray directly, God. I don't need the preacher to pray for me, although appreciate it. But I can go direct, hey, I got news for you. If you're saved, if you know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, you can go directly to God yourself. Now, I don't mean to be unkind or disrespectful in any way, but the Catholic Church is wrong when they say you've got to go through one of their priests. That is not true. We can come boldly to the throne of God through the Lord Jesus Christ. And so, this great ministry that the apostle, that the great prophet Samuel had, this great ministry of prayer, that he can get a hold of God, you and I have the same access to God he did. And so, um, like Israel, God's people today have enemies. I've seen it over and over Uh I've seen Christians and I I hate to say this, I wish I could tell you uh I wish I uh I could tell you otherwise. I hate to say this, but your pastor many times has leaned on his own understanding rather than trusting Christ. How many people are shocked and disappointed and dismayed? Wait a minute, before you judge me too much, I'll venture to say every single one of us have done that. And I've seen some of the horrific consequences when somebody decides to lean on their own understanding and they refuse the warnings of God, they refuse the word of God, and they insist on pressing on in their way. And the tragic consequences of that. You and I have some of the same enemies Israel did. Oh, not the Philistines, but our own sinful nature. Our own tendency to wander from the will of God, our own tendency to lean on our own understanding and establish our own morals and our own priorities. And so we have same enemies just as Israel did, many enemies just as Israel did. Now, God has given to us. Various ministries that are designed to help us have victory in our lives. For instance, the local church is vitally important in the life of a Christian. Can I get an amen there? The local church is vitally important in the life of a Christian. Uh over the years and periodically, I'll hear people say something to this effect. Well, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. But you don't have to go to church to go to heaven. Hey, I'm the first person to say amen to that statement. You don't have to go to church to go to heaven. Church doesn't. Ed and I were talking, a fellow Thursday night, trust the Lord and Savior. He says, well, I'll get this church to save me. He says, wait a minute, church don't save you. The Methodist Church won't save you. The Brethren Church won't save you. The Catholic Church won't save you. The Lutheran Church won't save you. The Episcopal Church won't save you. The Well I'm getting there. I do. The Baptist Church won't save us No, the church doesn't save us, but that does not mean the church is not important. The church is the body of Christ. This was God ordained this. Jesus Christ shed his blood for the church so we can be a part of his body and be a partakers one of another in the body of Christ. Listen, don't ever neglect the church. Don't ever negate. God loves the church. Jesus loves the church. And we need to be very, very careful about speaking critically of the church. You say, oh, it's a bunch of hypocrites there. You know what? I worked at a hospital for over four years. I found out there's some hypocrites in the hospital I saw with my own eyes doctors tell a patient you need to quit smoking or you're going to lose your leg, you're not going to live. They'd go back in the doctor's lounge, they'd light up a cigarette. If that ain't hypocrisy, I don't know what is You say, I ain't going to no church, bunch of hypocrites there. And if you're going to be consistent, stop going to the doctor. Don't go to the hospital. You know what? I saw hypocrites up at Walmart. Don't go to Walmart no more. That would turn some of y'all's world upside down. I know some, I I enjoy fishing. I love fishing. It's that time of year I'm ready to go. But uh I I know some fishermen that are hypocrites. Oh, they talk about catching big fish and all it was that big. I ain't going fishing no more. Nobody says that. So what I'm trying to say is this, no, the church's not perfect, but God loves the church, and he designed it for you and I to have victory in our lives so we can encourage each other and be taught the word of God and be strong in the Lord. I never saw a strong Christian, a person that was strong in their faith, that neglected the house of God. Never, all my years. They struggled, defeated. So God has given us many minist uh ministries. The church and the ministries of the church, song, music ministry is a tremendous ministry to help us grow in these great hymns. Help us be strong, Lord. But God has given a ministry that is powerful, powerful, powerful in the life of the Christian, and that is the ministry of prayer. The ministry of prayer, one of the greatest ministries God has given. And by that I mean praying for others. Praying for others. It is a great, great privilege to pray for other people, to come before God on behalf of another And plead their case and bring their needs and lift them up before the Lord on behalf of another. What a privilege. I want to suggest to you it's a great responsibility. God expects us To pray for others. To pray for others. Paul understood this. Romans chapter 10, verse 1, he said this: brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel. Is that they might be saved. Paul had a great ministry of prayer. He would pray to God that his people, Israel, would be saved I ask you a question. When's the last time? When's the last time? Now just between you and the Lord in your own heart, when's the last time you prayed for a specific sinner to be saved? When's the last time you bowed your head or got on your knees and pled with God to save this person or that person, a family member, a friend, co-worker? Paul understood that God has given to us a tremendous ministry, a very powerful ministry, a ministry of prayer and praying for others. Paul did that. Jesus practiced this in John chapter 17, that great Lord's prayer given to us in chapter 17. He said, I pray for those that will believe on me. I pray for those who have trusted me. Samuel gave himself to this ministry, this ministry of prayer. Now, let me say this. Prayer does not replace soul winning Alright? Say, well I'm not going to give out tracts. I'm not going to witness. I'm not going to get involved in the soul-winning ministries of the church. I'm not going to I'm just going to pray for people to be saved. Listen, we ought to pray for people to be saved, but that does not mean that does not That does not substitute for our personal involvement in bringing others. You follow what I'm trying to say? Prayer is a powerful ministry, but it does not replace personal soul winning. It does not replace personal interaction with people. Say, well, I'm just going to stay home and I'll pray for the church folk, and I I won't take time going out there. No, no, no. You pray for the church folk, but you come on out here and rub shoulders with God's people And you interact with them and you establish relationships with them. Prayer does not replace our active enrollment in these things, but prayer does empower it. The ministry of prayer. Let me quickly give you three characteristics of Samuel's prayer ministry. If you're here in 1 Samuel chapter 12, first of all, I notice his prayer ministry was rooted in integrity. Rooted in integrity. Look with me if you would at verse number three. First Samuel twelve. Everybody there? Everybody doing alright this morning? Everybody okay? How many people are glad you're not in jail? Amen. How many people glad it's not freezing out there? Wait a minute, it is freezing out there. Alright, look what it's look at this uh uh uh Samuel, his ministry of prayer is rooted in integrity. Verse 3. Behold, this is Samuel speaking, here I am, speaking to the nation of Israel, witness against me before the Lord, and before his anointed. Now he asked a series of questions. Whose ox have I taken? Whose ass have I taken? Or whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed? Or of whose hand have I received any bride to blind my eyes therewith, and I will restore it with you? And they said Thou hast not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand. Samuel was a man of integrity Integrity. He was above reproach. And when he stood before Israel and he says, I am going to pray for you. He was that prayer, that ministry of prayer, was rooted in integrity. Now, we don't hear that word integrity too much anymore. You're not going to hear that coming out of Hollywood too much. You're not going to hear that coming out of Washington too much. Oh, they might lip it a little bit. You're not going to hear that term integrity out in the world too much. I hate to say this. You don't hear that word integrity in churches too much anymore. Integrity is vitally important in the Christian life. God is looking for men and women of integrity What does integrity mean? What does that mean? It means this. I came up with just a couple simple definitions. One is this: soundness of moral character. Did you catch that there when Samuel was asking these series of questions? He was saying, listen, I've been honest with you. I've been true with you. I did nothing immoral. I did nothing dishonest. I have been a man of integrity. It has this idea: undiminished honesty. Undiminished honesty. I tell you, it grieves my heart. And, you know, I got a sinful nature as much as anybody else. I understand that. But it grieves my heart to see the lack of honesty On the part of so many of God's people. Dishonesty. It seems like we live in a day, even within the church. Where lying comes so easily, comes so flippantly. Just lie God is looking for men and women, his people, Christians that are honest That say the truth, that put off light. Samuel's prayer life was powerful He had a powerful ministry of prayer for the people of Israel, and it was rooted in his integrity. His integrity The word integrity has the idea of soundness of moral character, undiminished honesty. I found this definition also. Integrity is unbroken purity. Unbroken purity. Again, would you agree with me? We live in an impure world. And I'm not just talking sensually, I mean across the board. Just impure. You say, oh these young people today, they're not very pure. You know what? I'm finding more and more older folks aren't pure either. I mean across the board. I'm telling you, that stuff coming out of Hollywood and that stuff coming across the music is absolutely impure. It is spiritual sewage coming out of that. Amen or not? Here's a tragedy. Impurity has crept into the church. We're studying the book of 1 Corinthians. That church at Corinth was absolutely eat up with impurity. ungodliness in the church. How can we effectively pray? Say, well I just don't see any answers to my prayer. We just wait a minute It must be rooted in integrity. Must be rooted in integrity. I tell you, I had a blessing yesterday. I'm telling you, it stirred my heart I had the privilege of um performing the wedding for Ken Lake's daughter, Caitlin. You know many of you remember Ken Lake was here many years. He's pastoring down in Romney. his daughter Caitlin. He called me up oh six, eight months ago, and um he says um he said Caitlin's getting married. I said I don't believe it. She's only five. How can she be getting married? He goes, no, she's eight eighteen or nineteen, whatever she is. I said, uh no way. He says, way. I said, I said, well sure, what's the deal? He says, he said, um, Pastor, my oldest daughter's getting married. I don't want to be her pastor. I want to be her daddy on that day He said, Would you do the cer ceremony? I said, I'd be honored to. And so um we practiced Friday night and it it wa it was nice. And while we're waiting there, the myself and the groom, Josh and The groomsman's there were waiting to go in, waiting on the queue. And uh of course it's a lake, so everything was late. And um We're waiting and waiting. And he's and uh Josh comes and he says, Pastor, I want to show you something real quick before we go up there. So what is it? He had a little envelope. It was old. He opened it up. He says, I want you to read this. It's a little card in that envelope. It said something to this effect. I wish I took a picture of it. It said something to this effect to my husband. This was uh she was uh 12, I think, at the time, to my husband. I'm going to keep myself pure for you so that I can be all yours on our wedding day. Sign, Caitlin Lake. I tell you, it almost brought tears to my eyes. And then she had another letter that was very, very long, kind of elaborating on how what she wanted to do and how she was preparing herself and waiting on the man that God had for her. I tell you what, that's what God's looking for. Integrity, purity, honesty We stand before God. I want to pray for someone whose eternal destiny is hanging by a thread. I'm pleading. For God, uh for that person before God, I need to come before God with some personal integrity. I need to be a man of honesty and purity. To stand before God. I think our prayers are so ineffective so many times because we're so lacking in integrity, so dishonest. So impure. Um integrity. Ministry of prayer demands integrity Uh take your Bibles if you would. Keep your place here. Come with me to Psalm 66, if you would. Now keep your place. We're going to come back here in just a minute. But I want you to see Psalm 66, and I'm going to begin reading in verse 18. But while you're finding that passage there, I came across a quote here this past week. That really struck me, and I I'm I'm elaborating on the quote a little bit for the sake of the message. But it went something to this effect. It is possible, now hear me out, it is possible to preach with sin in my life It's possible to stand behind a pulpit with sin in your heart and life and preach a message. It is possible to stand in front of a Sunday school class. And teach the Bible to a Sunday school class and yet still have sin in my life. I can get out and give out gospel tracts. And witness to people and tell people how to be saved. I can stand at their door with an open Bible and show them from the Bible how to be saved. I can do that and yet have sin. In my heart and life. But there's one thing I cannot do. I cannot stand before a holy God and expect my prayers to be heard and answered If I have sin in my life, God will not hear that prayer. Now let me show you my reference. Psalm 66, verse number 18. This is David speaking. 66, 18. If I regard iniquity in my heart, will you read that last phrase with me? The Lord will not hear me. I don't know about you, but I don't see many qualifications or or exemptions on that statement. If I'm regarding, if I'm holding on to, if I have some sin in my heart and life, And I come to God, oh, I could stand behind a pulpit and preach a message and regard iniquity in my heart. I can teach a study school class and have iniquity in my heart. I can sing in a choir and have iniquity in my heart. I can sit in a pew and say, Amen, have iniquity in my heart. But one thing I can't do, I can't get a hold of God in prayer if there's iniquity in my heart. And the ministry of prayer requires integrity. Now look at the next verse. But verily God hath heard me. He hath attended unto the voice of my prayer. Blessed be God, which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me. I tell you, if anybody knew something about hiding iniquity in their heart, David knew something about that He had experienced that himself with the situation with Bathsheba for over a year. He tried to cover that up. For over a year, he regarded it in his heart. And I have no doubt David had everybody in the nation convinced. Had them all fooled that and he had it hidden from everybody in the nation. Maybe all of the people he had it hidden from. But there was one that he did not hide it from, and that was God Almighty. And his prayers were not answered. If you read Psalm 32, David expresses how that conviction and that emptiness in his heart and life, because he was holding on to that sin. If we're going to have a ministry of prayer, it must be rooted in integrity. Now he says, yay, the Lord hath heard me. You know what that tells me? David confessed the sin. He forsook it, repented. God in his mercy forgave him. And now he has full access to God. Listen, none of us is without sin. We all deal with it. It's a continual enemy, our own sinful nature. But thank God for the blood of Jesus Christ that if we confess it and forsake it, we'll find mercy and be cleansed. And I can come to God's throne. Come to God's throne. The ministry of prayer requires integrity. Quickly, number two, the ministry of prayer, Samuel, Samuel's ministry of prayer is prompted by sincerity. Come back, if you would, to chapter 12 of 1 Samuel. It was rooted in integrity, but it was prompted by sincerity. He makes a little statement in verse number 23 of 1 Samuel 12. Moreover, as for me, look at the next two statements. God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. He uses that little phrase, God forbid. That's an unusual statement We'll say it sometimes a little flippantly, oh God forbid that that would happen. But I tell you, that is a very, very strong statement. That is a very, very strong warning on the part of Samuel when he makes that statement. It is a rejection that this here would never take place. God forbid that I would sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. That phrase, God forbid, is used 19 times in the Old Testament. Every time it is a very strong statement. We will not allow this to happen. God forbid this will not take place. I reject that. It's used 33 times throughout the whole Bible. God forbid. God forbid. What does he mean by that? I think it implies this: that his prayers for the nation of Israel came from his heart. That was a genuine concern on his part. God forbid that I would cease, that I would sin against God in ceasing to pray for you. I think he's saying, my heart's desire, my drive, my genuine burden. is to pray for you that God will bless you and protect you. It wasn't some hypocritical prayer. It wasn't some ritualistic going through the motions. He didn't say, oh, I have to pray. Oh, we gotta go to prayer meeting. I'm so grateful for folks in Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church come out Wednesday nights and And pray and sometimes stay here for a long time just praying for others, praying for others, praying for others. Genuine prayer ministry is uh prompted by sincerity. It's not some obligation. Paul said, my heart's desire. It's been many years ago now, but a person that lived in the community here is not a part of this church. In fact, at the time, they had never even made a profession of faith. But I saw them in the community, and uh they said um Hess Leatherman is an older man said my wife is very ill. And she's up in the hospital. I said, I'd appreciate if you pray for her. I said, I sure will. We'll be praying. He's been a good man and interacted with him over the years. And so I was up making some visits in the hospital, and I remembered he said his wife was in the hospital, so I found out where she was and I went in and visited him. She was very ill And um he says, uh Pastor Leatherman, I said, hey, I just want to stop in and have a word of prayer. He goes, Oh, thank you, thank you, thank you. And he came and we gathered around. I held his hand, I held her hand and prayed for God's grace. God would heal her and just bless. And I uh it's kind of interesting you can work the gospel into a prayer, you know, and Lord, we thank you that you showed us we're all sinners. You know, I went through that We prayed. He said, thank you so much. He reached in his pocket and he pulled out and he handed me a $20 bill. I said, what's that? He goes, this is for your prayer. So what are you talking about? Because it costs twenty dollars for a prayer, right? Sure. I didn't say that. I said, no, it doesn't cost for prayer And he goes, well, my church, you have to pay the priest cost twenty dollars to come by and pray. Hey, I got half mad So that ain't right. I said, I'm not taking your money. I'm praying. So I'm going to come up here every day and pray, and you're not going to give me a dollar. Samuel's prayers for God's people wasn't so that he'd get something out of it. I'm telling you, I'm I'm half mad right now, just telling that story. That is wrong. And Samuel said, My heart is so burdened. I'm so concerned for you. God forbid, it would be sin for me to not pray for you. I tell you, when we get to the point where we are so concerned for others and we believe so strongly in prayer, where we feel like, God forbid that would be sin for me not to pray for them, I tell you, then we might start seeing some differences made. You might start seeing God do some things. So, ministry of prayer, it's rooted in integrity. It's prompted by sincerity. And my last one, real quick, is this it's focused unselfishly. He says, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. For you. James 4. 3 says, you ask and receive not, because you ask amiss, that you may consume it upon yourselves. I want to challenge us to stop this next week and listen to our prayers. Take inventory of our prayers. How much of my prayer life is spent on asking stuff for me? How much of my prayer life is focused on myself? Now listen, let me point out very, very quickly, there's nothing wrong in asking God stuff for ourselves. There's nothing wrong in praying for ourselves. If you're sick, It's nothing wrong praying, asking God to help make you well. In fact, in Philippians he says uh he says, uh let your requests be made known unto God. With thanksgiving. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. Sure, we can pray for ourselves, but I'm telling you, the ministry of prayer is focused on others. Is focused on others. He said, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. We ought to let a request be made known unto God. But the ministry of prayer is focused on others. What should we pray for others? I think every child of God ought to have some unsaved people they're praying for. If I asked you right now, and don't do it, but if I asked you right now to out loud Say, all right, I would ask you, who are you praying for that's lost? Who are you praying for earnestly on a regular basis? Who are you praying for that's lost? I wonder how many of us could give a name like that. Ministry of prayer is for others. We ought to pray for the salvation of others. Hey, we're starting track month. We ought to saturate this month with prayer for every one of those tracks, that every person that receives it, that God would bring great conviction on them. They turn from their sin and trust Christ and their souls be saved. We need to back these things up with prayer. It's the ministry of prayer for others. Praying for their salvation, praying for others' spiritual growth. Praying for other spiritual growth. We have new believers. We had this fellow Thursday night, trust of the Lord his Savior. I believe he's very sincere. The week before we had a number made professions of faith. Listen, before we sit back and say, oh, are they really real? Well I tell you, we ought to be spending time in prayer, that God would hedge them about and help them grow and be strong. And that decision was genuine. Praying for the spiritual growth. Praying for salvation, the spiritual growth, victory over sin. Pray for others that are struggling. Listen, there's folks in our church, probably more than we would care to admit, that are struggling with serious sin. That's between them and God, and I'm not referencing anything I particularly know of. But I've been in this long enough to know that God's people struggle with sin. Amen or not? You know what, a brother or sister in Christ that's struggling, you know what they need a whole lot more than me criticizing them and gossiping and making sure everybody knows how terrible they are? You know what they need? They need me coming before God on their behalf Praying that God will give them victory and God will convict them and God will turn that thing around. Praying for others to have victory in sin, ourselves also, but others I'm praying for a hedge of protection about people. Praying that God would call folks into the ministry. Praying for others. God raise up soul winners. God raise up missionaries. God raise up preachers. Praying for others. Let's not wait until that person is away from God before we pray for them. Let's pray for them now. I love our young people. They just had a tremendous week down on this college trip. I believe God's working in a lot of their hearts and lives. Listen, we as a church ought to be saturating these young people and other round. We ought to be saturating them with our prayers. Why do we wait till they grow up and they're messed up and they're all out there? Why don't we pray for them now? The little children downstairs in the children's church. I tell you, a great ministry. I just thought of this. A great ministry would be, when we give invitations Sunday mornings, some of God's people just kneeling at order and praying for the kids downstairs. That God get a hold of them and God protect them and God give them direction. Save their moms and daddies This ministry of prayer is such a powerful thing. Let's not wait until they're messed up. Let's not wait until they're involved in things. Let's pray for them now. Let's pray for him now. And by the way, notice, and I'll end with this. He said, But I uh God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. But then he says this, but I will teach you The good and right way. You notice what he's saying? He says, I'm praying, God forbid, I'm not going to stop praying for you. My heart's burden, my desire. I'm going to pray that God will bless you and give you victory. You'll be everything God saved and intend for you to be But I'm not just going to leave it at that. I'm going to be involved in your life. I'm going to teach you. I'm going to show you. We ought to pray for our community to be saved, but then we ought to go out and knock on their door and show them how to be saved. See what I'm saying? See what I'm saying? So prayer for others, the ministry of prayer. It is a great privilege to pray for others. How many people are familiar with the place called Dunkirk? Anybody recognize that name? It's big in Hollywood. I think Hollywood came out with a big movie. In May of 1940, Germany was on the move. They had powerful control over Europe. All the Allied troops up to this point in the war had been backed into a beach at Dunkirk, France. And again, this is big in the movies now, I guess. All the troops were surrounded. Ten miles to their rear was the German army. In front of them was the English Channel. Their only hope was escape across the channel back over to England. The channel was filled with land mines with not land you don't put landmines in the water. Um it was filled with mines Um the Nazis were coming in. There was 400,000 Allied troops trapped at Dunkirk. An English general made this statement. Listen to this. Nothing but a miracle can save our men now. Now here's what the most history books and the movies aren't going to tell you. At that very moment At that very period of time, the Holy Spirit of God moved upon a man named Reese Howell. He had 100 students in a Welsh Bible college. And they gave themselves to prayer and fasting for the troops that were in harm's way of Hitler's armed forces. They prayed from 7 p. m. at night to 12 midnight for days that God would intervene and save those troops. And while they were praying, the Royal Navy rounded up practically everything that floated in England and miraculously rescued those troops They said that the cloud cover came down so that the German planes could not see them to drop bombs on them. There was fires taking place and the smoke covered them up, enabling them to go out. You say, oh, what an amazing coincidence that the weather was that way. What an amazing coincidence all that worked out. I want to attribute it to the prayers of a handful of Christians back home pleading on behalf of their soldiers. And I'm telling you, all around us, the devil and the world has lost sinners backed into a corner. And nothing but a miracle can save them from eternity in hell. And what they need is a church in Mountain Lake Park that will give itself to prayer. Earnest prayer, that souls would be saved, that lives would be changed, that young people would be kept from the evil one. And grow up to be godly, pure, holy men and women of God. The ministry of prayer is a powerful, powerful thing. And it's very, very important. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd stir our hearts in this matter of prayer. I pray you'd help us to see this old world the way you see it, and then give us a burden. To be prayer warriors for souls to be saved, lives to be changed, Christians to grow. Search our own hearts, that our hearts would be pure and we be men and women of integrity. Give us sincerity in our heart, a genuine burden, just a genuine tears of burden for others. And I pray for a revival of prayer in my own heart. And in our church here, with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. This morning the Holy Spirit of God has spoken to my heart about my ministry of prayer. About praying for the lost, praying for the young people, praying for brothers and sisters in Christ. And you'd say, preacher, God's Holy Spirit, stir my heart And I need to step up this matter of prayer. I need to take it seriously. Is there any like that? The ministry of prayer. God bless you, hands all around Now I hesitate to ask this this way, but just between you and the Lord, there's some this morning that God's Holy Spirit has touched some area of your heart and life, some lack of integrity, some dishonesty. Some impurity. We know it's hindering our prayers. The Bible's clear. And maybe between you and God, you need to deal with that this morning. Confess it, forsake it, repent. So the prayers can be effective Maybe we need to ask God to give us real tears, genuine, sincere tears of concern and burden. Brothers spoke with one of our soul winners just a week or so ago, and they were weeping. Or someone they're witnessing to, that they'd be saved. Oh God, give us more of that. Whatever the thing, whatever the your situation is, let the Lord have his way. Respond to God this morning Is there someone say, preacher, I'm not saved? Not sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Say I need to get that settled. I don't want to tolerate that anymore. I want to know. Is there any like that by the upfifth and hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm saved. Not sure I'm on my way to heaven. Now, Father, bless our invitation. I ask you to stir us, revive us, Lord In Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing