At chapter one for just a moment, uh, but I want us to uh to look tonight. Um We've been praying a lot for revival in different churches. I know y'all have been praying that God would send revival to this church. I want us to look tonight at the results of revival. I want us to look and say, hey, we can look back and say, we're having revival because these things are happening. Amen. Revival here in Nehemiah chapter number eight Uh verses one through three. I want to start there in those verses of scripture. The Bible says in verse number one, and all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street that was before the water gate. And they spake unto Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded to Israel. And Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation, both of men and women and all that could hear with understanding upon the first day of the seventh month. And he read therein before the street that was before the water gate From the morning until midday, before the men and the women and those that could understand, and the ears of all the people were attentive unto the book of the law. Let's pray. Our precious Heavenly Father, we need you tonight. Lord, we need you always. We pray, Father, that we would stay so close to you, Lord. And Father, I pray Know them that you do your part, Lord, help us to do our part, to to put off the things of this world and to trust you, Lord, with everything Father, we pray that you'll take your word tonight and just speak to our hearts, that you be honored and glorified, that Jesus Christ will be magnified above everything And Lord will thank you for what you do. In Jesus' name, amen. As we look at the scripture here tonight, we see uh something already in progress, but we've got to look back at Nehemiah chapter number one to see where it began In Nehemiah chapter number one, we'll look at that in just a moment. But uh uh uh uh in verse three, let me go ahead and read those three verses there. The words of Nehemiah the son of Hechaliah Uh and it came to pass in the month Tislu in the twentieth year as I was in Shushan the palace that Hananai Uh one of my brethren came, he and a certain men of Judah, and I asked them concerning the Jews that had escaped, which were left of the captivity, and concerning uh Jerusalem. And they said unto me, the remnant that are left in the captivity there in the province are in great affliction and reproach. The wall of Jerusalem also is broken down, and the gates thereof are burned with fire. Uh as I look there, I see that they were in affliction. And I see in America today that Christians are becoming uh to coming to the point that we are in affliction Uh uh our rights are being taken away. Uh oh it seems like everybody is stacking everything up against the Christian Uh uh and and we know that those things are going to happen. Uh that the Lord is going to come and take us out of here. A victorious church. He's going to he's he said, uh, Upon this rock I'll build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. But it it seems like we're outnumbered sometimes, even here in America, under great affliction. But I thank the Lord uh for answering prayers. He's done a mighty work in the nation of America uh today. We still have religious liberty. We're still able to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ from the pulpits. There's nobody standing out there saying, You cannot come in here Uh I'm so thankful for that for that. But let's not take that that freedom that we have for granted. I mentioned that this morning, yesterday, uh last night uh at the uh ward's banquet that we should not take this time for granted. We have an open door and it may not stay open for very long, but we've got uh to do what we can while that door is open We must realize the answer is not in the White House or the State House, but it is in God's house. That's where the answer is going to come from. God's men uh mounting their pulpits and coming and preaching with fire and ferventy. And and with short time uh coming in and saying what thus saith the scriptures, that's what's going to change America and get us back uh to where we need to be. I was looking at a scripture uh as I was preparing for this when I was studying this afternoon and I'm not going to take much time tonight uh but in Jeremiah chapter number eight And verse number 20, I noticed a small verse of scripture right there. It says, The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved. I've looked at that scripture and I know it's talking about uh uh uh the nation of Israel and and uh how they're uh uh exiled from their home and and it seems like there's no hope for them But God still loved them. God still loved them. But it says the harvest is past, the summer is ended. I'm thinking about when summertime comes, we're on the road, we're busy, it's the busiest time for us in the year, we're traveling But we've got a garden at home and we're we're hoping to have a great harvest out of that as well as staying on the road and telling people about FBN uh when we're in, we're doing what we can. It's a busy time Uh summertime is when you mow your yard, uh your lawn, and and all these all this busy work takes place in the summertime. Here Uh it says the harvest is past. Uh possibly they had all their needs provided through that harvest. Maybe the harvest was a great one. It says the summer is ended Now they can look towards a little time of rest if they would look at it that way. But it says on in there, it says, and we are not saved. Uh we've not had victory. Well that the uh uh we're still in bondage here. Uh but it says the harvest is fast, the summer is in. And I was thinking uh during that, in in all that, um Let me get back where I was at. Me am I. I was thinking during during all of that. That you know, things may be going the way we just the way we want it going. Uh maybe we're happy uh with the things that's taken place in America recently. Uh it's great to have a Christian as a vice president. Amen And and and uh the jobs people are starting to get jobs again now and the economy seems to be going and we may be hearing the things that we want that that certain government programs are going to be done away with Because it's a waste of money and it's harmful to people's lives. It may be uh we have a great harvest and we're hearing everything that we want to But America's problem is a spiritual problem. It cannot be taken care of by legislation. What we need is the Lord Across the land. Now, revival is for God's people. It's to rekindle that fire that's in us so that we'll be about our father's business, doing the things that we should be doing as a church The harvest is past. We're hearing things we want to, and it's sounding real good, but we better take heed of every moment. And we better be getting the gospel out. We better be about our Father's business. We must realize that that answer is in God's house today. Now Nehemiah chapter 1, verses 1 through 3, we just read and and Nehemiah is heartbroken over what he heard. He's heartbroken. In verse 4 it says, And it came to pass when I heard these words that I sat down and wept and mourned certain days and fasted. and prayed before the God of heaven. I think the revival's getting ready to bust out for this fellow here. Uh because of that prayer, because he had a sincere heart, because he mourned, he wept. How many of us have wept over America? And the way things have gone in our country. How many of us have wept tears, sincere tears for our family members that are lost, our co-workers, those that our neighbors, those that live near us? Are we touched in our hearts for America tonight He wept and he mourned certain days, but he took it farther. He fasted and prayed before the God of heaven. You know, Jesus told his disciples, some sometimes uh this kind only comes by prayer and fasting. Not just prayer just by saying a word, but by fasting, God sees our sincerity in that. Taking the time that we would have been eating or fasting something else and giving that time to the Lord. With a sincere heart. He grieved, he mourned, he fasted, and he prayed. In Psalm 42 And verses 1 through 5, here's one of the answers. As the heart panteth after the water brook, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my meat day and night while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? When I remember these things, I poured out my soul in thee. For I had gone with the multitude. I went with them to the house of God with a voice of joy and praise with the multitude that kept holy day. Why art thou cast down, O my soul, and why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise Him for the help of His countenance. We need to be desperately seeking God as a Christian, as a church and as a nation, we need to be desperately seeking God. Yeah, things are going great right now. Uh Over in Virginia, I saw gas for $1. 87 a gallon. I got to Oakland as $2. 45 a gallon. But people are still buying it. It seems like things are going great. But our help is in the Lord. He was desperate for God. Revival began with one man, Nehemiah. I truly believe that. That one man that was broken for his nation, the nation of Israel. And revival came through him. In chapter number eight, let's go to chapter number six. In Nehemiah chapter number six We see what God the great work that God did through Nehemiah and the children of Israel. They came and they worked on a wall. In verse number fifteen of chapter number six it says, So the wall was finished in the twenty and fifth day of the month. uh elu elul in fifty and two days record breaking time that didn't come without opposition The opposition was still there. The devil was still trying to destroy that word, but revival came to the nation of Israel through that man to answer the prayer of that man Nehemiah. And then everybody uh revived. They they were fit for the work. They some of them worked with a a weapon in one hand and worked on the wall with the other hand. They somebody was watching while the others were working All the time. God did a great work in them. And then in chapter number eight, we see the results of that revival. In chapter number eight, there are three ingredients for re for revival For the results of revival. You know you've had revival when, in chapter 8, number 1, when revival comes, there will be affirmation. There will be affirmation. And I see affirmation in verse number one in chapter number eight of Nehemiah. And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street that was before the water gate And they spake unto Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses which the Lord had commanded to Israel. I believe revival came because there was affirmation there. They wanted to affirm everything that they had done. They wanted to hear back the record of how God had helped Israel and made them a nation to begin with. They had that affirmation there. They realized they needed the Word of God. And when God's people will realize they need the Word of God, not just on Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night, but each and every single day of their lives. And sometimes more than once a day, uh I want all of it that I can get. I I told you I want to read the Word of God before I take in physical food in the mornings I love the Word of God and that's the way God speaks to us. How can God speak to us if we don't ever pick up His letter to us? We need the Bible with a renewed hunger and thirst for the water of life. It says they met there at the water gate, and that's the water of life, the word of God. Then in verse number five, it says, And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was above all the people. And when he opened it, all the people stood up. Now let me read ver uh we saw in verses one through three there that he stood on a pulpit Verse 4, and Ezra the scribe stood upon a pulpit of wood. So that's where it says in verse 5. And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was above all the people. And when he opened it, all the people stood up. And we're on comfortable pews tonight. We're enjoying the things of the Lord, just being together and fellowshipping one with another. Can you imagine standing instead he did that from morning to midday? Can you imagine standing at church for six hours straight while somebody just reads the law of God, the word of God? Six hours I believe they had revival. Something had to happen for them to want to stand for six hours and listen to the Word of God. Read. They were hungry. They had a hunger and thirst after righteousness. In verse number five, there, they had a reverence for the word of God. They stood. And in verse number three, I'll read again, and he read therein, before the street that was before the water gate, from the morning until midday. Before the men and the women and those that could understand, and the ears of all the people were attentive unto the book of the law. They were hanging on every word. Hanging on every word. They weren't in any hurry to get home. They weren't in a hurry wondering what they were going to eat after the service. They weren't worried about all those things. They knew that they needed the Word of God, and it was important and first and foremost in their lives again. Revival would come, and that was a result, the affirmation right there And then in verse number 8, the Bible says, um, so they read in the book of the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reason. They explained what they were reading there. The man of God explained the word of God to them. It was explained to them. James 1:21 says, Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. They were there because they were hungry for the word of God. When was the last time we were hungry for the word of God? Whenever revival comes, that'll be one of the results of it. It's affirmation and the hunger and thirst after righteousness. Chapter number eight and verse number six, we see our second point. And I only had three. So just a few moments more. Chapter number eight and verse number six, uh the Bible says, And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God, and all the people answered, Amen, Amen With lifting up their hands and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. When revival comes, there will be adoration. There will be affirmation, a desire, and a hunger, and a thirst for the Word of God, but then there will be adoration, worshiping God They worshiped him. When revival comes, there will be adoration. In verse number six there, Ezra blessed the Lord. Adoration is verbal. The people said, Amen. Amen. So be it. We agree with you. We believe what God is saying in His word that you're reading to us. Amen. Amen. And then adoration is visual. They lifted up their hands. You remember when Solomon was dedicating the temple in that prayer that he prayed, he raised his hands toward heaven. And he prayed that prayer to God and asked for his blessings upon the place. And God heard that prayer. And then they bowed and they worshiped. I think some of them were in uh a heart of repentance. For so maybe some of their past sins. And God, through his word that Ezra was reading to them, the scribe was reading to them right there. It brought them to a place of repentance. And they had their faces to the ground. You know, revival doesn't mean you swing from the chandeliers. Most of the time when revival comes, it's God speaking to us and showing us what we really are And that we need a savior. We w of course revival comes to save to save people to Christians, but it shows us things in our lives that's not pleasing to God. And all we can do is bow our heads before him and say, Lord, you're right. I'm wrong, please cleanse me. Take that away from me. Then in verse number 13, we see the third And on the second day were gathered together the chief of of the fathers of all the people, the priest and the Levites, and to Ezra the scribe, even to understand the words of the law. Uh so he's already read it to them up here. And people uh they explain the Word of God to them. Sounds like a a good church service they were in there And then in verse number 13, we read and we understand the third point when revival comes, there will be action. Affirmation, adoration, then there will be action. You're going to take what you learned and you're going to go out there and tell somebody But there in verse number uh thirteen that we read, and on the second day were gathered together the chief of the fathers of all the people, the priests and the Levites, unto Ezra the scribe, even to understand the words of the law. They heard the word of God and they came back to hear it again. Amazing. I believe they got it. Amen. I believe they were revived. They understood. But that that didn't suffice them. They wanted to come back and hear more. They wanted to hear it again. Tell me that story again. You know, the gospel of Jesus Christ should never get old to us. Uh I I heard preachers say, and wise preachers say, you know Preach, pick your text, your subject, and everything, and then get to the cross as quick as you can. The cross is so important. The gospel is so important. And Christians need to be fed as well They heard the word of God and they came back to hear it again. It troubles me with those who can hear the word of God and then you don't see them anymore. Many churches across our land are dying. Some are getting tired of the fight. They're saying, what's the use? Jesus is worth it. The highest price out of heaven was paid for our souls. And we ought to give us give Him our lives for the rest of our lives. But it troubles me when somebody uh comes into a church, hears the word of God, and never see them again, or they can come on Christmas and Easter but no more, or can profess salvation and a week later, where are they You saying they didn't get saved? No, I'm not saying that. There's a lot of defeated people out there in the world. Verses fourteen and fifteen, the Bible says, And they found written in the law which the Lord had commanded by Moses that the children of Israel should dwell in booths in the feast of the seventh month and that they should publish and proclaim in all their cities and in Jerusalem, saying, Go forth unto the mountain, fetch olive branches, and pine branches, and myrtle branches and palm branches and branches of thick trees and and make booths as it is written. They heard that from the law that Ezra was was reading to them and it's almost like they're they're in a panic. They're going out and they're gathering all these things together. It's a celebration Uh that they're in right there. Then they did some things, uh, once they were affirmed uh and and they adored the Lord, then it put 'em into action. They went and they gathered these things together. They did some things to remind themselves uh that God was faithful to them in the wilderness and long all the way and through their journey and even during their exile God was still faithful to them and they were going to go out and do these things because that's what the law said to do. The word of God told them to do those things. And they did them I think about the Lord Jesus Christ. He said this do in remembrance of me. They did, they built those booths in remembrance of God and how he had provided for them. in the wilderness. He provided a table in the wilderness. And verse number sixteen, uh the Bible says, so the people went forth and brought them and made themselves booze, every one upon the roof of this house, and in their courts, and in the courts of the house of God, and in the streets of the water gate, and in the street of the gate of Ephraim They went back to doing what they knew they ought to do. God had set up in his law, in his word, that there were certain feasts that they would have. There were certain Things that they were to do, and they went back to doing the things that they knew they should do. Whenever revival comes from a chur to a church and to a an area, to a community, people get back to doing the things that they knew all on they should have been doing It revives that spark in them. And then in verse 17, I'll close with it. And all the congregation of them that were come again out of the captivity made booths and sat under the booths. For since the days of Jeshua, the son of Nun, unto that day had not the children of Israel done so, and there was great gladness. There was great gladness when revival comes, there'll be joy. When revival comes, you'll get excited When revival comes, you will affirm the things that you already knew is just we've got to be reminded sometimes You will affirm it. You will adore the Lord. You will take action. Do the things that you knew you should have been doing all along, and then there'll be excitement and there'll be great joy in your hearts. That's what happens when revival comes. Lord, I pray, Lord, now that you'll take your words feet to hearts here all over the building, Lord. We want to see revival. Lord, we know it starts in the house of God. That judgment must first begin. The house of God. Lord, help us, uh help us, Lord, to be what we ought to be for your honor and for your glory. And Lord, please grant that Revival would come in Jesus' name. Amen.