Genesis chapter 43 is where we're at. And uh I want to read, uh I want to begin reading, let's see, in verse number fifteen down through twenty-five. Now I know a lot We have a good number of our master club workers. You've been out through the spring and winter. Uh you're back in for the summer now, so I'll try to get you caught up where we're at here just briefly But verse number 15 of Genesis 43, of course we're studying the life of Joseph, and um we are uh He is now, and most of us I think are familiar with the story, so I don't have to go into a lot of detail, but Joseph is now number two in the land of Egypt through a series of interpreting dreams. He ends up the number two most powerful man in probably the most powerful nation of the world. So he is in a significant position. He has influence, he has authority And as he had interpreted Pharaoh's dreams, and God had given them, there was going to be seven years of plenty, and there was going to be seven years of famine. Well, they've had the seven years of plenty, where we're at in our story. The seven years of plenty have come and gone. They've stored up the grain. They're in good shape. Egypt is in good shape. They have plenty of grain. They stored it up Folks from other nations are now coming to Egypt seeking grain supplies. And as you would imagine, as you know the story, Joseph's brothers show up into the seven years of famine. They're into it a good little ways. And his brothers show up looking for grain. Joseph recognizes them. If you remember the story, Joseph gives them a hard time. The Bible says he spake roughly unto them. And he kind of treated them roughly also. Now we don't know why. The Bible doesn't tell us what Joseph's motives were in his actions. My thinking is, I think, my opinion, my assessment is that Joseph was struggling with forgiveness I think Joseph was a man of integrity, impeccable integrity. He was an intelligent, sharp, very efficient leader. But he was still just a man, and he had a sinful nature. And his brothers had sinned against him severely. Would you agree? Going to kill them and then sell him in slavery, just leave them, lie about them for years And so that would be something maybe that even Joseph would struggle with forgiveness. And sometimes forgiveness is difficult. Am I right or wrong Sometimes it's difficult, even for the best of God's people. And so my my thinking is, and I'm elaborating this a little bit because it's the basis of much of my interpretation here, Is that Joseph's struggling with forgiving his brothers, and so he treats them roughly, and then he'll turn around and he'll be kind to them. And I think he's got that struggle going back and forth. So he throws them all in prison, just going to leave them there. After about three days, he comes back and said, tell you what, he accused them of being spies. He says, tell you what, I'm going to let all of you go. I'm going to keep one of you, Simeon, you stay here in prison, the rest of you go back You told me about your brother. You go get that younger brother of yours. You bring him down here. I want to see him. If I see your younger brother, I'll know you're not spies. You're telling me the truth. And he said very emphatically, do not come back without your brother. So the boys go home. They tell their dad what happened Of course, Jacob, he lost Joseph in his mind. He's lost Joseph. He says there's no way in the world. I'm losing Benjamin. I'm not doing it. And he flat out refuses. He is not going back. So uh the famine increases, they're getting deeper into that seven-year famine. Of course, they don't know it's going to be seven years, they have no long idea how long this thing's gonna last. Finally, Jacob relents. He sends the boys back, and he sends Benjamin back with him. So that's where we're at. The boys are back into Egypt for the second time. And that's where we're picking up in verse 15. And the men took that present, and we'll talk about some of this here in a bit, and the men took that present, and they took double money in their hand, and Benjamin. And rose up and went down to Egypt, this is for the second time, and stood before Joseph. And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler of the house, Bring these men home and slay and make ready, for these men shall dine with me at noon And the men did, the man did, as Joseph bade, and the man brought the men to Joseph's house. Now look at verse 18. And the men were what? His brothers were afraid. Because they were brought into Joseph's house, and they said, because of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time we were brought in. that he may seek occasion against us and fall upon us and take us for bondmen and our asses. They came near to the steward of Joseph's house, and they communed with him at the door of the house, and said, O sir We came indeed down that the first time to buy food, and it came to pass when we came to the inn that we opened our sacks, and behold, every man's money was in the mouth of his sack. Our money in full weight. And we've brought it again in our hand. And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food. We cannot tell who put our money in our sacks And he, Joseph's man there, he said, Peace be unto you, fear not. Your God and the God of your father hath given you treasure in your sacks. I had your money. And he brought Simeon out to them. And the man brought the men into Joseph's house and gave them water, and they washed their feet, and he gave them gave their asses provender. And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon, for they heard that he should eat bread there. Let's pray and we'll look at this. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of this portion of Scripture. And I pray there'd be some lessons and principles here that your Holy Spirit would pull out and apply to our lives to help us to be stronger in our faith and closer to you in our walk. Lord, I yield my will to you and my mind. I pray you'd control my thinking as I preach. I present my body, Lord, for this moment, for this message. I ask that you would please fill me with your Spirit, dear Lord, and speak through me. And help us from this passage. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think there's three issues being dealt with here. We looked at one. That was Jacob's fear, or uh Jacob's faith. And if you remember, we pointed out in the first 14 verses of this passage last week, the famine's intensifying and it's putting pressure on Jacob to send Benjamin and the boys back down. He does not want to send Benjamin, but that famine's intensifying there in verse number one, it says the famine was sore in the land And you know what I found out? A hungry belly is a strong motivator. And they're getting hungry. And they're out of food. And then the family is intensifying pressure. The boys are putting pressure on daddy, saying, Daddy, listen, if we don't get food, we're going to die. And that was no doubt literally true. And he says, either we go down with Benjamin or we die. So finally Jacob relents. And he makes an interesting statement at the end of the Passage there. He references God. Verse 14. He says, And God Almighty give you mercy before the man. You don't find Jacob talking about God a whole lot. In this part of his life for a long time. Earlier, when he was younger, he did some, when he was fleeing Laban and all of that. And I think Jacob is beginning to exercise faith in God again. Now it is forced faith. He doesn't have much choice. He's in a position where it's either trust God or die. God's grace and God's mercy is all he has at this point. And so he's forced to trust God. But I tell you, sometimes it's good for us to get in a position when we have nowhere to look but up. We have nothing left but the Lord. And Jacob is at his end of his rope He's lost Joseph, as far as he knows. In his mind, he's going to lose Benjamin. Notice what he says there at the end of verse 14. He says, if I bereaved of my children, I am bereaved. And so we have the issue of Jacob's faith, and God's developing it, God's pushing it, God's pressing him, twisting his arm, getting them to trust God. Then we have the issue of the brother's fear, and that's what I want to look at in a little bit here. But then we're also going to notice, Lord will, on next Wednesday night, Joseph's forgiveness. Jacob's faith, the brother's fear, and Joseph's forgiveness. I want to look at the brothers' fear this evening. Fear is a powerful emotion. It can have a positive effect on us, or it can have a very negative effect. Can anybody think? What would be a positive effect of fear? Well w well how how would fear be something positive for us? Right. Fear could save us from danger. Right? Fear. We we try to teach our children to be afraid of playing around the road, right? We say awful things. It'll run you over like a possum. You'll be flat this area. We say awful stuff. You know, that little kitty cat flattened down there. You know, that's going to happen to you. Stay away from the root So fear can have some positive effects. It can save our lives. You know, if you're working in wood, you're getting ready for a men's shootout, and you're getting the wood together and you hear a rattle. You know, it'll alert you. Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Fear can save us from danger. The positive effect of fear, fear can produce courage. Sometimes fear swells up, and somebody says, All right, I've got to act in spite of my fear. I don't think courage is the absence of fear. I think courage is acting in spite of the fear. So sphere is a very powerful emotion, afraid. It is a good thing, I believe, to fear God. I'm afraid I don't want to do something to disobey my God. Now I'm not talking about a legalistic living under some uh some iron fist of God or something like that. We live in grace But grace should teach us to fear God. Just like you would, I wouldn't, I love my daddy, and I would be afraid to say or do something that would hurt my daddy because I love him. You follow what I'm saying? So fear can be very positive, but fear can also be negative. Sometimes fear can cause us to act irrationally Panic sets in. And we lose our faith in God and we and we just uh react and we and and we act irrationally. And so fear is a very, very powerful force. There are over 400 references in the Bible that refer to fear. Now one great reference that everybody ought to be very familiar with, young and old. We teach it to children, but I tell you, I reference this passage, this text as much at this stage of my life as I did any other stage of my life. Psalm 53, 6. I'm sorry, Psalm 56. 3. I was afraid I had that wrong. What time I am afraid, I will what? Trust in thee. I will trust in thee. The Bible talks a lot about fear, 400 plus times, probably upwards to 500. Notice verse number 18 here in our text, the very first phrase. It says, And the men were afraid. They were afraid. What were they afraid of? I put number one, they were afraid of meeting Joseph. Afraid of coming in front of this man that had that had uh treated them so roughly before, this man has has almost humanly speaking unlimited authority over them And they've got to go down and meet him, and he is suspicious of them. At least he made that appear. He's suspicious that they're spies. He accused them of lying. And now they're coming back down to meet him. I think their fear of meeting Joseph, I think this they had two concerns about meeting Joseph. Number one, the unknowns of the meeting It says, and they were, uh verse 15, and the men took that present, and they took double money in their hand, and Benjamin, and rose up and went down to Egypt and stood before Joseph. Would you agree with me? I would imagine that was a pretty long journey. I mean every day they're getting closer. Every day they're going to have to face this guy, and it's going through their mind. How's he going to respond to us? What is he going to do? Is he going to believe us? Is he going to believe that this is Benjamin? Is he going to keep his word? He changed it so many times before. Fear of the unknown. Someone said that fear of the unknown is the fear that rules all other fears. The unknown. What does tomorrow hold? What's going to happen? The brothers had no idea how Joseph was going to receive them. They may never come back again. Would you agree? Sometimes when you're in an anxious situation or you have something you don't know what's going to happen, the mind tends to assume the worst case scenario. Oh. And I no doubt no doubt these fellows were no different. They had no idea what Joseph was going to do. They had no idea how he would respond. They had no idea if they were ever coming back out of Egypt again So they did, they brought three things with them. It's mentioned in verse 15, but go back to verse 11. This is Jacob advised them to do this. And uh verse eleven, the last part it says, uh, take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels and carry down Carry down the man a present. And then they had a little balm, a little honey, spices, myrrh nuts, and almonds. Now they're in a famine, so it can't be too impressive. But they have a present. So they bring a present down with them. And in verse 15, it says, the men took the present. So that's what the present consists of, these spices and almonds and whatnot. And then they took a payment. Look at verse 12. Jacob's tell them to do this. And take double money in your hand, and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry it again in your hand. Preadventure was oversight. So they take that money back plus money to buy new grain. So they got this present, they have this payment that they're going to make do make good And then they're fulfilling a promise. Verse 13, Jacob says, take also your brother. Take also your brother. Verse 15, it says, and Benjamin. They took Benjamin. So that was the promise they made. We'll bring Benjamin back. We come back, we'll bring Benjamin. So they don't know what's going to happen. They have no idea. I think about Proverbs 27:1, boast not thyself of tomorrow for what? Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Sometimes I tweak that verse a little bit. Now I'm not changing scripture. I'm not, don't accuse me of heresy But sometimes I like to quote it this way. It says, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Sometimes I like to quote it this way: fear not thyself of tomorrow. For thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Sometimes we worry and fear and get upset about what's going to happen tomorrow, and we really don't know what's going to happen. So we trust the Lord. I don't know what tomorrow holds, but I know who holds tomorrow. And Jesus is already there. He's already there. So these brothers, they get these present and their and uh their payment and the promise of s of uh Benjamin, they get this all together and they're making a way down. The Bible says they were afraid We're afraid. We're told repeatedly in Scripture not to worry about tomorrow. Right? Well I mean there's numerous space. Be careful for nothing. But everything by what Prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be known. Be careful. That word careful means don't be anxious. Don't be worried. In the Sermon on the Mound, Matthew chapter 6, where he had that great verse, Seek ye first the kingdom of God, his righteousness, all these things will be added unto you. The preceding verses, he goes through very eloquently, he's talking to his disciples, telling them not to take thought for the Marah. God feeds the birds, he clothes the flowers. So don't worry. And he says specifically, take no thought, no worry, no anxiety about tomorrow. And so we're told over and over and over and over in Scripture not to fear tomorrow, not to worry about tomorrow, but not one time in Scripture are we told not to prepare for tomorrow. Only a fool does not prepare for tomorrow. There's a world of difference between between saying Well, I'm going to trust God for meet my needs tomorrow and being foolish with what he provides for me today. Remember, God gave him seven years of plenty to prepare for the seven years of famine. And this is a little leathermanism here, but I always thought, and based on that principle, I call it the Joseph Principle. Is that when God blesses you in unexpected ways, it might be a good idea to take that and set it aside because God might be preparing for a need you're going to have tomorrow You follow what I'm saying? You say, well man, this came, where did this this man this came out of nowhere? Let's live it up Maybe it might be a good idea to say, well, let's set that aside because maybe God gave it to her for a need or something down the road a little ways. Has anybody ever happened to you? God bless you in unexpected way And lo and behold, near future, you had something come up and you and God had provided ahead of time, sure. And so the fellows aren't being dumb or not being foolish by putting this present and the payment and the promise together and have something for them. But they are still afraid. So, one, they're afraid of unknown. How is Joseph going to respond? How is he going to treat us? But I think there's another concern in their fear of meeting Joseph, and that is the intimidation of this meeting. Jonathan Edwards, anybody recognize that name? Jonathan Edwards, great preacher up in New England, part of the uh the uh um uh the great um Great Awakening up in New England, him and George Whitfield, and a great sermon on Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. He made this statement. He said humility is one of the most essential attitudes that characterize a true Christian. Now think about that. Humility One of the central attitudes that characterizes a true Christian, humility. Humility. I don't know about you, but I think our churches could use a new good dose of humility again. Just humbling ourselves before God. Humility is one thing these brothers had very little experience in. They really didn't understand what humility was. I find nowhere. I went back and looked over the record of their record in Scripture up to this point And I see zero instances of them displaying humility. They're slaughtering people for defiling their daughter. They're throwing their brother in pits, they're threatening to kill, they're scheming, they're fighting, they're hating. You have everything but humility displayed in the lives of these brothers. And so now they're standing before one of the most intimidating men they have ever been before in their life. And their pride's not doing them very much good. And there's nothing they can do. And I'm convinced that God is teaching them humility. God's teaching them humility. Their great sin was not their cruelty, and they were cruel. And their great sin was not their unkindness, and they were very unkind. Their great sin was their pride. And pride, I'm convinced, that all our sin is the fruit of the root sin of pride. It is pride that brought Satan down. I will be like the Most High God. I'll rule my life. I'll call the shots. I'll be God in my life. That's exactly the way these brothers were living now They're standing in front of a man where that's not working. God is seeking, I think, I think what's taking place here And I mentioned this earlier, but I I I think it comes out here a little bit, if you think with me about this. God had God God had the boys do all this, allowed this to all happen. Joseph's down in Egypt, has the dreams, he's in authority. Famine, and there and and Jacob and the family is is being drawn down to Egypt. Two reasons. One I think is to fulfill a promise to Abraham. God said this was going to happen. But something else is happening. Go back to the beginning of our study of Jacob, of Joseph. And what was the home characterized by? We emphasize this early on. Their home was characterized and filled with what? Who remembers? Hatred. They hated Joseph. And Jacob had these various wives, which is never a good idea. And they're all fussing with each other, and the home is saturated with anger, with hatred, with bitterness, with envy. And it was, as far as relationships concerned, completely dysfunctional And now they've been separated for years. You know what I think God is doing? I think you'll see it at the end of Joseph's life. God is repairing and restoring these relationships in this family. Joseph and the brothers, Jacob and the boys, the families coming together. And at the end of Genesis, we find them living together, and we don't find one hint or indication whatsoever of that anger, envy, hatred that was there early on. And I tell you, if you're going to remove bitterness and if you're going to remove anger and if you're going to deal with unforgiveness and deal with that correctly First thing that has to go is pride. Is pride. If I'm going to be restored in my relationship with someone, I have got to humble myself. I've got to. I've got to. It is not sin in a relationship. It's not someone's sin that breaks down that relationship. It's not the presence of sin that breaks down a relationship. It's the absence of mercy that breaks down a relationship. If sin is going to break down a relationship, then there will be no relationships whatsoever because everybody's a sinner. But if I learn to humble myself and be merciful and show mercy. Then that relationship can be restored. And I think God is humbling these boys. He's using Joseph. They don't know it's Joseph. But he's humbling them and he's seeking to restore their relationship with Joseph, but first he has to replace their pride with humility. So number one, they have this fear of meeting Joseph. They don't know how he's going to respond, and they're thinking the worst, no doubt. It's intimidating to stand before this man. Notice it says at the end of verse 15, I meant to point this out. He says, They went down to Egypt and stood before Joseph. Now the Bible puts that in there specifically. I think it's implying they they're in an intimidating situation. So their fear of meeting with Joseph. Number two, I think they have a me fear of this money situation. Remember when they were going back from the first time they stopped at the inn and um uh one of the fellas opened his sack to feed the the donkeys and the cattle for traveling And right in the mouth of the sack, here's all the gold that they had paid for that. Then they get back home and they all open it, and lo and behold, they all got their money. And so now they're coming back down, and they're very worried about this. And notice here in verse number 16, it says, And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, He said to the ruler of the house, Bring these men home and slay. In other words, slay some lambs or so, get some food ready. And make ready, for these men shall dine with me at noon. And the man did as Joseph bade, and the man brought the men to Joseph's house. And that's where it says, and the men were afraid, because they were brought to Joseph's house. And uh the first thing I notice is their assumption here. They're afraid because they were brought to Joseph's house, and they said, it's because of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time we were brought in that he may seek occasion against us and fall upon us and take us for bondmen and asses. They said, Oh, I know we know what's happening. Now they're making this assumption. He's setting us up And he put this money in there, and now he's going to accuse, he brings us to his house, he's going to accuse us of stealing it, and he's going to take us, make us his slave, and uh he's going to take all our possessions. Oh, we're dead meat William Shakespeare wrote, Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind. Now it's interesting to note here, they sold their brother into slavery. And look with me, if you will, at the last part of verse 18 of this assumption they're making He may seek occasion against us and fall us upon us and take us for what? Bondman. What's a bondman? It's a slave. You know what I think is happening? I think they've got a guilty conscience. For all these 20 years, the back of their mind, they always remembered what They did to Joseph what they did to Joseph, what they did to Joseph. Now they're in a situation and they're saying they're assuming the same thing is going to happen to us. We're going to end up slaves. It's funny how an undealt with sin in the past just kind of lingers in the back of the heart and mind, doesn't it? It's just there. And the strangest situations, in a comment here, a circumstance there, and man, it comes back to mind. You know the best thing to do If you have some sin that's causing guilt, you know the best thing to do with it is bring it to the Lord Jesus Christ, confess it fully, forsake it, and claim the promise of the forgiveness of God. If you got something wrong with somebody else, if you stole something, if you uh whatever it may be, you owe somebody something, the best thing to do, rather than cover it up and deal with that guilt The best thing to do is go to them, be honest, make it right, and get that guilt off your back I had a call here. It's been a couple years ago now, not too long ago, maybe a year ago, maybe three years ago. At this stage of life, it could have been ten years ago But a fellow called up during the weekday said, Pastor Lemon. I said, yeah, he told me who was, I know him. Doesn't live around here. He says, um, he says, I need to tell you something. I said, okay He said, I was there to church one time and um I stole one of the Bibles off the back back there. And I never paid for it. I said, really? He goes, Yeah. That's bothering me every day. Every day I need to pay for that m now I don't understand stealing a Bible. But uh he did. And he says, um, I'll bring it back. He said, what do you want me to do? I said, tell you what, it costs fifty bucks. I said, you send us fifty bucks, get fifty bucks, it'll be fine I wasn't going to tell him you can keep it. If he stole it, he needs to pay for it. If he'd have come and asked me, I don't have money, I'd like to have a Bible, I'd have given it to him. But he's gonna steal it, he's gonna come, it's I think for his own good he needs to pay for it. You with me on that? So I said, send fifty bucks and um you know it's squared away, it's not a problem I said, I appreciate you calling me. I appreciate you being honest and uh telling me. To this day I don't think we got that fifty bucks yet. So I hope he feels guilty. But um But guilt, it's a powerful thing. And they were afraid, and they began to assume that because of what they did before, that's going to happen to them. They sold their brother into slavery, and now that's what they feared is going to happen to them. So this money situation, they've got this money, we've been set up, he's bringing them into the house And he's gonna make us slaves. And they're assuming that. Now they were totally wrong about the slave part, but that's what they assumed, and it was part of their fear. And then notice their explanation in verse 19. And they came near to the steward of Joseph's house, and they communed with him at the door of the house. Before they ever went in, they pulled this guy aside. And they said, Oh sir, we came indeed down at the first time to buy food. It came to pass when we came to the inn that we opened our sacks, and behold, every man's money was in the mouth of his sack our money in full weight and we have brought it again in our hand. And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food. Let me say this. We cannot tell who put our money in our sacks And so they go to a great length and they go in very detail explain to the steward there what happened, what their situation was. And um I'd be honest with you, I think they were very wise in doing that. They initiated this conversation about the money that showed up in their sacks. They did not wait until somebody came to them. and said, hey, we're missing the money from the last time you were down here. They didn't want to take the chance. Waiting on that. They went to make it right And that's what I was saying a moment ago. The best thing to do, if some there's a misunderstanding or there's something you don't uh something out of whack, the best thing to do is go to the person and talk to them about what the situation is Don't let it escalate. Don't let it fester. Um several months ago, it's back during the winter maybe or something. Um Uh I was at Walmart shopping and uh I was got some Coca-Cola bottles for my wife and I always just kinda hang them. You know how you hang 'em on the side of the the the uh buggy And you just kinda hang them on there between everybody know I'm talking about. And um it's very important you understand that And so I went through the self-checkout and um uh did all my stuff and I got out to the car, I'm unloading, and I realized I didn't scan the Coca-Cola bottles that were hanging on the side there Now I could have done one or two things. I could have just said, they don't know and went and wait for them to come out After me and say, hey, sir, you didn't pay for that. Or I could turn around and go back in and say, hey, listen, I messed up. I didn't pay for it. Anybody want to guess what I did? I took them and ran. Are you kidding? No, I didn't. And the first thing I thought was, oh no, I I hope they didn't I hope nobody noticed it. I don't think I did this on purpose, so I quickly went back, took them back in, I said, Oh, I messed up and did this. And they were there, oh yeah, no, that's fine. By the way, they made me pay for it, and they didn't And um but you know I found it's best if you mess up go to the one you messed up with and be the one to initiate it. Don't wait till they come after you Would you be will you agree with me? It have been bad if the boys would have waited and somebody would have come to them about the money. And so I think they acted very wisely here, uh going making it right and and uh um and uh uh uh uh being the ones to initiate it. If you suspect something's not right, be the be the one to rectify it And then I noticed the assurance they got from Joseph's fellow. Look at verse 23. And he, Joseph's steward, his man, said, Peace be unto you, fear not. Your God and the God of your father. Now that's interesting that he would say that. Peace be. This is an Egyptian. This is a steward of the highest level in government. This isn't just some Some bum on the street. This is a very, very significant position person. And he says, peace be unto you. Fear not. You're God. And the God of your father hath given you treasure in your sacks. I had your money. You think he was lying? When he said to the boys, your God gave that to you, I had your money. Do you think he was lying when he said, I had your money? I don't think he was. I think he, the steward, had the money that the brothers paid for their food. So, where did the money come from? That was in their sacks. If the steward had their money that they paid him, then where did this money come from? And I tell you what, I have a sneaking suspicion. I think Joseph, out of his own pocket, said, here, put this money back in there. I think Joseph put their money back there. In fact, I'll get to heaven and you'll find out I'm right. We get there. I don't think the steward was lying when he said, I had your money. I think Joseph paid for his brothers. Now here's what I find interesting, and I end with this. He says to them, he speaks about peace to them. He says, peace be unto you. Now, the interesting thing, if you look that up, and I'm not a Hebrew scholar, I'm not a Greek scholar, I'm not even an English scholar But I looked up that phrase where it comes from. Peace be unto you. That sounds very biblical, right? Peace be unto you. You know what I found out that phrase is? It's actually shalom. Shalom. Anybody ever hear that word? Shalom alachem. What language is Shalom? Hebrew. It's not Egyptian. This Egyptian steward is speaking to these brothers and using a very key Hebrew word. Shalom. Peace be unto you. Be not afraid. And then, now remember, this is an Egyptian. He says to them, Your God and the God of your father hath given you treasure in your sacks. The word God there is not the Egyptian word for the sun god Ra that they worshiped. It is not the word for the River Nile God that the Egyptians worship. In fact, it is not an Egyptian god at all. It's not an Egyptian term. The word God there is Elohim. That is the Hebrew God. That is the true and living God, which we learn later in Scripture. His name is Jehovah. This Egyptian steward raised in Egypt in the paganism, raw, evil paganism of Egypt And he uses the Hebrew term shalom. Elohim is with you. And the Elohim of your father gave you that. How many people find that surprising? Here's what I think is happening. Now, whether Joseph instructed him to say that to them is very possible. Maybe Joseph's faith in Elohim, the true God, is rubbing off On his servants and his stewards, and they are coming to know the true and living God. You know, if you and I are genuine Christians and our faith is worth its salt, we're going to have an influence on the people that are around us. And again, this is speculation, but maybe Joseph has had a profound influence on significant Egyptians working with him. And he rubs shoulders with. I don't know. But this is what I think is happening. Remember back when they were down the first time? Joseph referenced Elohim. When he was talking to them. Remember we pointed that out for those that were here, and those that were here probably don't remember anyway, but But when they first came down in the conversation, whether Joseph did it deliberately or it was just unthinking, but he referenced God, Elohim To the brothers. Now, the brothers, if they were paying attention, they're in Egypt, pagan Egypt, saturated. They all they know is this guy's number two Egyptian. They would assume he's raised in the Egyptian religion and culture. And he references Elohim. I don't know about you, but scenes like that would have caught their ear. And I I said this before, but have have you ever been on vacation somewhere where you don't know anybody? And someone says something like, Praise the Lord. And all of a sudden you catch, and and you know what I'm talking about? You say, oh, I wonder if they're Christians. Or they'll say, God is good. And it looks like the brothers would have said, did he just say Elanium? But they we'd find no reaction from him. And now They're back their home. This is a year two, three years later, we don't know. They come back down. And now the servant is referencing Elohim and using Hebrew terms. I think, and again it's easy to look back, hindsight's 20-20, but I think if these boys would have been paying attention, they could have figured out that God is doing something. If they'd have been paying attention, they'd thought, you know, I wonder if God isn't involved in this somehow. And you know what we know? God was involved in it. This whole thing was God's doing from beginning to end. They don't know that, but here's these little these little, what do you call them, clues? These little hints, this is what came to my mind when I was studying it. These little fingerprints of God on what's happening. And we get to the end of the story at the end of the Genesis, and Joseph makes that great statement. You meant it for evil. But what? God meant it for good. And there's they're seeing God's fingerprints. Elohim. Elohim. Shalom. I wonder if they look back and say, you know, God was doing that. God was doing that. Here's what I want to leave you. This is what I took away from it. When you're going through trials and you don't know what's happened and you're scared. Look for God's fingerprints. Look for a little something God's doing here, doing there. I tell you, it's a great encouragement. Listen, it's a great encouragement if we know that God, if God is with us, In our trials, it's a great encouragement. Amen. God was with them. God was working. They were scared to death. But God was with them. And there's these little hints here and there. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. I'm here. Just remember that when you go through it. Listen for God's voice. Look for God's fingerprints. God will be there. Father, I ask you to help us learn from these boys. Help us, Lord, to understand your working in our life. We don't always understand, and sometimes we're afraid. But help us to trust you. Help us to take you at your word. Help us to see your fingerprints in our experience, in our darkness. Help us to hear your voice. Hear that shalom, Elohim. In places we often least expect it. I wonder if heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there'll be some say, preacher, you know, I go through a tough time, and there's things I don't understand, there's things that scare me. But I want to just gonna try and keep my eye on the Lord. I'm just gonna keep my ear open to his voice, his shalom. I want to keep my Spirit sensitive to what he's doing in my life and trust him to get me through. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Hands all around. And maybe we just need to come to an order and say, Lord, open my ears to hear you. Lord, open my eyes to see. Strengthen my faith to know and trust. But I'm scared in a foreign land and have no idea what's going to happen. I just trust you. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.