It's marked in Exodus. We're going to go right back there again to Exodus chapter 20. And uh the uh scripture today is gonna be from verses one through three. Everybody a chance to find it. I'm going to be re beginning reading in verse one. The Bible says, and God spake all these words, saying, I am the Lord thy God, which have brought thee out of the land Land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Let's pray. Come and learn from your word, Father. Thank you for your word. for the saving power that it has. And God, I pray that in this hour you'd use the preacher to preach the message that we so long to hear. Lord, I pray that you would help us to remove all the worldly cares that we have at this point. Just help us to set them aside and be s uh spiritually attentive. Lord, I pray you'd help us to get a hold of this idea, this commandment to just set all things aside and just focus on you, to have no idols. And Lord, I pray that in this hour, that if there be one in this congregation under the sound of the preaching, we will Or uh maybe on online, Lord, that uh doesn't know Christ as their personal Savior, I pray that today would be the day that you would move and convict them in their hearts uh and uh let them uh know that they Can uh have a place in heaven when they die. We ask that uh you would just uh again just be with us in this hour. We thank you for everything you do. In Jesus' name we pray. Uh folks came in this morning. The church hour says, hey, how comes the choir singing in Sunday school? And um this isn't the Sunday school hour. This is the church hour. We turned our clocks ahead last Night and I'm just teasing nobody really said that, but I thought it would be funny if someone did. But uh Exodus chapter twenty Lady came staggering into the police station late one night. Her eye was black and blue, her hair was uh all everywhere and had grass on her clothes and said good heavens lady uh what in the world happened what's wrong she goes I heard a noise out in the backyard I walked out next thing I knew something smacked me in the face I was out cold uh for an hour and a half and uh they They said, okay, they took a report and um they said you stay right here, we'll send one of our men out. So one of the men went over. About an hour and a half later, he showed up He came staggering in, black eye, grass all over him, uh, hair all messed up. Uh they said, uh they said, did the same guy hit you that hurt her? No, he said I stepped on the same rake she stepped on. And so you never know what's out there. Exodus chapter twenty. We are we've began memorizing the ten commandments. We have ten months left, and so each month We're going to take another command by the end of the year, Lord willing. We'll have all of our commands memorized. And what I intend to do is take one Sunday each month and to um am I on there Yep. Uh take one Sunday each month and preach on that month's command that we're looking at and work through. And so I hope it'll be a blessing to you, a challenge to us. And that's what we're going to do. We're going to look at the first command here today. And what I would like for us to do is read verse 3 together. Now I know we already said this. It's part of our memory verse, but this is our text for the message this morning. And if we could, I'd like for us to read verse 3 of Exodus chapter 20 together in unison. Ready? Read it with me. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. I want to preach on the first commandment. Let's pray. Father, please bless our time in your word. I pray, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would take the word of God Apply it to our hearts and lives as you know that we have need. Lord, I uh I am unable in and of myself To teach or preach anything from this passage of spiritual eternal value. Lord, it has to be your Holy Spirit. Lord, you are the author of this. You are the giver of these commands. So we're asking you, God, to teach us and be the preacher through me, I pray, as I present my body anew, I yield my will and self to you. I ask you to fill me with your spirit. And that you would get the glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. There are several, uh, there are various events Throughout man's history, as you look back through history, that stand out above all others. Some of us may name different ones, but there's some that we would all agree on. For instance The crucifix of the Lord Jesus Christ is an event, is an uh what I would call an epic event. Stands out above all. Would you agree with me on that? Now, if we open this up, you could offer some others. Perhaps the the flood, uh Noah's flood would definitely be an epic event that stands out above all others. I would like to suggest to you That when God came down, God Almighty came down on the top of Mount Sinai. And met with Moses, the representative of the Jewish nation, God's people, and gave to him and through him the world, the Ten Commandments, that was an epic event. In fact, never before has such an event, this event has no parallel in any nation's history No nation, Egypt, Babylon, Rome, no European nation, America, no nation has ever had God Come and declare audibly his commands for those people. What an event. Never is it recorded in the history of any people that God Almighty declared with an audible voice such clear and concise standard of righteousness as we have here. Now think about this. On that mountain, God himself spake these commandments. Throughout the rest of the Old Testament, you generally have a prophet making this type of statement, thus saith the Lord. And you'll find prophets saying that. Here you don't have a prophet saying this. This is the Lord saying this. And on top of that. The Bible tells us, and again, we don't have time to go to all of this and expound on all this, but the Bible says that these commands Were not just spoken by God Almighty Himself, but they were written by His finger on tables of stone. Tablets of stone. Nowhere in the Bible do you have anything like that? God Almighty audibly declaring his law. And then with his finger inscribing them in tables of stone and the initial tablets, God himself carved out What an event. What an event. Here, God is giving directly to mankind. No intercessor. Directly to mankind, God is setting forth his standard of right and wrong. His standard of conduct, his standard of behavior that God expects from his creation What an event. No wonder the people fell in fear when they heard the voice of God and they said, God have mercy on us. That we not die. We have heard the voice of God. This is quite an event. The term Ten Commandments, that term, the Ten Commandments, is used three times in Scripture. Once in Exodus 34, verse 28, and twice in Deuteronomy. Chapter 4, verse 13, and chapter 10 in verse 4. Three times you find the term Ten Commandments in the Bible. These commands, these ten commandments, were so significant to the Jews. That the Jews would refer to them not as the Ten Commandments, but the Jews referred to the Ten Commandments as the Ten Words. The ten words. Now, they didn't use that term suggesting that there were only ten words involved here. Obviously, there's more than ten words involved here. They use the term the ten words to mean that these commands were the final word, the final authority. For all of mankind. This was the word. The ten words. And so the significance of the ten commandments. Now, what are the Ten Commandments? We memorize them, we have them listed there. But the Ten Commandments did not begin on Mount Sinai. That's not when they originated. On Mount Sinai, they were given in verbal form from God Almighty to man, but that wasn't their initiation. Very much like the birth of Jesus Christ in Bethlehem that we celebrate at Christmas, that was not the beginning of Jesus Christ. He's the eternal Son of God, always has been, always will be. So the Ten Commandments did not have their uh origination on Mount Sinai when God came down and spoke with Moses. They didn't begin there That was when they were vocalized. That was when they were recorded in stone, as we referenced, but that was not their origination. Let me ask you a question Was it wrong before God gave the Ten Commandments for a man to murder another man? Yes, absolutely. Was it wrong to uh uh to uh bear false witness or lie before God gave those Ten Commandments? Absolutely. Was it wrong to have another God before the true God? Yes. So the Ten Commandments did not originate then In fact, Romans tells us that God's law, his commandments, are written on the heart of every man, in our conscience. And so I want to suggest to you that the Ten Commandments, what we call the Ten Commandments, this standard that God has given. Are as eternal as God Himself. The Ten Commandments are an expression of God's holiness. They are the, I'm using this word a lot, but they are the standard that God's holiness requires of his creation. That's the reason. As I said, the Ten Commandments are as eternal as God Himself. From eternity past to eternity future, it will be a sin against God to bear false witness. From eternity past to eternity future, it is a sin against God to make a graven image. These commands are eternal. That is why Jesus said in Matthew chapter 5 and verse 18, till heaven and earth pass. One jot or one tittle shall in nowise pass from the law till all be fulfilled The law referring to what we call the Ten Commandments or what the Jews called the Ten Words. Um the phrase jot or tittle. Uh is an interesting phrase and uh we don't have anything in English that uh we can respond to that. It would be uh the the what what we would uh illustrate it or explain it in English would be uh a jot would be dotting the eye The little dot that's above the I. We're on a lowercase j. The little dot that's on the lowercase j. Or are there any other letters that have little dots on them? I and J. Any where's Donna Miller? She's a teacher, so she says no, so that's official. So the the uh the jot would be the little dot on there. The tittle would be like a crossing the T. Or the little bar across the capital A, the upside down B with a little that little bar across there. Or On a capital G, the little thing goes across. What others have little H? Well we could be here all day doing this. So, Jesus said, in so many words, the most minute details of God's commands. Are eternal. Heaven and earth are going to pass away. Not even the most minute detail of it is going to be not in effect. in effect. So the law. The Ten Commandments are not a product of some civil code that man came up with. As great as our Constitution is, and I believe the United States Constitution is a tremendous document. I think it's the greatest government document that man has ever come up with. But the point is this: it's man's product. Right? The law The commandments were not devised by a civil government. It was not some committee or some Congress That convene together and brainstorm and came up with these ten commandments, these ten laws, these ten words. But they are the standard of conduct that the holiness of God demands. In fact, I would go so far as to say God didn't come up with them. They simply are an expression of the holiness of God. I for years I wore a wristwatch. Now I have the phone, there's a a clock on my phone, and there on the phone also has a calendar and some games and uh I can get the internet and do chat and email and uh I can get the weather uh I have a dictionary on there I have the Bible awful on my phone and uh a kitchen sink, a microwave, and um a grappling hook. So I got all that so I don't wear a wristwatch anymore. How boring. So I just Use my w my clock for my time. But we have a clock back there. Last night most of us turned our clocks ahead. Some people didn't, but most of us did Now, when you look at a clock, what is it telling you? The time of day. Right. It is telling you See if you can bear see if you can see where I'm going with this. It is telling you where you are at in relation to eternity. Right? It's where I'm at in as far as that day is concerned. For instance, it's uh a little bit after eleven, twenty-five after eleven or something like that That's telling us where where we are at in relation to eternity. We're at that moment of time. Alright, everybody. This is really philosophical, I know that, but it's telling us where we're at. And then we listen. And then we adjust ourselves to that time to fit in our schedule, correct? Now I don't usually when I'm preaching, but most of the time, other times you see what time it is and you adjust. yourself. Now in in a very similar fashion, that's what God's law is. We look to the law, and it tells me where I'm at spiritually in relation to God. Tells me where I'm at as far as my righteousness is concerned, compared to God's standard. And so the law is an expression of God's holiness. Now, why in the world would we memorize the Ten Commandments? Why in the world would I take one Sunday a month for 10 months and study and preach on the Ten Commandments? I think there's several reasons. And this is not my message, but I think there's several reasons. One is I read a survey recently that 97% of Americans Say that the Ten Commandments are important. They survey that's a large percentage. 97% of American citizens say yes. The Ten Commandments are important to society, they're important for our lives, they're important in our existence. But that same survey said only 3% could name them. Isn't that interesting? Oh yeah, they're important. We don't have any idea what they are. I was talking to somebody recently and uh the person could name all of the actors who played. James Bond, but they could not name the twelve disciples. Isn't that interesting? Doesn't that tell us where we're at? Huh? So 97% of the American citizens say yes! Ten commandments are important for our law, our society, our lives. What are they? Something about killing folks. I think there's something in there about uh you know God helps them or help themselves or something like that No, they don't know it. So it's important for us to teach it and preach it. Another reason it's important to study and preach the Ten Commandments is because the foundation of America's moral and spiritual future is at stake. The farther we get from the law of God, the more of a mess we find ourselves in in the United States of America. Our country, for the most part, began with the foundation of the Ten Commandments. It was in our courts. It was in our halls, it still is, in our halls of justice, in our halls of Congress. It was in just about every uh federal building the ten commandments were everywhere they were understood to be God's law and standard of righteousness and for the most part our society Function by it, and now we have run that out of here. We have take kicked it out of our country, and we are seeing some dire effects. And so the future of our country and the hope for our future is very much based upon the foundation of God's law. And a third reason we ought to study and teach and preach and memorize the Ten Commandments is that the Bible tells us that the law, the commandments, are our schoolmaster. And they teach us of Christ. Now keep your place here if you would, just for a moment. And I'd like for you to see this with me. If you would come to the New Testament book of Galatians, go back over there to the Galatians. And I could easily just read this or quote it, but I want you to see this in your Bible. Galatians chapter number three. Galatians 3. If you happen to have an old Schofield Bible, it's page uh 1244. That helps you. Galatians chapter 3. Now the book of Galatians is a fascinating book. It deals a lot with the law and grace. And he tells us in Galatians chapter 3, verse 24. What God's purpose, one of God's purposes for giving us the law in verse 24. Now look what it says Wherefore, the law, or the Ten Commandments, or as the Jews would refer to it as the Ten Words, the law was our what? Schoolmaster. Schoolmaster is an old word for a teacher. That's for the uh the the teacher in the class. Question, what do teachers do? Very good. Teachers teach. Well, what does the wall teach us? Look what the rest of the verse says: to bring us unto Christ. That we might be justified by what? Faith. Let me ask you a question Were the Ten Commandments given to us as a plan or system of salvation? No. God never intended for his law to be a means of salvation Well, I I was visiting not far from here actually just within a couple miles of the church north of us here. I was visiting. I still see the house and the man. It's been a number of years ago. I knocked on the door. I was out just going door to door I said, uh I'm Pastor Dennis Leatherman from the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Just want to introduce myself to you, make our church and ministries available if there's anything I can do for you. And I gave him some of the literature and he was real nice. We talked a little bit. And I asked him, I said, Sir, let me ask you a question. I said, uh, we had talked about church attendance. I said, you know, going to church is very important. I said, but there's something more important than that. He goes, What's that? I said the most important thing is life is knowing that my sins have been forgiven. God has forgiven my sins, and that when I die, I go to heaven to be with the Lord, and I do not die and go to hell for all eternity. And he goes, Oh, yeah, I agree with that. I said, Do you ever think about that? Yeah. So I think of it often. I said, Do you know for sure that if you died right now, that your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? He goes, Oh yeah, positive Now my mind began working. You can think of a lot in a brief period of time. Do you know that? Sometimes. Sometimes it takes a long time to think just a little, but Sometimes you can think a lot in just a brief period of time. Boy my mind started racing. I thought. Man, this guy's an independent fundamental baptist He's probably saved from the church. He's probably of a Bible education. And he's in the area. He's looking for a church. And he's going to come join our church, be a great worker, soul winner. And you know, I had it all planned out. I had him a position and everything for the next coming years And all this stuff. And I said, Really? I said, boy, I don't get that answer very often. Yeah, I know for sure. I said, how do you know? What do you base it on? What gives you the assurance that when you die you're going to heaven? He made this statement. He said, I keep the Ten Commandments I said, oh, I'm sorry to hear that. He goes, what do you mean? I said, nobody's ever saved by keeping the Ten Commandments. And I took him to Galatians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9. For by grace are you saved. Through faith. That not of yourselves. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And I was unable to lead him to Christ, but I thought that was an interesting answer. Now the only thing I wish I would have said, I should have, and if you ever do that, you get in a situation, then after you leave, you think, oh, I should have said that. Can I get a witness? Anyone there? So I thought of it later. I should have asked him, can you name me the Ten Commandments? And it would have been interesting to see if he could have actually listed all Ten Commandments. But the fact of the matter is nobody gets to heaven by keeping the commandments. Fact of the matter is nobody can keep the commandments. For all have sinned, have violated God's standard of righteousness, have broken God's law. That's what the word transgression means. To violate, step outside the law. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, have come short of the standard of righteousness that God has established to be accepted by him. There is none righteous, no not one, there is none that doeth good, for all we like sheep have gone astray. And so the law cannot save us, and it was never given uh to save us. God never intended for the law to be a means of salvation. The law was given to show us how holy God is and how sinful we are. To show us how we fall short. Of God's righteousness and tell us, hey, I can't keep this standard that God has established. I keep falling short of it. I need someone to save me I need a savior, or I'll never be accepted by God. I need somebody outside of myself who can take away my sin and the judgment and give me the righteousness that God's holiness demands. And so when I see the law, I realize how sinful I am, and it becomes a schoolmaster to show me and tell me that I need Christ, and it's only by faith in Christ that I can be accepted to God. That good? That's good preaching right there. It is. Oh, if I say so myself. The law is given to reveal to us our true spiritual condition. Not what man says we are, but what God says we are. Man comes up with his own standard of righteousness, and it's interesting. Man always comes up with a standard that he attains. Isn't that interesting? God comes up to a standard that is so far beyond our ability to attain, we need a savior. So, having said that, let's come back very briefly and look at the first commandment. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. That is the first commandment of the ten. God has given as a standard of his righteousness. Now let's look at the subject of this command What is this command all about? Well, verse 2, the first part, lays the foundation for all ten commands. In general, but the first one in particular, look at the first phrase of verse 2. I am the Lord thy God. God's law begins with God. In fact, how many people are awake? Alright, that's about half the crowd, that's not bad. I forget why I asked that. Think with me. I want you to think with me for a moment. God's law begins with God, not with man. In fact, all of God's dealings with man, in all of God's relationship with man That dealing, those dealings, that relationship always begins with God, never with man. For instance, at creation, who was in existence first? God or man? God. He's always been in existence. And so for God to have a relationship with man, God was going to have to create man. Man did not create God. So it begins with God. So God initiated, God created man, gave him life, God initiated the whole relationship by the act of creation, and then something happened, man sent. You know the story. Adam and Eve, the serpent, the fruit, ate. Adam hides himself. So when Adam sinned, he became aware of his sin. He hid himself. And then Adam starts going around, God, where are you? I need to restore my relationship with you. God, I gotta find you. Is that No. In fact, it was the other way around. God came down and began seeking. Adam, where art thou? Now, God knew where he was. So God wasn't gain trying to gain information. God wasn't trying to figure out where in the world did that guy get to. Well, it wasn't that way at all. God knew exactly where he was. You know what God was doing? God was in re-establishing the relationship. Relationship with man. So all of God's dealings with man, all of God's relationships with man always begin with God. In fact, the whole Bible begins with God. In the beginning, God. Not in the beginning, man. Our whole listen, if we could just get a hold of that one truth, that everything in my life of spiritual and eternal importance and value must begin with God. My salvation begins with God, for the Son of Man came to seek and to save that which was lost. Jesus Christ, while we were yet sinners Died for us. My salvation begins with God. My physical life begins with God. My purpose for living begins with God That's why Jesus said in John chapter 6 verse 33, seek ye first the kingdom God, his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. And so God's law, God's dealings with man, God's interaction with man always begins with God. Now I think it's very interesting The Bible never tries to prove God's existence. There's nowhere in the Bible you find an argument for the existence of God. The Bible assumes God's existence. The Bible just declares God is. There's no debate, there's no proof presented, there's no evidence brought forward. In the beginning, God. Doesn't say in the beginning there was a God and this is how we know it. Don't say that at all. God. The Bible assumes and declares the reality of God. Now, philosophers try to reason away God Some scientists try and use the microscope and the chemistry lab and the telescopes, and they try and disprove God. But nowhere in the Bible is the existence of God debated. It's just declared. God. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. I am the Lord thy God. No argument, no debate, no evidence, a statement of fact. The Bible begins with God. And to be honest with you I believe in every heart and soul of every man, woman, and child, there's an innate awareness that there is a God. There's just an intuition that God exists. And it takes years and years and years of evolutionary teaching to try and stifle that innate awareness. So God. It's interesting in chapter 2, verse 1, I am the Lord thy God. Now look at your Bibles for a second. I am The what's the third word in there? I am the fourth word. I am the look at that word Lord in your Bible. What do you notice about it? We always point this out. It's all capital letters. Whoop! Somebody made a typo error. No. That's there for a reason. How many people knew that? Raise your hand L-O-R-D, alt capital, that is God's personal name. It refers to his name Jehovah. That's the English pronunciation. The fact of the matter is, nobody knows for certain how what the Jewish pronunciation is. It's uncertain. But the English pronunciation is Jehovah. The name Jehovah, the word Lord, as given here all capitals and various places throughout Scripture, the English word for the word Jehovah. And this is what the name Jehovah means. This is fascinating. It means the God that was The God that is, and the God that always will be. In fact, Moses learned this when he God first confronted him at the burning bush and his call to go to Egypt. And Moses said, Who shall I tell, who shall I tell the Egypti the Jews sent me? And he says, tell them, I am hath sent thee. I am always was, is now, always will be. And any period of eternity, God is, God's name is I am. Any period of eternity, past, present, or future, I am. So, the first commandment, thou shalt have no other gods before me, begins with God. It declares and assumes God to be. God is. And this first commandment is a statement declaring God to be over all creation in power and authority. We should have no other gods before me because God is over all supreme over all in power and authority. There is no power greater than God. There is no authority greater than God's authority. Now the word we use To describe that condition is sovereign, the sovereignty of God. He is supreme in authority. He is supreme in power. He is sovereign over the natural world. It is God and God alone that declares what the weather will be. Right? It is God that has authority and power over the movements of planets and solar systems and universes. God is sovereign. God is the highest, most supreme authority and power in existence. I am the Lord thy God, thou shalt have no other gods before me. Now God is not giving that command because he's threatened by other gods. He's given that command because he is all it is. There is no other authority or power Even even close to his authority and power. In fact, any authority of power that man has, he has it because it has been delegated by God. Governmental authorities and authorities in the church and in the home. That has been delegated by God. Now are you with me? Is everybody alright? Sovereign over the natural world? He is sovereign over the spirit world. It was interesting when Jesus came down to earth and lived his 33 plus years here. He said, He that has seen me has seen the Father. And it's fascinating, you study the life of the Lord Jesus, how many times He stood on a boat and commanded the waves to stop and the winds to be still. How many times he exercised authority over the natural world in reproducing sh uh um um Fish and pieces of bread walking on water God is the ultimate authority over the physical world, but he's also the ultimate authority over the spirit world. Not one time, listen, not one time do you find a devil, a devil. Resisting the command of God. They cannot. Remember the man in the gar in the uh in the cemetery, the maniac of Gedera, and he was filled with a legion of devils I mean tens of thousands possessed by these devils. And Jesus showed up, he came running and fell at Jesus' feet. And the devils said Thou art the Son of God. Don't send us into the pit before our time. But rather send us into the swine. And what did Jesus say? He gave the Bible says Jesus gave them leave. In other words, he gave them permission. They could not operate against what Jesus gave them permission to do. The power of our God, the authority in the natural world, in the spirit world. Now, he tells us in the first command: thou shalt have no other gods before me. What does he say? This is the subject of it. It is impossible for man to live successfully without God being his authority. It is impossible for man to function independent. Let me put it this way: is impossible for man to function successfully. independent of God being his God. You know why people's lives are in such a mess? They have some other God before the true God. That's what it boils down to. They're living for self, they're living for materialism, they're living for pleasure, they're living for some wrong philosophy. They've got something That has replaced God in their life. Doesn't have to be a little statue of a fat Buddha. You don't have to have some little wooden idol and bow down to and offer some little sacrifice to. You know what could replace God? Could be a car. Could be a cabin, vacation somewhere. Could be a person. Somebody that replaces God in my life. Listen, God's the ultimate authority, God's the ultimate power. And if I try and live my life, Independent of God, I am going to make a mess. So the subject of the first commandment is God. Who he is, the position he holds. I am the Lord thy God. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Last of all, I want us to notice the substance of the first commandment. He says again in verse 3, Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Because God Almighty is who and what he declares himself to be. Then we are to recognize him only as the supreme authority in our lives. This command allows for no compromise. God is God alone. And I am to recognize him as that. Man was and is created to worship God and worship God alone. Several years ago, and I've told this number of times here, and several years ago, it's probably been good ten years, maybe more. I went over to West Virginia, there was like a camp meeting type thing, preaching everything And the preachers that were there were great men. Most of uh the one in particular is with the Lord now. But I wanted to go hear this preacher. I hadn't heard him for a long time. Powerful preacher. He's had influence in my life over the years. And so I don't remember if you were with me or not. Uh I don't think so. I think I don't remember who I went with. Um I don't even remember if I went or not. I may just be making this up. No. Uh I know I went over there And um there's a preacher on before the preacher that I wanted to hear. So I'm sitting there, he got up and he was preaching everything, and then he made this statement. This is what I'm getting at And he made reference to the next preacher coming along, the big famous one. And he said this. He said, people accuse me of worshiping Dr. So-and-so. He said, I don't worship him, but it's so close you can't tell the difference. Boy, that bothered me. I don't care how great a person is, there is to be no competition with the worship of God in my life. It should not even be close. Now, there's one thing to honor a person, and we are to love one another, and we are to uh put others before ourselves, but we are to worship God and God alone. And the word worship itself means to submit to, to bow my will to that God. I am submitting my worshiping God. I am submitting to Him. I am bowing to Him. I am yielding my will to God. That is what worship is So God says, you should have no other gods before me. You do not bow or submit to any other thing other than me. And it shouldn't even be close. Amen. Now sin has entered the world. And now you have man worshiping just about anything. Man worships man. Man worships creation. It's called pantheism. In fact, I was reading an article this week where I was reading a book that we're using in Bible Institute, and um it's gotten to the point where some of your leading evolutionary scientists Are starting to say that the world and the universe is a type of living organism, a type of God that is producing life And man will reject the true and living and personal God and worship everything else he can come up with. Sin has entered the world, has distorted our thinking, has corrupted our heart. And I'll be honest with you, I'll be honest with you, the devil doesn't care what you worship as long as it's not the true God. So man worships drugs, sells his soul to get a high, man worships physical pleasure, sells his soul to enjoy the pleasures of the flesh. Demeans himself and others. Man worships the dollar, sacrifices everything important in life to get the Almighty Dollar. And man has placed anything you can imagine before the true God. I should have no other gods before me Whatever that little G God is composed of, it's not to be before me. In our bathroom, uh in our bedroom we have a little bathroom and a little wash area. What do you what do you call that? A bathroom. Yeah. But we don't take a bath in there, it's just a little sink and not pantry. Um Vanity. What is it? Labatory. One of those things we got in our bedroom. It has a sink and has and there's a mirror in front of it. Now, I'm out working the art, I'm shoveling snow off the roof or whatever. I come in, I'm all sweaty, I got dirt all over me. But I don't know that. And my wife says, Dan, you better go in. She calls me doctor, Dan. You better uh You better go into the wash area there and you better look in the mirror. Why? Uh just do it. Okay So I go and I look in the mirror and lo and behold, my faith is fill my face, my faith is filthy. My faith face is filthy. My hair is all messed up. What does that mirror do? That mirror shows me that I'm a mess. Right? Question, can the mirror correct the mess? No. All it does is shows me how far off I am from what I normally look That mirror simply shows me what I am. But below the mirror there's a sink. And we got a fancy house. We have water runs into that sink. And so we turn on the water, I get some soap, and that soap and water, and I wash. The mirror cannot wash my face for me. All it can do is tell me I'm dirty. I need the soap and water to wash the dirt. Now we're memorizing the law. By the end of the year, Lord will have ten messages on the Ten Commandments. The law, these commandments cannot take your sin away. All they do is show me that I've sinned. Somebody says, man, I've put some other things in the place of God. Money has become more important to me than my relationship, my obedience to my Lord. People and pleasure and vacations and stuff has replaced God's authority in my life. Now the law can't do anything about that. All it does is show me like that mirror that that's where I'm at. I need the blood. Blood of Jesus to wash away that sin, to take those sins away and get things in line So that I can be forgiven. Does that make sense? Now, where are you at this morning? Bible says, for all of us have sinned. We have We can look at the other rest of the Ten Commandments. We violate them. Lying, adultery, murder, stealing. All those things, they're all there. Not one of us has kept them. And the law is the mirror and it's showing us, man, I've sinned against God. There's only one way to get those sins taken away, and that's the blood of Jesus. And I come the Lord Jesus Christ who shed his blood on the cross and he died for those sins. The wages of breaking God's law is death. And Jesus paid those wages. He died. The Bible says, without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin, there's no forgiveness. He shed his blood for me. And the greatest thing is, Jesus kept the law for me. So when he died on the cross, he took my sins upon himself. They're all forgiven. He took his righteousness and put it to my account. And on May 7, 1979, at 1030 on a Monday night, I bowed my knees. I accepted Jesus as my personal. Personal Savior. He washed my sins away. The law showed me I was a sinner. The blood of Christ took those sins away. What about you? Have you trusted Christ? Can you say, I know for sure that my sins are forgiven? When I die, I'm going to heaven because Christ has taken my sins away when I trust in Him as my personal Savior. If you've not done that, today's the day. Now's the accepted time. Today's the day of salvation. If you've already done that, then let's live for God. To give ourselves to him and please him with our lives out of appreciation for what he's done for us. Father, bless our invitation time now, I ask. Pray your Holy Spirit would have your way in our lives in Jesus' name. With our heads bound and eyes closed, how many this morning would say, Preacher, I know Christ has saved me? There's no doubt in my mind. I remember the time and place I called out on the Lord. Blood of Jesus Christ cleansed me from all sin, and I know that God has accepted me, not because I'm something special, but because of his promise and his word, I know I'm saved. Would you slip your hand up as a testimony? I know I've trusted Christ as my personal Savior, no doubt about it. God bless you, hands all around. That's such an important time, so necessary. Jesus said, accept the man be born again