Giving to God sneaks up on you. And I never heard about this until after I got into the ministry about a year. Tonight I'm going to present you a uh uh uh a thought, and I'll I'll be done before ten o'clock, I guarantee that. I'm serious. And uh and uh I want you to open your Bible to 2 Corinthians chapter 8. And tonight's example of Macedonia giving and I may use some of the uh missionaries to help me with illustration. Preacher, we get going down the lane, you're gonna be uh my Elisha and and all that and And and I got the little lane boy's gonna be the widow's son, and I might be the widow, and you never know, amen. So uh thank you church for the food today. Uh thank you for the trip up here. And I got the whole house to myself over there I got stuff everywhere. You know. My wife's not around, so I don't have to be super neat, you know, and uh good night. She's OCD'd that way. I mean a refrigerator is in alphabetical order All right. And uh not that bad but almost. But anyway, uh thank you preacher for that. I got food over there, you know, and I got bacon, I got eggs and and I got about everything. So I'm gonna be comfortable this week So now I've settled in, and we're going to try to be done. I preach fast, so you better listen fast, okay? Look what it says in 2 Corinthians 8, verse 1. Moreover, brethren, that's you We do you to wit, that's to know, of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. Tonight's message is an example of Macedonian giving. How that in a great trial of affliction The abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abound them to the riches of their liberality. For to their power, I bear record again beyond their power They were willing of themselves, praying us with us a treaty that we would receive the gift and take them on us, the fellowship of ministering to the saints. Missionaries, if they take you on for support, you think you'd take it I I I think we would, amen. It's not rocket science. And this is what Paul's saying this church was giving and hoping that the missionaries would take it. Look closer at verse 5. And this they did. Not as we hoped, but first gave their own selves to the Lord and to us by the will of God. Macedonian giving, faith-promised giving, is the will of God. Not what you see in verse 1 here tonight, or verse 2, the preciousness of it The great affliction. Look at the preciousness of their example. Deep poverty. Man, they're in a bad way. I want you to see the pattern of their giving. They gave to their power in verse 3, yea, and beyond their power in verse 3. They did more than get their, used to say Texas calculator out. They did more than get their uh uh uh smartphone out and get the percentage. They just gave what God put on their heart to give Thirdly, I want you to catch this. The purpose of their example was to support the missionaries and their outreach ministry. This is not rocket science. And number four, I want you to catch this: the power of their example. The Bible says, but first gave their own selves unto the Lord and to us. By the will of God. Faith promised giving. Macedonian giving. Today I want to look at a thought here, and I want to encourage you with this. As you look in your Bibles In this example, I want you to hold your hand right there, because we're going to slide back and forth, okay, a little bit. I want you to go to 1 Kings chapter 17. Amen. And uh one guy told me tonight he was glad to see that I made it through the pandemic. Alright? And he said, you swelled up a little bit, DeLong. I said, yes, we all have. All right. How many went on a diet this last year and gained weight? It's been amazing, isn't it? All right. Who wanted to lose weight? But it didn't happen. Alright. Look at verse uh chapter seventeen. Now we're going to look at an example, a God given example here of Macedonian giving 1 Kings 17, look what it says verse 1. Now, Elijah the Tishvite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead, said unto Ahab, The Lord God of Israel liveth, through whom I stand, there shall be not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word. And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Get thee hence And turn thee eastward and hide thyself by the brook cherith that is before Jordan. I want you to catch this. It shall be that thou shalt drink of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there. Now, missionaries You're going to eat some things on the mission field that you thought you know ravens had brought it to you, amen. How many's ever seen a raven in here? They're like crows on steroids, okay? Up in Austr uh up in Australia. Up in Alaska, they call them dumpster ducks. I was up there preaching for uh up in uh Fairbanks, thirty one below zero. It was so cold that it was not even slick. You know, so it was just good night was cold. And everything's shut down and I'm looking out the windows of a motel and here comes a raven, dies in the dumpster, and brings out a McDonald's sack And slams that thing off the frozen ground and frozen French fly going everywhere. He ate the whole thing. He ate the paper that was holding those French fries. Tough bird, amen Now imagine that thing bringing you breakfast and lunch. Right in the middle of God's will. Now you missionaries got a lot to look for. So next time you start to complain about the electricity going off in New York, you know, or the bugs getting you in Honduras. Or the snake is, sir, and I'm better you than me. I want you to understand. Think about what God's missionary went through here. Now that he's staying there right where God wanted him to stay. Notice verse 5 says, So he went and did according to the word of the Lord. And he went and dwelt by the brook Cherith that was before Jordan. And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh of the evening, and he drank of the book, and it came to pass, after a while, right in the middle of God's will, things dried up The notice missionary he stayed. He didn't go to the first church that asked him to come back to the station pastor. First time he's robbed, okay? I was robbed eight times in P and G. Alright. First time I was robbed, I was so scared I didn't move. You know, second time I was about half mad. Third time I chased him. Amen. Can't do that anymore. And I want you to catch this with me. You missionaries are going to go through some things. All right. I want to encourage you to stay faithful. Look what it says in verse 7. And the book dried up. Because there had been no rain in the land. That was right, that was God's will. Notice the next verse, and the word of the Lord came unto him again, saying, Arise, get thee to Zarephath which belongeth to Zidane And dwell there, behold, I've commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. So he rose and he went to Zarepath. And when he came to the gate of the city, behold the widow woman was there, gathering of sticks and called to her and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in the vessel that I may drink. Zarephath. Damn what's going on. No water, no food. She's getting ready for her last meal. Do you know who the king of Zarephath was? Anybody? Bob Jones guys don't know it. You know. Uh, he's got his hand up right there. It was, you ready? Jezebel's daddy. Does God have a sense of humor or what She walks right into Zarephan. She walks right in there. It says this in verse 11. That she was going to fetch that some water to make a drink. He, Elijah, called to her and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thy hand. And she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but a handful of meal and a barrel And a little oil and a cruise, and behold, I'm gathering two sticks that I may go and address it for me and for my son, that we may eat it and die. She's going to make a biscuit and cut it two ways And her and her little infant son is going to eat it and die. But he said, go make me a cake first. Not only to her power, but he's asking above her power. Follow me? stuttered a little bit. Notice the next verse. But Elijah said to her, fear not, go and do as thou hast said, and make me there a little cake first and bring it. And to me, make it for thee and for thy son. For thus saith the Lord God of Israel, the barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruise of oil fail. Now verse fifteen, she went and did according to the saying uh uh of Elijah, and she and he and her house did eat many days, and the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruise of oil fail, according to the word of the Lord, which he spake by Elijah. Can I encourage you folks tonight As God speaks to your heart this week about faith, promise, missions giving. This is a missions giving church. I have followed you goodnight, preacher, cliff from the last century, 1800s, 1900s. This is whenever we met, amen And I'm I am one of your missionaries, and I've watched God bless here time and time again. But I want you to catch something In Philippians chapter four, verse nineteen it says, But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by who? Christ Jesus. Catch cat keep this in mind. This is Macedonia given. And Philip I was in Macedonia last time I checked. Tie this all together. This is the word started. And these people gave to his ministry because God put it in their heart to do. But we're using this lady back in the Old Testament as an example of Macedonian giving. It says in 2 Corinthians chapter 8, you're there. Go to verse 11 and 12 and see what it says. And I'm going to get into my message real quick. It says this, now therefore perform the doing of it. That there was a readiness to will. Now watch this. So there may be a performance also out of that which ye have. Well, watch this. For if it if there be first a willing mind God is never going to ever ask you to give anything that you don't already have. The problem is you don't know what you got. The problem is you think you owned it, but at the end of the day, God owns it all. Amen? How many know Brother Tom Farrell in here? You know, him and I were school together. He broke up my first test fight of Bob Jones. I didn't know he was and I was pretty raw off the street and we became friends. And uh he had a tumor fourteen months ago and they took that out and the things come back. And his son called me yesterday and uh he wanted me to talk to his daddy and And I I told him I would and he's in a special hospital there in Western Salem, North Carolina as I speak and and I and I I tell you all that to tell you this That folks you don't have, and he's the same age as me, and just sixty eight years old. I want you to catch this. And and God may be calling him home any day now Okay? You don't wait to be part of this faith promise giving till after it's over. You need to do it now. And I want you to catch this. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8 verse 5, they gave it because God put it on their heart to do, and it was the will of God for them to do this. So they didn't wait till next week. They didn't even wait till they got their third or fourth or fifth or sixth stimulus check, amen. They just did it right there, okay? Deep poverty, nothing going on, just like a typical day in the pandemic, right? Listen to me So instead of folding the tent, they got out there and got with the program. I'm going to give you four or five things today. Number one, let's notice her plate. Let's take a look at her plight. How bad a way was she in? It says in 2 1 Kings chapter 17 and verse 9, it says this. Arise and get thee to Zarepath, which belongeth to Zion, and dwell there. Behold, I've commanded a banker there to sustain No, I didn't say that. The Citibank credit card, Social Security, Stimulus? No, no, no. A widow woman to sustain thee. I mean, she won't have a 4013 B, C or D. She has nothing No husband. She's down to her last two sticks to start a fire. She's down to a a a cup of a bowl of uh uh uh of uh flour and some uh ounces of oil to mix uh like a cathead biscuit and Cut that thing two ways and die. She didn't have a whole lot going on. But when I read this, there's three things that stick out to me. Number one, God can use anybody for faith promise giving. From the youngest to the oldest. As a man purposeth in his heart, so let him give. Number two, once you catch this, your physical and financial circumstances are irrelevant God will always give the increase, but you have to do what God puts in your heart to do and to give. And thirdly is this, God always takes the credit. We never know this woman's name. And she's mentioned more than once in Scripture, which I'll show you in just a moment. But she didn't have a lot going on. Amen. She was the bottom of the food chain. And when he walked up, a widow woman there, dressed a certain way, a great famine's going on. She knew he was a wanted man, she knew he was the man of God. He said, Get me a little uh water She went to get it. Now let me ask you a harder thing. I want I want some bread. I want the that pancake you're getting ready to cook, all right? And she said, listen, I'm going to just eat fix this for my son. We're going to eat it and die. And that's going to be it, alright? Bad plight. Bad situation. Preacher, show me a sign. Let me win to Maryland Lotto, and then I'll start giving the missions there. Independent that you know My goodness, I've heard people say that. Have you ever heard people make deals with God? Huh? I'm telling you, it's better to trust him than to deal with him. All God's people said amen. Number two, not only her plight, I want you to catch this tonight in a hurried fashion. Number two is this. Look at her preparation. It says in verse ten, She arose and went to Zarephath, or he did, and he came into the gate of the city. Behold the widow woman was there. And now he's got her right there. Man, why would God put her right in that position? That is a great question. Let's go for the answer. Would you hold your hand there and go to Luke chapter four Go to Luke chapter 4. I think God Almighty is involved in this thing there in Zarephath. I I think uh God Almighty, the Lord Jesus Christ, is preaching And Luke chapter four, look what happens here. He said this and he said, Verily, verse twenty four of Luke, I say unto thee you, no prophet is accepted in his own country. But I tell you of a truth. Many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias When uh the heaven was shut up three years and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land, but unto none of them was Elijah since save unto Zarephath the city of Zidane to a woman that was a widow God could not find one lady in Israel that was a widow to take care, because she had the excuse that she was in deep poverty. She didn't have much. This woman did not have that. And Jesus is preaching centuries later, and he brings her up. He said her heart was prepared. Now three truths about the preparedness here. There's the first one. God prepared her heart God prepares our hearts. You know, I listened to Brother Mariner speak and and uh and brother uh Saltrop. Is that Polish? What is that? Swedish. Swedish. Swedish? Okay. Sounds more t I know I never heard it, but anyways, move on here. You know, I heard them do their presentation tonight. You can see their hearts. It's two different places. I'm glad God called you to New York City. I was with a couple a couple years ago. They were called to Iceland. God bless them. They can have Iceland. I'll take Papua New Guinea any day, about an average temperature, baby. You know, we got bugs and things, but we don't freeze to death down there, amen. And uh uh But you know what God you can see that God's called them and God's called him and they have to follow that. God has prepared them first in their hearts. Secondly, God wants to use his preparation in your heart also. And I want you to catch this as as he prepared this woman's heart. And Jesus speaks about her in Luke chapter 4. I want you to know something. She knew what she was being prepared for. Yes, she stuttered. She's going to go get that water Here's the water. She's going to go get that water. And then halfway through the the preacher said, hey, I want that biscuit you got. Whoa, whoa, whoa. She stopped there a little bit, didn't she? And when he said, let me tell you about a promise that God has for you. Folks, can I tell you God has a promise for all of us in here tonight? You'll see it in Philippians chapter 4. You'll see it in 2 Corinthians chapter 2. And I want you to understand what I'm saying here. This woman in this bad plight, I don't know how smart she was, I don't know her educational background, but she was at the end of the rope. And when he said, I promise you God will take care of you, that flower will never run out, and she had the flower right here Let's say that's her little old flower and that's the oil, let's say. And he said, Now you go in there and fix that thing. And she went in there and fixed that thing. He said, I guarantee you that's never going to run out And there's going to be a famine for three plus years. What say you now? The Bible says she went there and Fix that for him, Amen. Now preacher, you're gonna be Elijah, is that okay? Can you all right? Come on, come here. Uh is there where's he at? Come here, son. Preacher, you just sit right there, you'd be where where you're at. You're you're the prophet, you're the preacher. I'm gonna be the the widow lady. I'm gonna you'd be my little boy Bobby. Bobby Bones. You're so skinny. We're starving to death. Well you are at least. Look like the Elijah's been eating pretty good, huh? Snuck up on some of you. So here he is. The preacher said, You go make that biscuit The Bible says she went and made that biscuit. Is that true? Her plight, her preparation, she believed the promise. She believed the promise or she never went to the kitchen to do it. What do you mean, preacher? 1 King chapter 17. Look at chapter 17, verse 15. And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah. So she went over there and she poured a little oil in there and you know and she made that bread up and uh she's gonna have fixed for how many the first time she started the program One guy in Philadelphia said seven. They can't count up the two. Got that? So she's gonna cut it two ways. But Elijah said you cut that thing three ways. Alright And you're out of flour and you're out of oil, but in the morning, when you get up, it's all going to be back in there again. She went over there and made that thing and this is that in the afternoon before and here preacher you go first. Okay, take the smallest piece, you know, and son, son, you take the biggest piece And I'll but don't don't eat it because you'll choke on that stuff's dry. Did I say that out loud And and so we ate it, okay? And so as we eat it here we eat it. Really just eat it. And he put the plate back. It's empty. You with me on this? She saw that She saw the promise of God. Good night, it's amazing, isn't it? Now watch this. Not only the promise I want you to see this thought tonight in a hurried fashion. I want you to see her performance. She believed the promise. You just saw what she did there, showing you physically how it works. And she went right there and she did exactly what God told her to do. And then they went to bed that night, that their barrel was empty, that little cruise of oil was empty, and they went to bed. Well we stop there for just a moment Keep your hand in 1 Kings 17. Now join me in Philippians chapter 4, what the Bible tells us here. And you have to catch this with me, and I'll be done in just a couple of moments. The Bible says in verse fifteen, now ye Philippians Macedonian, you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church commandment uh communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving but ye only that's not talking about texting or talking on the cell phone that's talking about communicating And give him money to support. You follow me on this? Now look at the next verse. For even in Thessalonica, you sent once and again unto my necessity, not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. Isn't that good? So uh and so that night night one we was going to go only cook for two, but we cooked for three. And that night people could smell bread and stuff throughout the city. Now come on Lane, this is my brother and his and his wife And uh, you know, and uh uh this is his kids, Ink and Dink, and uh uh they come up here and uh this is my brother, you know, and and this is his wife, you know, and this is Ink And that is zinc. Look at me. Look at me. Look at me. Turn around. This is a door. Knock on that imaginary door right there. Okay Oh brother, good to see ya. All right, what are you doing here? You have no idea. You're here because you smell the bread, right? Right. And you want some food, right? And you're a family, right? Blood is thicker than biscuits. But anyway, I want you to understand this. So you can come in and eat, okay? Now people watch the math Hold that thought. Stand right there. Chapter 17, verse 15. Let me show you something in scripture. Scripture, I hope we'll grab it. And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah and she. And he And her house, that means clan and family, did eat many days. Some scholars said it was almost three years And that one little tiny thought of belief, and she trusted the promise that Elijah told her. And I don't think she'd ever been to Bible college. She's never heard a sermon on faith promise giving, but she had a heart and a mind that God had touched her heart, you know, performed the doing of it. But you've got to have a willing mind. You've got to have a mind that trusts God on this. Are you following me? Don't miss it. The Bible says she went and did this. Come on over here and sit by stand by the preacher over there, you know, by that fancy organ You know, uh back in those days I didn't know they had an organ, but we'll we'll do that, all right? Go right over there, stand. Now folks, as the p as as Elijah sits down Have a seat, Elijah. My son, would you sit down please? You know uh no give the give the seat to mama there. She's your she's my brother's wife, so so some Eastern cuff culture, custom there. All right. Are we ready now Do the math. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Is there going to be enough flour to feed two, three, or seven? Talk to me. Well who put the increase? Somebody sneak out to Walmart? How about Whole Foods? Lowe's? No. Well, not only the flour. But also the oil. You see this. She and he and her house did eat many days. And my God shall supply all of your what needs, not what not mu not your wants, according to whose riches? Christ Jesus Jesus' riches. So preacher, take one. Take the big one. Okay. That's okay. Okay. Good night. We could have some more up here. We got extra. How many believe that story's in the Bible? How many is ready to start living that story out in your life? There's three types of people in here tonight. You folks go ahead and get your seat. There's three types of people in here tonight. Those that make it happen, those that watch it happen, and those that have no idea what just happened. Amen. We know just enough of the Bible to be stingy. We need to know all the Bible so we can give. Amen? All God's people said? Now we looked at her plight We looked at her preparation, amen. We looked at her promise, and we watched her perform. Now, the last thing I want to give you this, and don't take it wrong, you don't give the get, but I want to look at her profit She profited here. Watch. Did she eat through all that famine? Amen. Did she ever run out of food? I don't think she ever ran out of water either, amen. And he goes up on Mount Carmel, and he hears a rumble up there He hears he hears him preaching? Sees this ball of fire coming out of the sky. That good night. I get so excited I set my s my watch off. You know, I tell two or three times it says you're having a heart attack. But let's move on here. How many how many understand I love what I'm doing? And God's called me to do this. And God's privileged me and honored me to help get over almost five hundred and sixty seven, sixty-eight missionaries to the field in the last nine years, okay? And I won't tell it's not me, it's God. It's just what I do. All right. You got fields, I got missionaries as a field. And believe me, some days I wish I was on the field. But uh where was I? I want you to catch this. Catch this thought right here. What God is gonna profit The Bible says she did eat and they did eat many days. And then when that fire came out of heaven, you know that ate that alder up. And w who is the God of heaven? And all of Israel turned to the God of heaven. And that young lady, with that little child, and that story gives to us as a picture of a Macedonian giving I want you to catch this. And she profited in the end of the day. Now, you see a small hand like a cloud coming across the sky. That turns into a thunderstorm, does it not? And the abundance of heaven, the the sound of rain came down and the famine was over. I guarantee you that lady knew what was going on. Amen. Now her oil may have stopped the next day, but she didn't need it anymore, amen So crops are coming back. I mean she'd made it through the famine and she got through the hard times. So when you say, hey, listen, Brother D. Long, I don't think we can take part in the faith promised giving 'cause we just come out of a pandemic. Are you kidding me? Man, that'll make us even more wanting to give. Amen. God's in charge of this. We're in the last days. Missions is the heartbeat of God Church planning is the heartbeat of God. Soul winning is the heartbeat of God. Discipleship's the heart. It's called the Apostle Doctrine, if you didn't know it. I'm telling you, it's it's never going to stop So may we be part of that. It's not hard. The example is set before us. I went to Trinidad and Tobago. You can close your Bibles and have an invitation in just a moment. And I was down there planting a church. Brother Gossett had to come back to the States and instead of doing furlough, I went down there with B I M I and it was a it's a uh island culture A lot of Indians, Trinities, they call each other, uh douglers or mixed race, and and so we started a church and uh you can see Venza Huela from our our church's uh uh top porch across the Bay there. That's how far we was that's how close we were. And we started our first day of church. Uh we called for ten w ten weeks. Brother Hoffmeister was with me. He's gonna help you get started in Suriname. He he's got a great church there in Trinidad and Tobago. He would go soul winning with me. I would go with him. We trade on and off and our church is about an hour apart. And uh and that first Sunday I thought I was I had a hundred promises to come And uh long story short, one seven year old boy came. And Hannuff and uh sit right there and and uh Randall the other guy and their wives and I preached and one boy came and man I was I mean I thought like roadkill in a ditch. I wasn't feeling bad for myself and sorry. But that little boy Mikey got saved. Amen Eight years old, I took Mikey in him about the size of the lane boy there. One tooth, right? Never forget it. Good to see you there, Yank. One tooth. Big as his head sticking there. You know. And so uh he he he uh I said I'll take you home. He he lived about a half a mile from the church and he'd walked there that morning, took him back and they and he was living with his grandma. His mother had abandoned him Didn't want him. And the grandmother was was there. She owned a chicken feed store and she ran it on Sunday. When I was there there was always one million people on those two islands But there's always two million alive chickens. And the number one KFC in the world at one time was in Trinidad and Tobago. A lot of Muslims there and they love their chicken, you know. I'd have Muslims over to eat and they'd start eating. They'd ask me, Brother D. Long, did you halal the chicken? I go, Oh I forgot. She thought they'd died. You're not teasing them You got you all know what halal is, you gotta pour the water down your throat. You didn't do a thing for the chicken. But you know, but they they love that. And so I had a good witness there. But that little boy's the only one that came to church And I went to see his grandmother and thanked her for letting him come. And she said, listen, preacher, I appreciate you doing it. But and she gave me my first bottle of homemade orange pop. Little things were crawling around in it. And uh and she wanted me to drink it in front of her Most missionaries learn that kind of wait till you get home, right? You pour it down the sink and like a draino thing, but uh I had to drink it there with her and she said you pray for my chicken feet business I'm going to pray that your missions church gets started. Deal. We'll do it. So I went home and prayed, told my wife, she said, that's an odd prayer. We did, and the next week that little Mike brought eight kids with him to church. They want to hear that American preach. He didn't have that accent, you know. And uh and the next week there was twenty-some kids come. Quadruple church growth preach, that's pretty good. You know, and man, about a month later we're running about 45, 50, 6 I mean they're coming to hear me pro I mean it is a I mean there's going to be a worldwide revival starting right here in Trinidad because of me. The year goes by. The church grows to about this many adults and teenagers. About a hundred people total coming every service. And I'm getting ready to come back to the States and we hand that church over to national pastor. And uh and and you know what during that time somebody bought enough concrete to uh to make a uh church floor uh sixty feet wide and 120 feet long. That's a lot of concrete. Then somebody somehow the money appeared in our bank account to put the walls up No windows, but we had walls. The churches in the States bought the sheet metal the tin to put on the roof. Somebody give me two acres of land. Unbelievable How in the world? I mean it's like God people just giving this to us. And I'm getting ready to come back to the States. I thought, maybe I just better stay there, amen. Something's happening. And when my wife came back with my daughter, I got everything loaded up, got ready to leave the island, handed the work over to the national pastor, I went to see the chicken feed lady. She'd been coming to church the last six months. She'd blind she's in the back waving that hanky. All right. And uh she was praising the Lord As I was getting ready to leave, she handed me another bottle of pop to say goodbye to me. Same orange pop, same little bugs in it And she said, Pray for Dan, yep. So glad God called you to the islands. Well, we got a church here. God used yep. Yeah, I mean God really blessed me. And and and man, I can't believe everybody started coming. She said, Did you pray for my chicken? I prayed for your chicken feed business. And she said, I prayed for your preaching. She said let me tell you what happened. All those people come to hear you preach was because as you prayed for me, God gave me an idea to give a discount to everybody who comes to your church service. Kids was a dollar a bag. Teenagers was two dollars a bag. I'd knock ten dollars a bag off of both adults would go. I go, what? Yeah, you thought it was your preaching? Ah, my chicken feed Put that my feeling journal right there, preacher. Missionaries, we think it's about us. But it's about him. And God brought that woman in my life to help me with my ministry. God brought that woman in Elijah's life. To help him and his ministry for the honor of glory to God. Watch the invitation. And God has brought you here tonight. To play that same part in the lives of these missionaries. You are to be the example of Macedonian giving. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed, no one's looking around. Father, we give you this invitation tonight. We pray, Holy Spirit, you'll put a hedge of protection around the building. I'm going to give the invitation over to uh Pastor Leatherman just a moment here. I don't want you to understand you don't give to get But you give to get right in the middle of God's will, and I guarantee you there'll be a Mount Carmel in your life. There'll be a Zarephath in your life. There'll be a ministry that God will have you to do. But may you be faithful. Doesn't care. about your plight. God doesn't care about how poor you are. He cares about your heart and your mind being faithful to Him And folks, the Bible's very clear. As a man purposeth in his heart, so let him give. Pastor. Maybe God's speaking the heart tonight. And God's speaking to you about maybe giving yourself to go to the mission field. Maybe God's laid a place or just the idea of giving myself my life. To bring the gospel to people who do not have the opportunity. If that's the case, I'm going to invite you to come to order. Just say, here am I, Lord. Here am I. Send me where you're wherever you'd have me to go. How about us others? Maybe God's not calling you to the mission field, but God is calling us to support with everything with any way we possibly can, financially, prayer. May we come tonight, put ourselves in the altar, and say, Lord, here, use me to support those who you called to go. Ask the Lord to lay on your heart the amount financially to support these missionaries. Give yourself to commit to prayer, praying, and doing all we can support them. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.