Book of James, chapter one. Yesterday at the youth conference we were um outside with the the teenagers for about an hour or so, I guess, maybe forty-five minutes, something like that, playing playing volleyball. And on on this side of the net, um on on on the church side of the net, there you all when you looked up, all you could see was the sun. And um so it was hard to see the ball coming at you and I s I looked up at the sun and the sun just seemed to kept getting bigger and bigger and bigger and then it hit me So that was kind of interesting. James chapter one. Now now hold your finger there and go to Genesis chapter 16. We're going to start in James, but then we're going to go to Genesis chapter 16. While you're turning there, I gotta tell you I have a fascination with clocks. My mom collects clocks. Um she's got this really she used to have like this really nice big clock, well she still has somewhere I don't know where it is, but then she has this cuckoo clock And and and and like the clocks they have weights on 'em and and she knows all about how the weights work and things like that. So now everything's like, you know, battery electronics and stuff like that But she was telling me there's there's there's they're finally going to do a documentary about how clocks came into being and I thought, man, it's about time. Alright, now it's time to get serious. So we'll start in James Chapter 1. We'll read verse 12 down through 15. James chapter 1, verse 12: Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. Let no man say, When he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Then lust when it conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished bringeth forth death. I'm going to speak tonight on this subject, the progression of sin. We are not going to spend much time here in James. We're going to go over to Genesis here. So let's pray and then and then the message this evening Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you for Lord, just the the privilege, Lord, just uh first of all, just to be saved. Lord, I thank you for sending Jesus to die for my sins. Um Lord, and I and I and I thank you so much for allowing me to have a home in heaven. All right, uh thank you for all the other uh things that you've done for me, my family, Lord, being able to just be a part of this church here. Lord, you you've just blessed me so much. Lord, you bless all of us extremely much. Lord, I ask that you would be with this this service tonight. Lord, I ask that you would just fill me with your spirit. Lord, I want you to uh to preach to us tonight. I just want to kind of get out of the way and let you take over. Lord, if there's something that um uh that's in my notes here that goes against your word, Lord, I wouldn't want to say it, and I would ask that you would keep me from saying it. And Lord, and likewise if there's something that um I don't have written down but that needs to be said, I ask that you would bring it to my mind Lord, I just want you to take over is what I'm asking, so I ask that you would bless bless this service tonight, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Um so we know we know uh what sin is uh from when we're little kids in Sunday school You know, sin is uh we we are told, you know, Sunday school definitions of what sin is. And then when we're boosters, I love Bible time. I missed that this year. We're taught, you know, sin is anything we say, think, or do that breaks God's law, then that's exactly what it is. Um from a little child, um, especially if you grew up in church, you're told what sin is. It's anything We we we say that's bad. It's anything we do that's bad. You ask um a a little child what sin is and then they start giving you examples of their own sin, right? Like the one time I hit my brother in the face. Yeah, that was sin. Yeah, you're absolutely right. That was sin Um, so we know what sin is, and we're told again from from Sunday school, from the nursery on up, sin is bad. And it is. Amen. And it is bad. It is bad. And and uh we we hear uh sermons on different sins, and we hear uh that sin is wrong and sin is bad, and it is. We hear uh verses and we're taught verses Um, from when we're little, if we grew up in church, or even just uh passages that uh are preached from frequently, like the wages of sin is death And we we understand that the penalty for our sin is a physical death, there's a spiritual death, there's a uh the death of the soul. Um and sin when it's finished bringeth forth death. We just read that in James. We hear verses like whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap, and we hear uh we hear verses like this all the time. The Bible addresses sin. And um and I'm glad it does. I'm glad it tells us what's right, and I'm glad it tells us what's wrong. So we would know what to do, what not to do. We hear preaching on sins, various sins, and I will tell you right up front, I am not going to pick a sin and preach on it tonight More or less just the whole general principle of doing bad things. Okay? So with that in mind, the Holy Spirit might come and prick your heart about a sin you might be involved with. That's not me, that's him, so you better listen. Um so we hear preaching on sin. You know, do this, don't do that. Um you know if you do this, him that knows to do good, do it not to him it is sin. You know, so if you if you refuse to do something you know is right, it's sin. You know, we hear don't lie, don't shield, don't uh don't don't cheat, don't steal, don't covet, don't commit adultery, and so on. Um we hear about the awfulness of sin and the wickedness of sin, and it is And it and what was sin a hundred years ago is sin now. What was sin a thousand years ago is is is sin now. And we ought to preach hard on various sins, on all sins. We ought to We ought to preach hard on adultery, on sodomy, on lying, and drinking, and so on. And I feel I feel like most Christians uh want to not sin. Right? There there there is one when you're born again, there there is a new nature inside of you and and and and um you you don't want to sin Um it's almost like you have a conscience on steroids now. And that's a good thing. Um and but Paul even made the comment and I'm paraphrasing, he said, the things I don't want to do, sometimes I do them And we know that sin is bad and we don't want to do it, but we do it. And it can be frustrating. How many of you ever get frustrated when you catch yourself doing something you knew you shouldn't have done? Yes, sometimes we are hard on ourselves than we should be. And I think for the most part, Christians, we want to do right. We want to do right. We want to resist temptation. We want to resist sin. And um I think there is something that in all of us that wants to please God and wants to do good. But we end up in sin. We are human. We're human. Now don't ever use that as an excuse, oh well we all mess up anyway, so I'm just gonna go ahead and do it. No, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound, God forbid. Um but we are human. We do mess up. And we end up in s we you know we end up in sin. And oftentimes um it ends up being the same sin. We all have what we call besetting sins, right? And again, I don't know what yours is, and that's fine. You don't have to tell me, but you know what yours is And we all have our besetting sins and sometimes we feel like uh we we we go we hear a conference or at a revival and we we we we get right with God and we confess our sins and he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins But then two days later we fall right back into it. And it's a cycle and it gets very frustrating. Um sometimes I feel like we we feel like we're trapped sometimes And um and we can't get out like we're stuck. Uh like we're down we're down in a hole. We just keep digging ourselves further and further and further down. So um we know that the Bible says uh God will make a way of escape. Um uh He will with the temptation make a way of escape. And uh sometimes though it seems like the urge and the temptation is just so strong, doesn't it? Is this just me? Sometimes I feel like this temptation just overwhelms me with things And it does. And so we're going to look at this tonight, the progression of sin. Now we get to a point where we want victory over the sin. Hopefully that point comes right away, right? We want victory over the sin that we're involved in. But we can't seem to get victory. We sin, we fall, we ask forgiveness. God does forgive us. And we vow, we promise we're never going to do it again, only to find ourselves the next day doing the same thing. Now, again, I don't know what your habitual sin is. Everyone's different. It could be lust, it could be your language, it could be an attitude, it could be drugs, could be, could be whatever. Uh habitual lying, I don't know. Um but everyone has that sin that it just keep they can keep going right back to it You understand what I'm saying? The devil attacks us on the same plane all the time, it seems like. And he's smart. He knows you. And so he's going to attack you at your weak point. And um that's what he does. And it's so so w we go to a conference, we go to a re or we come to a revival meeting, or just in our devotions or in a service or whatever it is And man, the Holy Spirit brings conviction. We confess our sins. He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And then we say, I am never going to do that again. And maybe we make it a week. We do it again. And then we get in this cycle, and I've noticed this, and and again, I I work primarily with with younger people. And so I I've noticed this, but it gets to a point where we just sometimes we just give up. Um we say, you know, I've resisted this and I uh and then I fall. I get it right, I fall, I get it right, I fall, I'm done. That's a bad place to be. So where you just kind of throw in the towel. That's a bad place to be. And I want to be a help to you tonight. I don't I don't know if anyone in here is at that point where they're about to throw in the towel And just say, I've tried to get rid of this before, I've tried to quit looking at this, I've cr tried to quit talking like this, or whatever it is, whatever that habitual sin is, and you're thinking about it You say, I've tried this, and I've tried this, and I've tried this, I'm done. I keep falling. Alright, now I'm going to share some things with you tonight. Go to Genesis. We're going to look at the progression of sin. Now, let me say this right up front. If your only strategy to resist temptation is to just resist temptation, it's not going to work. Let me say it this way. If your only strategy to resist temptation and to try to get victory over that sin is to only resist the temptation in the moment. You're not going to win. You're not going to win. Why? Because in and of yourself you can't do it. Without me you can do nothing, Jesus said, right? And our the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. So if we try to resist temptation in the moment and that's it, you're going to lose. And that's how we get in this cycle. We think, yes. I am not going to do this anymore, but then I do it. Why? Because it's me that's doing it. It's me that's controlling it. It's me in and of my own self, in and of my own strength, that is trying to resist the temptation And then I think a lot of times we look at the moment. We look at the here and now. We say, I know I should not do this. This is bad. Therefore, I'm going to try not to do it. And if all you ever do is look in the moment, and if all you ever do is just not sin just because I know I'm not supposed to, you're not going to have a very big arsenal. We need to look at the entire picture. Now, the Bible says there's pleasure in sin for a season, correct? So if all we look at is that season, then we're not looking at the whole picture. Sin might be pleasurable in that season. Look at the future. Look at the progression leading up to it. Think about the consequences coming down the road. Think about the effects. Don't try to resist temptation in and of yourself and in and of that one moment. We're going to look at the whole picture. Now, Genesis chapter 16. I think I said, did I say 16? Let me turn there real quick. You're ahead of me. Very uh famous story here A little background and I I um just just to kind of catch everyone up to speed here, I think you know the story, but just for the sake of review, God promised uh Abraham a seed, right? The Abrahamic covenant I'm going to give you I'm going to through you all nations will be blessed. Through your seed all nations will be blessed. That means he has to have children, right? But at this point he hadn't in chapter 16. And so we'll just start here in chapter 16, verse 1. Now Sarai, Abram's wife, bear him no children. And she had a handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar. And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold, now the Lord hath restrained me from bearing. I pray thee, go in unto my maid. It may be that I may obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarah And Sarai Abram's wife took Hagar her maid the Egyptian after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife. And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived And when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes. And Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee, I have given my maid into thy bosom. And when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes, the Lord judged between me and thee. But Abram said unto Sarah, Behold, I made Uh behold, thy maid is in thine hand, do unto her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarah dealt heartily with her, she fled from her face. Now go to chapter twenty-one. I'm just reading the whole story here, a large portion of it just all at once here, so we can kind of catch ourselves up to speed. 21 verse 9. And Sarah saw the son Hagar, the Egyptian, which she had borne unto Abraham, mocking, wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her son. Man, I just can't imagine having to having to do that. For the son of this bondwoman shall not be with uh shall not be heir with my son, even with Isaac. And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight because of his son. So we see here the story uh of Hagar and uh Sarai and Abram. What had happened is a God promised Abram a seed, and through your seed all nations will be blessed. So obviously he was going to have a son And God had told him this, and then temptation sets in. We we don't we don't we we don't like to wait, right? Anywh and anyone else? I I don't like to wait. I'm not the most patient person in the world sometimes, like all the time I like what Pastor says. Take your time but hurry. Great. I like that. But um they they grew impatient. And so they tried to help God out. And we see right off here, point number one is the temptation. I have five steps here in the progression of sin. Step one is the temptation. Now, this is a step that everybody faces. There's not a person alive, or ever has been alive, or ever will be alive, that did not face the first step in the progression of sin. The temptation. Jesus faced it, right? He was in all points tempted like we are, yet without sin. So uh Jesus faced this. Everyone faces this. Now this is something That we have to that we have to realize we have to pay attention to. Temptation in and of itself is not the sin. Correct? Because if that was the case, then Jesus would have sinned, because he was tempted. But he didn't. He was tempted to sin, but without sinning. All points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Now, when the temptation becomes a sin is when you purposely put yourself in a tempting situation Like you're going to purposely go to a place where you know you'll be tempted. Now that that that is sinning when you're tempting yourself, right? But temptation in and of itself is not a sin. But this is something that everyone has to face. Oftentimes, one thing I want to point out about temptation is it's disguised as something good. The devil's slick, right? He makes temptation look like something spiritual. And even here in this story Um there S Sarah and Sarai and Abram are are are you know God God's told them they're gonna have children and they're trying to help God out. This is something spiritual. You know, and I feel like sometimes we have that temptation. The devil has a way of making things look spiritual. He has a way of making temptations look spiritual, or even like you have a good motive. Like I know you're not really supposed to do this, but it'll help them out. I know you're really not supposed to lie, but really you're trying to cover up for someone, and that's a good thing, because you know you're trying to be good to your friend. That's a good thing You see what I'm saying? No, temptation can look like a good thing, and it can be disguised as a good thing. It is disguised in a way to make the evil things seem small and compared. to the good that will come out of it. So I know that you know adultery is bad, but, you know, I can't have kids. So you can go ahead and commit adultery with her. That way God can bless us. And we want God's blessing, so we better do this. Often temptation isn't right up front with you. The devil's not right up front with you. I'm pretty sure that if if the devil would have gone to Abraham and said, Hey Abraham, you should go commit adultery, he'd be like, No. But it was slick, it was sneaky, it was cunning, it was disguised. That's why we need to be sober, be vigilant. Your adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. We have got to constantly be on guard because temptation looks Sneaky. I mean it looks appealing. It's sneaky. Oftentimes uh it appears harmless. You ever hear the expression of what could go wrong? And everything goes wrong. You know what I'm saying? Um I I I I'm thinking of a couple of instances now in in in uh in high school where there's um Some of the sp the guys on my football team, they would go out and then you know say, Come on out with us and I'm like, nah, I'm good. Like, oh what could go wrong? I'm like, nah, I'm good. And then they'd get in trouble and I was at home in bed. It was great. So they got so what could go wrong? Um actually at one point act this was when I was in college playing ball and they made the comment, what could go wrong? The next day they didn't show up to practice, they got arrested. What could go wrong You'd go to jail. That's what could go wrong. But a lot of times it's presented that way, isn't it? What could go wrong? Well, there's a lot that could go wrong. We need to understand that temptation in and of itself, no, it's not bad, but when you give in to it. It's going to get really bad. It's going to get really bad really quick. So step one is the temptation. If you resist the temptation, two things will happen. Um it'll flee from you, right? Uh and then um if you resist that means you don't sin. So then you don't have the baggage that comes with it You're tempted to sin, you say no, that means you didn't do it. Correct? That means all of this stuff that follows that we're going to look at here, you don't have that baggage. You know what we talk about? We talk about baggage, right? You don't want baggage. When I think of baggage, I think of the pilgrim's progress store and he had that burden on his back. That's called baggage, right? We don't want the baggage that comes with sin We don't want the baggage that comes 20 years down the road. You don't want that. So we're it's good just to resist the temptation right up front. Now on top of that, not only do we not have the baggage that goes along with sin if we resist it. We get a crown. Remember in James 1, 12, it says we get a crown. We get rewarded for resisting to the temptation. It's a cool thing. So anyway, that's step one, the temptation. Step two is when we hearken. The sin is committed. The sin is committed. We hearken. Uh in Genesis chapter 16 Flip back there with me real quick. Verse 2, towards the end of the verse, it says, And Abraham hearkened to the voice of Sarai. That's when the sin was committed. When he gave in. When he gave in. In verse one, in the first part of verse two, he hadn't sinned yet. But then when he gave in, that's when the sin was committed. When w when we give in, this is where we lose and where Satan wins. Oftentimes this comes because of a lack of self control, sure. Maybe a lack of of uh self discipline, sure I think about um uh uh characters in the Bible, when I think of self-control and self-discipline, right away I think of Joseph. You know, he was actually in a very similar situation. He had the opportunity to commit adultery. And his uh his character and his strength and his self-discipline, um, no, I'm not gonna do this. I'm not gonna sin against my master, I'm not gonna sin against my God, no, I'm not gonna do this And so what how do you get stronger physically? By exercising. How do you get stronger spiritually? By exercising. So if we want to be s strong enough to to to fight the devil, I think we need to get some spiritual exercise in. If you're not let me just put it plain. If you're not reading your Bible every day, you you you're not going to be very strong spiritually. If you're not coming to church What kind of music are you listening to, right? Etc. etc. etc. We know what's right. We know we're supposed to be reading the Bible. We know we're supposed to be studying the Bible. We know we're suppos to be exercising unto godliness But when we don't, man, we're weak. And the first weight that comes along, we're going to get crushed under it. So I think about Joseph and he had s he had uh some character and he had some strength there, uh but uh uh right here Abram uh gave in Now here's the scary part about this point when the sin is committed. Once it's committed, it can't be uncommitted. There's no rewind button. You can't go backwards in time. It's not possible. I can't undo that sip of water. I can't go backwards. Um I just thought of something funny, but I'm not going to share it because I don't want to embarrass them. But um can I embarrass you? Is that alright? Yeah. Alright, cool. So Xander was playing basketball a few weeks ago outside and he missed the basketball hoop and hit my windshield. It was an accident, right? It was it's actually kind of funny. I got a new windshield, it was cool. But um the the the thing is is he couldn't go backwards. He came in, I'm sorry. And uh it's like hey accidents happen, it's alright, it's cool, but you can't go backwards. You can't undo it. Now, in the scheme of things, a windshield is not nearly as important as a sin that you might commit that might mess up the rest of your life. You can't go backwards. You can't undo it. And to me this is just absolutely terrifying. Because the temptation is presented as if it's not a big deal, what's the worst that could happen? Hey, this is the right thing to do. Then you do it and you can't undo it. You can't go backwards. And it's a very serious we need to treat sin as a serious thing. It's not a game, it's not really a joke at all when you treat it seriously. It can't be undone. So first of all there's the temptation, then there's the sins committed, and then once the sins committed, number three, there's the regret The regret or the guilt. Verse 4 of chapter 16. And he went unto Hagar and she conceived, and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes. Verse 6 Sarah dealt hardly with her. She fled from her face. Once this hits, man, there's regret And the devil will do this to you. Oh, but it's not a big deal. It's fine. What's the worst that could happen? This is actually a good thing. And then you do the thing he was trying to get you to do, and he says, Oh man, you're worthless. That's what he does. And then the regret hits, the the guilt hits. And oftentimes it's like immediately, but then it uh intensifies. You do something wrong, then you think, man, I shouldn't have done that. The regret hits. Then you get caught. And then the intensity just through the roof. Oh man, I'm sorry. I shouldn't have done this. And the regret, man, it it it hits. And it always comes with some kind of emotion. Um again, I s I I work with young people, so I see this more maybe, but I've seen emotional old people. And um trying to be politically correct. But there's always some sort of emotion that goes with it. Remember Amnon? When he committed that sin. His friend was talking, Oh, you're the king, you can have whatever you want. And so he sinned. He he raped his half sister and man His emotion was hate. Remember that? The hate he hated her with was greater than the love that he loved her with? Man, the hate hit So he had regret and he had remorse, but with that was hatred. There's always some sort of emotion that goes with the sin. Sometimes it's hate. Sometimes it's jealousy. That was Sarah's case here. She looked at Hagar and couldn't stand it She wants she's like, oh well I'll do it around this will be a spiritual thing. Yeah, I'll help God out. Here, here, you take her, have a kid with her, and that way the Lord will bless us, and then she can see, hey, wait a minute. That's not fair It's your idea. Right? Well and that's what happens. Uh there's emotion that comes with it. Sometimes it's hate. Sometimes it's jealousy. Sometimes it's rage Cain offered the wrong sacrifice, and that was his sin, and along with that came rage to the point where he murdered his brother. And then another emotion came in, and he was overwhelmed. Emotion often comes with the regret, with the remorse, with the guilt, and emotion hits Remorse, as in the case of David, when he sinned. One thing is for sure. When you sin, Um and that and and whatever your habitual sin is, when you commit that thing, you're trying to get victory over that, and you commit it, there's emotion that goes with it. Whether it's hatred, whether it's uh just just tears, whether whatever it is, there's emotion. You know, some of the most emotionally unstable people are the people that are involved in the Worse Since. You you look at someone that's an emotional train wreck, it's because of sin. Sometimes it's because of someone else's sin Right? And they're an emotional train right because of that. But man, when sin is committed, it brings emotion. It brings emotion and it's not a good thing. So sometimes it's remorse, sometimes it's rage, jealousy, hatred. So there's there's first of all there's a temptation, then there's sins committed, then there's regret, then there's the consequences. Now this is what we need to think about. Remember I said if you want to beat that sin, you want to get victory over that sin that you're struggling with, and you try to just beat it in the moment in your own flesh, you're not going to beat it. What we need to do is start thinking about the consequences. So rather than thinking, alright, it's a sin for me to do this thing, so I shouldn't do it, think about, okay, what's going to happen once I do? What are the repercussions going to be of this act that I'm about to commit? This thing I'm about to do, this thing I'm about to say, whatever the case may be. What are the repercussions? What are the consequences? Sin has consequences. Sin will take effects on us emotionally, spiritually, physically, mentally. There is effects of sin. There is consequences. And um it has consequences on us and on others. On us, sin will take a toll on us. Read through Proverbs, read through the story, and read the Bible, and you'll see sin has its consequences on you personally, individually. Physical effects. I was when I was talking to uh brother Fox where when I was taking him back up to the airport in Pittsburgh. Actually it might have been on the way up here. I don't remember. I just remember we were in the band having a good time, laughing, and it was great. But he he made this comment. Um He was getting a physical and they measured his chest and then they had him inhale and measured his chest again and right away they said Oh you've never smoked He said No How could you tell because someone that smokes they only have about an inch of expansion He's like, oh that's interesting. Alright, that's a physical effect. Alright? Oh no, no, I'm I'm not here to debate. I'm not here to say what's your s you know, I'm not I'm not even preaching on smoking right now, although I think it's wrong. The point is, we all have a sin that we struggle with, and it has a physical effect on you. Alcohol has a physical effect on you, does it not? Um take your pick. Rage has a physical effect on you. Negativity has a physical effect on you. It does. Whatever that sin is, you struggle, it will affect you physically, your body. But then there's also an emotional effect, there's a mental effect I was talking to someone the other day and there's some people you can see it on their face when they're so deep in that so so deep in the whole of sin and they're so they've been so involved in it it's consuming them, whatever it may be. You can see it on their face. They can't think clearly. You can get to that point where you can't even concentrate on school, you can't concentrate on work, you don't know where you're driving, you don't remember if you even ran a red light or not Because your mind is so warped. Because sin has gotten a hold of you. Yeah, it can affect you physically. It can affect your mind to where you can't think clearly. It ruins your thinking process. And oftentimes you'll see people make absolutely foolish decisions because they're not thinking clearly. One thing I use uh I used to watch sometimes was the the show cops where they would you know pull people over and they would do the dumbest things. Why? Because they're not thinking clearly. They're not thinking clearly. They they're involved in in the drugs or they're involved in alcohol or trying to get away or something like that and they're not thinking clearly There's physical effects, emotional effects, consequences of particular sins. There's some sins that will affect you different ways. It'll affect your reputation, how people perceive you. But here's what's here's here's to me More sad, I guess you could say, and more heartbreaking is oftentimes we know this. We know, okay, sin is going to affect me. I'm willing to take it, I'm willing to do it. But it doesn't stop there. It affects so many other people. It affects so many other people. I've told the teenagers this before. You know who hurts the most? When you stumble into sin, it's not you, it's mom and dad, right? Mom and dad heartbroken, up crying because of something you've done. And you say, yeah, that's right. The teenager need to understand that. No, we all need to understand that Yeah I'm I'm I'm an adult now. I'm 29. I'm getting old. Right. If I if if I were to mess up my life now, it would not just affect me. It would affect me, it would affect my wife It affect my family? There's a it would affect the church. There'd be a lot of people affected because I messed up. And I think Abraham and Sarah, they were thinking, all right, we'll do this. They had no clue How many hundreds of thousands of people were going to be affected by this act? You know, Hagar had conceived and gave birth to Ishmael. Fast forward a few thousand years, some sons of Ishmael flew tower planes into the towers Right? And and and and there are millions of people that have been slaughtered because of this one sin. And it, man, we need to think about this. If all we do is the temptation hits us to do this besetting sin. I'm not supposed to do this, I'm not supposed to do this. Yeah, you're right, you're not, but think about what's going to happen if you do. What's going to happen to you? What's going to happen to your family? What's going to happen to your church, your community, your your Your your kids, your grandkids Five generations from now. Sin does not stop itself. We don't sin in a box. There are a multitude of people that are affected by one bad choice that we make. And I'm telling you, we have got to think about not just the sin itself. Think about what comes before, and think about what comes after it, and who's going to be affected by it. Sometimes we think, oh well, you know what? I know that if I do this, there's a chance that something will happen to me. Alright, cool, whatever, but I'm willing to take the risk. Are you willing to take the risk for your family? Are you willing to take the risk for those you love? Those you don't love? Whatever. Sin affects other people, not just us. It causes uh financial pain on other people. Emotional pain on other people. Hagar, I feel bad for her. She was a wreck She was an absolute wreck. Sarah hated her. She got kicked out twice. Man, talk about an emotional wreck. And here it was it was Sarah was tempting Abram to do this and he fell for it and then they forced her to they forced Hagar to get involved and she's the one that hurt from it the most It's just a sad story. I feel bad for it. I really do. Financial pain. How many times will our sin cost someone else money? It doesn't just affect us, it affects everyone around us. Alright, so there's a temptation, the sin, the regret, the consequences, the repeat. The repeat. Once you fall, it'll be easier to fall again. Once you commit one sin, then one thing you said, I will never do this, and then you do it Well just do it one more time. Do it one more time. I forget who who the first person I heard say it was, but it's so true. You can't be a drunk if you don't take your first drink. You can't become an alcoholic if you don't take the first drink. That applies to everything. You can't be addicted to drugs if you don't take the first whatever you take of it. You can't become an habitual liar if you don't lie. It starts with one. You can't become you can't uh a kleptomaniac, someone who takes everything and doesn't even realize they do it. You can't become that if you make your mind, I'm not gonna steal this, isn't right Right? Now we all have like I said we all have our besetting sins, things we keep falling into, but w the more you do it, the easier it's gonna be to do it So it it's follow this logic. It'll be easier to stop now than it will be tomorrow. And then it'll be even harder the next day. And even harder the next day. The more you do that thing, the easier it becomes to do it. This it this is with anything, sin or not. The more you practice a sport, the better you get at it. The more you read, the better you are at reading. The more you do of a thing, the better you get at it, the easier it is. The more you commit this sin, the easier it is to do it The repeat. We are more likely to do it again. Again, uh I keep mentioning alcohol, but it's such a good illustration for this. The more you drink, the more you're gonna drink. I don't know if you notice this, but drunks they look for any excuse to get drunk. Their team wins the Super Bowl, they get drunk. Their team loses the Super Bowl, they get drunk. It doesn't make sense. But they'll they'll they'll look for an excuse. And once you start down that road, you do uh it doesn't it doesn't take a good excuse So it's easier to stop now than it will be tomorrow. This is why I have such a passion for younger people because I want to help them stop now. Because it's easier to get rid of this besetting sin when you're fourteen than when you're eighty-four. So the repeat. The repeat will come if you do the first one. It's more likely to come if you do the first one. So, here's an application, I'll be done here. In order to get victory over a besetting sin, We must understand where it's going to lead. And we've got to think. Don't just think in the moment, think in the future as well. Not just what sin is, but how it comes, when it comes, and what happens after. And when we think about it And uh when we think not just about the sin itself, but why but why it's bad but the and why it's bad, but the temptation, the regret, the effects. Um and the very real possibility we're about to start a a life of this habitual sin that we're addicted to, I think that'll help us a little bit If there's nothing else you take out of this whole message tonight, is the just take this away. Think of the consequences. Picture the consequences. A temptation comes in front of you. Picture your family crying over it. Picture losing your job. Picture the the the the wreck your home's gonna be if you fall victim to this again. Yes we should we should do right just because it's right to do right. Yes we should resist sin just because we should resist sin But think about what's gonna come later. Think about what will come later if you do right. We see here in James a crown. So Don't look at sin in the moment. If you do, you're gonna fail every time, but because there is pleasure in sin for a season. But look at the big picture. Look at the temptation, the sin, the regret, the guilt, consequences And the reality of getting sucked into this process of sin and just comp repeating it over and over again. I know tonight wasn't real preachy, I understand that was more of like a a a tea But I hope it was a help. I heard this from someone else and it's helped me with some things uh throughout my life and and But basically it's this. If all you do in and of yourself is I mean if all you do is try to beat this in and of yourself, you're not going to beat it. You need the Lord's help, and you need to not just think about the here and now, but think about the future and what's going to happen. Heads bowed, eyes closed, and don't look around for just a moment, please. I just want to ask you a couple questions. How many of you would say this, you know what? God spoke to my heart, there's a besetting sin, there's something I keep falling falling into, whatever it may be, and I'm going to do my best to try to think about the future and the consequences and try and ask the Lord to help me through this. Uh the Lord spoke to me about something. Could you raise your hand? I just want to pray with you about that. Yeah, absolutely. Me too. My hand's up. Amen. How many of you would say this? You know what? I don't even know I'm saved. I didn't really touch much on this tonight, but uh, you know, God will forgive you. No matter how much you've sinned, Christ died for that sin. If you call on him, he'll save you. If you're here and you say, you know what, I'm not even sure that I'm saved, but I'm concerned about that, could you raise your hand? I'm not sure if something would happen to me, I'd go to heaven, but I'm concerned about that. If you could stand to your feet, please. No uh no one looking around still for just a moment. If God has uh dealt with you about something I encourage you to just uh do business with God. If he's dealt with you about a certain sin, um one one great thing is is you don't have to go tell the priest, you can go tell God. You go right to God. Um talk to him about it. Tell him you need his help uh to to beat this. And think uh think and think through these things as well. If if God spoke to your heart, uh the altar's open.