And turn back to John chapter number six. Alright, here we go. Why do crabs never give to charity? Why do crabs never give the charity? Because they're shellfish. Shellfish. How many people get it? Why did the scarecrow win an award? Because he was outstanding in his field. Listen, you don't pay much, you don't get much. Oh, speaking of awards, uh what an honor, Dr. uh Pat Browning. Teacher of the year up at WBU. Praise the Lord. Give him a hand. Amen. And uh very uh tremendous award and and he deserves it, I guarantee you. God bless you, Pat That's wonderful. You want some more? Alright, let's see what you're gonna get 'em whether you want them or not. Uh last night I dreamt I was a muffler. You wouldn't believe it. I woke up exhausted. Yeah I gotta think about this one. Why couldn't the bicycle stand up by itself because it was too tired? Too tired. Alright, enough of that. John. I I'm tempted to apologize for those jokes. Verse 35, John chapter 6, verse 35. I would like for us to read together in unison. John chapter 6, verse number 35, and then we're going to read together verse 48. John 6, 35, and then verse 48. Are you ready? You got it there? Let's read it together. Verse 35, all together. And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life. He that cometh to me shall never hunger, and he that believeth on me shall never thirst. Now verse 48 I am the bread of life. I want to speak this morning on the bread of life. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, thank you, Lord, for a uh a lovely Sunday morning. We're so grateful for that sun shining. Lord, the music has been a blessing. The fellowship. We're so grateful for your hand upon us and your blessings on us. We pray now as we look into your word. That you would speak to our hearts, open our hearts and minds, that we would be willing to trust you and obey you as you speak to us and direct us in our lives. Lord, as always, I pray that our faith in you would be stronger when we leave than it was when we come than we've come. I pray that um our time in your house today would prepare us to live victorious Christian lives this coming week And Lord, to do that, I yield myself to you, and I present my body anew, and my prayer, Lord, is that you would fill me with your Spirit and that you would please speak through me to each of our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We often say that inside the heart and soul of every human being, there is what we call a God-shaped vacuum. How many people ever heard myself or a preacher say something along those lines? In the heart and soul of every person, there is a God-shaped vacuum. And by that we mean there is a spiritual whole So to speak, in the in the soul of every human being. I think what we try to convey by that is this is that every person has an emptiness, Down inside their heart and soul that can only be filled with the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ. A God-shaped hole, a God-shaped vacuum. A spiritual need, a spiritual emptiness that only Jesus Christ, His presence there in the heart and soul, can fill. It's an emptiness that nothing in this world can fill. There's a need in the heart and soul of every human being that nothing in this world can possibly meet. It is a hunger And I uh and I'm more convinced of this now than ever before in my life. Every single person has a hunger for God They don't necessarily recognize that hunger for God. They don't recognize it for what it is, but there's a hunger there, an emptiness, a need that God designed us. With a need for God. Isaiah chapter 57, verse 20 through 21 says this. But the wicked are like the troubled sea. When it cannot rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt, there is no peace, saith my God, to the wicked Now we think of the wicked as some horrendous people, awful, awful people, just really, really, really bad people. But what he's talking about here are people who don't know the Lord. People who are without God, people who are still in their sins. And he says there's a restlessness there, like this sea It cannot be at peace. It's just constantly churning and tossing to and fro. There's an emptiness there. There's a restless there. There's a hunger there that this world cannot meet. And so that explains the restlessness we see out in society. That explains why people do such self-destructive things. There's a hunger there they're trying to meet. There's an emptiness they're trying to fill. And they're grasping for straws and they're looking in for they're looking to meet that need by things in this world and this world can't meet that need. People are looking to liquor. I'm telling you, one of the most self-destructive things a person can do is drink liquor. I've heard all the arguments to try and justify drinking liquor. I've heard all the arguments trying to justify uh indulging uh in a social way or a limited way or in moderation drinking liquor But I'm here to tell you, putting liquor in my body is one of the most self-destructive things I can possibly do. Nothing good comes out of drinking liquor. And anytime this subject get comes up I get stirred up about it because of such lies that are going on out in the media, on all levels of the media, that if you want to have a good time Uh you can you have some liquor has to be involved in it. If you want to have a blast, whether it's a ball game or a party or a picnic or getting out, there has to be some sort of beer or wine or or some sort of liquor. And I'm telling you, it is killing our homes. No marriage has ever been stronger because liquor was introduced into that marriage. No home has ever been happier because liquor is introduced into that home. No young person's life has ever been more successful because they began drinking liquor. It is destructive A Christian ought to have nothing to do with it. We ought to speak out loudly against what liquor is doing to our country and to our homes and to our city. And so we have people, we have society, mankind has an emptiness down inside their heart and soul. There's a vacuum there That only Christ can fill, but they're grasping at straws, things that they know will destroy them, things that are documented will destroy them. And yet they try and fill that vacuum with it. Liquor. Drug abuse Perversion, perverted lifestyles. Let me throw this out there. Ungodly music. Music has a powerful influence on the life of those who listen to it. Proverbs tells us very, very clearly, we ought to be very, very careful about the kind of uh b about what we listen to, about what we lend our ears to. And music is not, like some people try to argue, an ah moral type thing. Music is right or it's wrong. Either it's healthy or it's unhealthy. And I suggest to you the music that this world is feeding on and the And uh not just the words, the ungodly words that go with most of it, but the music itself is destroying people. And people are granting that they live for it, it becomes a god to them. What are they doing? They're trying to fill an emptiness down in sort in their heart and soul. That uh uh you know you used to preach against rock and roll. Now there's so many different kinds of music out there. Anything other than a scripturally godly music will never meet that need. Am I making sense? I'm not trying to make anybody mad at me this morning. I feel like a little bit like a doctor that says, listen, you keep eating that type of food, you're going to keep being sick. You keep living that type of lifestyle, you're going to keep getting sick. You need to address some of these issues. And so we have a world full uh made up of people who have an emptiness, a hunger, a hole there in their soul. That only Christ can fill, and they're grasping for these things. This ungodly fleshly, worldly music, liquor, drugs, perversions, perverted lifestyles All of this is grasping for something to give my life meaning, something to bring purpose to my life, something to bring happiness, something to fulfill my heart and soul. And it never does. Because as we keep saying over and over, only Christ can meet that need. Only Christ can fill that hole. People are desperate to find purpose in life. People were desperate to find meaning in life, to fill that emptiness in their soul. I was this week, I was up at our church fellowship hall, Walmart. Every time I go up there there's church folk there. So and I was up there and when it's pouring down snow and I want to go visiting, uh the great place to go is Walmart. And you walk around. And I was there the other day and uh Saul fell and got talking to him and uh I had talked to him before. Uh he's a good fella. I mean just humanly speaking, he's a good guy. Hard worker. I believe he's an honest man. But he's not saved. And he's not interested in the gospel beyond just the lip service a little bit. And I was met him and we were up there and we were talking, it became pretty obvious early on in the conversation that he was pretty drunk. And I was done talking to him. I walked away and my heart was so sad. My heart was so broken. And here's a good man, I believe. Hardworking, honest man, believe he loves his family. But he's looking for something that is destroying them, grasping Trying to bring meaning, trying to bring some sort of happiness, some fulfillment to his life, and it's doing the exact opposite. It's hurting them. And I walked away brokenhearted. Emptiness. You look in people's eyes, and you see the emptiness there You go to you go to the market, you go to the gas station, the the uh McDonald's or somewhere, and people are standing and you talk to them and you look in their eyes and you just see the sadness in their eyes Oh, there may be they may be laughter coming out of their mouth, but there's sadness and there's emptiness in their heart. You see it in their eyes, the restlessness, the loneliness, the frustration. We live in an angry, angry world. Right or wrong. Everybody's angry about something. Everybody's mad about this. Everybody's offended by that. You know where that all comes from? You know where all this frustration and this anger and this of being offended comes from? It comes from an empty heart, an empty soul, trying to find something and never finding it. Filling my life with the most extreme, more extreme, more extreme, something else, this, that, filling it, filling it, and that hole is never filled. That need is never met. That hunger is never satisfied. Because as I said probably five times already, only Jesus Christ can fill that heart, that hole, and that soul. The only way to fill this emptiness is to be introduced to the Lord Jesus Christ. I like what Jesus said. Said in John chapter ten and verse ten, he said this. In fact, I'll tell you what, we're in chapter six. Just come over a few pages. You got your Bibles with you? Anyone could bring a Bible I tell you, we brought them all the way to church, you might as well use them, huh? Come over to John chapter 10 and look at verse number 10. If you have a red letter edition in your Bible, this is in red. This is Jesus speaking. Doesn't make it more inspired, but I think it is significant. If you have a pen, I would highly recommend that you underline or underscore this verse in one way or another in your Bible. John chapter 10 and verse 10. Notice what the Bible says here. Again, Jesus speaking The thief cometh not, but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. If that doesn't describe the devil, I don't know what does. If that doesn't describe the sins of this world, I don't know what does. Steal, kill, and destroy. Now Jesus gives a contrast, but The thing cometh not but the but for to steal and to kill and destroy Iron Come that they might have what? Are you listening, young people? That they might have what? Life. But not just have life, not just get saved, not just escape hell, not just go to heaven, that they might have life and that they might have it more Abundantly. You know what Jesus is saying here? He says, I've come to fill that emptiness in your heart and soul. I've come to give your life meaning, to give it purpose. To give real joy, the real presence of God. Young people, listen up here now. Alright, you listen? Okay. He says, I've come that you might have life, you might have it more abundantly. Meet that need. How many people recognize the name Charles Darwin Charles Darwin. Charles Darwin is the author of the infamous book, at least in my mind, infamous book, Origin of a Species. That is, by the way, is uh you uh you always hear about racism now. Everybody, you know, every racism you talk about racism, that's one of the most racist books that has ever been written If you read that, he advocates the elimination of certain races of mankind because they're so low in the evolutionary uh um uh scale I mean it's incredibly if I would say what Darwin said, I'd be run out of town and be thrown in jail But listen to what Charles Darwin said. He recognized for all his rejection of the Word of God and all of his rejection of the things of God He recognized the fact that the gospel of Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ, does for man what nothing else in this world can do. I came across this quote. Now I don't know all the details of the background of this, but listen. To what Charles Darwin said. He was writing to a pastor of a town he lived in. Apparently the town had had a problem with drunkenness and debauchery. It was just a bad situation. And he's writing to a young pastor that showed up in the town. The pastor apparently was preaching the gospel, and people were getting saved, and their lives were being changed. Charles Darwin said this. Your services, writing to this preacher who's preaching the gospel and has ministries, getting the gospel out. Your services have done more for this village in a few months than all of our efforts to clean it up have done for many years. Listen to this. We have never been able to reclaim a single drunkard. But through your services, I do not know that there is a drunkard left in the village. Charles Darwin said that. He says your message of the gospel, you introducing people to Jesus Christ, has done more to solve the moral problems, the drunkenness going on in this city, than anything we've ever done. Not only that, I came across another quote of his. There's a uh small islands down on the southernmost tip of South America. They are called the Terra Tierra del Fuego Islands. Land of fire. Apparently there's a lot of volcano activity there. Charles Darwin went by on his adventures and exploration and his studies trying to prove evolution. He went by there. And uh he said he found the people of Tierra del Fuego to be some of the most horrific savages he's ever met. The debauchery going on uh that they were involved in is unspeakable Even by America's standards that we have now as far as sensuality and lifestyles and all of that, he says theirs was absolutely unspeakable what they were doing. He moved on, in his explorations, he moved on. In the meantime, a missionary showed up in Tierra del Fuego. They began preaching the gospel. They began introducing those folks there, those uh nationals that lived in that area, to the Lord Jesus Christ. The people of that area, Tierra del Fuego, began getting saved. Their lives were being changed And when he returned, after this missionary had been there for a little period of time, he was amazed at the change in them. In fact, he acknowledged that the gospel had so transformed their lives That Charles Darwin began contributing money to that missionary because of what the gospel was doing in the lives of these horrific savages. What are you saying? I'm saying this. Even an honest, unsaved person recognizes that the gospel of Jesus Christ is what this world needs. That only the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ can meet the needs in the hearts and souls of a person. Only the person of the Lord Jesus Christ can fill the emptiness in the hearts and souls of mankind. In our passage, Jesus says, I am the bread of life. The most commonly eaten food in the world Is bread. When people are hungry more than any other food that they reach for Throughout the world, they go to bread. They go to bread. Now in our society, it's Pringles potato chips. But um to most of the world It's bread. And so it's significant when Jesus says, I am the bread of life, everybody understood that what he was saying was, I am the one that can meet a hunger, can fill a hunger. That nothing else can. I am the one that can meet the needs of your heart and soul that nothing else in the world can possibly meet. I am the bread of life It's a very common object. Bread everybody understood what his uh what uh bread was. It was very simple and plain And what he was simply doing was trying to use a metaphor here just to illustrate the fact that I am the one that mankind needs. I am the one that fill that that needs that hunger, that fills that hunger I am the one that fills that hole. I am the one that fills that vacuum in the heart and soul of every person. So I want us to look at our passage here. If you would come back to chapter six. And I want to look very quickly here at verse number 35, a few other verses, and this This statement that Jesus makes that he is the bread of life. I want us to notice, again, in verse 35, first of all, our response to the bread of life. Our response to the bread of life. Verse 35. And Jesus said unto them I am the bread of life. Now look at the very next statement. He that cometh to me shall never hunger. He that cometh to me ne Shall never hunger. So that's the response. We find out that Jesus Christ is the bread of life. Jesus Christ is what my heart and soul really needs. Jesus Christ Is what my soul is hungering for, is needing, is longing for, is empty without. And so our response to that is we come to Him. If you study your Bible very carefully, Jesus never forces anybody to get saved against their will. He doesn't force anybody to get saved against the world. He leaves that up to us. We can accept the gift of God, which is eternal life, or we can reject it. He offered himself to Jerusalem, and he says, How often I would that you would have turned to me like a chick, uh ticks come to the hand that covered him. Then ye would not. They had the option. They could have accepted Jesus Christ as their Savior. They could have had that need met, but they opted not to. So our response to the fact that Jesus is the bread of life is we need to come to Him. We make a decision. I'm going to look to him. I'm going to trust him. He never saves a person against his will. He never forces us to do something against our will. You say, well, Brother Leatherman, I got somebody, a family member of Maybe a parent or a child or a brother or sister, a friend of mine that's not saved. They're not interested in getting saved. Their heart is so hard. And uh you say that the they don't never get saved against their will, uh then that my friend will never get saved. That's not necessarily true. I found this out. God never saves someone against their will, but he sure is good at making them willing. I'm telling you, he can back a person down. He can back a person into the corner. He can knock the wind out of somebody. He can take their legs out to a point where they have nowhere to look but hop. And he's tremendous with that. Now he doesn't save us against our will, but he certainly is able to make us willing. And so, our response to the Lord says, He that cometh to me shall never hunger. So we need to come to the Lord Jesus Christ. We need to make a decision. Yes, I'm going to look to Christ, I'm going to come to Him. Now Christianity is first and foremost Jesus Christ. If I don't have Jesus, I don't have Christianity If I don't have Jesus, I don't have salvation. Christianity, salvation is first and foremost, the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen, I think we all understand this. Going to church Does not make a person a Christian. Right? I was in the garage the other day. How many folks Is there anyone else here? About this time of year, the garage looks like a tornado went through it. Anyone here? Good. I was in the garage. I thought, good, nice, I need to clean this thing. I just cleaned it five years ago. I don't understand why it's But I was in the garage and I spent an hour or so there and was piddling around with some different things. And uh you know what? What do you put in garages besides junk? Cars. I sat in that I was in that garage for a couple hours and you know when I came out of that garage, I was not a car. Amen. That's good preaching right there. That's profound. You say, what in the world are you talking about? I don't know. Um no, I know. Billy Sunday put it this way, setting in a church doesn't make you a Christian any more than setting in a garage makes you a car. Christianity is not attending church. Christianity is not taking the title, I'm a Christian. Christianity is not being born in a Christian nation. Shortly after I was saved, I was up outside Philly, I was knocking on I was by myself, it was church meditation, I ended up out myself, but I was just I never had any training, I didn't know anything. I just wanted to witness to people So I had a handful of gospel tracts. There was an apartment behind the church there. I was knocking on the doors. Lady came in. I didn't know what to say. I was just uh I said I had some gospel tracts and I just said to her, we talked a little bit, and I said, uh, are you a Christian? And she took grave offense that I asked her if she was a Christian, and very indignantly she said, Of course I'm a Christian. I didn't say it, but I thought, I can tell, it's very obvious. She said, Of course I'm a Christian! I didn't know I had any training, I just said, oh great, when did you become a Christian? And she was even more indignant When I was born, I'm an American. Of course I'm a Christian. Listen, being born in America doesn't make you a Christian. Going to church doesn't make a person a Christian. Having Christian parents doesn't make a person a Christian. Knowing Jesus Christ personally is what makes me a Christian. Christianity is Jesus Christ, he that cometh to me. It's Jesus Christ having Christian parents does not make me a Christian. Being a member of a Christian church does not make me a Christian I thank God I talk all the time for my Christian daddy. What a testimony. Prayer life is uh uh uh uh amazing. And how God has used that man, he doesn't even aware of it, I don't think My life and others through me and others. But listen, my daddy being a Christian didn't make me a Christian. Now my daddy's German. My daddy and both all his parents, we traced it back, seven generations came to New Jersey from Germany fleeing religious persecution, came to the New World Seven generations back, I'm German. Because my daddy's German, my nationality, I'm German. That's what my uh b uh lineage is I'm Caucasian because my daddy's Caucasian. I'm American because my parents are American. I was born in America. But I'm not a Christian. Because my daddy's a Christian. I'm a Christian because on May 7, 1979, Jesus Christ and I began a relationship. I trusted Jesus as my personal Savior. So he said, He that cometh to me, I worry. I'm just going to be very honest with you right now. As pastor, and I mean this as sincerely as I can, I worry about young people. That grow up in Christian homes and grow up in good gospel preaching churches like ours. And their whole life they've heard, you need to be saved, you need to be saved. And they've learned all the right things to say and the right time to say them. And they're able to go through the motions and they're able to take on the form of what they've been raised with. But this is what I worry about. Do they know Jesus Christ in a personal relationship? Possible to know all about Jesus. It's possible to know quote his statements. It's possible, even to some degree, follow his teachings. But not have a relationship with him, to not know him in a personal way. And that worries me. That worries me. What is our response to the bread of life? He said, He that cometh to me, the night I was saved. So I knelt beside that bed. It wasn't me just saying words in a prayer. It wasn't me taking on, all right, I'm going to be identified as a Christian from now on. It wasn't that at all. That night at 1030, as I called out on the Lord to be my personal Savior, a relationship began with a living Savior. I met the true and living risen God, risen Savior. I met him. Not physically But just as real, as if he was physically there, and we began a relationship, it was a spiritual thing. Jesus Christ was there. I called on him to be my personal Savior, and for 37 years. Jesus Christ has walked with me, He's been my Savior. We've had a living relationship. Now I've been up and down on that relationship and I've had my share of failure. But it has never been simply accepting a doctrinal statement. It has never been simply accepting some facts about this guy that claimed to be the Son of God. No. It was a living, real relationship with a Savior. And so our response to the bread of life is we come to Him. We come to him. Turn with me if you would in your Bibles to 2 Timothy chapter 1. A little ways back in the New Testament there, 2 Timothy. This is a profound verse. Of course, all the Bible is inspired of God. It's profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness, but there are some verses that just stand there. There's some verses that are really that are just full of meat. And 2 Timothy 1, verse 12. You got it there? Did you find it? 2 Timothy 112. Again, this is a verse to underscore your Bibles. Second Timothy 112 For the which cause, this is Paul writing to Timothy under the inspiration of God, for which cause I also suffer these things. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed. Now look at this next statement For I know what's the next word? Whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he Is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. Notice very carefully what Paul does not say here. He doesn't say, I know what I have believed. Now, obviously, Paul knew what he believed. Amen. I mean, good night. God used them to record a third of the New Testament. So he knew what he believed. But his salvation, his Christianity His spiritual life was not based upon what he believed. It was based upon whom he believed in. It's in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Question: Does it matter what we believe? Absolutely. I cannot have a genuine personal relationship with Jesus Christ if I don't know anything about him. If I don't know him. I I can't have that relationship. But simply knowing the facts about Jesus, simply knowing what our doctrinal statement is, simply having Some sort of creed that I adhere to doesn't save my soul. It's knowing Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. It's having that relationship. Am I making any sense at all? So our response to the bread of life is we come to Him. It's a personal relationship. There was an elder lady. I thought about as I read about this lady. Uh when I was in Chattanooga we had a bus routes, uh had a bus ministry in Sunday afternoons. It had forty-two buses. Can you imagine that? They ran all the bus, just about all of them, Sunday morning door and Sunday school, like we do, except multiply it 400 times They bring them in. And here's what the church did. When they got ho uh they after the service, they ran all the kids home. As soon as the buses got back, they had a whole team, uh new team of people came in on the bus Slipped them out, gassed them up, and we sent them back out again for afternoon Sunday school. Doubled our bus ministry outreach. It was fascinating, it was exciting. And I had an afternoon route, and I ended up taking part of a whole division, and we would, our routes would go to the inner city projects of Chattanooga. Rough. And we go through there and we go through and knock on doors and I came across a lady, her name was Anna Nixon Tate. Sweetest lady, she's a little about that tall, little black lady. At that time, she was in her late 80s, 88, 89. I'm telling you the most godly woman I have ever met in my life. Living in those projects, drugs, prostitution, nastiness, gangs. She wouldn't even have a TV in her room, in her house. I want that ungodly thing. Her neighbor had to go away. You couldn't leave anything in your house if you were going to everybody break in and steal it. I mean there's literally syringes in her front. There wasn't a yard, it was all just dirt. And there'd be syringes from heroin the night before. And so she had this one day went by. I said, Miss Tate, you got a TV. It was turned backwards on screen. face in the wall. She goes, Oh, it's my neighbor sheet to go away. She asked me to watch it, so I don't plug it in, I stick it facing the wall so it can't see me. She always had godly music playing. I called her house the haven of rest. She'd pray for me. She's of course been with the Lord many years now. We became she became dear to me and I believe uh I was dear to her and we'd read and she would quote whole passages of scripture. She would say, she called me Brother Danny. Brother Danny, before you leave I want to quote, and she couldn't see hardly. She said, I want to quote chapter, Psalm chapter 90 or whatever. I mean huge chapters. Get your Bible, let's see if I still remember it And every week she'd quote a huge passage of scripture, verbatim, perfect. I say, meditate, you got it perfectly right. Oh, praise the Lord. What a woman. She knew the Lord Jesus. She's widowed three times. She would tell me when she was a young girl in Alabama she'd pick cotton down there and just tell me back in the early 1900s what life was like for this dear black lady in Alabama. Loved God. I thought of her when I read about This lady here that had uh gigantic portions of scripture memorized. Um She knew much of the Bible by heart. Listen to this. She would repeat long passages from Scripture, like Ms. Tate, made me think of her. But as the years went by, her memory began to fail. And she got where there was only one verse, portion of a verse that she could remember to quote by memory, and it was 2 Timothy 1. 12. It was this, I know whom I have believed and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. As time went by Her memory began to fail more and more until finally she got to the part where all she could remember was this that which I have committed unto him. That which I have committed unto him. And as time went by, her memory began to fail even more and more until just not long before She died. This was all she could quote from the Bible. Him. Him. Him. For this dear lady, like Mrs. Tate, and for any genuine Christian, Christianity is about Jesus. It's knowing Jesus. It's knowing him. Jesus said, I am the bread of light. He that cometh to me Shall never hunger. So our response to the bread of life is we need to come to the Lord Jesus Christ. I only have a few minutes. Let me give you a Last couple thoughts here real quickly. Number two, I want us to notice our reliance upon the bread of life. Again, look at verse 35. Come back there to John chapter 6 if you would. And look with me at verse 35. And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life. He that cometh to me shall never hunger. And he that Look at this word, believeth on me shall never thirst. Look over if you would to verse number 40. And this is the will of him that sent me, Jesus speaking. That everyone which seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life. And I will raise him up at the last day. Anybody notice statement, two statements there, the same? Believeth on him. Believeth on him. Come down if you would to verse number 47. Verily, verily, again, Jesus still speaking, verily, verily, I say unto you, he that Believeth on me, hath everlasting life. Believeth on me, believeth on me, believeth on me. It is God's will. That you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Over and over, 94 times in the book of John, he says, believeth on me, believeth on me, believeth on me. Whosoever believeth on him. For God's world gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth on him believeth. It's God's will. That people believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. It's absolutely necessary for people to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. Now, what does it mean to believe? The word believe here is an interesting word, it's a very important word. It means this: to be fully persuaded of one's credibility. I'm absolutely persuaded that this person is credible, that they are reliable, they're trustworthy. It means to be to have total confidence in. It means to fully trust in, to rely upon. It's far more than just knowing stuff about the person. It is trusting in that person. How many people here recognize the name Tom Sharon? He's in the back. Man, I wanted to use Tom. Tom, can you hear me? He's ushering today. Alright, I'll use I'll use Kenton instead. I know a little bit about Kenton. I love this man. I love his family. It's been a blessing to our church. No a little bit about him. I believe, I believe that Kenton is a credible man. Nobody said amen, I noticed. I believe Kenton's a credible man. I believe he's a trustworthy man. I believe if I asked him to do something, he would no doubt do it. I've got a hundred dollar bill here. I know it. I know it. I've been saving up a long time. Somebody said they're paying that preacher too much. I got I believe I I I I uh I believe that if I that I believe that Kenton could Take this hundred dollar bill, run it down to the bank for me tomorrow, and deposit it in my name. I believe he could do that. I believe he would do that. I really do. I think he's a credible man. I b uh what I know about him, I could trust him, he's trustworthy. I could give him this hundred dollar bill and I believe he would go down and deposit it in my account for me. He wouldn't go out and take his wife out to eat or Anything else like that. He'd use it for what he would do with it what I asked him to. So that's me believing those things about him. But that's not what this verse here means That I believe all these things about him. This is what that verse means. I give it to him and I trust him. To take that down to the bank and put it in my account for me. You see the difference? It's one thing to say, oh yeah, I believe he could, yeah, I believe he would. It's another thing to say, I'm going to trust him to do that for me. That's what the word believed means there. It's not just believe that, oh yeah, I believe Jesus is the Son of God, yeah I believe he died on the cross, I believe that somebody uh calls on him, they'll be saved, Yeah, I believe that uh he's coming back again. I believe he rose from the dead. I believe all those things about him. That's one thing. And we that's necessary. But that's not what Jesus is talking about. He's saying, you've got to actually trust me You've got to actually act upon what you believe is true about me and put your hope, your confidence, your reliance upon me. I know for sure, there is no doubt in my mind, Brother Devin, that when I die I'm going to heaven. I know that Somebody says, Oh, you think you're so good you're going to heaven? No, I think I'm so bad I deserve to go to hell. But Jesus promised me that if I would trust him, that he'd forgive all my sin and he would take me That's what salvation is, believing it. I put my trust, I'm trusting, I'm depending on Jesus to get me to heaven. Not just that he can, not just that he would, but I'm trusting him to actually do that. I have put my eternal destiny in the hands of Jesus Christ. My only hope of heaven. My only hope of having my sins forgiven. My only hope That Jesus is who he claims to be and that he will do what he's promised to do because my trust is in him. I'm here to tell you, Jesus never fails. So you're safe in trusting him. But when he says, believe on me, he's not talking about just know some facts, believe that all these facts about me No, he says, you need to put your faith, your trust, your reliance upon me, depend on me. I will take you to heaven. I will forgive your sin. I will give you eternal life. I will meet your needs. I will direct in your life. I'll change you and make you into the person I created you to be. That's what the word believe means. Y'all are wondering what I'm going to do with that hundred dollar bill, aren't you? See see me afterwards, Brother Kenton. We have to have accurate facts about Jesus to fully trust them, but facts alone are not enough. As I said before, I worry. Sometimes, not just young people, but I worry about folks that know all the facts about Jesus and they're satisfied with that. And it never goes beyond just knowing the facts. I've mentioned several times over the years my best friend is and through high school, Danny Swartley. And we we messed up bad. I mean we lived horrendous lives, just wicked punks God saved me, and I began witnessing my friend Danny. We went separate ways. And I gave him tracks, and I visited a visible just not long before he died in his early 20s. And Denny knew the facts about Jesus Christ, there's no doubt about it. But unless something changed between the last time I saw him and when his heart quit beating, he went out in eternity, unless something changed. As far as I know, he died without Christ. He died knowing about Christ, but he didn't have Jesus. He wasn't trusting. The last time I talked to him, he rejected Christ. He walked me out of the house. No thanks I'm telling you, there are people burning in hell right now that know all about Jesus, but never believed on Jesus. There's people set in bars last night, can quote you, John 3. 16, are lost as anybody in the world. So we have to, our response is to come to Christ. Our reliance is putting our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. It's God's will that every single person trust Christ as their personality. Trust them, put their hope in them. And then last of all, our reception of the bread. He makes a strange statement here, and I wish we had more time. We don't. Makes a strange statement. He says to the Jews there, he says, You've got to eat my flesh. And drink my blood. You know what the Jews said? They said, ew. Not really, it's in the Greek, I think. They said, what are you talking about? Eat your flesh and drink your blood? What is he? Listen, only I'm going to say this in Christian love. Only a numbskull would think that Jesus was talking about eating him literally. It's obvious that Jesus is talking figuratively here. Now I don't want to be unkind, please. I really don't. But the Catholic Church teaches that that little wafer and that gr and that wine that it literally turns to the blood of Christ, it literally turns to the flesh of Christ. uh flesh of Christ when they bless it. That's that's foolishness. Anybody with a thinking mind knows that not literally the blood of Christ, not literally the flesh of Christ. And that is not what Jesus is saying here. He's saying here, eat my flesh and drink my blood. He's saying you've got to, just like when you eat that bread, it comes in, it's ingested into your body, it becomes part of your body. It becomes part of who and what I am. He's saying, listen, you come to me, you believe on me, you receive me and trust me, put your faith and trust me, but don't just stop there. Ingest me into your light. In other words, every part of my life is now, Jesus Christ is now a factor of every part of my life. Just as the nutrients from that bread and the nutrients from that grape juice, I take it in my body, it becomes assimilated into my body, becomes a part of me. When I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I need fulfillment and change Him in to become a part of my every life. In other words, Jesus Christ In my home life, in my workplace, in the community, my church, in my personal world, in my mind, in my private world. Jesus Christ is now part of all of that. Eat his flesh, drink his blood, take them in. He becomes every part of us. Here's the danger I see is people do this that will categorize Jesus Christ. We'll categorize, we'll compartmentalize our relationship with God in church and church stuff. That's where my relationship with Jesus Christ is. But at work, it's a whole different story. Saturday nights it's a whole different thing. Uh you know, my my hobbies and whatnot, that's a whole different thing. No, no, no. Jesus says, eat me, drink me, take it all in, and I'll be a part of all of that. And every area of my life ought to be influenced, and Jesus Christ ought to be a factor in every area of my life. Am I making sense? So one, you've got to come to Christ. Two, you've got to trust Him. Put your faith and trust in him personally, in the person Jesus Christ. He is alive, he is alive, and he is real, is here, is present here right now, just as real if he was standing on that platform physically. He's not here physically, he's spiritually. He knows everything I'm saying. He sees us. He is here. He hears me talking. Now, what we needed to do is put our trust in him, put our hope, our desk, confidence in him that he would save us and forgive us, and then take him into our life. Make him a factor in every part of my life. If any man be in Christ, and it's interesting, we don't but you go through the Bible, it talks about me in Christ, Christ in you, the hope of glory, being in Christ. I believe that's what he's talking about. Any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are be are passed away. All things are become new. He's a factor in every part of my life. I'm being changed. I'm being changed. So Jesus said, I am the bread of life. I am the bread of life. Azrain, I I am with this. I'm closing everything up. See this? I'm closing everything. I've got seventeen illustrations yet, but for some reason lately I've been reading about Mount Everest. I think I think uh Akeem Devkoda got me going on that. He's from Nepal and they were here we got talking. But apparently several years ago there was a bunch of people killed on Mount Everest. There was one fellow, uh I have his name up there, but I closed my book. Um so I can't remember his name But he got caught up on Mount Everest. A storm moved in and he got caught and he ended up staying up on top of Mount Everest longer than he was supposed to be. And I guess it was after the deadline when you gotta start coming down or you won't make it. And he stayed too long. Apparently he knew better than that. And he came down and he ran out of oxygen. Well what they do is they stash oxygen along the trail, apparently on different ways up there. And as he was making his way down, he was getting disoriented, his oxygen was running down and he wasn't clear and he's getting weaker and finally they were talking to the radio and they kept saying, listen, there's a stash of oxygen up there. Find it. So he made his way and he found it. And he radioed back and he said, they're all empty. Every one of the oxygen tanks are empty. They don't do me any good. And there was another fellow who just came down. He says, I know they're full. I just left them there. I replaced them out. They're full. And they said, they say they're going to go, no, listen, I've got them in my hands. They're empty. There's four or five of them there. Oxygen tanks. And he died that night, laying beside oxygen tanks that he was convinced were empty, but they were actually full. He had more than enough oxygen to make it down alive. But he didn't believe. He didn't believe they were full. Here's the tragedy. All around us are people who are dying in their sins. And they have a Savior that's readily available. They just come to Him and believe in Him and He'll forgive Him and He'll save them. But they don't believe. And what is sadder than dying in your sins and ending up in hell when you had a Savior right there for you? And you died without him. I hope I don't misunderstand, but I'm afraid that happens in our churches. I'm not trying to get a saved person lost. We have people that have every week have an opportunity to trust Christ as Savior. We're giving out gospel tracts. We have people every week, ever on a daily basis, people are getting gospel tracts that will say that message can save them from sin and hell, point them to Christ. They don't have to go on in their sins, but they don't believe it. I thought this week these gospel tracts, that is the exact same message in these little gospel tracts we're giving out, is the exact same message that Paul believed and that saved Paul's soul from sin and hell. Isn't that an amazing thing? Exact same thing we're giving out. So what's the what's the invitation This is the invitation. One, if you're here this morning, hearing the sound of my voice, and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you're going to heaven. Jesus Christ can and will save you if you will just put your trust in him. If you're here this morning and you're grabbing for all the stuff in the world, and maybe it's not even bad stuff in and of itself, but you're trying to fill that emptiness in your heart and soul, and you look in the mirror at night before you go to bed You look in the mirror in the morning and you see a person who has an empty heart. You see a person who has a vacuum in their soul and there's restlessness and there's frustration there. I'm here to tell you Jesus is the bread of life that will fill that. Meet that need and bring peace to that heart and soul. And if you're here this morning and you've trusted Christ as Savior, that's already settled, young people, older folks. I want to say to you, drink him. Drink his blood. Eat his flesh. Bring him into your life. Make him a part of every area of life. And bring peace and fulfillment and joy into every aspect of your life. And when we do that, you know what happens? God starts changing us. You know what happens when I eat a lot of bread? I gain weight. You know what happens when we bring Jesus into our life? Our life is changed. It's changed. And we become what God wants us to be. Father in heaven, I ask Lord that you would use this simple little thought and my feeble attempts to explain it. That your Holy Spirit would challenge us and help us. One, to know you as our own personal Savior and have uh that settled and and have a personal daily living relationship with you. But then Lord help us to incorporate you into every area of our life. And so that work, at home, at play, people would see Christ in us, the hope of glory. People would take note that be we'd been with Jesus and that you would be evident in our lives. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many people would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved, there's no doubt about it, I know I've trusted, I have a relationship.