Chapter four. Uh once you get there, we're going to read verse twelve together in unison, and uh while you're finding your place I'm going to read, I think this is a true story. It has to be true. It was in Reader's Digest. So it must be true But uh I I believe this is an actual event and it kind of ties in with our message this morning. But back in the nineteen sixties, of course, where the uh was the time of the hippies and all of that, particularly out west And uh outside of San Francisco, there's a place called the Hyatt Ashbury District. Um that's where the hippies really congregated together. Um And as time went by, well, I'll just read it to you. Speaking of the hippies, it says they had children and got married, also, some of them, though in no particular sequence. Uh but they didn't name their children Melissa or Bob or Brett, names common to us. People in the mountains around Santa Cruz um grew accustomed to their children playing frisbees with a neighbor kid named Time Warp or Spring Fever. Eventually Moonbeam, Earth Love, and Precious Promises all ended up in the public schools. So in other words, they named their kids really strange names. The hippies did. That's when the kindergarten teachers first met Fruit Stand. I think it's a true story. Every fall, according to tradition, parents bravely applied the name tags to their children, kissed them goodbye, and sent them off on the school bus. So it was for fruit stand. The teachers thought the boy's name was odd, but they tried to make the best of it. Would you like to play with the blocks, Fruit Stand? They offered. And later, Fruit Stand, how about a snack? He accepted hesitantly, and by the end of the day, his name didn't seem much odder than Heather or Sunrays. At dismissal time, the teachers led the children out to the buses. Fruit Stam, do you know which bus is yours? He didn't answer. Uh that was that wasn't strange. He hadn't answered them all day long. Lots of children are shy on the first day of school, so it didn't matter. The teachers had instructed the parents to write the names of their children's bus stop on the to write the names of their children's bus stop on the reverse side of their name tags. The teacher turned over the tag to find out which bus Fruit Stan drove and neatly printed there was the word Anthony. So um Names are important. Now personally I thought it was a whole lot funnier than what you laughed at, but In Acts chapter 4 and verse 12, we have reference to a name. I'd like for us to read this verse together in unison. Would you read it with me? Verse 12. Ready? Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. I titled the message. The only name that saves. The only name that saves. Let's pray together and ask God to bless. Father, we are grateful for the Word of God and uh the impact it has had on many of our lives. I pray as we look into this portion of Scripture that um you would again speak to our hearts. I pray, Holy Spirit, that you would fill me I yield my body and my surrender my will to you. Pray that you would speak through me. And God would pray we would leave your understanding a little bit more. the importance and the power of the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Please bless, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. I feel like I'm just a little bit strong back there, Brother Sam. Peter and Paul, in the New Testament, Peter and Paul stand out. Once you get to the book of Acts, boy, these two guys were just something. And one thing I noticed about the Apostle Peter and the Apostle Paul was this. They were masters at taking whatever situation they found themselves in and turning that into an opportunity. to share the gospel or preach Christ in one way or another. You go through the experiences of Paul in the book of Acts. Peter the same thing, particularly earlier on. Whatever situation they in, whatever circumstances came upon them, they were able to take that and somehow Turn that thing around and be able to preach Christ, whether it's standing before the Sanhedrin or if it's in a a prison in Rome. or on a ship in the middle of a storm, they were able to take their opportunities. And by the way, that's a great thing for you and I as Christians to work on. Is try and take the opportunities that are around us. Number of years ago, I quit asking God to give me opportunities to witness. I said, Lord, I'm not asking for opportunities to witness. You know why? Because they're all around My problem wasn't having opportunities to share the gospel with people. My problem was taking advantage of the opportunities all around me to share the gospel. And these two fellows, as I said We're just uh masters at that. We see that here in this passage. Now, the background of verse number twelve in Acts chapter four I think we need to understand that to get to the significance of this verse here. You really have to go all the way back to chapter 3. When Peter and and uh John are going up to the temple at the time of prayer, and uh they're approached, uh they're approached by a lame man. He was along the side there, he's begging, and uh without getting into details, they end up healing uh this layman. I like what Peter said. He said, Silver and gold have I none Well, I can w can I get a witness there on that? Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have, I give it to thee. The name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. So this guy's healed miraculously And uh he's getting up and he's jumping around and he's all excited, as you can imagine, and that attracts a crowd And in verses 9 through 11 of chapter 3, a big crowd comes around to see what all this commotion is, and they had known about this beggar here for years he'd been there. Now he's running around and and shouting and praising God. So this crowd gets around. And what do you think Peter did when a crowd gathers around? He's a good Baptist. He starts preaching to him. Although there's no record of him taking an offering, so he might not have been a Baptist, but um I'm kidding. So he starts preaching to him. And in verses 12 through 26 Peter preaches a powerful message to this huge crowd of people on the steps of the temple that have gotten together to see what the deal is with this lame man up and walking around. You get to chapter 4, the first part of chapter 4, and the authorities show up. The religious authorities. Now, the Jews in this time period had a unique Agreement with the Roman government. They had the Pharisees and the Sadducees, they had authority from the government to apprehend people and incarcerate them. Now if they wanted to execute somebody, they had to get uh the okay from the government to execute someone But they could, of their own accord, apprehend people and um and uh detain them, imprison them, and they'd have their own little court system. So the Pharisees, the religious authorities, they hear this commotion going on. Outside the temple. They come flying out there, and uh they confront Peter about what this is all about, and they imprison him. They hold him. Peter and John, both of them, and they begin to interrogate them. So they're asking Peter, what is this all about? Peter, being a master at taking the situations he finds himself in and turning them into opportunities to share Christ, he immediately begins preaching to them. And when we get to verses 8 through 12 in Acts chapter 4, what James just read a few moments ago, we have this little sermon. That Peter is preaching to these religious authorities, who have tremendous authority, by the way. They're interrogating him. And he preaches this sermon to them. Now, his sermon here, it's just a few verses long. It's not a very long one, and uh not one that I would be accustomed to, but um uh it's not a very long sermon, but it consists He makes basically three statements in this brief sermon. The first statement he makes is this: this impotent man, this man that was unable to walk, Has been healed not by Peter's power or John's power, but by the power of God. The Lord Jesus Christ is what made this man well. By the way, Peter consistently, as did the other apostles, consistently gave glory to God for good things that happened under their ministry. And that's exactly what he's doing. He said, listen, it wasn't our power, it wasn't us. It was the name of the power of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ made this man well. Let me stop and say just a word to us uh that are involved in serving God, whether it be in Sunday school or whatever capacity you have. Listen, if something good, if a soul is saved or a life is changed or somebody has helped, we need to remember to give the glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one that saves souls. He is the one that heals marriages. He is the one that changes lives. He is the one that makes drunkards sober. He is the one that changes people's lives for the glory of God. It's not us, it's not our skill, it's not our techniques, it's not our clever schemes, it is God that saves souls And so Peter's first statement here is: this man is made well by the power of God. The Lord Jesus Christ did this. His second statement is, by the way, he's saying to them. This Jesus that made this man well is the same Jesus that you guys crucified And God raised him from the dead. He said, and you can read down through there. James read a few moments ago. He said, this same Jesus that you crucified, you put him to death. But God raised him from the dead. Now let me just stop there for a moment. This message that Jesus is risen from the dead and is alive. is a central theme through the preaching of the New Testament. Go through the book of Acts. Almost every one of their sermons or their uh conversations with people, every one of them, almost without exception Dealt with the fact that Jesus Christ rose from the dead and is alive. Jesus Christ rose from the dead and is alive. And I just want to remind every folks, it's not Easter, but I'm going to remind everyone, Jesus Christ is alive. He's risen from the dead. There's no doubt about that. Uh in fact that's why we worship on Sundays. It's the Lord's Day. God changed that to the day that Jesus rose from the dead. And so we do serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today. And uh so his second statement is, you guys crucified Jesus, but wait a minute, he's not dead He came back from the life. By the way, Jesus is the only founder of a religion that rose from the dead Muhammad is dead, Buddha's dead, uh Joseph Smith is dead, you go down through the list, they're all dead, except Jesus Christ. He rose from the dead. So you have this message. So the first statement he makes, we didn't make uh the Pharisees say, all right, you guys tell us what happens here. How'd this guy, this lame guy, up run around leaping and praising and singing what happened here? Tell us what happened. Peter said, listen, it wasn't us, we didn't do it By the power of Jesus Christ that this man's made well. By the way, that's the same Jesus that you guys crucified not long ago. Don't worry, he's not dead. God raised him from the dead. So that's the first two statements, then he comes to the he makes a third statement. And that's where verse twelve comes in God raised them from the dead, and then he points out to them that it is only through Jesus Christ That a person can be saved from their sins and saved from the judgment of God upon their sins. It's only through Jesus Christ. That statement is what makes verse number twelve so significant, so important. For there is none other name under heaven, given among men, whereby we must be saved That was the message that Peter was getting across to these guys and to the crowd, and it's really the message through all of Scripture, that Jesus is the only way that a person can escape hell, escape the judgment of God for our sins, and be forgiven and have a home in heaven. None other than that's the message. Now don't misunderstand. All of the Bible is important. Verse number 11 of Acts chapter 4, verse 12 is important. Verse number 13 of Acts chapter 4 is important. But verse number Fourteen. Right? Is that the right verse? Verse number twelve. You guys got me mixed up there. Verse number 12, though all the other verses, and by the way, as we're studying in Sunday school, from Genesis chapter 1 and verse 1 to Revelation chapter 22, it's all the word of God. It's all absolutely true. Exactly as God says. And so, but this verse, number twelve is states very succinctly the message of the gospel. And so that's why I want to stop this morning and uh zero in on this verse. So let's break it down a little bit. The first thing I want us to notice in verse number twelve of Acts chapter four. is the authority of salvation. The authority of salvation. Sam, I feel a little weak now on the sound, so By the end of the message, we'll get it just right. There you go. Thank you, Sam. Good guy. We're glad Sam's feeling better. Amen. Feeling a little better. Praise the Lord. The authority of salvation. Look at your Bibles there. Look at verse 12. Look what he says. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. When he references that word name, he says there's none other name. What name is he talking about? Jesus Christ, obviously. Now, when he says there's none other name under heaven, he's not referring to the name Jesus Christ simply as an identification. It's not simply just the sound that's made when you reference this person You follow what I'm saying? Uh I was reading an article this past week, um, uh, you know, September eleventh just a few weeks ago, month ago and uh they were telling different stories that took place on September eleventh in the Towers and a lot of them that really didn't get much uh publicity or whatnot And one of them, apparently there was a fella just before the towers had collapsed that somebody had gotten out. And he said he was running around, apparently he was some sort of Christian, and he was running from office to office, looked bad, trying to anybody he could And he was telling them to do this. Say the name of Jesus. Just say the name of Jesus. Just say the name of Jesus. Now, as sincere and as concerned as he no doubt was, simply saying that name Has no significance. You follow what I'm saying? There's not some magical power in that pronunciation of that name And as I said, as sincere as that man was, I believe he was misguided in simply having people just say that name. It's not some sort of potion. That you say that name and suddenly everything's made well. When Peter, preaching to the Pharisees, said, There's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved He wasn't suggesting what this guy was. What he was saying was that authority Of the one named Jesus is where our salvation is. In other words, Jesus Christ is the only one who has authority to forgive our sins. You got that? Jesus Christ is the only one who can pardon us or exempt us From the judgment of God for our sins. Now, I think it goes without saying. It's obvious. We are all sinners. Very seldom, when I'm out witnessing or and talking to people about the Lord Jesus Christ, very seldom do I need to go into depth to convince somebody that they're a sinner. It's pretty obvious. Amen? You get a witness? How many pe how many people would admit your spouse is obviously a sinner? Yeah, amen. It's a whole lot easier to do it that way. Um So we we are sinners. We've all come short of God's glory. We've broken God's law. How many folks here in your lifetime have you ever told a lie? Now come on, don't lie about it. Hi folks here, have ever told a lie. Sure. Uh I see some folks lying right now. Um Sure, and we've told multiple lies. Can I get a witness? And we've told lies our whole lifetime. You know, just telling one breaks God's law and makes us a sinner. And then you put the other Ten Commandments in. Then you put Jesus' standard in, where even looking after a person to lust after them, even just hating someone in your heart is as just as guilty as murder, just as condemned, I should say, as murder. And so the issue isn't whether we're sinners or not. The issue is, how do I escape God's judgment on my sin? How do I escape the consequences of me sinning against the Holy God? And Peter is saying here in Acts chapter 4, verse 12, he's saying this. There is only one person that has the authority to forgive your sin. There's only one name. It's only one person that goes by this name that is able to exempt you From a holy God's judgment on your sin. So, what does that mean? That means if I am looking to my church To forgive my sin, I'm not going to get my sins forgiven. The church, any church I don't care how big it is, I don't care how small it is, I don't care how rich it is, I don't care how poor it is, doesn't matter how popular it is, doesn't matter Our unpopulist There is not one church in existence, never has been, never will be, that is able to forgive a person's sins Mark it down. You say, oh, but my church claims if you do this, that, and the other, you can be forgiven, you can have your sins uh expelled. Uh that is not true. There's only one being in existence that has the authority to forgive sin, to uh exempt a person from the judgment of God, and that is Jesus Christ. He's the only one that has the door. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save a soul from hell. Can't do it Uh, Dennis Lesnar can't save a soul from hell. Uh by the way, the baptism waters do not take away sin. Um The Pope can't take away sin. Uh there is none other name. Under heaven, given among men, whereby we must be saved. There's only one that has authority, that's the Lord Jesus Christ. By the way. You and I do not have the authority to forgive us of our sins. Come on now I can uh I meet people uh fairly often. Do you know for sure if you die right now you go to heaven? Oh yeah, I think I would. Really? How do you know? What g what makes you so confident that when you die your sins are forgiven when you want to go to heaven? Well, I just believe I am. I just think I am. You know when I found out just thinking something is so doesn't make it so What if I went down to the bank, they said I I'd say I'd like to make a withdrawal. Uh okay, how much money do you have in there? I think it's like four million dollars. Oh, okay. Doesn't work that way, does it? It's amazing how mankind can come up with ideas about the spiritual world That do not work in any other way. What's five times seven? Well, I think it's fourteen. That doesn't make it 14. And just because a person, well, I think God would let me in. Well, I don't think. I mean, I'm a good person. God wouldn't send me to hell. Just because we think something is so doesn't make it so. I don't have the authority to determine whether I go to heaven or hell or not. Jesus Christ is the only one with that authority. You follow? There is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Not the name of a church, not the name of an individual. They do not have the authority. Take your Bibles with me, if you would, real quickly, and turn to the last book of the New Testament. Revelation, chapter number one. Now, Revelation is a fascinating book. It's really not as complicated as a lot of people make it. Just read it carefully, pay attention, cross-reference what's being said. you can uh get a good idea of what Revelation is teaching. But in the first chapter of Revelation, we have Jesus is speaking to the Apostle John, the penman of the book. And Jesus is introducing to John what he's about to tell him and have him record in the book of Revelation. And look with me, if you would, at verse number 8. This is Jesus speaking. He says, I am Alpha and Omega. Question, what is Alpha and Omega? That's the first letter of the Greek alphabet and the last letter of the Greek alphabet. It would be like you saying, well, what all are we taking? We're taking everything. A to Z, we're taking all of it. You follow what I'm saying? It's the whole shebang. I have no idea what a shebang is. But he's saying I am the Alpha and Omega. Then he goes on and explains, I am the beginning and the ending. Look at this. I am the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, which was, which is to come, the Almighty. Verse and And uh come down here, he says, and have the keys of death. Oh, verse 18. I'm sorry, I broke down verse 8. What I want is verse 18. Come over there, chapter one, verse eighteen. I am he that liveth and was dead. And behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. Now look at this. And have the keys of hell and death. Now, what does he mean when Jesus says, I have the keys? To hell and death. What he's saying is, what I've been trying to explain here is Jesus Christ has the authority To forgive someone and keep them and enable them to avoid going to hell. He has the keys. And uh listen, there's not a person in their right mind that wants to go to hell. If a person understands the reality of hell and what all hell entails, and Jesus went to great depth in great detail. Talking about hell. And a person who dies in their sins and ends up in hell. Nobody in their right mind that has even the slightest understanding what hell is, nobody in their right mind wants to go there. And Jesus is saying, I have the authority to save you from hell. I have the authority to give to you a pardon, so to speak, from hell. So the name of Jesus speaks about his authority. Jesus' sinless life, his substitutionary death. His supernatural resurrection from the dead gives him authority to save people from their sin and from going to hell. So the first thing I notice here in act in Acts chapter 4, verse 12, neither is there salvation any other. There's none under name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. I notice the authority of salvation. It rests solely in the Lord Jesus Christ. So if I want to be saved from hell, if somebody wants to be saved from hell, they've got to go through Jesus Christ. You follow? He's the one who has the authority. Let's look at second thought here. Number two, notice the singularity. Of salvation. Notice again what it says. Neither is there salvation in any other. For there is none other name Under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. That phrase, none other, means no other one Without exceptions, there is no one else that has the authority, that has the ability to save a person from sin and hell. Nobody else Our Lord, in this matter of the salvation of a soul, our Lord is intolerant. He says there's no other way. I was when I was my first year at Bible College, I went to Philadelphia College of Bible one year back in nineteen eighty. The fall of 1980, spring of eighty one, uh I went to uh Bible college. I lived at home, we drove, it's about forty-five-minute drive down. And uh it was summertime, my first year at Bible college, and I was only saved a little over uh about two years maybe at that point, year and a half, two years at that point. And uh I was home and I was in the back, I lived with my dad, and there was an alleyway in the back. And I was washing my car. And this fellow came walking up, and uh I I was wanting to witness. I was You know, just new Bible college students fired up. And so I gave the guy a gospel tract, invited him to church, got talking to him, and I asked him, you know, are you saved? Or do you know you're going to heaven someday? And he made this statement to me And by the way, he was a Jewish fellow after we talked to him, but he made this statement. I said, are you going to heaven when you die? Do you you have that settled and not going to hell? This is what he said. He said, young man, going to heaven is like going downtown Philadelphia. I said, what do you mean He said you can go down 309. You can go down the Pennsylvania Northeast extension of the Pennsylvania Turnpike You can take and he must have listed seven or eight different routes that you can get to go to downtown Philadelphia And he said that's what going to heaven is like. You have the Baptist route, you have the Catholic route, you have the Buddhist route, you have the Muslim route, you have and he listed all these different religions, and we're all going Uh we're all going to the same place. We're just tak taking different routes. I said, you know, that sounds fine and good. And to some degree, I wish you were right. But there's a problem. My Bible says there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. There's no other way. Jesus said in John chapter 14, verse 6, I am the way, the truth, the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. There is only one way for a person to have their sins forgiven and go to heaven when they die. It is through Jesus Christ. There aren't two ways. There are not five ways. There's not fifteen ways. There's only one way for a person to have their sins forgiven and go to heaven when they die. It is through trusting Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. No other way. Somebody says, Well, what about the heathen in dark jungles that never heard the gospel? They would surely go to heaven. And that's a whole nother message. I'll be glad to talk to you about sometimes. But Jesus says there's no other way other than trusting him. Now here's the thing. We live in a world and a society that puts a lot of pressure on us. Would you agree with that statement right there? But we live in a society that puts a lot of pressure on us to compromise the message of the gospel and say, well, there's many different ways to heaven. As I said, the problem with that is that is unscriptural. And we can do a two-year series on passages of scripture telling us that the way of salvation is very narrow. That the way of salvation is very exclusive. That the way of salvation is very intolerant. There is one way and one way only, and that is through the Lord Jesus Christ. By the way, that's what makes missions so important. Getting that one way out to be. You know what? That's what makes stuff like yesterday going down to the parade, giving out gospel tracts. That's what makes that so important. He said, Oh, people laughing and people make fun of you. Uh that's true. But uh and actually they didn't yesterday very much. We had a great time, a bunch of us. It was fun. But sometimes that happens. But here's the thing: either I give in to the pressure of the world and just say, well, whatever goes, or I'm faithful to the Word of God. The Word of God says there's no other name under heaven, given among men, whereby we must be saved. The singularity of salvation Uh John fourteen six, I am the way, the truth and light. No man cometh unto Father but by me. John chapter three and verse eighteen. John chapter three and verse thirty-six says that without believing in Jesus a person is condemned already. 1 Timothy 2. 5, for there's one God and one mediator between God and men. the man Christ Jesus. John, 1 John chapter 5 and verse 12. He that hath the Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. So it's very exclusive. It's very, very exclusive. Jesus and Jesus only saves from the judgment of sin. Jesus and Jesus only saves a person from hell and the lake of fire. That one statement separates Christianity from all other religions. Jesus and Jesus alone saves from sin in hell. Years ago, a number of years ago, I don't know what prompted this. We were doing something uh uh uh we had put an ad in the paper. uh about different religions and some cults and um the whole idea was the question was what church saves And we pointed out that different religions claim that you must be a part of their church to be saved Uh Seventh day Adventist, the church uh the uh Mormon church, the uh Jehovah's Witness, Catholic Church claim that they're all true church, salvation is in the church. And so we had these quotes from their doctrinal statements, irrefutable. And then we went on and pointed out that not only do these churches not save, neither does the Baptist Church save. Baptist Church can't save someone from sin and hell any more than any other church can. Well this rubbed some people the wrong way. It's hard for me to imagine that anything I would say or do would rub somebody the wrong way. I just find it hard to believe, but it did. And so it prompted some reaction. And I got a letter from a uh a lady, a woman, I should say, and uh just blasting me in our church. I mean it was like two, three pages long, handwritten, single spray. Uh and she says this, Wha who do you think you are that only your church is the only one that saves? Your church is the only uh church that you have to be a Baptist to be saved and you have to be a Baptist to go to heaven and there's only going to be Baptists, and she was just blasting us on all of this And my first reaction was, this woman's nuts. And so somehow, I don't remember how, but I knew who her pastor was. And so I thought I called him up. I said, Can I meet with you for a moment? He said, Sure, come on over. And so I went over to his church and Uh invited me in very nice and uh and uh he's not the pastor there now, but uh sat down and and I said, listen, I said um I just got a letter in the mail from one of your church members And I said, if one of my church members had written this letter to another church, I would want to know about it. And so I gave it to her. I said, here, read this, tell me what you think. And he read the letter that she wrote that we're the only ones that can be saved, and Baptists the only ones going to heaven, and we're idiots for believing that. And he said, he said, our church doesn't believe what this letter says. He says, we don't believe that Baptists are the only uh that our church is the only one going to heaven. And he says, uh there's a lot of different folks. Uh uh church has nothing to do The church can't save a person's soul. And I said, I believed you believed that, but I wanted you to understand what she's accusing of is not what we teach and preach. We do not believe that Baptists are the only ones going to heaven. I kind of feel once they get there things will change. But um uh But uh you follow what I'm saying? Salvation is only through the Lord Jesus Christ. Anyone that gets to heaven, they're not going to say there, I'm here because I was Baptist. They say, I'm here because Jesus saved me. Nobody's going to be in heaven and say, I'm here because I was a good Hindu. It's not going to work. I'm here because I was good in this religion or I was that religion. No, there's not five different ways to heaven. There's one way to heaven. And that's through the Lord Jesus Christ. And let's make sure that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church declares clearly and continually that Jesus is the only way to heaven. In our Sunday school classes, on our bus routes, in our soul-winning, it is Jesus and Jesus alone that saves people's souls So we have the authority, Jesus, the singularity of salvation, Jesus, and then he touches on the necessity of salvation. Look again at this verse with me if you would. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men. Now he uses a word here that caught my attention. Whereby we, next word, must be saved. That tells me the absolute necessity of salvation In fact, I looked that word must up, and it means just that to be absolutely necessary. Um, Jesus in John chapter 3 A fellow came to Jesus at night. Many of you are familiar with the story, Nicodemus. And he came of the evening time after dark and He said he complimented Jesus. He said, You're good obviously of God, and no man can do the things you do except God be with him. You're a great teacher. And Jesus said, Nicodemus He said to him, He said, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of heaven. And Nicodemus said something to the effect: uh, how can a man be born when he's old? And Jesus said this, verily, verily, ah, remember we just preached on that not long ago. Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must be born again. Very born. Jesus was telling Nicodemus, who was a very religious man, a good man by all human standards. There's no record that he was a drunkard. There's no record that he was a thief or extorted money from his business. There's no record that he was a wife beater or or a uh a rapist. There's no record that uh he had foul mouth and and filthy language. By the way, is it just me or is all has our language gone down the sewer in our country? Good night There's no record that Nicodemus was that way. He was a religious man. He was a moral man. He was an honest man. He was a good citizen. A good church member. You know what Jesus' response to him was? You must be born again. Your goodness is not going to get you to heaven. Your morality and your honesty and your integrity, as important as those things are, they will not get you to heaven. There is a necessity of being saved, of being born again. What happens if a person is never saved? What happened if a person grows up, whether it's in a church or in some foreign land where there are no churches? What happens if that person grows through their teen years, young adult, married, has kids, middle-aged, senior citizen, grandkids, and they die? And they never accept Jesus as their Savior. What happens to that person? According to the Bible, they die and go to hell. They are separated from God for all eternity. Ultimately in the lake of fire. No escape, no hope, nothing. But lost for all eternity. Now you tell me what's the necessity for every person? That they be saved. That they be saved. Gave out a little gospel tract yesterday to folks. It attracted a lot of attention. It said, advice of a rich man. We have them on the track rack back there. It has money all over it. Well we pulled that one out. There'd be a group of people I'd say, all right, who wants some advice from a rich man? Ooh. Everybody wanted that. You know what that tract says? It tells about a rich man who died without getting saved, burning in hell this day. You know what his advice is? Get saved. What's the profit of man if he gains the whole world? He loses his own soul. Oh, you live in a nice house for 55 years and dying go to hell forever Salvation is an absolute necessity. Listen, if you don't ever do anything else in life, there's one thing every person ought to make sure they do, and that is this: get saved. Get that matter settled. I would never in a I would never In a thousand years, would I ever want to put genu I would never want to put doubts in a person who is genuinely saved. I would never want to put doubts in someone's mind who is genuinely saved. But I would say this, if there are doubts about your salvation, You are crazy if you don't settle that. You are nuts If you don't have an absolute certainty settled in your heart and mind from the Word of God that God has forgiven your sins and saved you from hell, if there are any doubts about that at all You must settle that. It's too risky. Too risky. I can't imagine being on my deathbed and knowing I'm about to go out of eternity. And be thinking this I hope I'm saved. I want to know. I want to know that God has forgiven me. I don't want to go through that door of death hoping. That I end up in heaven and not in hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me, that my sin debt is settled, that things are right with God, and when I go through that door, I'm accepted of the Lord for eternity in heaven. Salvation is an absolute necessity. You must be born again, whereby we must be saved. Let me say this: not only is a person crazy for not getting saved, by refusing to get saved, they are disobeying the command of God. Ye must be born again. Sometimes we present this idea of salvation as, well, you know, you can take it or leave it, and we do have a free will. We can choose to accept it or reject it. But if I reject it I'm disobeying God. For God has commanded all men everywhere to repent. So a person says, Well, I know, I understand the gospel, yeah, I need to be saved, but I'm just not going to trust Christ right now. They are disobeying the clear command of God, they're adding sin to their sin. The necessity of salvation, then last of all, the simplicity of salvation. Come back to verse 4 of chapter 4. Say, alright, you convince me, praise her, Jesus is the only way to be saved, and it's vitally important. Now, how do I do it? How do I get saved? Look at verse 4. Howbeit, many of them which heard the word, what's that next word? Believed. There it is. By my count, 86 times the word believe is used in the Gospel of John when referring to Jesus Christ and salvation. What must I do to be saved? Believe, believe, believe, believe, believe, believe. What must I do to be saved? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou Cow be safe Salvation is not in my works, it's not in my moral standing, it is only in believing in Jesus Christ. Now here's the problem. A lot of people believe in the facts about Christ. They believe he existed, they believe he lived, they believe he died and rose again. But they're not believing. In him. Follow what I'm saying? What does he mean here? He says they bel they heard the word and they believed. It doesn't simply mean they say, oh yeah, I think that's true. What he's saying is true. What it's talking about is depending upon, relying upon, depending on. They have put their confidence In Jesus Christ. They have put their hope, their dependence on the Lord Jesus Christ. I am trusting, depending upon, relying on Jesus Christ. To have forgiven my sin and that when I die, he takes me to heaven. I'm not trusting in myself, I'm not trusting in my own goodness. In fact, the more I grow in my Christian faith, the more disgusted I become with myself. Can I y'all look at me so pious, like Fact is, I have nothing in my nothing to offer God that makes me acceptable, but my trust in Jesus. Now here's the thing. If I'm depending on Jesus to get me to heaven, I can know I'm going to heaven because Jesus never fails. He has the authority, he has the ability, and he is more than willing, he is eager. To save me from hell and take me to heaven. And the moment I say, Jesus, I'm going to depend on you to forgive me and take me to heaven, I can know I'm going to heaven. Because he's trustworthy. You can trust him. You can trust him. Jesus is the only hope of salvation from sin's judgment. Two things for us here this morning. One is for me to make sure that we've been saved. I can't emphasize that enough We've got to have that matter settled. You have got to know in your heart, based on the Word of God, that Jesus Christ has forgiven you and saved you from sin and hell. You've got to know that. That has to be settled. And we're not talking about joining the church or anything like that. We're talking about between you and Jesus Christ, knowing that you've trusted him and he has forgiven you and saved you from sin and hell. Settled! Second thing is, those of us who have that settled, we've got to let everybody else know about that. That is our great commission. To go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That means every alleyway, streetway in Oakland, Garrett County, Tucker County, uh uh uh Preston County um spreading out through this part of the world, around the world. We can't all go into other countries, but we ought to do everything we can to get the gospel over there somehow. That's our responsibility. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would help us. To have this matter settled, and Lord, help us to be motivated and give us boldness in sharing the message of Christ with others.