Sorry. Genesis chapter four. We're going to start reading in verse number one. And Adam knew Eve, his wife, and she conceived and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the Lord. And she again bare his brother Abel, and Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. And in process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord, and Abel he also brought of the firstlings of his flock, and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering, but unto Cain and to his offering he had no respect, had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. And the Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? And why is thy countenance fallen? If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted, and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door, and unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him And Cain talked with Abel his brother, and it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and slew him. The Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not, am I my brother's keeper? And he said, Why uh what hast thou done? The voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground. And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand. When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength A fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth. Let's pray and then the message this evening that's just simply titled The Consequence or The Effects of Sin or The Consequence of Sin, however you want to word that, uh, on Cain Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for this day that you've given us, Lord, and we just ask now that you would bless the service tonight. Lord, I ask that you would just complete take complete control over me Lord, and I ask that you would be the preacher tonight and just hide me behind you. Fill me with your spirit, Lord, give me power to say the things that you have laid on my heart. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. So uh Genesis is of course the first book in the Bible, talks about how things got here. In chapter one, we see creation, uh six literal days of creation, six twenty-four-hour periods. And then, of course, the Lord rested on the seventh. In chapter 2, we see a detailed account of how God created man specifically. Verse seven, Lord God formed a man of the dust of the ground, breathing through his nostrils the breath of life, man became a living soul. And chapter two talks a lot about that, Adam and Eve. And then chapter three, of course, we see the fall Uh Eve is tempted and then in turn uh tempts her husband Adam and then they sin and then we see um uh the the effects of sin on their life. Um, I don't and then we get to chapter four here, our story about Cain and Abel, the first murder uh uh recorded here in the Bible. We definitely cannot deny the fact that sin has its effects. Sin has its consequences on mankind, both on the individual level and collectively. When Adam and Eve sinned, of course the effects of their sin was on the entire world and everyone to come after them. Whereas by one man sinned entered the world and and uh death by sin, so death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. All of us have as our sins as a result of Adam's. So the consequences of his sin were definitely great The effects that sin had on the earth itself was catastrophic. The ground was cursed. Weeds and thorns came up and It was now painful labor just to work the ground and painful and agonizing childbearing would now be a normal thing. Death entered into the world as a as one of the effects of sin. Hard labor, hard labor was now the new normal and was um necessary to be done. There was fear, unrest, and of course sin separated man from God. A terrible consequence of sin was the separation of man from God. Fellowship was gone. The perfection in which God had created man, the perfect state in which God had created man, was now gone Yes, sin has definitely taken its toll on man, and of course, as a result of sin, uh mankind deserves to be separated from God forever. Um in a place called hell and in hell there's casting lake of fire. It's not a place uh of comfort for sure. Wailing, gnashing of teeth, burning, fire. It's not a place we want to be, but One of the consequences of sin, the wages of sin, is death. And of course, eternal separation from God. Now I understand that a child of God does not go to hell because we have trusted Christ in our Savior. We have trusted his payment for our sin on the cross where he suffered uh our consequence of sin. Um a lot of times we can get kind of an attitude that we have our fire insurance and because we trusted Christ as our Savior, we're not going to hell. We no longer have the consequences or the effects of sin, can I say we still have effects that come from sin? The only Downside of sin is not just hell. There's bad things that go along with it here on this earth. And um we're going to look at specifically the effects of Cain's sin. But again, just because we have trusted Christ as our Savior, and I hope you have, does not mean that sin will not have its consequences on us. Sin will definitely still take a toll. Because of sin, Jesus had to die on the cross. Because of sin, we fight spiritual battles every day. Because of sin, we can see our bodies decaying. Um because of certain types of sin we can see our bodies getting faster. Sin has its effects on society, world, and of course on the individual. So real quick Uh we're going to look at the story of Cain here and the effects of sin on his in his life. And I'm just going to point out five different things, five different points, I guess you could say, where sin had affected Cain very, very badly. Uh the first thing I want to point out is sin made Cain angry. Cain got very angry because of his sin. And just right off the bat, sin will make you angry. When we sin, we have a tendency to lose our temper as a result of our own sin Sin is not something that goes along with happiness and joy and sunshine and roses. Anger and sin go together. Sin will make you angry. Verse 5 says, Cain was wroth. But unto Cain and to his offering he had no respect, and Cain was very wroth. Verse 6, the Lord said to Cain, why art thou wroth? That word wrath, I looked it up, has the same idea as the word wrath. It means To be very angry or much exasperated. I like that word exasperated. It means extremely angry. And Cain, we see, was extremely angry to the point of murder. Because of his own sin. He didn't get angry to the point of murder because of someone else's, but because of his own. Sin causes you to be angry. Galatians 5:20. Go there with me, please, if you will, and give me a moment to turn there. We see where anger is one of the works of the flesh Verse 19, we'll start there in Galatians 5. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these, and we see some really bad things. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath Strife, sedition, tarryings, enemies, murders, and so on. Wrath is in there with the works of the flesh. A lot of times you think, oh works of the flesh, oh sodomy, drunkenness, adultery, yeah, and wrath Anger is in that list. Wrath is one of the works of the flesh. Can I say it this way? When you're controlled by the flesh, it's more than likely that you'll be angry. Flip that around. You see someone that's angry and loses their temper very easily, it's a safe bet they're controlled by the flesh. And they're acting in the flesh when they lose their temper. And that's exactly what Cain did He was angry because of his sin. He hadn't killed his brother yet. Many times we think of Cain and the sin of Cain, we think about murder. That wasn't the first sin in this story here. The anger as a result of his sin led him to yet another sin: murder. One of the byproducts of the flesh is wrath. If you show me someone who is angry, it's a pretty safe bet they're controlled by the flesh. Like I said, someone who is living a life of open sin and they're just uh and they there's no remorse for it there It's pretty safe bet that they're not all sunshine and roses all the time. A lot of people want to paint the picture of uh of sodomy as just oh they're just so happy. They're just oh they're just in love. No, they're they're not happy They're miserable people if there ever was one. Um sin will not make you happy, rather it makes you angry That's one of the illusions that the devil will give us too is you know if you just you do this or you just do that and you pick pick a sin, whatever, you just do this and you'll be happy. Uh no, you won't be. You'll be angry. Second observation I see here is sin made Cain sad. Sin made Cain sad. Look at verse five. And sin will make you very sad, by the way. And verse 5, but unto Cain and to his offering he had no respect, and Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. His countenance fell. He was sad. The idea here, I get here when I was studying this, is that he was actually depressed. Cain went into a little bit of depression, along with his anger, and by the way, anger and depression often go together. He got into a little bit of depression here. Why? Because he because of his sin. He didn't bring the right sacrifice to start with, and then God even gives him a second chance, but he still sits in his depression. I can almost get the picture here. Picture it with me if you will. Cain sitting there thinking about I'm the older brother and I'm the one that's supposed to be in charge here and how come he takes his sacrifice and not mine? Well mine not any good? Does God not like does God like him better? So the anger sets in along with the anger sets in depression. And um a lot of times we try to spend a lot of time trying to figure out what causes depression. You know, is it this, is it that? Can I tell you most of the time it's because of some sin? Most of the time someone is depressed, it's because of some sin. Maybe it's not theirs, maybe someone else's. But sin causes depression. You say, how can you say that? How can you say that uh some some sin is what causes someone to be depressed? Well, I think about when a kid comes home from school, or a teenager comes home from school and he sees his parents yelling at each other. There's cursing in the house. They tell him he's not worth anything because he's like his father or she's like her mother or something like that. Yeah, that'll make a kid depressed. Make a kid a little bit sad. And how many times do we see someone make a bad decision and because of their bad decision now they have to live with it and their sadness is brought into their life as a result of it Someone say, I wish I wouldn't have made a choice like that. I wish I wouldn't have done that. And now they have to live with this decision they made and it brings in sadness. Spouse might go through depression because of the sin of the other spouse, or because of their own sin, and feelings of guilt and conviction, overwhelming. Depression sets in. I'm not saying that everyone that is depressed is living in sin. Please don't misunderstand me. But If we would learn to get right with God, eventually a lot of depression would go away. And I'm not necessarily preaching against medical advice and things like that, although some of it I think might be a little over top, but Rather than trying to throw a pill at everything as a first result, maybe we should try to seek God as a first result. Maybe we should try to um look at our lives and see what it is we need to get right with God, what sins we might need to forsake. Sin definitely causes we see we see it very clearly here. He said and we see that he is wroth, he's angry. And he's sad. Best thing we can do for both of these is to get right with God. Third thing I see is sin leads to more sinning. James sinned one time and it led to another sin. But like I said, a lot of times when we think about the sin of Cain, we think about the murder. That was not the first sin in the story. Cain brought the wrong sacrifice. He didn't obey God when God gave him a second chance. Then he gets jealous. That's a sin. Jealousy. Then he killed his brother And then he lied to God about it. One sin led to the next. I don't think that Cain was planning for weeks and months here on how to kill his brother, then lie to God about it. I think it was a result. Of the other sins. And then jealousy and anger and all these other things. And it built up. And what seemed like Oh, I'm just going to bring the works of my own hand. God will accept it. You know, I'm just going to do it my way. Led to something very, very serious. Sin oftentimes will lead to more sinning. It's kind of like a bag of potato chips. You can't open up and just eat one bag without being tempted to eat more potato chips. It's real hard to just eat one potato chip If you don't want potato chips, maybe you should just not open the bag of potato chips. And if you don't want to get into a life in a rut of sin and addiction, maybe just don't open the bag. I think it'd be a good idea just to avoid it in the first place. Um sin leads to sin. Just like a bag of potato chips. Um You talk to someone who's trying to quit smoking. And I don't think I've ever I know there's probably some people out there, but I've never actually met someone who's smoking that isn't trying to quit. And I'm like there might be some out there that enjoy it and things like that, but I've never met someone who's smoking that isn't trying to quit. But it started with one smoke. Am I right? Then it leads to packs a day in the life of addiction and things like that. One click on the internet will lead to a lifetime of addiction and a warped mind. One needle leads to a life of drug abuse, and then family issues that go along with that. One drink leads to drunkenness and so on. The bottom line is one sin leads to many others, and we see this very, very clearly. with Cain. I don't think he planned on killing his little brother when he first brought the wrong sacrifice. I don't think I don't think that was on his mind, but that's what it led to. The fourth thing I want to uh just observation here, Cain's sin did not just affect Cain Cain's sin hurts other people. A lot of times we get this misconception that we can sin in a box and no one will know about it. It won't affect anybody. That's just simply not true. We can't sin it in a box when we sin it affects other people. And this is a great example of this If you're watching there, or if you're one of the eight people here, what are some of the immediate things you think of who else was affected by Cain's sin? His parents, that's a big one. Who else? What's it his offspring, his kids? Yeah. What do you say? It be yes, and one of his siblings it was affected in that he died. So we don't just sin in a box Um it affects many people. And what you s what you said really hit on it the most, uh to me personally anyway, when we sin, who does it hurt the most? Mom and Dad. How many parents are just brokenhearted and tore up because a child has fallen into sin I mean, how many families have just spent nights just crying and weeping and praying because of a decision that a family member has made to sin? Sin doesn't you you you cannot just sin and and not and not affect anybody. You can't tell a lie without affecting other people. You can't you you can't cheat with steal or or pick pick a sin. I told someone a little while ago, I'm not necessarily preaching on any one sin tonight. I'm just preaching against all of it. Because all of it is bad, and all of it affects other people. Sin effects of a few uh uh affected his his kids, affected mom and dad, Adam and Eve. I mean, I'm imagining they were pretty tore up, Adam and Eve were pretty tore up over this. We can't send it in a box. Of course, an example I thought of later on in the in the Old Testament was that of Amnon. Remember the story, I won't tell the whole thing. With some bad advice from a friend, raped his sister, his half-sister. Man, the effects of that sin. It was not just on Amnon. Adam man that affected well he ended up getting killed for it. His brother killed him, which caused his brother to live uh a life on the run there and ran off and then caused other friction there and wars really Um poor Tamar, we never hear from her again, I don't think, and she she her whole life was just messed up. David, I'm sure, was brokenhearted. Another child affected by this. And the whole thing is It was not just Amnon that was affected. He broke many people's heart over this one act, this one sin. And we could go through more examples, many examples, both in the Bible and in our world today, where one choice, one decision to sin affects so many other people. This observation is this sin destroyed the rest of Cain's life. Of all the people that sin affected, of course Keen is on the list of the people whose sin he affected uh was was affected by. It completely changed everything. Look at verse uh 11. It says, and now art thou cursed from the earth. Which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand. When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength. He's not going to be able to have successful crops anymore. That that's a serious negative side effect of sin. A fugitive and a vagabond shall be, he's gonna be moving the rest of his life. And he's worried about other people wanting to kill him. So now he's living a life of worry, life of fear, a life on the move, and he can't even bring forth anything out of the ground. Yeah, sin sin will destroy your life. And it's so easy to look at that moment of fun, moment of pleasure in sin, and get so wrapped up in that short little moment and not think about the rest of our life. One sin can ruin the rest of your life. Can ruin your testimony for the rest of your life, your family for the rest of your life, and so on. Sin will definitely destroy your life. Now, all this being said We live in a sin-cursed world in a s in a sin-cursed body. So what are we going to do? We're going to sin. I'm not standing up here telling you that it's possible to never sin. No, we're definitely going to, but can I say this? We ought to walk in the Spirit so we don't fulfill the lust of these flesh. Remember, anger led to the other sins, and we looked at the works of the flesh, all those things mentioned, sins, is when we're controlled by the flesh. All of these th things, these side effects of sin, could have been avoided if he avoided the sin. This is why we must be on constant guard. Against sin. The moment I think that I am not susceptible to a sin is probably going to be the moment when I commit that sin. I must be on constant guard against sin. This is why we must be filled with the Spirit instead of being controlled by the flesh. Feed the Spirit with spiritual things. Rather than listening to fleshly music, listen to spiritual music. Rather than reading fleshly books, listen to uh or read the God's book or or Christian literature like the sword. Read the sword, things like that. Rather than feeding the flesh, feed the spirit, so that we will be more likely to not sin than to sin. Again, I'm not necessarily preaching on any specific sin. Um everyone has one they struggle with. No doubt you're thinking of the one you're struggling with. But the thing is When we sin, does that mean it's all over? No. I like this verse here. I wrote it down, looking at my notes here. Proverbs 28:13. Let me go there real quick. Proverbs twenty-eight thirteen. Turn there with me. Understanding that we are susceptible to sin, because we live in a sin-cursed body and we have a fleshly nature, we need to therefore feed the spirit and starve the flesh. But When we do sin, Proverbs 28:13 says this: He that covereth his sins shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them. Shall have mercy. So what do we do when we sin? Well what we should not do is ignore it and act like it's no big deal. Act like, oh well I've got this under control. Because you don't, it just controlled you. What we should do when we sin is confess it and forsake it. Confess. It means to uh to admit guilt, to admit, and not just to admit guilt, but to see it almost as God sees it I get the idea here, when there's a uh a trial going on, or a court, or even before that, they try to get a confession out of the one, out of the suspect. And they try to get the the officers will try to get a confession. What they're trying to do is trying to get him to admit what he has done. And if we're not going to admit that when we sin, and we're not going to admit that it is sin, it's not going to be good. Verse 13, he that covereth his sin shall not prosper. Now think about Cain. If he would have confessed that what he did was wrong to start with, he wouldn't have gone down that sin road to eventually killing his brother Abel. We need to get the sin taken care of right away by confessing it. We have got to admit that what is wrong is wrong. Not that it's not that bad. Because that means it's wrong. We have got to see sin as God sees it and admit that it's wrong. But then not just that, forsake it. This is where it takes some action. Forsake means to leave, to walk away from. That means when you're in a situation that is tempting you to sin, you have to physically leave it. When you're looking at something that's about to tempt you to sin, or you're flipping through channels and you're feeling a temptation to sin, you have to leave it. Forsake it Maybe that means you need to forsake your phone in the other room. Maybe that means you need to forsake a group of people. Maybe that means you need to forsake maybe even a job. I don't know. But forsaking takes effort, takes work, and it's an action that we have to do. We have to forsake it But the good news is we read the verse, He covereth sin shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. This tells me that Cain would have had mercy if he would have said, God, you're right. I was completely wrong. I'm confessing this. And you know what? I'm going to leave my way and I'm going to bring the sacrifice you want. Things would have gone different. But we don't see a confession from Cain there. In fact, it led to murdering his brother. So, when we sin, confess. We confess our sins. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness, but then we must also forsake it. Forsake it. Not really a I don't want to say this is a hard, preachy type message tonight, but it's really just a good warning to just stay away from sin. Um the whole moral of I guess you could say or the whole idea of the study tonight is sin is bad. Sin is really bad. It leads to more sin. It leads to depression. It leads to anger. It leads to frustration. It leads to hurt families. Sin is bad. And when we sin, admit it. And then forsake it. And like I said at the beginning A lot of times we think, oh yeah, yeah, I've done that. I've asked Jesus to save me, and I and I've uh accepted him as my Savior. That's good. I'm glad you have. But that doesn't mean that you're not going to have any more effects of sin in your life. We have got to be on guard against sin, and when it comes up, we must confess it and forsake it. Heavenly Father, Lord, thank you for this day that you've given us. Thank you for this warning from Cain and the consequences and the effects of sin in his life. Lord, it's a good warning to us. to uh uh starve the flesh, feed the spirit, Lord, so we don't make these decisions like he made. Lord, I thank you again for everything you've done for us, most of all for sending Jesus to die for our sin. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.