Would turn there. Mary Gravely is here. We have an ongoing battle of jokes. And so far I'm winning. Mine have been way funnier than hers. So I'm going to throw another one out there while you're finding Acts chapter 11. Cheer about the fellow that got fired from the calendar factory. All he did was took a day off. And uh I thought that one was pretty good. Well I'll tell you hers. This is the one she sent me, so you tell me which one's better. That one was was mine, this one's hers. What did one tomato say to the other tomato during the race? Catch up How many people like mine best? How many people like Mary's? There's a conspiracy going on here, I think. Alright. Acts chapter 11. I would like for us to read verse number 21 together in unison. Acts chapter 11, verse 21. Mark read it a moment ago, but let's all of us read it together. Ready? Here we go, all together. And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned unto the Lord I want to speak this morning on the urgency of the gospel. The urgency of the gospel. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word Lord, uh the singing, the fellowship's been wonderful. And we just thank you for your for your blessings. And Lord, we recognize the church is your body. This is your church, Lord, and uh we have the wonderful privilege to be a part of it. So I ask that you would use these next few moments as I try to teach and preach from the Word of God, that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit I present my body anew. I yield my will. I pray that you would speak through me, and that our hearts and minds would be open to what your will is and what your word says. You will give us faith to receive and respond. and trust you and follow the instructions you give us. So please bless. We're praying for revival. I am, for my own heart, for our church. We're praying for our nation, our world. And maybe it could begin in us here today. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Brother Charlie read in the Sunday school hour a letter from one of our missionaries, Brother Estep, down in Mexico. And uh at the beginning of that letter, uh Brother Estep quoted um a statement made by a fellow by the name of Zinzendorf. How many people are familiar with church history? You recognize that name, Zinzendorf. Anybody recognize that? He was a reformer back in the 1700s. He was a leader in the Moravian church. The Moravian Church was known for their aggressive emissions work. They traveled the world. They uh were very active in the states here before our country was established in reaching um uh Indians, Native Americans with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. He made this statement. Listen very, very carefully this statement he made. He said, I have but one passion. It is Christ and Christ alone. The world is the field. Now get this. The world is the field. I'm sorry. The world is the field, and the field is the world, and henceforth that country shall be my home where I can be most used in winning souls for Christ. Now I kind of butchered that quote a little bit. Let me read it again. The world is the field, and the field is the world. And henceforth that country shall be my home Where I can be the most used for winning souls to Christ. Now, I reference that quote for this reason. Zinzendorf understood the urgency of the gospel. The fact that people need the Lord Jesus Christ. In Acts chapter 11 and through throughout the book of Acts, but in chapter eleven particular We see the New Testament church had an urgency in getting the gospel to every single person. Now, back in Matthew chapter 10, verse 22 and 23, he had told his disciples ahead of time He said to them, he said, there's a day coming when this whole world is going to persecute you because of your love for me, your commitment to me, and your urgency with the gospel. He says, they're going to hate you. And they're going to persecute you. And he said this. He says, when they persecute you in one city, flee to the next. And that is exactly what we find happening here in Acts. If you noted carefully, you paid attention when Brother Mark was reading They were persecuted in one city. Verse 19. Now they which were scattered abroad upon the persecution that arose about Stephen travelled as far as Phoenix and Cyprus and Antioch, preaching the word And so that is exactly what the Lord Jesus Christ said was going to happen. Because of your faithfulness to my word, because of your commitment to me, your love for me, your zeal for the gospel. People will respond with persecution. It's interesting to note the persecution that the early church faced came primarily from two groups of people Uh and and uh the first group was the religious leaders, those who claim to know God, those who claim to be committed to the Lord, those who claim to hold to the word of God. They were the ones that were the most vicious in their persecution of these believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. And the other was uh was secondary, but it was the government As they would come in, people would get saved, and uh the society was altered. A lot of times the government would get ups get upset, and along with that, the rich folks You read through the book of Acts, they would their business, they would lose business. And boy, they'd be up in arms and angry. It reminded me of uh anybody recognize the name Billy Sunday? Does anybody recognize the name Billy Sunday? Great evangelist uh back in the early 1900s. He was a baseball star He was a drunkard, went to the Pacific Garden Mission in Chicago, heard the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and his life, his soul was saved, and his life was transformed. And Billy Sunday became urgent with the gospel. And he would witness to anybody and everybody that would listen. He'd tell them of Christ. And uh as doors opened, he began speaking in bigger and bigger public uh arenas, and finally he became an evangelist, and God used him in a tremendous way. One of the characteristics of a Billy Sunday evangelistic campaign is when he was finished his meeting, and these meetings would go on weeks, sometimes months at a time. And when that thing was over and they brought the tabernacle down and they cleared out the sawdust and he moved out, they said that the bars in the city were closed down. The churches were filled and the bars were empty. How do you think the liquor industry and the bar owners responded when they heard that Billy Sunday was coming to town? They fought that tooth and nail. They hated him. They despised what he was doing, what he stood for. And they would fight him with everything they had. That is what we see happening here. In America, for the most part, our persecution, if we can even call it that, is very, very mild. We get opposition, we get a little bit of ridicule, we get a little bit of uh uh maybe people will hate us and say things. I've been in the ministry. It didn't take me long to find out. Not everybody thinks you're wonderful because you're a preacher. In fact, some people think you're wonder not wonderful simply because you're a preacher. And I found just from a personal experience, and I hate to say this. But my personal experience is I have been attacked and and ridiculed and uh uh hated most viciously By two groups of people. One is the homosexual crowd. They have been vicious. They're criticism of me. And I hate to say this, but the other is professing Christians. Have been the most kind, most vicious, said the most hateful, threatening things to me of anybody I know, more so than atheists. More so of than liberal uh uh pastors and whatnot. And so Jesus said, listen, there's gonna come a day When people are going to despise you because of your commitment to Christ, your stand on the Word of God, and your zeal for the gospel. And it's going to come from corners and areas you never dreamed of. And that's what they're experiencing. They are being persecuted viciously. They are being killed in some cases, thrown in prison. But here's the interesting thing as you study the book of Acts, and I love the book of Acts. The more intense the persecution was, the more they worked at trying to quell squelch the gospel, the more the gospel spread. The more Satan stirred up the people to oppose and hate and attack the believers that were urgent with the gospel the more it spread. They thought, in one city we're going to kill James, we're going to imprison the believers, we're going to persecute them and give them a hard time and shut this thing out. And quench it completely, instead it drove them to other areas, and they preached the gospel more around and around and around It's a fascinating thing. I love it when Satan's assaults on the believer simply advance the gospel and even more people get saved. And that's exactly what we find here. But these early believers had an urgency with the gospel. They were stirred up about this matter. Of reaching other people with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, seeing other people saved. I believe this early church had a very clear understanding in their mind that mankind's greatest need It's not more social programs, is not a different government uh party in the White House. Our greatest need is not an economic revival, our greatest need is not more military might. Mankind's greatest need is the Lord Jesus Christ. The gospel of Jesus Christ. And this New Testament church understood that. They understood that the worst thing that could possibly happen to a person. is for that person to die in their sins, unforgiven, lost, and spend eternity separated from God in a horrific place called hell. And that fact, that thought drove them. That truth that people without Christ, people who have never uh received the gospel of Jesus Christ are in darkness, are lost in their sins, doomed to an eternity in hell that drove them, in spite of persecution, to take the gospel to those that have never heard. Mankind's greatest need is definitely the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I put this down in my notes from Kazakhstan and Central Asia to Kentucky to the back collars of Kentucky. People need the Lord Jesus Christ. From small little children, little children to aged senior citizens, people need the Lord Jesus Christ. We invested a lot of money this past week. I said invested, not spent. We invested a lot of money this past week. A lot of people in our church this past week invested time and tremendous effort. In reaching boys and girls and getting the gospel to them in a way that they can understand, believe and be saved It's a blessing. Uh one of these days, I think it was Thursday or Friday, I was downstairs. I told a little story each day to the little preschool. Um uh what were the grades in preschool? Two through five, something like that. I mean they were a little what is it? Two through five, is that right? Just say yes. Okay, thanks. Something like that. Couple Anyway. Uh these every day I went down there and I told them the story of Butterball and Bobby Sue, little Bobby Sue won a kitty cat. It's a terrible story and a tragic ending. If you want to hear it, see me afterward, give me a quarter, I'll tell you the story of Butterbowl But I went down there and one day I was getting ready to go down and um Jackie came out. She had one of her little children, Chase, one of the little boys, five years old. And she came out and she says, Chase, tell Pastor what just happened. And I'm I knelt down beside her and said, Chase, what happened? And in so many words, he said this. He said, I asked Jesus to come in my heart and be my Savior. Somebody said, can a little child five years old understand that they've sinnered, they've done wrong, that Jesus loves them and died for them, rose again, and if they'll put their faith in, God will forgive them and save them? He said, absolutely. There's no doubt in my mind. I'm telling you that little child understands more what trusting and faith is than some of us older folk. And the point I'm trying to make is little children need to hear about the Lord Jesus Christ, need to hear about how to be saved. From little five, four, five, three, four, five-year-olds all the way up to most senior citizen. I was thinking this past week after uh the little chase gave testimony that he accepted Jesus as Savior. I was thinking several years ago my wife was working downtown and there's a lady came through the office. The lady was a hundred years old Was it her birthday? Or was she celebrating her birthday or something? She was a hundred years old, still drove car, was in there involved in community things, and they got talking, and my wife asked her, she said, Do you know for sure That when you die your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? She goes, No, I don't know that for sure. My wife said, can I take a moment and show you? And to make a long story short, Kathy was able to sit down with an open Bible with a hundred-year-old lady, show her the plan of salvation. The gospel of Jesus Christ from the Bible. And that dear lady bowed her head and called on the Lord Jesus to be her Savior. Little five-year-old boy, a hundred-year-old lady. They need Jesus as their Savior. Just an interesting side note, my wife had said something to her. Did you ever think about this over the years? She made this statement. She goes, whenever it came to mind, I just put it aside. I didn't want to think about it. I didn't want to think about it. I didn't want to think. I'm glad she thought about it before it was too late. You ought to think about it And so the urgency of the gospel, regardless of the color of my skin, the color of my hair, the color of my eyes, the presence of hair or absence. Regardless of a person's physical makeup, they still need the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. That's the most urgent need in their life Regardless of a person's social standing, they may be the most popular person in town. They may be the least popular person in town. The urgent need for that person is the Lord Jesus Christ. They may be the wealthiest bank owner. They may be the poorest person living in a little uh uh uh little uh alleyway, but they still need the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. The urgency of the gospel. It is the greatest need of all of mankind. Now I want us to look here, just a few thoughts from this passage that Brother Mark read a few moments ago. And uh the concerning this urgency of the gospel. The first thing I notice is this. I notice their purpose in preaching the gospel Their purpose. Verse 20. And some of them which were of Cyprus and Cyrene, which when they were come to Antioch, spake unto the Grecians, preaching the Lord Jesus Christ. What were they trying to accomplish? When they went into these cities, Phenus and Antioch and to the Grecians, and they're preaching Jesus Christ, and they're giving them the gospel of Jesus Christ, what were they trying to accomplish? What did they want to see happen I want to suggest to you they were not just simply trying to get members in their church. You follow what I'm saying? We ran buses this week. As I said, we put we in we uh invested a lot of time and effort this past week. Our purpose this week in having neighborhood Bible time was not simply just to get more members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Now it would be wonderful if uh people would come and join the church. We're all for that. I my personal feeling is every person that lives in Garrett County, Preston County, Mineral County, Grant County, uh uh Mongen Moningalia County And whatever the counties are up in PA, they ought to join this church. But that's not our goal. That's not our purpose in preaching gospel. We didn't do all this this last week to get people to join the church. Uh we didn't try to make these kids Baptists. Now I'd love for them to believe, get saved, and become a Baptist. Somebody said, what if you weren't a Baptist, what would you be? I'd be ashamed. But um I'm teasing. No, I'm not. And uh I love for them to ta adopt the distinctives of the Baptist faith. But that's not our goal. That's not our purpose. That wasn't the purpose there Why do we send missionaries around the world? Why are we praying and working hard, investing, trying to get missionaries to Kazakhstan? To make them Americans? No The whole purpose, preaching the gospel and these church and these dear believers and the book of Acts, suffering persecution. Going from city to city to city, preaching Christ, preaching the gospel. The whole purpose was to get people saved was to get people to the point they understand their sinners and trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. We go out visiting each week, we knock on doors and we'll come to someone's door, we'll say something like this. We always tell them who we are, where we're from and what we want. We'll engage in a little conversation a little bit. At some point we're going to ask this question. Do you know for sure? If you died right now, you'd go to heaven. We get that response back, whatever. But leading up to that, this is what we say. Do you attend church anywhere? Majority of the time they'll say, oh yeah, a little bit here or there. They'll mention some church, or they used to, some point. And I like to make this statement to him, this. Going to church is important. And by the way, going to church is important. It's God's church. He designed it. He designed it in such a way that we need the church as a believer. But I'll say this, going to church is important, but More important than going to church is knowing for sure that my sins are forgiven and that when I die, I go to heaven and not to hell. Listen, just getting a person in church is wonderful, and maybe they have the opportunity to save, but the church can't save souls. The church can't change a life. The church can't give eternal life. Only Jesus Christ can do that. And so the whole purpose for them preaching the gospel and taking the Lord Jesus Christ is so that people can see the fact that they're sinners and they need a Savior. And that they'll trust Jesus Christ, their personal Savior. If you would keep your place here and turn over to 1 Corinthians chapter 9. It's not too far away. I want to show you Paul's attitude On the purpose of preaching the gospel. First Corinthians chapter nine We're studying 1 Corinthians in our Sunday school hour in the adult class up here in the auditorium. We're going to get to this here in a little bit. 1 Corinthians chapter 9. Look with me if you would at verse number 19. Paul's expressing the purpose. He's living the way he lives, and he's doing what he does. Verse 19, 1 Corinthians 9 says this: For though I be free from all men, What's he saying? He says, I don't answer to any man. I'm not I'm nobody's uh uh I can't be bought off. He says, though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself servant unto all. Why? That I might gain the more. What do you mean, Paul? Unto the Jews I became a Jew, that I might gain the Jews. To them that are under the law was under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law. To them that are without the law, being not with uh without the law to God, but under the law to Christ. that I might gain them that are without the law. To the weak I became as weak, that I might gain the weak. Look at this. I am made all things to all men, that I might by all means save some What is he saying? Paul is saying, I'm dying the self, I'm putting aside things, I'm not living for myself, I'm not living to try and exalt myself or please myself, I'm putting all that aside for one reason And one reason alone is so that people can be saved. And if they're not saved, and they die in their sins, they're lost for all eternity under the judgment of God for their sins. There's an urgency of getting the gospel to the lost, and the purpose for that urgency is so that they can find forgiveness of sins, eternal life, and a home in heaven. That was the whole purpose the Lord Jesus Christ came to earth. John 3, 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Why? That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but of everlasting life. The whole purpose for Christmas. The whole purpose of Jesus' life, the miracles, the teaching. All that he said and did, everything of that was focused on one real thing, and one thing as to get people to accept him as their Savior, to be forgiven, saved on their way to heaven I like Luke chapter 19 and verse 10. For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. If you're here this morning or you're under the sound of my voice, And you don't know for sure in your heart and soul, you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die you go to heaven and not to hell. If you don't have that settled, an absolute certainty in your heart My prayer and my my uh uh uh urgency for you is that you receive Jesus Christ as your personal Savior and let Him forgive you and save you and give you eternal life, you can know you're going to heaven It's the whole purpose of everything. It's why that radio tower is up out there. So people who hear the gospel, believe, and be saved from hell. That's why we have our gospel tracts and And emphasis on that. It's why we give the faith promise missions. It's why we run our Sunday school buses. It's why we got children's churches. It's why we got that big setup out there. Uh whatever they're doing with the kids out back there, the the big uh Summer splash. I tell you one thing, I'm staying up here. And um, but uh all that, why you do all that? We want people to be saved. We want people to come to know Jesus Christ as Savior. So the purpose of the Lord Jesus Christ coming was to He would come and take our place as a condemned sinner Jesus Christ, the sinless, perfect Son of God, came to earth and He took my place. He took my sins upon himself. He took responsibility for my sins. Allowed wicked men to nail him to a cross, and on that cross, he suffered the judgment of God for my sins. Took responsibility for every word, displeasing word I've ever said, come out of my mouth. Jesus took responsibility for that, says, I will take the judgment for what Dennis has said. I'll take the judgment for the sins Dennis Leatherman's hands have committed. I'll take the judgment. I'll take responsibility and the judgment for every sinful thought Dennis Leatherman has ever thought. Every sinful deed he's ever done. And I'll be judged for him as his substitute in his place, so he does not have to. The whole reason he did that is so Dennis Leatherman could find forgiveness of sins, escape hell, and have a home in heaven. And not just me, every man, woman, and child that ever lived or ever will live. Provide salvation. That is the purpose for the urgency of the gospel. So that men would believe and trust in Jesus Christ by faith, receive him as their personal Savior. Have their sins forgiven, be saved from judgment in hell, have eternal life, and have a new life now. That's the whole purpose that Jesus Christ established the New Testament church. Sometimes people get confused of what the purpose of the church is. The purpose of the church is not to feed the hungry. Now, if somebody's hungry, we ought to feed them. And we're not to clothe the naked. That's not our purpose. Now, if somebody doesn't have clothes, we ought to provide clothes for them. If somebody doesn't have food to eat, we ought to provide food for them. We ought to do what we can to help, and that's primarily as us as individuals. The purpose of the church is to get the gospel to lost people so they can believe and be saved. Uh what's the purpose of the fire p uh fire department downtown? Put out fire. What if somebody comes by there and says, I don't have any food to eat and there's guys that are in there We don't need food to eat, can you help me do you think it'd be decent right thing for them to help them get some food to eat? Sure. That's not the purpose of the fire department If somebody comes by and says, oh, I I need some groceries for my kids, should be the right, decent thing to do, help them with groceries. Sure. That's not the purpose of the fire department. Purpose of the church, we ought to do those things. But our purpose is to get the gospel to every person all around the world. Get people saved. Get people saved. We get calls all the time. Somebody called me one time, do you put roofs on people's houses? I said, um I know some builders you could call. One guy called me one time, do you buy houses for people And he says, I need one that has an outbuilding so I can keep my lawnmowers and stuff in it. I said, um I'd call a rot I'd call a uh uh realtor probably would be better You know? I mean if if I could, I'd buy him a house, but I can't. That's not our purpose. Jesus says, as the Father has sent me, seeking to save that which is lost, as the Father has sent me, even so what? Send I you. It's the purpose you exist. He said, go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Every creature. When we lose focus of our purpose, we begin to deteriorate As a church. We've got to stay focused. The early church understood that God's purpose for their existence was to take the gospel everywhere and uh and see people saved. Listen up here, young people. Listen up. Do I have your attention? Okay, thank you. And so the purpose of the urgency of the gospel is to see people say. Number two, the purpose, uh the power behind the preaching of the gospel. Look at verse number, come back to Acts chapter 11 with me if you would. And verse number 21. It says, And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned unto the Lord. The hand of the Lord was with them. That early church was very successful in getting the gospel out to all the world. They got through that whole region. They saw people saved, and there was churches established And it was a miraculous thing. What was it that empowered those New Testament believers to be so effective, to see so many people saved? What was it? I'll tell you this, it wasn't their personalities. It wasn't these are people just anybody here ever know someone? They just have a tremendous personality. You just can't hardly help but like them. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I have not been blessed that way I prayed for years. Lord help me have a nicer be a nicer person. And uh some people just have phenomenal personalities. I'm telling you You know anybody that when they walk into a room the whole room atmosphere changes? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I'm thinking of a member of our church here, several that are that way. They walk in, the whole atmosphere changes I'm telling you, that is not the secret behind winning people to Jesus Christ, some great personality. It wasn't their personalities. It wasn't the programs that they had in the church. In fact, I'm telling you right now, they had no programs. They didn't have anything like Bible time. They didn't have no programs like Master Club or Teens Alive or Super Seniors. And no programs at all. Now I'm not opposed to programs, and if you've got a good personality, praise the Lord. Lord, use it for the gospel. And if there are some gospel if there's some programs out there that help us, sure we're going to use them But we don't trust in them. We don't depend in them. That is not where the power is. That's not where the success comes from. It's not in their tremendous presentations of the gospel. We try to teach people in our church how to share the gospel with people. We have a little uh I think it works pretty good, a little spiel we go through to be able to get bring the conversation over to spiritual things and be able to share with them the gospel But that's not the secret. That's not the power behind someone being saved and their life being changed and gaining eternal life. I was thinking about the woman at the well. Here is a very ungodly woman living in immorality and Jesus Christ engages her in conversation. And she ends up trusting Jesus their Savior. The Bible said she put her water pots down and went back into the city, and the city believed. She had no training. She had definitely not a great personality. She was pretty rough around the edges. She had no program, no presentation. She just went and told people what God did for her, and people got saved. What is the secret? What's the power behind people's lives being changed and souls being saved? Um uh it wasn't the presents they give out. Now we like to I some people uh don't do this, but uh we like to give out little treats on the buses and different things, bubblegum or whatever You used to be able to give out a little piece of bubblegum and and everybody came. Now you give away a five thousand dollar bill and they might ride. But uh give out little gifts and different things. I'm not opposed to that, but we don't trust in that. That's what not what saves souls. That's not what changes lives. So what was it? What's the power behind us? Look what it says there. And the hand of the Lord was with them. And a great number believed and turned to the Lord. It is the power of God that saves souls God is the one that changes lives. I was thinking about Andy and Vicky, and Andy's very sick today. They work one of our bus routes. Andy's homesick But I was visiting and uh I had visited a a neighbor of theirs lived next door. I went in and uh to just make a story shorten the story, uh that visit didn't go so well He didn't really appreciate me coming by and he told me in very flowery terms he really wasn't interested in anything I had to say. It was a Thursday night, it was in the fall I think, it was dark, it was kind of yucky weather. Uh I'd I was by myself and I went and I came out of there, and this you might find this hard to believe, but I kind of got an attitude when I came out of there. And in the back of my mind, I know that you would never dream this would ever happen, in the back of my mind, I thought, how dare he talk to me that way? Doesn't he know who I am And I came out I mean I was just and I thought I'm gonna go in my car. There's other people out visiting for whatever reason I ended up by myself. I said I I thought I'm just gonna get out of McDonald's, drink the coffee, wait till everybody else is done visiting, I'll show up at church And said it didn't go so well. I know that's shocking to believe, I would ever think. And I got out to the car, I'm getting in my car, and the Spirit of God spoke to my heart, not audibly, but just spoke to my heart, go to that next house. And there were lights on. I said, uh no. So I started getting the car. And then the Lord's just expressed my heart, go to that house, go to that house. And I said, to the fact, Lord, I don't want to. I go to that house. Lord, I just got cussed out. I don't want to go over there. I don't want to do nothing. I want to go to McDonald's and drink coffee And the Lord would not let me live. I got in the car and I was going to drive up and finally I couldn't. It's like, alright I go stomping up to the house. Came to the door. Andy came to the door. I didn't know him at the time. He says, yes. You don't want to go to trucks, do ya? Well, we're thinking about it. Oh great. If you die w you die you'd probably go to hell, right? Well yeah, we might You don't want to shoot me to show you how, do you? Yeah, we do. Now it wasn't quite that way. But in my mind, that's how it was playing out. I had the worst attitude ever. And Andy and Vicky bowed their heads when it was all said and done, trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. God changed their lives. They've been faithful servants here for many, many years. And they've won others to Christ. The reason I'm telling that is this. It wasn't my personality. It wasn't my presentation. It was terrible. But God was in that. And God was working in their hearts. And God opened their hearts and minds. And God stirred them. They made the decision to believe and trust Jesus Christ in spite of the preacher. And that was the answer to why so many people got saved in the book of Acts. The hand of God was upon them. You know what we need at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? We need the hand of God to be upon us. It's not the great preacher, it's not the wonderful Sunny School teachers, and we have wonderful Sunny School teachers. It's not our programs, and we have excellent programs. But what we need more than anything else, if people are going to get saved, we need the hand of God upon us, the power of God And to do that, we've got to die to self. We've got to completely yield and present ourselves to the Lord Jesus Christ and say, Jesus, it's not me. You have to fill me. You have to speak through me. You have to use us. Malink Independent Baptist Church, and you and I as individuals should just be a conduit for the power of God to work as we take the Word of God out. Am I making sense? You follow what I'm trying to say? We need God's power. Every Sunday school teacher, every busworker, when the choir sings up there, it's not our beautiful voices, and they're beautiful. That song was beautiful this morning. But we want God's hand to be upon that To speak the hearts, bring conviction of sin, that people turn to Christ. They say, you read these old-time revivals, Billy Sunday I mentioned, and others have years gone by. And they would talk about how the presence of God was there in such a way that people came under conviction and they turned to Christ by hundreds and thousands. Because of the hand of God, the presence and power of God. And that's what we need. That's what we need. It says the hand of the Lord was with them, and great multitudes believed. and turned unto the Lord. The power of God, the hand of God. It brings conviction of sin. It brings a comprehension of the gospel and it brings conversion of the soul. You know what we need in our youth departments? You don't need more fun. Now, I'm not against it. We have a lot of fun. In our children's programs, you know what we need? We need the Holy Spirit of God to bring great conviction. Upon the hearts of lost people and Christians that are away from God, the hand of God to convict them of their sins, so that they see their need of Christ and come to Christ. I remember before I got saved. What a punk. Nobody in this room would have liked Dennis Leatherman before he got saved. Or some don't even after he got saved. But um I mean, just a nasty person. I began reading my Bibles. God, I don't want to be this way. I don't want to be this kind of person I began reading my Bible and I realized that I was a wretched sinner. The more I read my Bible, the less I thought of myself, the more I realized how sinful it was, the more I realized how desperately I needed Jesus Christ. And the Spirit of God convicted me of my sin and brought me to a complete end of myself. Finally, that Monday night on my knees beside my bed, God have mercy on me. God save me. Spirit of God, Jesus, came in my heart and life and saved me, changed my life. That wasn't a program, that wasn't some personality, that wasn't some presentation, that was the hand of God. Working in my life and bringing me to Christ. And that's what we need in our churches. That's what Oakland needs. That's what our country and our world needs. The hand of God upon us. Then last of all, I end with this, the passion behind the preaching of the gospel. These New Testament believers were consumed with preaching the gospel. It's all they could think of. It's all they could do. Everywhere they want. They told people of Christ. Everywhere they want. They told people they needed to be saved. Everywhere they went. I'm telling you, we need God to stir us and put a passion in our heart to reach others for Christ. You know what? When we're out on vacation, we ought to be sharing the message of Christ. We're on a business trip. We're at the grocery store. Everywhere we go, we need God to consume us with this. It says they went everywhere, preaching the gospel of Christ. Persecution could not stop them. Poverty could not stop them. Prison could not stop them. Paul and Silas in prison at night. are praising God, singing and singing praising God. No doubt they're witnessing to others. The earthquake shows up. The jailer thinks everybody escapes. He's going to kill himself. Paul says, Do thyself no harm. We're all here. And he cries out, what must I do to be saved? Now what would most of us do if we were sitting in prison unjustly because we're witnessing being a Christian? They throw us in prison, they put us in shackles, they beat us, and at midnight, what would most of us be doing? Griping. I want my lawyer. You know what Paul and Silas are doing? They're telling others of Christ. They're sharing the gospel with others. They're singing and praising God. No wonder they saw people saved. The passion of reaching others for Christ. Somebody says, oh, you're a little unbalanced there. I don't know. I think Jesus down a cross is a little unbalanced. I think Jesus suffering hell for this uh for guilty sinners, him innocent, and him taking our judgment for us, I think he could use I think he deserves a little passion, don't you think? Getting excited about this and stirred up about it. Their love for the Lord, their concern for the lost, and the joy they found in life. I remember I've told this many times. I love this story. First man I ever was had the opportunity to lead to Christ, to share the gospel with him. I had witnessed to people and given out tracts, but I never saw somebody, never had anybody make a decision to trust Christ right there with me And so we were visiting, I was in Bible college, it was pretty early in my Bible college years, we were going down a street and they had paired us up. I had a young lady with me, and we were going down and we would take turns witnessing. If it was a lady she'd usually witness, if it was me, I'd try to For whatever reason, a guy came to the door, Mr. Hogue was his name. He was in a wheelchair. He was right down by a truck terminal and had just a little poor house. But it was very neat. And she said, we're from Highland Park Baptist Church. We'd like to give you gospel tract and talk to you about Jesus. He said, come on in. So we back he backed up the wheelchair and we got in there and sat around him and it was uh Jenny was her name, it was her turn to witness, and so she got her Bible out. I had never witnessed anybody before thoroughly like this. I'd given out tracts and talked to them. And so I was glad she was witnessing, got her Bible out, and she went through the plan of salvation. He agreed, he was right there with her. And uh I didn't know it, but she had never led anybody to the Lord either And so she said, Mr. Hoag, would you like to pray and trust the Lord as a Savior? He said, he's crying. He says, I sure would. She goes, okay, Dennis will pray with you and trust the Dennis who I said, I will? She goes, yeah. Okay. So I knelt down there beside his wheelchair. I didn't know what to say. I was all right, now I lay me down to sleep. Nope. That's not the right prayer. And we struggled through that. And Mr. Hobe prayed and asked the Lord Jesus Christ to be his Savior. I'm telling you, he's crying. He reaches up and hugs us. He goes, Thank you so much. This is the most wonderful thing. He kind of escorted us out to the door. He had some uh roses growing by the door there and he got his got uh scissors and he gave us each a rose. And he said, thank you for coming by today and sharing this with me. This is the most wonderful thing. I'll tell you what, I was on cloud nine. To me, that was the most wonderful experience I ever had apart from my own salvation. And God did something in my heart. I said, Lord, I want to be passionate about sharing the gospel with other people. I want to see more and more people saved. I haven't always lived up to that, but God stirred my heart. The week before Bible time, we were canvassing down on Water Street. We're just inviting kids out. I came up to the door, it was a man, he was on his porch, his wife was inside, the door was opened. And I gave him the invitation and something disturbed me. I said, sir, you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven? He said, I hope so. And he told me all these things he does, and he's hoping he'll get to heaven. I said, can I take my Bible just real quick, show you what the Bible says about no, we're going to heaven? He goes, sure. He says, hold on. He called into his wife, come out here. She came out and sat there. I was able to take a few minutes, went through the plan of salvation, and that man and his wife both bowed their head and called on the Lord Jesus to come in their heart and light. You know I left there? I was on cloud nine. It's one of the most blessed things in the world to be able to share the truth of the gospel with somebody and they believe it and get saved. Now, if you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven, I'm telling you, the Bible says you can know that. And we can show you from the Bible how to trust Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. There's a lot of things we don't have the answer for, but there's one thing we do know from the Bible is how a person gets saved. And we'd love to show that to you. I hope you'll settle that before you leave. Those of us that have already trusted Christ and we have that settled, my prayer is that God will stir our hearts after this week of Bible time. That God will stir our hearts, that we would be very urgent in taking the gospel to the lost in our community and around the world. And I'm asking our church folk to ask, pray, and seek the Lord That God would stir you to be a witness, and that God would put his hand upon our efforts to reach others Because we don't have the personality needed to save a soul. We don't have the programs. None of them will ever work. Only the power of God. And we need God's hand. We need God's power. And let's pray and ask for that. Father in heaven, I ask now you'd stir our hearts and help us. We had a good week. We rejoice in the young people that trusted you, a couple parents on Friday night. But Lord, we want your hand upon us and we want you to give us an urgency in getting the gospel to the lost here in Oakland area, our country, and around the world. Help us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Pastor, my heart stirred? God has stirred my heart. And I want to be a little more urgent in my witness. I want to be a little more faithful A little more aggressive, maybe, is the word. And getting the gospel to the lost. Is there anything like that? Preach or pray with me. That God will help me to be that witness. Be urgent in getting the gospel out. God bless you, hands all around. How many would say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I'm burdened for the lost. But I want God's power on my witness. I want God's hand to be upon my testimony. That it's not dependent upon me, but it's Christ through me, bringing others to Christ. You say, preacher, I'd like for God to have his power Upon my life, put his hand on my life. Maybe there's some sin needs to be dealt with. You can't have both. I can't have God's power with sin in my life. I've got to deal with that. I can't be unsurrendered. I can't be selfish. But you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be able to die to self, get myself out of the way, that Christ could fill me with his power, his hand be on me And see people say, is there any like that? Preacher, that's my prayer. God bless you. Hands all around. God sees that. God knows that. He wants to bless us. He wants to empower us if we're hungry enough for it. Let me ask this. Is there someone here this morning? Say, preacher, I don't know for sure. I'm going to heaven when I die. Say, I don't want to go to hell I really need that settled in my heart. I need God to help me settle that. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. That God will help me get that settled That I can know for sure I'm going to heaven, not to hell, and I have eternal life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I'd really like for you to pray for me. I need that settled in my heart and life. How about it? Any at all? Preacher, I'm concerned about that I need the Lord to help me. How about it? Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, I pray you bless our invitation. I believe He spoke to our hearts this morning. So stir us. I pray you'd uh uh uh just uh stir people maybe come to an old altar and seek your power and uh this urgency. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation