Get the preaching. 2 Samuel chapter 23. I want to begin, as I said, begin reading in verse number one. I'm going to go down through verse number seven if you'll follow along. Now these be the last words of David. David, the son of Jesse, now these are his words, what we're reading them. David, the son of Jesse, said, and the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of the God Anointed of the God of Jacob and the sweet psalmist of Israel said, Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his word was in my tongue. The God of Israel said, the rock of Israel spake to me, he that ruleth over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God. And he shall be as the light of the morning when the sun riseth, even a morning without clouds, as the tender grass springing out of the earth by clear shining after rain. Although my house be not so with God, yet he hath made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things. And sure, ordered in all things, and sure, for this is all my salvation and all my desire, although he make it not to grow. But the sons of Belial shall be all of them as thorns thrust away because they cannot be taken with hands But the man that shall touch them must be fenced with iron and the staff of a spear. They shall be utterly burned with fire in the same place. David's last words. Let's pray together as the Lord to speak to our heart. Father in heaven, I pray that you would bless now as we study this portion of Scripture Lord David's life has been a challenge to me personally, a challenge to my faith and my commitment. Lord, it's been tremendously encouraging. To see that he was a human just like all of us, with his faults and failures, his success, his strengths and weaknesses. And I pray now as we wind down our study of his life that you would continue to speak to our hearts. You continue to teach us from his life principles that help us to live by faith. So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, you would speak through me, be our teacher, and help us to be open-minded Our hearts open to your will and your word tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The Bible says these are the last words of David. Now We need to understand they're not the last words off the lips of David. It's not that he didn't say anything else after this point. It's uh kind of what they mean by that is what the Bible means by that is David's final statements, um his official pronunciation as uh his last official announcements or or uh statements he's making as king. He knows he's coming to the end It is what I'm describing as David's swan song. How many anybody ever hear that little phrase, that's their swan song? Anybody ever hear that? I got curious about that. I thought as I was studying this, I thought, this is David's swan song. Then I thought, where in the world they come up with that phrase swan song And apparently it goes all the way back to Greeks. A legend out of Greece is they believe that swans, for the most part, do not make a lot of noise. They don't sing. But it is said that just before a swan dies, they will sing the most beautiful song of their whole life. It's a legend. And so they would say, before someone dies, before they pass away, they make their final statement, their final song. The final pronouncements. And that's what David is doing here. He's making his last formal proclamation as king. Now he's not, his life isn't over yet, and there's still some issues that we're going to look at and address in future study. We're not done with David yet, but he makes this statement here, his last public statement. David's come a long way since we started our study of David, that humble young boy, probably young teen. See uh is brought out of the uh uh out of the fields and brought in for Samuel to anoint him. Just a humble, shy, innocent as can be, sincere boy And the great prophet Samuel takes that anointing oil and pours it over the head of David. And I doubt seriously that young man fully comprehended at that point what all that meant and how that was going to impact his life. And now here he is, as I said, perhaps in his 70s. He's an elderly, weathered king. He's uh he's had some successes in his life that were absolutely astounding. Who can ever get over David killing Goliath as a young boy with a few stones and a sling? You talk about amazing accomplishments and and uh so uh his successes were outstanding. And as we studied his life, the one thing I appreciate about the Bible so much is it doesn't uh sugarcoat the Bible's heroes. And David is without a doubt a hero in the Bible. But we noticed his failures. His successes, as astounding as they were, his failures were just as horrendous. And so David is making his swan song. This is his final public pronouncements. Before he goes to be with the Lord. Now, as I said, there are other events that took place. He's not dying tomorrow after this, but um it's his last public announcement. I want us to notice several things. I want to jump right into it. Number one. I want to notice that he remembered his godly heritage. As he's coming to the end of his life, he's making his final statement. The first thing he says there, look with me if you would at verse 1, he says, now these be the last words of David, David the son of Jesse. He remembered where he was. Now, who was Jesse? Who was David's daddy? Jesse, right. But who was this guy? He wasn't a king. David was not the son of a king. He was not born into royalty. He was not born into nobility. Jesse was not a king that David followed. Jesse was not a great prophet of God like Samuel. He, as far as we know, he made no prophecy. As far as we can tell, he preached no sermons. He never, I don't see any record where Jesse stood before a crowd of God's people and told them of the great things of God. He was no prophet, he was no preacher, he was not a king. Jesse wasn't a mighty man of war in King Saul's uh in King Saul's army Later on in chapter number 23, we are listed a great mighty men of David, and some of these men, their tremendous exploits. We've noted several of them as we've already studied the life of David. Jesse was not a mighty man of war. In fact, as far as I know, he wasn't even a soldier. At any time in Saul's army. Wasn't a king, he wasn't a prophet, he wasn't a mighty man of war. Who was Jesse? What was this guy? You know what he was? He's just a simple, humble farmer. Just in a lot of ways an unknown If David had not been chosen by God to be the king of Israel and anointed by Samuel, we probably would have never heard of Jesse. But Jesse, though he was not a king, he wasn't a prophet, he wasn't a warrior, he wasn't a preacher, he's just a humble country farmer, pretty much. But I want to submit to you, he was a great man of God. And David understood who his daddy was. And it wasn't some position he held, and it wasn't some fame that he had, and it wasn't some reputation or popularity. David wanted to be known at the end of his life. I am a son of Jesse. What a tremendous respect David is showing. His father, just a humble, godly father that God used to raise up a king of Israel Jesse was a peasant. And here's the thing: you never find David ashamed of who his father was. He was not ashamed of his father. He respected his father. I believe it's important for us to remember where we came from. We ought to remember those people whom God has used to influence us and develop us. And work and God used them to work in our lives to help us to be the men and women that we are. I'd probably say too much about it. But I tell you, I am proud to be Dennis, the son of Clyde. I'm grateful for a godly daddy. As far as I know, my father never preached a sermon. I never heard it. He never had an article printed. He was never elected to political office. Never pastor to church. He never any of that. He was a truck driver, David, but a godly man that God used in an amazing way in my life. And I don't think we ought to ever be ashamed of the people that God uses in our lives to develop us and make us who we are. We ought to remember where we came from. David never forgot who he was and where he came from. The son of Dav a son of Jesse. I think when David emphasizes at the end of his life And all these amazing things that God did and and uh the position he held, the throne of David is established and God's starting to make promises now. The throne of David will be the throne, that position, that name, the throne of David will be the name of the throne that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, sits on. And you talk about privilege. You talk about a position holding as King David. The throne of David will be see will have the Son of God sit on that. You talk about something, and David says, you know what I am? I'm just the son of Jesse. I think what David was saying is I'm no different than anybody else. I'm just a boy raised up as a shepherd under a man that loved God, a man that had some character. A man that did right and taught me to do right, a man that trusted God and taught me to trust God, a man that believed the Bible and taught me to believe the Bible. I'm just the son of Jesse. You guys may think I'm something. You guys may think I'm this great king and this great psalmist of Israel, but I'm really, Oh, I am the son of Jesse. Just a man like everybody else. I don't know. That struck me as I was studying this. And I got thinking, I wonder what Jesse thought about his son David. I wonder what went through his mind after that great battle with Goliath. And his young boy is out there on the battlefield and word comes back, did you hear what David did? He says, Oh, what do you do now? He killed the Goliath. He killed the giant. What? He put the Palestinians to uh not the Palestinians uh uh Philistines to flight You ever think what went through his daddy's head when he heard that? And then as David progressed up in the military of Saul's administration becomes the uh chief of staff in his military. I wonder what Jesse's back home with the sheep and and the house and and all his business there, his responsibilities I wonder if he scratched his head and said, what an amazing, amazing thing. I don't know about you. I would assume Jesse was proud of his boy. Son of Jesse, the son of Jesse. David wanted Israel to know, I believe, David wanted Israel to know what God could do through a humble, godly father. We must, I'll tell you, we live in a world today that is disrespecting the position of fathers. This responsibility and privilege of fatherhood in a world today is mocked, is perverted It's distorted, but I'm telling you, being a father is one of the greatest responsibilities and one of the greatest privileges on all this planet. And we could take that same statement and apply to motherhood. Jesse This humble man, but God used him to train up a young boy that would be perhaps one of the greatest men of God this planet has ever seen. A man after God's own heart And you can't tell me his daddy didn't play a role in that. David, a son of Jesse, he remembered his godly heritage. David wanted Israel to know what God could do through a humble, godly, faithful father. But he also wanted Israel to know what God could do through an ordinary boy that just simply believed God. Just trust in God. Isn't the faith of a child something to behold? Just believe. Well, God said that. We had a friend of mine or a friend of my father's, I should say, years ago when I was just young, early probably ten, eleven, twelve years old. About the time my daddy got saved, he he was um a fellow he worked with uh was a tremendous witness to my father And um they worked together and he actually influenced my father to get into a more of a biblical church than what he had been in. And uh we were over there at the house one night, and his wife, uh this friend of my father's wife, was upstairs, we were down in the living area, she was upstairs on the second floor putting the kids to bed And uh one of the boys came uh to the top of the stairs and he's down, the daddy's down with us, uh this my dad's friend was down with us, and the little his son yelled down the steps, hey dad Says, yeah. He says, you need anything? We're going to pray. He goes, I'm good. You just pray what you always pray. You talk about the simple faith of a child And David was just a young man that was taught of his daddy just to trust God, just believe God, take God at his word. Came across a quote this morning in my I have a little devotional I read a little different than Baptist Spread. And uh I was read I read uh I was reading through it and there was a quote in there from Christmas Evans, an old evangelist out of England years ago And he said this. He says, faith is not a feeling or reasoning or seeing something. Faith is just taking God at his word. That's what Jesse taught David. David believed, you know, if somebody's defying the armies of Israel and defying God, God will take care of whoever will stand up against them. He just believed it. I think he got that from his daddy. So number one thing I notice here in David's final words is he recognizes his heritage. He refers to his father. He wants everybody to remember who his daddy was and where he came from. Second thing I notice here in David's final words, his last words, is he recognized the God who raised him. Look with me if you would again at verse number one there. Read on. It says, David, the son of Jesse said, And the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob. David knew that it was God that did these amazing things in his life David accomplished some tremendous things. He defeated Goliath, as I've been referencing. He put the Philistines to flight. He slain tens of uh Saul slain his thousands, but David slain tens of thousands. The Philistines didn't stand a chance before David. What a warrior, what a man of faith He survived King Saul's attempts to kill him over an extended period of time, fleeing for his life. He survived all of that. He unified a nation around the worship of God. He brought the tabernacle into Jerusalem when eventually he was king. set up the capital of the nation, got everybody together around the worship of God, not around himself, but around the Lord. And brought unity to that nation. He recovered from horrendous personal failure a number of times. I tell you, it's not always easy to get back up when you've fallen down. Takes a little bit of something. The easiest thing to do when you and I mess up, the easiest thing to do when you and I fail, the easiest thing to do when you and I make a mess of something is just lay in it and walk off and quit But I tell you, the people God uses are those that say, hey, I messed up, I'm getting back up, and I'm going on for God. And so David accomplished, had these tremendous accomplishments. And we look at him. I do, I've said it numerous times. We look at him, we say, What a man! What a man of faith! What a man of character! And what David is saying here, he's saying, hold it. He says, it was God. Because God did that. Look what he says here. He says, David, the man who was raised up on high He declared to all of Israel in his final official statement, his final proclamation, he says, It was God that elevated me to this position, raised up on high. David didn't get up there and say, Boy, look what I accomplished. He didn't get up there and say, I'm the greatest king in the history of Israel. None of that. He says, God exalted me. God lifted me up. No self-exaltation, no self-promotion. No self-boasting. God did it all. And I want to remind you and I, if there is anything good in our life, and if anything, if anything happens for the glory of God and for the advancement of the gospel in our life It's because God enabled us to do it. I like to uh I like I like to share the gospel And uh when we're able to lead someone to Christ and have someone trust Christ as their personal Savior, I like to put their name in the back of my Bible. Put their name and address there and I kind of use that for a prayer list to pray for them. And uh sometimes I'm out making visits and I see them nearby where they live, I'll go by and just check on them And make a visit with them. But you have to be very, very careful about that, that we don't look at a list of people we won to Christ and say, boy, what a great soul winner I am. I have to be careful about that. We have to remember, wait a minute, what a great God I have that would use me to help others come to Christ. And David is saying that as God elevated me, He raised me up. I'm the son of David. I'm the son of Jesse. I tell you, you have to be careful, and sometimes I cringe sometimes, and good guys, but I cringe sometimes when I hear some preachers bragging about how much how how much they've accomplished. I read a preacher out in California, just it's been within the last year, and he's he's a different uh different crowd than what we would run with different camp or whatever you want to call it. But he's very successful in his in his camp. He made an amazing statement. He made this statement. He says, nobody has influenced the world for Christ as much as I have in our day and age. I tell you what, that's dangerous ground to be on. None of that from David Said God raised me up. God raised me up. And by the way, what's true for preachers is true for politicians Got to be careful about how what a great politician I am, what a great preacher I am, what a great Sunday school teacher I am, what a great pastor I am. We said this a thousand times. God has been good to our church. And he has blessed us. But not because we're something, but because he's something. That's what David's saying. See, God raised us up. God did all this. Keep your place here if you would. I just come back a few pages to chapter 5 of 2 Samuel. And this isn't something David just came up with at the end of his life. This has been his attitude throughout his whole life, his whole walk with God. Chapter 5, and notice with me if you would verse number 12. He is king of Israel now, and He's captured Jerusalem and successfully, and he's about to establish Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. And notice what he says in verse 12. Notice what the Bible says about David. And David perceived, look at this, that the Lord had established him as king over Israel. And that he, the Lord, had exalted his kingdom for his people's Israel's sake. Who's he giving glory to there? God. God did this. This is God's doing. At the end of his life, as the last official words to the people of Israel as their king, he says, God has done it all. God has elevated me. Then come back here. Let's look here again real quick. He doesn't stop there. He says the God of Jacob The man who was raised up on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob. He says, God elevated me, he raised me up. Then he says, God anointed me. David didn't become king by conniving. He didn't uh uh have an insurrection and a coup d'etat and overthrow King Saul. No, David was king because God chose him to be king. God anointed him. It wasn't through David's self-will or his skill or his intelligence that he worked his way into the seat of uh uh of the throne of Israel. He says, God anointed me. He's saying this, it was the grace of God that I am what I am. It's God's grace, God's grace. The word anointed implies power, position. God anointed him for this position, set apart for that position. He's saying God did this. God's the one that empowered me. Now, I noticed here and I got curious. It says the anointed, and then he says, of the God of Jacob. I thought, why didn't he say anointed of God? The Bible says that other places he was anointed of God. Why didn't he say I was anointed by the God of Abraham? Abraham's the one that started this whole nation of Israel business, this Jew business. He's the father of the faithful. Why didn't he say anointed by the God of Abraham? Man, all of Israel loved and respected Abraham. He didn't say Abraham. He didn't say, why didn't he say I was anointed by the God of Moses? Brother Israel loved Moses. He was their deliverer. God used them in a great way. Israel loved Moses. They look back. They highly exalt him. But David doesn't mention Moses. He doesn't mention Abraham. Samuel was the prophet that anointed him. Samuel was one of the greatest prophets in all of Israel's history. David was anointed by one of the greatest prophets in Israel's history. But he doesn't say, I was anointed by the God of Samuel. He picks Jacob out. Of all the forefathers, of all the patriarchs of Israel that he could have chose to reference, he chose Jacob. What do we know about Jacob? What do we anybody anybody recognize the name Jacob from the mind? What's that? Alright, Jacob is the father of the twelve men that produced the twelve tribes of Israel. That's good. But what do we know about the character of Jacob? That's what I'm getting at. He was a conniver Would you agree with me? He made some humanly wise but spiritually stupid decisions. Jacob was a mess. In fact, in certain periods of his life, you can say he was a failure, spiritually speaking. He was a liar, lied to his father. He stole his brother's birthright. I mean the guy was a mess. He marries a gal and ends up getting the wrong gal the next morning. I don't even to this day I don't know how that happens. But it did. What? And David picks Jacob to say, the God of Jacob anointed me. And so I'm wondering why in the world would he do that? Now this is speculation on my part. I think maybe David related to Jacob. I think, now this is Leatherman, but I think David's failures bothered him. I think they ate at him How many people agree with me? You murder a man in cold blood, that's that might bother you Adultery. And all the others that were affected by that and his family falling apart. And he references that here in a little bit. And I think it bothered him. I don't know how you are, but you know, sometimes I look in the mirror and I look at myself and I think, man, alive, how in the world can God even use me? Can anybody ever feel that way? How in the world? What in the world? God And I think David remembered that Jacob was a mess. And yet God used him in powerful, powerful ways. And I think what he was saying was that God that is very, very patient With sinful man, the God that can take people that mess things up and turn them around and turn and make them into something, that God is the God that anointed me of all people He says, God anointed me. God elevated me to this position. God anointed me to this position. David recognized it was God's grace and not David's greatness. That got him to this place. And then he says in verse number two, notice this. Well, the end of verse 1, it references, and the sweet psalmist of Israel. Isn't that a cool name for David? Just the sweet psalmist of Israel. It gives you a tells you a little bit about his disposition, his demeanor. He's just a sweet psalmist. Now, what does he mean by psalmist? He penned scores of psalms that are in our Bible. But look what he says in verse 2. People know him as the sweet psalmist of Israel, but look what he says. The Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his word was in my tongue. What's he saying? Talk to me. What's he saying? He's saying it's God. God did it. God spoke through me. I wrote the words down, but it was God. speaking his word through me. What's the theological term we use for that? God speaking through man to record scripture Inspiration. God inspired. God wrote it. Take your Bible. Now keep your place here. I want to go to the New Testament real quick. Take a little rabbit trail here. And go with me to 2 Peter. Chapter 1, all the way back, we're studying 1 Peter, go to 2 Peter. 2 Peter is right after 1 Peter. Good. And come with me to the last verse of the first chapter of 2 Peter. Peter is saying what David is saying Thousand years later. He says, for the prophecy, and when he's using the term prophecy there, he's referencing scripture as a whole. He's using that term, but he's referring to scripture. But the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man. But holy men of God. Would you agree with me, David would qualify as a holy man of God? It's a man after God's own heart. But holy men of God spake as they were what? Moved by the Holy Ghost. Here is the amazing thing about the Bible. Anybody ever say this to you? Did you ever try and witness someone And they said this, ah, the Bible's just written by man. Anyone ever hear that? Sure. You know what I say? I say, you're right. It is written by man, but it's inspired by God. Man wrote it down, but God inspired them. When it says there, they were moved by the Holy Ghost. What that word moved there actually comes from the same idea of where you put a sailboat up and you put the sail up and that wind moves the sailboat. It pushes it along And what the Bible teaches us about the Bible is when David and others sat down and penned these scriptures, when David had these various psalms at different periods of his life. He'd write down which some of them were poetry in their initial writing. David is saying, it was God moving on my mind. It was God stirring my thoughts. It was God putting those concepts in my mind. And I wrote them down, but it was God inspiring it. What he's saying is we have the Word of God. Pen by man, but it's God's word to us. I did a funeral yesterday, and I like to sometimes, when I do a funeral, I like often I should say, I like to use Psalm 23 And I like to introduce it by taking people back in their minds a little bit, back to outside of, uh, out on one of the sides of the mountains of Israel 3,000 years ago, and a young boy watching his sheep, and he sees the sheep, and he's thinking about his role as a shepherd, and he sits down and begins writing: The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. And what a beautiful passage of scripture. But David is saying here, he's saying, you know what, folks? Hey, this is my final last words. You know what? That was God stirring on me. That's from God. So he says God inspired him, God elevated him, God anointed him. David's Psalms had a profound impact on Israel and all of mankind now for several thousand years. But he quickly clarifies it's God doing it. It's God doing it. It's God doing it. Second Peter 1. 21 is simply telling how David, how God used David to record his word. Then number three, quickly. Come back here to 2 Samuel, if you would, a couple more observations from his final words. Number two, number three, he had regard for future generations. Now he's an old man. He's seven anybody in their 70s is old man, I'll tell you right there. Actually, 70 is getting younger all the time for me. So he's in his 70s here at this point, maybe early 70s. And he's making his final statement, and he wants to make it clear. We need to be concerned about the next generation coming along behind us. Notice what he says here back, verse number three. The God of Israel said, the rock of Israel spake to me, interesting how he refers to God, he that ruleth over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God. He refers to the person, whoever it's going to be, whether he knows at this point or not, he probably did know it's going to be Solomon. But he's saying, whoever is going to follow me on the throne, whoever is going to hold this position after I'm gone, the king of the next generation of Israel Needs to be just. He needs to fear God. David was concerned that the next generation had godly leadership. He was concerned that the young people following him had somebody over them that did what was right, that feared God. He was concerned for the future generation. He knows whoever's going to follow him on the throne is going to have a profound impact on the next generation. Not all kings of Israel had that concern. Did you know there are some people, did you know there are some people that all they care about and all they worry about is themselves? Take your Bibles with me if you would, just real quickly. I want to I want to show you a fellow here that did not share David's concern. 2 Kings, if you would, turn there, 1st and 2 Samuel And then 1 and 2 Kings come to 2 Kings, right after 1 Kings, and go to chapter 20, and we got this fellow Hezekiah. Hezekiah was a good man. Revival came to Israel. This is years after David is gone. And Hezekiah is now king, and he's a good man, he's a good king. Great revival comes, but he gets old. And he got sick and he prayed and asked the Lord. And the prophet Isaiah came and said, Listen, you better put your house in order. You're not going to live very long. Remember, anybody here familiar with Hezekiah's situation? He goes, what's he do? He prays to God. And he basically says this: God, I've been a good king. And I've been faithful to you and I've trusted you. Please extend my life. Now I'm putting it in my own words, of course. And God answers this prayer and gives them. Anybody remember how many more years? Fifteen more years. And he messes up. Towards the end of his life, he messed up bad, that 15-year extension. That God gave to him, rather than ending on a high note and strong for the Lord, he messed up. Bunch of folks from uh, I think it was Babylon show up. And takes them all through his house and he shows them everything. And very, very dangerous thing to do, very, very foolish thing to do. And God rebukes them sharply. And look what he says here. We're at verse number 2 Kings chapter 20. And look with me if you would at verse number 19. Well, back up to verse 16. Isaiah said to Hezekiah, hear the word of the Lord. Behold, the days come that because he did this All that is in thine house, and all which thy fathers have laid up in store unto this day shall be carried unto Babylon. Nothing shall be left, saith the Lord. All that preparation for the next generation is going to be gone. They're not going to have any of it. Their freedoms are going to be taken away. Their prosperity is taken away. Nothing shall be left. And of thy sons that shall issue from thee, which thou shalt beget, they shall take away, the Babylonians shall they take away, and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon. Would you agree with me? It looks to me that would break your heart. Man, I've just messed up bad, and the next generation is gonna suffer consequences because of my actions. My boys. Those following are going to lose their liberty and their prosperity. It's going to be awful. But look how Hezekiah responds Then said Hezekiah unto Isaiah, Good is the word of the Lord which thou hast spoken. And he said, Is it not good? And I I'm wondering, the way it's worded here, I'm wondering, Isaiah tells Hezekiah, this awful consequences of his actions. And Hezekiah says, Well, good is the word of the Lord. And I'm wondering the way he reacts, the next statement, I'm wondering if Isaiah went, huh? Good is the word of the Lord? Because look what he says, follow-up statement. Look what he says. Is it not good if peace and truth be, what's the last three words? In my days. Oh, good. I'm not going to have to deal with that. Oh, good. It's just the boys and the next generation. It's going to be peace in my days. Do you agree with me? That's awfully selfish. And and let me just I should probably send this, let me just throw a political statement in here. When our government is spending our grandkids money, they don't care about the next generation. Running future generations into debt. And David was concerned for the next generation, unlike Hezekiah. Come over to 2 Kings chapter 21, just a page over and look at verse number 2. Manasseh is Hezekiah's son. He follows Hezekiah as king of Israel. And look at verse 2. And he did that which was what? Evil in his sight. Hezekiah was a good king. He lived his life faithful. Great revival came. He made things right that were wrong. He run things out that were wrong that ought not to have been there, and he put things in place that should have been there. But at the end of his life, he got self-centered, he got caught up in himself, and the next generation suffered. I tell you, we have got to think about those who are coming behind us. We've got to stay faithful to God. We gotta invest in future generations. I'm thankful for our church. We invest a lot of money and effort and time and resources. into reaching the next generation for Christ. We build a building that's going to outlast every one of us sitting here, no doubt. We pray that it'll be used to glorify God and advance the gospel. David was concerned for future generations. His final pronouncement to Israel was. We need to work, we need to invest in the future. Notice real quickly, I'm trying to wind this down here. Now come back here to 2 Samuel 23 real quick. And he's talking about the leadership. He says we need leaders for the next generation. They're going to have a profound impact on them. And he says, first of all, we need leaders who do right. Look what he says. He that ruleth over men must be just Oh, by the way, notice he says here, he that ruleth over men. He doesn't just say he that ruleth. I think he's reminding them: hey, kings, the people you're ruling over are men, not cattle. I think sometimes our political leaders forget that we are human beings too. They forget we got brains, we got head, that we got they they they treat us sometimes they and I know I'm getting a little off here but Don't you feel sometimes they treat us like we're sheep, like we're stupid sheep, just blandly lie Um I worked on a farm for four years at Dairy Farm uh as a young teen into my actually most of my teen years, uh part big part of my teen years, and um you know you can you can trick cows into doing stuff. You know, they don't want to come in, but uh there's various things you can do to get them to do what you want. Uh not the least of which is a good dog bite them in the leg. Gets them to move, gets them going. And David's reminding the rulers that are come after him, the folks are going to fill the leadership roles after him. Hey, you're ruling men, not cattle. Ruler of men, ruler of men. They need to be respected. They need to be treated with respect. They need to be treated with fairness. They needed to be treated honestly. I think when he says, he that ruleth over men is reminding the rulers that the people you're ruling are no different than you. I learned something early on in the pastorate. You know, the pastor is, biblical term, is a shepherd, an under-shepherd for the flock of God. Anybody ever you've heard that? Sure. It's Bible The pastor is an under-shepherd under Christ, providing oversight for the flock of God. But I learned early on, you know what? The shepherd is also one of the sheep. And these churches, these denominations that put a distinction between the clergy and the layman, I don't like those terms, because there is we're all we're w we all is the same Right? David's reminding, hey, you're just they're just people like you. You're no different. You're no better. No more important. You're no more valuable. He wants the men in position that are right to affect the next generation. And then they need to fear God. How I treat others and how I use authority that God gives to me is a clear indication of my fear of God. Somebody fears God, they're going to respect Others. They're going to respect the position responsibility they have. Somebody doesn't fear God, they're going to abuse others, and they're going to abuse their authority. David said, Oh, whoever follows me needs to be just. They need to fear God. And then verse 4. I studied verse 4, studied verse 4. I think he's saying this: they need to be a blessing. Look where he says, and he shall be as this guy, whoever is going to rule over Israel, he that ruleth over men, he shall be as the light of the morning. When the sun riseth, even a morning without clouds, don't you love it in the morning that sun comes up, there's no clouds, just a beautiful day. And then he mentions the grass there, he says the tender grass springing out of the earth by clear shining, rain during the night, the grass is wet, that sun comes up, there's no clouds, and man that gr grass is just reflecting the sun. It's all shiny. Anybody picture that in your mind right now? And I think what he's saying is the man that rules over the people of God, over men, needs to be a blessing to them, just like that sun's a blessing in the morning, and it helps and encourages and warms people. David's concern for the next generation. David gave himself for the well-being of the next generation. Remember, he provided all those materials for the temple? He wanted to build a temple, and God said, You can't, you're a bloody man, you're fighting wars, you're not going to be able to do that right. Your son will do it. He goes, All right, if I can't go, then I'm going to get everything, if I can't do it, then I'm going to get everything I can and make it make it ready for the next people He invested in the future generation. And now he's instructing those who are going to be rulers over the next generation. And he says, you better do right, and you better fear God and you better be a blessing. For that next generation. And then last of all, quickly I end with this. He regrets some things in his own life. And this is what got me, verse five. Although my house be not so with God, says I didn't always fear God like I should. There was a big part of my minute my my kingship, or I wasn't a blessing. He said there was times I didn't do right. My household did not live up to what I'm wanting the next generation to have. My household hasn't done it. I think his failures bothered him. He ate at him. It says, My house has not been so with God. Yet he hath made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things ensure. For this is my salvation. You know what David's saying? He's saying, My salvation is not based on my behavior. It's based on God's covenant, God's promise to me. I've blown it. Bad. But yet God's been true and God's been faithful. And then verse 6 and 7, it's kind of ugly there, but there's some men That uh are pretty wicked, sons of Belial, worthless. And he says, You can't uh but the sons of Belial shall all of them be as thorns thrust away, because they cannot be taken with hands. These guys are so violent, these guys are so wild You can't even take them in. They can't be controlled. It reminds me of the maniac of Gadera. He says, But the man that shall touch them must be fenced with iron. And the staff of a spear, I mean, he needs to be heavily armored if he's going to take deal with these guys. And they shall be utterly burned with fire in the same place. I think he's referencing hell. David regrets the fact that there were some lawless men still loose in Israel. I wonder, based on verse number five, I wonder if David isn't holding himself somewhat responsible because his behavior had enabled such wicked men. Remember Absalom's attitude? Others David regretted His shortcomings and how he had so failed God. But his hope was still in the promises of God. I tell you what, what I take away from this is this, we cannot get too caught up in ourselves. Not the good things that God has enabled us to do, and not the total failures that we've done ourselves. But we've got to keep our eyes on the Lord. We've got to set an example for those coming behind us. God can take a mess and make something out of it. I was reading this week about a missionary. I love to read biographies and stuff like that. And I was reading about a missionary, and I really don't know much about him except this one event That took place. He was a missionary in the Philippines. Apparently, this was a number of years ago, quite some time ago. And um He and his family decided they were going to take a day off. They'd been busy in the ministry and just 24-7 for a long time. And he told the family, we're just taking a day, and we're going to go into town We're just going to enjoy ourselves for a day. Just relax and just a little distraction here for a day. And I got in there and there was a school for silversmiths In other words, people that made things out of silver. And this master of the school, what they call the master, he's like the teacher of the school, he was there working on some things, and they were watching and captivated And the fellow was making a money clip out of silver, custom-made. He melded down, he formed it, and hammered it and built it around. And the missionary said, Boy, I'd like to have that. That's an amazing thing. And lo and behold, he bought it off the guy. And he just loved that little thing he had gotten, that little money clip. It meant so much to him. He saw it made by a master money a silversmith and it was just perfect. And he used it and used it and used it for a number of years. And one day he kind of wore that thing out and it broke And he thought, oh no. He says, let's go back to the city. They went back, found the old master, and he showed it to me. He says, look, here's that money clip you made me years ago, and I it's broken. And the guy looked at it and he says, yup, that's mine. That's my work there. I made that thing. Custom made that. And the missionary said, I know, I know you did. He said, but can you fix it? Well that's one of my custom designs. He says, I know it is. I know you made it. I know it. Can you fix it? And he says the old silversmith looked up at him and looked him in the eye, and he says, if I made it, I can fix it I can fix it. And I thought about David and what he was saying. I thought about you and I. You know, sometimes we can do things and we can be broken. But God made us and He can fix us. God made us and he can fix us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to take our broken pieces. Bring them to you and let you fix us. I pray, Father, for the next generation coming behind that they could see in our lives what God can do through someone, what God can do, what you can do, Lord, through someone. And we'll just come back to you. Just trust you. And just let you lead us. Father, I ask you to bless now. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, God spoke to my heart tonight, and I want God to have his way in my life. Maybe there's some specific area. God dealt with your heart. And you say, preacher, pray for me. I need the Lord to help me some areas. God bless you. Hands all around David's life is an example for us that we can be better Christians. We can be stronger in our faith. We can overcome failures. And God will help us if we'll trust Him. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation.