John chapter number 14. I'd like for us to look at two verses to get us started this morning. Verse number 16 in John chapter 14 And then down in verse number 26. And I would like for us to read this together in unison, if you would. You got your Bible there, John chapter 14. Look with me if you would at verse 16. Let's all read let's read it all together. Ready? Here we go. Verse 16. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. Then down to verse 26, if you would notice. Let's read it together. Here we go. But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things. and bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said unto you. The Comforter The Comforter. I want to speak this morning about our Comforter. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for a new day, a new Lord's day. We start off uh uh off the week in your house, and I pray that your presence would be here, Lord, in a very evident way. I pray that uh you would take the verses that we look at this morning and uh the passages we read and the truths that we focus on, and I pray you would speak to our hearts and help us, Lord, challenge us, stretch our faith, Lord, help us to step out and in our Christian life and grow. I ask, Lord, with all my heart, that you please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and Lord, without you we can do nothing. And so I pray that you would speak through me, and that you would be the preacher and open our hearts and minds, that we make good decisions in response to what you teach us today. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. At this point in time in John chapter 14, Jesus is, his earthly ministry is winding down. For three and a half years, he had these twelve men, his twelve disciples, with him, pretty much 24-7. And he had been teaching them, he had been discipling his disciples. He was teaching them the things of God. What he was doing was he was preparing these twelve men for this phenomenal ministry they were going to have after the Lord ascends to heaven. in establishing the church and uh beginning the New Testament church and use them in a phenomenal way. So there was uh some pretty intense training taking place here. Of course one of them was the devil and d denied him, Judas as Iscariot denied the Lord, and uh and uh but he was in the mix here with them. But the Lord's ministry is winding down. He had been teaching these disciples for three and a half years They had been with him. They heard with their very ears some of the most profound truths that have ever been stated and ever been taught in all the history of man. I think in Matthew chapter 5 through 7, the Sermon on the Mount is without a doubt some of the greatest teachings on life and faith and s and uh uh the Lord and eternity that has ever been taught when Jesus Christ preached the Sermon on the Mount. These disciples heard that with their own ears They sat there. They heard the voice of Jesus Christ literally teaching them and preaching and instructing them on these things. The Lord Jesus Christ took three and a half years and he taught the disciples what it means to live by faith, to trust God in any circumstance, in all circumstances, whatever the need is, whatever the situation may be. However dire the circumstances may be, he was teaching his disciples that we should trust God. Have faith in God. Boy, what a great truth that is How many folks here would like to be able to sit down and hear tea hear Jesus himself with his own lips teach about what it means to live by faith? Wouldn't that be something? They heard that They were right there. He taught them uh what it means to live by faith. He taught them what real love is. You know, the world's version of love and what love really is are two different things. We understand that, right? And Jesus Christ is the love of God personified. And they heard Jesus speak of love and what it means to love. They heard the Lord Jesus Christ speak about eternity. He taught them about the realities of heaven and hell. In Luke chapter 16, he uh told uh uh an actual event that took place and it actually It's a uh the way I view it there in Luke 16 is Jesus opened up a picture window into hell, and he taught the disciples about the rich man and Lazarus and what the horrors of hell are like. They heard it from the Lord Jesus Christ. Some people say, well, preacher, we ought not to be preaching on hell this day. We're a modern age. Tell you what, Jesus taught on hell. In fact, he preached and taught on hell more than he did about heaven. He said in one place. The disciples heard him say this. He said in one place, he says, if your right eye offends thee, pluck it out. It's better to go into heaven with one eye than to go to hell with two eyes. I mean people agree that's pretty serious stuff there. If your right hand offends thee, it's better to cut off your right hand and go to heaven with one hand than go to hell with two. Your right foot offend thee, cut off your foot and go. Now he's not saying you've got to pull your eyes out and cut your foot and leg off to get to heaven. But what he's saying is hell is so horrific, we ought to be willing to do whatever it takes to get to heaven. Escape hell. Jesus taught this. And the disciples heard this for three and a half years. They heard him speak with authority about heaven and hell and eternity. About what it is to love and what it means to love and what it means to be loved by God. He taught them how to live by faith and what all that involves. He taught them what genuine goodness was, and he would reference the Pharisees. And he would say, their goodness and their righteousness is outward. It's a facade. But inwardly they're uh they're uh uh they're they're empty tombs with dead man's bones. And what he was saying was Real goodness is not just a show I put on, but it comes from a heart that God has changed through faith in Christ. And the disciples heard this A teaching on what real goodness is, and he taught them and warned them about hypocrisy. He taught them an interesting concept that was new to many of them, and that is this: if we know Jesus Christ as our Savior, God is our Heavenly Father. They came to Jesus one time and they said, Lord, teach us to pray. They saw Jesus praying and they heard him speak to God the Father, God the Son, speaking to God the Father. And then impacted them in such a way it produced a hunger and a desire in their heart. We want to pray like that. We want that type of prayer relationship with God. Teach us to pray. And Jesus said, pray after this manner. And listen to the first words he said, Our Father, which art in heaven. You know what he was doing? He was teaching those disciples that our relationship with God as a believer is that of a father and a child. And what a wonderful thing that is, to view God not just as my creator, not just as the judge of all the earth, but God is my Father. And I can come directly to him in prayer. You imagine the disciples, I don't know about you, but I think in my mind, I think, I wonder if they really appreciated The experiences they were having, if they really grasped the opportunity that they had to be a direct disciple of Jesus Christ, I think eventually they did. Or maybe at the time they didn't fully get him. So they heard Jesus Christ teach these things. They heard right from his very lips with their own ears. They heard Jesus teach about the importance of forgiveness Brother, if we don't learn about forgiveness in our Christian life, we're not going to be much of a Christian. And I'm talking about not just our own being forgiven, but forgiving also. In fact, he said, if we can't forgive others, then we're going to have a hard time being forgiven. And so for three and a half years, the disciples followed Jesus around Israel. And they heard him speak these things and they saw great crowds come. And Jesus would teach of God and he would teach of eternity and he would teach these profound spiritual truths. that really in the centuries to follow shook the world. And they heard it. Live, right there. For three and a half years, Jesus had his disciples and they saw with their very eyes these miracles that Jesus performed. They saw Jesus would speak to a lame man, rise up and walk. And time and time again, a man would that was lame from his birth. Jesus would stand upon thy feet, rise up, and miraculously those legs would receive strength, and they'd be healed, and they get up and they walk, many times go off leaping and praising God How many people here your jaw would drop if you saw that? Man, alive. And uh they saw this with their very eyes They saw Jesus Christ for three and a half years come across a blind man. And Jesus would maybe in some instances he touched their eyes. And they could see. In one instance, as I think find this interesting, and I'm not sure all the significance to it, but one instance, Jesus spit in the ground and made some mud and wiped it on the man's eyes. I never imagined God spitting. But Jesus spit on the ground. And the disciples look and their mind, their gears and their mind are working. What kind of man is this? Who is this that we are following? They saw him make the lame miraculously enable the lame to walk and heal the blind. The dumb speak Now, I've heard dumb people speak. No comments right now, by the way. But folks that never spoke a word, Jesus would miraculously heal their tongue, loose their tongue is what the Bible says. The deaf would hear They saw this. Miraculous things. The devils cast out of children and adults. The dead raised. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine going to a funeral with the Lord Jesus Christ every time he goes that the dead person's up and alive? Alright, cancel the funeral, it's over, person's alive, never mind I mean, what an amazing thing to see that. The dead raised, storms and seas calmed In one instance, they're out on the Sea of Galilee, and Jesus is asleep on the boat, and the boat is about to sink. I mean it is being smashed by waves and high winds and these seasoned sailors, many of them are scared to death. They're terrified they're going to die. They come to Jesus Christ. They wake them up Imagine sleeping in that situation. Hey, I tell you, when you're in charge of the weather, you can sleep in any storm, right? And Jesus gets up and stands no doubt on the bow of that ship, and he yells out, speaks out with authority strongly, peace, be still. How did their disciples respond? What man is this? And even the winds and the seas obey his voice. They're dumbfounded. They're overwhelmed by the power and authority and the wisdom and the insight of this man Jesus. They're falling in love with him. In fact, they have come to the point in their life where they have dedicated every aspect of their life to Jesus Christ. They have forsaken all. They've left jobs, in some cases, family behind. And they're following the Lord Jesus Christ. They saw multitudes fed with just a little bread and some fish. So for three and a half years, Jesus has these men with him. He's training them. He's teaching them. Many times he'd pull them aside, just them, and apart from the crowds, and he'd say, Let me tell you some things. But now the tone of Jesus' conversation is changing. In the last chapter or two, he starts saying things he hadn't been saying before. He starts referencing a time not too far in the future where the Son of Man is going to be rejected. He's going to be reviled and despised. They're going to kill him. And on the third day, he's going to rise again. And I'll be honest with you, if you study the gospels very carefully, this threw a curve to the disciples What do you mean you're going to die? What are you talking about? You're going to be reviled and spit on and uh crucified. You're going to rise. What are you talking about? And it disturbed them and it and it turned their world upside down. He starts speaking about his betrayal and his denial, his ultimate departure from them. John chapter 14, the first couple verses there are favorite verses of a lot of people. Look what he says there in verse 14. He says, Let not your heart chapter 14, verse 1, let not your heart be troubled. Why would he say that? Because their hearts were what? Troubled. They're upset. They're disturbed by some of the things Jesus has been telling them. He goes on, assures them that he's got a place for them, my father's house, many men, I go to prepare a place for you. But what are they so troubled about? Why does he say Let not your heart be troubled. He's looking at them. In fact, if you go back to chapter thirteen, the last part of chapter thirteen, you find out when he says that, let not your heart be troubled He's not speaking to the disciples as a crowd. He's speaking to one individual person when he says that. Look there in chapter 13, if you would, up uh uh verse number 36 Um he says, uh let me make sure. Look come up to verse 33 first Here he's speaking to the disciples as a group, his disciples, little children, and by the way, this is in the upper room, just before he goes to the Garden of Gethsemane. He says, Little children, yet a little while I'm with you. And ye shall seek me, and as I said unto the Jews, or earlier I had said this to the Jews, whither I go, ye cannot come. So now I say to you. And in the minds of the disciples, they're thinking, what is he talking about? He's going somewhere we can't go? What's he talking about? And come down to verse 36 now. Look, Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? What do you mean you're going away? Come over to chapter 14, verse 5. Thomas saith unto him, we know not whither thou goest. Or when you get when do you say you're going away? We don't know where you're going. What are you talking about? And I can just hear among the disciples, Judas is gone at this point, the eleven disciples there with him in that upper room, and they're just What does he mean? What's he talking about? He's going away. He's going away. We've left everything for him. We've forsaken all for him. We've committed our lives to him. Now he's gone away And their world is turning upside down. Look what Peter says there in 13 verse 36, chapter 13, verse 36. Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now. Thou shalt follow me afterwards. Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? What are you talking about? Why can't I follow you now? I will lay down my life for thy sake. Look at this. Jesus answered him: Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily I say unto thee, the cock shall not crow till thou hast denied me thrice. Now we know a little bit about Peter in studying him in the Gospels Anybody anybody think the way I do? That threw Peter for a loop. Gonna deny you? I'll never deny you. I'll die before I deny you. Oh yeah Before the cock crows thrice, you're going to deny me. Within 12 hours of this statement, Peter does exactly what he says he would not do. Their world is being turned upside down. Everything they believed in is being changed. Everything they anticipated, all what they thought would take place, is not taking place. Jesus is going to be crucified. The fact that Jesus was going away bothered the disciples deeply. Whither goest thou? We don't know where you're going. This was not what they were anticipating. You say, preacher, what were they anticipating? What did they think was going to happen? Here's the problem. You and I look back on this with an awareness of the crucifixion, with an awareness of what this plan was all about. We already know how this plays out. At that point in time they had no idea. They had plans. They had thoughts. They envisioned how their commitment to Jesus Christ was going to play out. Anybody here ever go somewhere, maybe you're going to go on vacation, you had it all planned out in your mind, you just envisioned what it was going to be like, and you got there, and it wasn't anything like what you thought That's what's happening to these guys. You say, well, what did they think was going to happen? What they thought was going to happen, they thought Jesus was going to overthrow the Romans. They thought Jesus was going to set up the kingdom of Israel, the kingdom of the throne of David, and rule physically, literally, right there from Jerusalem at that point. He was the Messiah. He is the Christ. He's the son of David. He's going to re-establish Israel's glory. He's going to re-establish Israel's independence. He's going to re-establish the kingdom of Israel. But that wasn't God's plan. Now, will Jesus ever re-establish the throne of David? Will he ever re-establish Israel's kingdom? Yes. That's a future event, but there's a whole lot more has to take place in between there. And the disciples did not see it And so he talks about his crucifixion, he's talking about being dying, he's talking about going away, and they and they can't come with him. This is not what they envisioned. How do you set up a kingdom? What do you mean They were envisioning Jesus establishing his reign as King of Israel. What Jesus was saying to them made no sense at all. In fact, what Jesus was telling them about going away, I want to submit to you, scared them to death. This is not the way it's supposed to work out. You're wrong. Basically what they said. And so they're disturbed. There's confusion. There's fear. And I want to say this: doubts are creeping in. He said, one of you is going to betray me. Just before this, one of you is going to betray me. Not one of them thought it was Judas. Do you notice that? Nobody said, oh, we know who that is. It's Judas. No. Judas had such a uh a flawless facade, nobody anticipated him. In fact, when they said one of you is going to betray me Who did they start saying they thought it would be? Is it I? Is it me? Peter? Is it I? John? Is it I? Thaddeus? Is it I? Bartholomew? Is it I? Doubts are creeping in. I don't know. Fear and doubts are starting to creep in. And so for the next few chapters, I said all this to set this up. Chapter 14, 15, 16, and even into 17. If you'll study it very carefully, Jesus starts making some tremendously encouraging statements. He's reassuring them that everything's going to be alright. He's encouraging them Uh that uh he's in control and he has everything in control. Chapter 14 through 17 of John The Gospel of John are some of the most encouraging passages you'll find in all the New Testament, all the Bible. In my father's house are many mansions. Oh, he says there verse 2, in my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you, Peter. He's talking to Peter. I go to prepare a place for you. Where are you going? I'm going to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again that where I am and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be all. So when he comes down through here and you read these chapters. And are some of the most encouraging statements and some of the most uh uh uh uh uplifting statements in all the New Testament. I may be speaking to somebody this morning who's gone through a valley. I've talked to somebody this morning, perhaps, and I would say no doubt that's discouraged. And you're thinking, man, I don't know. Can God use me? I don't know. I've blown it. I've this, I'm that, this, I'm going through. Doesn't look like things are working out the way I thought they would. Can I challenge you to read John chapter 14, 15, 16, and 17? I'd venture to say God would use that to help encourage you and give you a different perspective on your circumstances. Some of the most encouraging passages in all of Scripture. In John chapter 14 through 17, you'll find some passages that are many people's favorite passages. Oh, I love John 14, 1 through 6. All through here. And in this section, it's in the upper room. He's going to go in a little bit, they're going to leave. They're going to cross the little brook, Kidron. They're going to go up into the uh uh the Garden of Gethsemane there Jesus is gonna pray he's gonna sweat great drops of blood under the pressure and intensity of what he's about to go through There, Judas is going to show up and betray him. The soldiers will take him down in the early hours of the morning, down before the high priest, he'll be condemned. He'll go before Pilate, condemned, and eventually be crucified in just a few hours. And he makes a statement in this passage here four times. He references the Holy Spirit as their comforter. Look again with me if you would at chapter 14 and verse number 16. Now keep the context in mind. They've committed everything to him. They've seen him do things nobody else in the history of the world has ever done. They've heard truths that are profound. Now he says, I'm going away, I'm going to die. And he says to them, verse 16, I will pray the Father, and he will give you another comforter. That he may abide with you forever. Again, down in verse 26. But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he'll teach you all things. And then bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever said unto you. Come over, if you would, to chapter 15. Look at verse 26. John 15, verse 26. He says again, same conversation, just later on in the conversation, he says, but when the comforter is come. Whom I will send to you from the Father. Even this Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me One more over in chapter 16 and verse 7. Again, the same conversation, a little later on. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth. It is expedient for you that I go away. I have to go away. For if I do not away, the what? Comforter will not come unto you But if I depart, I'll send him unto you. What's Jesus doing? He's encouraging his disciples. And he refers to the Holy Spirit four times as the comforter who he is going to send. The disciples are about to lose the physical presence of Jesus Christ. That's all they've ever known. From the days on the side beside the Sea of Galilee when he said, Matthew, follow me. When he called John and Peter and James and said, Follow me, I'll make you fishers of men. All they've ever known was the physical presence of Jesus Christ. All they've ever known was his audible voice speaking to them And now he's going to go away and he says, I'm going to send the Holy Spirit who is the comforter. And he will be with you. Disciples are upset about losing the physical presence of Christ, but God promised them the one who would be a comfort to them. just as Jesus was to them. Did you catch that? Come back to chapter 14 and verse 16. He made a little statement there He says, I will send you the Father, and he shall give you, what's the word, another comforter. Now that word another there has two meanings. It's used two different ways. One way, and that word another is used, is one Of the same kind. Another one, but it's the same kind. For instance, I have here a Bible truth hymn book. And Brother Fox will be very happy on promoting his hymn book. I have one here. Alright, I need another one. Alright, I'll go over here. Alright, here's another one. It's not the same one, but it's the same kind. You follow? How many people are glad you came to church today and found out that it means the same one another one of the same kind? This is profound stuff here. This is good stuff, I think. Mark says, I got a hymn book. I need another hymn book. And what if I brought him? Alright, I'll get you another hymn book. Here's a hymn book. It has songs and everything in it. It's another one, but is it the same time? No, Mark says, you knucklehead, that's not what I want. I want one of the same kind. Uh-oh. So that word there, um, I don't know what to do with these now. That word, another comforter, has two ideas, two meanings behind it. One is another of the same kind, and the other definition is another, but it's a whole different kind. When Jesus said, I'll send you another comforter, he was saying, I'm going to send you a comforter that is the same kind of comforter I am. He's not different. He's the same. He's the same. I'm a little ahead of myself, but I think what he was telling him there, he was saying, listen, I'm I've got it's expedient. I have to go away. I've got to pay a price, I've got to pay the sins of the world. I've got to send, be at the right hand of the Father, but I'm going to send another comforter, the Holy Spirit, and he's going to be to you the same thing I am to you. What I've been to you for the last three and a half years, the Holy Spirit will be to you. The comfort I brought you, the protection you had, the the uh the direction, the leadership you got from me The strength, the spiritual strength you received from me, I'm going to send you another comfort of the same kind, and he's going to come and he's going to be all that to you that I was to you. You get it? Another comforter. And then the word comforter is a fascinating word. I will send you another Comforter. It has a wide range of meanings, that word comforter there. It could mean a lot of different things. There's three ways it's used primarily. One is, it comes from a word meet it's paraclete, it means to come down to be with. Raymond's sitting over here, and um I say, alright, I'm gonna be, I'm gonna come down here, and I'm gonna be with Raymond. Hey Raymond. Good to see ya. No. We'll watch westerns together. Okay. Dinosaurs, okay So the idea of the word comforter there is somebody that leaves one place and comes down and is with another one. Right there with them. Another definition for the word comforter is to is uh let me read it to you here. It means one who is my advocate What does an advocate do? An advocate stands before a judge and plead the cause of another person, right? You have advocates. A lawyer would be my advocate in the court of law. In first John chapter two and verse number one, the Bible says, if any man sin We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. That word advocate comes from the same word as the word comforter here. Advocate. And then there's a third definition for the word comforter, and that is this, one who comes to help me. One who comes to assist me or aid me in an endeavor or a situation. Now you say, well, preacher, what does it mean here? You look at the context. And the context, how this word is used, tells us that what Jesus is referring to when he says another comforter, one just like me, just different, another one, but it's the same kind as me Is going to come for you. What he's saying is he's referring to this first and the third definition I gave. The first one is he's going to come and be with you. The Holy Spirit, disciples, is going to come and he's going to be with you. And he is going to help you. He is going to aid you. He is going to assist you and enable you in the things you have to do in life. So another comforter, another comforter. The Holy Spirit is going to be to the disciples what Jesus was to his disciples when he was here on earth. Another comforter, another one, just like Jesus. Just as Jesus led his disciples, the Holy Spirit's going to lead the disciples. Read the book of Acts, how the Holy Spirit led them. Jesus, just as Jesus taught his disciples, the Holy Spirit is going to teach the disciples. Verse number 26, he says, He shall teach you all things. Just as Jesus empowered the disciples, the Bible, he sent his disciples out, and the Bible says he gave him power. Gave them power as they went out to preach. The Holy Spirit gives us power, just like Jesus did. The Holy Spirit is to the disciples what Jesus Christ will do. Just as Jesus encouraged the disciples, the Holy Spirit will encourage the disciples. Now my message this morning is this. My message this morning is to believers. How many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. How many young folks say do you know it? Say amen. How many middle aged here say do you know it? Say amen. That's the rest of us, right? Middle aged is the rest of us. That's who the message is to. Those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, maybe by chance I'm talking to someone this morning, you've never trusted Christ. You've never been saved. You've never been born again into the family of God. Maybe somebody online or somebody here. And I say, I have to say this: if you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, you don't have this comforter. These verses and these promises don't apply to you. If any man be without the Spirit of God, he's none of his. He's none of his. It's possible he'd be very religious. It's possible he'd be very to sing hymns and be faithful to church. It's possible to have all that, but yet not have salvation Not have the Holy Spirit of God. So this message is to believers and Jesus, what he said to his disciples, is still holds true to his disciples back then still holds true to his disciples today in 2021. He says, you have another comforter Now I want to real quickly, I only got a couple minutes, I want to give you three thoughts about this comforter. Number one, he is an individual comforter. Now, let me explain what I mean by that. Look at verse 16. There's a very important word in verse 16. Everybody okay? Everybody with me? Alright, most that's the majority. Verse 16, I will pray the Father, he shall give you another comforter. Now there's an important word here. I circled it. That I will give you another comforter. Look here, verse 16. I will give you another comforter. That, what's the next word? He may abide with you forever. Come down to verse 26. But the comforter, which the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name He shall teach you all things. What do you mean by he's an individual comforter? What I mean by that is this comforter, the Holy Spirit, is not some impersonal force. Just a force for good, a spiritual force for good. I was uh talking to a man, this has been several years ago, number of years ago now, uh in our community, a leader in our community. I respect I have great respect for him and um uh very well known and uh has a key role in our community. And I was in his house and we were talking of the Lord And I was trying to explain some things about the Lord, and he made this statement. Oh, he says, you mean like the force be with you. Any people, anybody familiar with that phrase? The force be with you. It's something on TV, I don't know what it is, but. Yeah, I know. I know it's true. Oh, it's just the Holy Spirit is like the force is with you. And I said, No, it's not like the force is with you. This comforter, the Holy Spirit, whom Jesus Christ will send from the Father, that will be with us. It's not just some spiritual force, some spiritual electricity that fires us up and enables us. No, the Holy Spirit is a person. With personality that communicates and understands and responds, that feels, has feelings, emotions, has a will, an intellect. Say, well, the Holy Spirit doesn't have a body. No, but you don't have to have a body to be a person. He's a person. He's the third person of the Godhead. And Jesus says, He will be with you. Over and over, Jesus Christ referred to the Holy Spirit as He, as He, as He. If the Holy Spirit, this comforter, was just some force, some impersonal force in my life, some impersonal spiritual energy in my life. Then I would want to have more of it and be able to use it, right? If that's what the Holy Spirit was, the comforter is just some force Man, I want as much of that force I can get. I want as much of that electricity as I can get. I want as much of that spiritual energy as I can get, and I want to use it But the Holy Spirit is not a force, he's not an energy, he's a person. And I don't get more of the Holy Spirit. And I can't use the Holy Spirit as a person He gets more of me, and he uses me. It's not some impersonal force, it's God God Almighty, as much God as much God as God the Father is God As much God as Jesus Christ is God, and He is my Comforter. How many people are encouraged by having God as your comforter? Job had some quote-unquote comforters that came when he was bad. You ever read Job? Boy, they were some comforters, weren't they? In fact, he said to them, and I don't have the reference, he said to them, miserable comforters are y'all. And boy, that was an understatement. But I'll tell you this: God Almighty, the all-wise, the perfectly good, holy, pure, just God, he's not a miserable comforter. He's a good comforter. He knows what I need when I need it. He knows how to direct me and lead me. He knows what tomorrow holds, and the Holy Spirit of God, if I will listen to him. And let him lead me and direct me and encourage me and empower me. He will help me meet tomorrow's challenges just like he did yesterday's challenges. You say, preacher, all I can see ahead of me is darkness. All I see ahead of me is confusion. All I see ahead of me is doubt. I tell you what you need, you need a comforter. And if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, you have God Almighty as your comforter, the person of the Holy Spirit. We had little young people trust Christ a lot of times on Sunday mornings. Who knows, maybe now as I'm speaking, there may be some children downstairs calling on Christ to be their Savior. Wouldn't that be wonderful? Every little child that accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, they have a comforter for the rest of their life who is none other than God Almighty in the person of the Holy Spirit. The individual comforter, a person. The comforter, the Holy Spirit, has all the characteristics of an individual person. He has intelligence. He teaches. Romans 8. 27 tells us he has a mind to think. He testifies of Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit, the Comforter, has emotions. He loves. Hey, do you ever think about how many people here ever were aware of the fact that God loves you? Anybody here? Yeah, that's the greatest news ever. Anybody here ever think uh Jesus loves me? Anybody ever think that Anybody ever think that and get encouraged? Boy, Jesus loves. Jesus loves me. This I know. Now here's what we don't think of much. The Holy Spirit loves me. God Almighty and the person of the Holy Spirit, whom God sends to me as an individual person, loves me. The Holy Spirit loves me. Say, preacher, if he loves me so much, how comes when I go to church he convicts me so much? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Getting convicted? Yeah. You know why he convicts us? Because he loves us. He don't want to continue on in sin. You agree with me, a parent loves their child, they'll correct them when they're doing wrong. Parent loves their child, they'll get out of that street, you knucklehead, you'll get hit by a car. Get in here. Anybody right? Why would you say that? Because you love them. You love them. Holy Spirit loves me. And he as a person will lead me and direct me. He has intelligence. He has a will. The Holy Spirit has emotions. He loves us. He has emotions and he has a will. He gives gifts to the church. Jesus Christ, uh when I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit gave me different gifts and abilities spiritual gifts that I can use and should use for His glory and for the advancement of the gospel and building up the church. Corinthians tells us that How many people here said you were saved? Anyone here? You know when you got saved, the Holy Spirit gave you gifts according to his will? He gave you gifts and abilities and talents to be used for the glory. You say, oh preacher, I don't have none of that. Yeah, you do. Don't call God a liar. You do have gifts, you do have abilities, you have something that the Holy Spirit of God has given to you to be used to contribute to the well-being of the cause of Christ. Well-being the church advance the cause of Christ. So the individual comforter, a person Number two, this comforter is not just an individual, but he's an indwelling comforter. Look there at verse 14 with me real quick. Everybody alright? Everybody okay? I know it's Labor Day. We're getting out of here in a few minutes Look at verse 17. Verse 16, I'll pray the Father will give you another comforter, and he may be abide with you forever. Even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot recede, if you're unsaved, you don't have it, you need to get saved. Because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him. Look at this. But ye know him, verse 17, for he dwelleth with you and shall be what? In you. Not only does the Holy Spirit come to be with me, but He comes and He indwells in me. How about that? One of the clearest truths in all Scripture is the fact that when a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit Himself indwells their body, moves in, becomes a holy tenant in their body, lives within us. What an amazing thing. First Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 16. I wanted to turn there, but we're about out of time. But it says that uh what know ye not that you are not your own, you're a bought with your price, and your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit which dwelleth within you. Now he's writing to believers here. And by the way, they weren't very good Christians, but they were indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. He shall be in you. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 13, that we are sealed by the Spirit of God. He is in us, he seals us, he keeps us. Romans chapter 8 and verse number 9. He that hath not the Spirit is none of his. Person doesn't have the Holy Spirit of God, they're unsaved. Romans chapter 8 and verse 16, same thing. Listen, it's possible very religious and yet not have the Holy Spirit It's possible to shout and cry and sing. You can get up and run the aisles, jump up and down, swing from the chandeliers, but not have the Holy Spirit. It's possible to sing in a choir, it's possible to stand behind a pulpit and preach the ab the Bible and not have the Holy Spirit be unsaved. I have a preacher friend of mine, some of you all met him, a preacher friend of mine got saved after he was in the ministry for years. Never saved. Knew that. No Holy Spirit. No comforter. And so it's an indwelling Holy Spirit. The moment we trust Jesus Christ the Savior, the Holy Spirit moves within us. This comforter is God Himself and He and He dwells within us. Anybody here ever been lonely? Anybody here ever been lonely in your life? Come on now, be honest. Yeah Now, if I'm a child of God, if I've been saved, I may be lonely. But I'm never alone. I'm never alone. He said, he shall be in you, and he will be with you forever. Forever. In you. You could you could take just you could just tap on your chest a little bit and say inside this body right here is the Holy Spirit of God inside my body right now. How many people believe that? It's true. Oh, I'm just so discouraged. Oh, I'm just so scared. Oh, I'm just, everything is, I don't know. I get so many doubts. Hold it, hold it, hold it. You've trusted Christ as Savior, you've got a God Almighty, and the person of the Holy Spirit dwelling within you, and his ministry is to come alongside. And help us and aid us and strengthen us and enable us. And what the devil wants us to do is to forget all about the Holy Spirit of God that dwells within me And disregard him. Disregard him. The indwelling Holy Spirit, He'll put peace in our hearts when we're in the midst of the storms. He puts a song in our heart. He gives boldness to our witness. He empowers us to have victory over sin. He brings conviction when we do sin. The Holy Spirit indwells us 24-7. And last of all, my last thought about this holy this comforter is he's an eternal, eternal comforter. Verse 16, chapter 14, he says, he will abide with you forever. That phrase forever means an unbroken eternity, perpetually forever. Mark this down. When a person trusts Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit of God indwells that, and he comes to stay. Here, forever, forever, forever. The indwelling Holy Spirit. It is possible to grieve this comforter I can say things to people, I can speak unkindly to people, I can do things, and listen carefully, the Holy Spirit of God Can be grieved by things I say and do. Isn't that awful? The Bible says, I can quench the Holy Spirit. You say, what does it mean to quench? It means to push down, to stifle. Holy Spirit may be leading me and directing me. Holy Spirit may be speaking to me. Maybe in a preaching service or in my personal devotions or I'm listening on the radio and somebody's teaching or preaching the Word of God. Maybe a Bible song, a good scriptural song. The Spirit of God speaks to me, something I ought to do, or something I change I ought to make, or uh something I need to stop doing, or something I need to rearrange in my life. And the Spirit of God uses the Word of God and He speaks to me, and I say, no! And I quench him. And I stifle that and I say, no, I'm not going to do that. Tell you, I've been preaching since 1985 in a full-time basis to some extent. I consider that my beginning of my ministry. I tell you, I can't tell you how many times when I preached and I preached the word of God as best I could And I'd see people standing there at the invitation time. You've heard it before, and they're holding on to that pew with white knuckles. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's quenching the Holy Spirit. That's saying, no God says, You need to confess and forsake this sin. You need to start doing this. You need to go witness to that person. You need to make this change. You need to get this garbage out of your house. You need to stop looking at this. The Spirit speaks to my heart, and I say, No! Quenching the Holy Spirit. We had a fellow here years ago, came and started attending, sat right back here about where Cindy was. Unsaved, people uh uh uh uh folks came and said, Oh, did you see so-and-so's in church? Man Probably in his 50s at the time. Unsaved, I'd visit him. No, he won't get saved. Won't get saved. Pretty hard drinker. I preached, and one morning I preached on salvation, and I just preached my heart out. And he's standing back there, and he has his girlfriend with him this time. And when I gave the invitation, uh, he started to step out. He started making his way out. He's going to come up. I thought, praise the Lord, he's going to get saved. Urban's going to get saved. As he stepped out that pew, right over there, as he stepped out, I saw his girlfriend reach over and grab his arm She pulled him back. And he went back and he stood there. I went and visited him. I couldn't win him to the Lord. Finally one day I got a phone call, a tragic accident. He was killed at his house. As far as I know, he died without Christ. How sad, so close, so close, but he quenched the spirit, said no. Tell you, the Holy Spirit, he comes to move when we trust Christ the Savior, as I wish Urban had. We trust Christ the Savior. Um he comes in, moves in. Forever. Actually I need to correct that statement. I just realized Urban did get saved just before he died. I think the floorballs know Urban. And he did get saved Right before he died. I'm glad for that, amen. Don't you hate it when you realize you said something wrong right in front of everybody? But I wanted to correct that. But when the Holy Spirit of God moves in, he moves in to stay. He moves in to stay. It's possible to quench the Holy Spirit, possible to lose the Holy Spirit. uh to to grieve the Holy Spirit, but I can never lose the Holy Spirit. When I got saved, May 7, 1979, I say it this way, it's not accurate, real accurate, but I lost every friend I had up to that point. I had zero Christian friends in my life at that point when I got saved. And God changed my life so dramatically. And at 1030 at night I called on the Lord to be my Savior. And the Spirit of God, unbeknownst to me, a lot of things happened that I didn't fully grasp at the time. But unbeknownst to me, the Spirit of God moved into my body. And there's a lot of things I didn't know and a lot of things I didn't understand, but I knew one thing, something changed in the heart and soul of Dennis Leatherman. And every one of my friends abandoned me. I didn't have to leave my old friend. I didn't have to give up my old friends. God changed my life so much they walked away from me And I didn't have for a period of time there, a brief period of time, I didn't have one friend in this world. I'm telling you the truth, not one friend in this world. But you know what the strange thing was looking back, I was never lonely. There was a presence there. There was a peace there. There was a fulfillment there. There was a satisfaction there that not one of those friends could ever give me. You know what I think it was? The presence of the comforter within me. Dwelling within me. Little boy was flying his kite. Man, it was a breezy day and he kept letting line out do kids still fly kites today? I think there's a little video game you can fly kites He was letting that line out, letting that line out. He had a big old spore thread and it kept going up higher and higher. And finally the the kite got up into the clouds. You couldn't even see the kite anymore. Man, he's holding on to that thing. And this guy came walking by. He says, What do you got there? He goes, I got my kite way up there. And the guy looked, he said, I don't see no kite And he says, yeah, I got it up there. He says, how do you know that clait's still up there? You can't see it. How do you know it's there? He says, I can feel it tugging on the string. Somebody says, You got the Holy Spirit? Yeah, I got the Holy Spirit. How do you know? I don't see no Holy Spirit. I feel moving in my heart. I read the Bible and he brings verses out and he convicts me. I start to do something I know I shouldn't do a man. The Holy Spirit starts saying, no, no, no, no, no, no, don't you do that, don't anybody know what I'm talking about? The Comforter Is to me. Isn't that a blessing? Father, I ask you to bless us and help us, Lord, to rejoice in the great comforter we have, the Holy Spirit as a child of God. Help us never forget them. Help us not to neglect our relationship with the Holy Spirit. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I've sensed the Holy Spirit speaking in my heart. He's convicted me. Maybe today he's challenged me, convicted me, he's spoken to my heart in this message. And you say, preacher, pray for me that I'll not quench the Spirit, I'll not grieve him. But I'll trust him and submit and let him lead me. Any like that, preacher? I want the Holy Spirit to lead me and direct me. God bless you. And he will if we just trust him. Let him have his way. Let him use the word of God and lead us and direct us. Wonder if what some would say, Preacher, there's some areas in my life that really need change, and the Lord's been dealing with me about that. And you say, Preacher, help me make these arrangements, make these changes. That need to be made. Get my priorities back where they ought to be. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. Spirit of God has been speaking of my heart. God bless you. I encourage you this morning. So someone here this morning said, preacher, I've never been saved. I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven. I don't know for sure I have a home in heaven. I don't want to go to hell And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I'm concerned about that. I need to get that settled. Is there any like that? Any at all? By the left lifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about my salvation. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Have your way in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed eyes.