Working our way through James is a good day today. We're grateful for Lord's blessing And uh looking forward to what he has for us. James chapter number five. And I'm going to just read verse number fifteen. Actually verse thirteen through down really through eighteen is all one section talking about prayer. But I just want us to look at verse 15. And actually I'm just going to look at, I'm just going to share one part of my message this evening. We're not going to get to the whole thing. James chapter 5 and verse number 15. The Bible says, And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise them up, and if you have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. I'm entitled The Message, The Prayer of Faith. And as I said, we'll not get the whole message. Let's try and bring one thought from the overall message. Let's pray together. Father, we ask you to bless now as we look into your word one final time on this Lord's Day. And I pray that you'd speak to our hearts as we finish out the day and begin the new week. I pray that you would challenge us from your word. I pray your Holy Spirit would direct us. Lord, maybe there's some folks need a little bit of encouragement this evening. I pray that you would meet that need. Some of us, no doubt, need challenging. I pray you'd meet that need. Lord, some uh just need maybe a direction, a little instruction. And we pray that you would meet that need. And so, Father, I yield my will to you again. Present my body anew. As always, again tonight, with all my heart, I ask, Lord, you fill me with your Spirit. You would speak through me. And challenge us and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This whole subject here, and I'll expand on this in a little bit, but this whole this whole section here, the subject is prayer and what to do, how to pray and what to do in different situations. I read about a fellow, I really don't know a lump much about him. Apparently he was a missionary in Venezuela for a number of years, up until the late sixties, I think is when he passed away But he wrote a little prayer that I that caught my attention and intrigued me. This is the prayer. His name is TJ Bach And he wrote this. He said, I asked for health that I might do greater things. I was given infirmity that I might do better things. I asked God for strength that I might achieve. I was made weak that I might learn to obey. I asked for riches that I might be happy I was given poverty so that I might be wise. I asked for power and the praise of men. I was given weakness and a sense of my need of God I asked for all things that I might enjoy life. And I was given life that I might enjoy all things. I got nothing that I asked for. But everything that I really hoped for. In spite of myself, my prayers were answered I am among all men most richly blessed. Then he ended with this: Walk softly, speak tenderly, and pray fervently I think that little prayer or that little poem captures very elegantly what God is telling us here in this whole section. As I said, this passage of the book of James is really a list of instructions. In verse number 13, the first part, we've already looked at this, he points out what we should do when we're afflicted. And then the second part of verse 13, he tells us what we should do when we're married. And then verse number 14, and he goes into a little specifics in this passage, and he tells us what we should do when we're sick. Now we come to verse 15 in our verse by verse study of this book, and I believe what we have in verse number 15 is a general statement. About prayer and sickness. I think he's taking what he instructed us in verse 14, and he's kind of continuing on in that instruction of when we're sick. Call for the elders of the church, anoint uh anoint them with oil. Remember, we looked at that, and pray over him, anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord. He's continuing that, but I think he's making more of a general statement here about prayer And then how it applies to being sick. As I said, verse 13 through 18, the whole subject is pray. I noted here That the word pray or prayer in one form or another is used seven times in six verses. If God says something, if God refers to something seven times in six verses We know God feels that's important. It's something we need to give our attention to. He tells us here in this passage, verse 13 down through 18, he tells us when we should pray. He tells us how we should pray, and he references the power of prayer, and we'll notice that as we study on the continuing verses here. There's two issues I see in verse number 15. Again, we're not going to get to uh uh just one thought of these two issues. But the two issues of this in verse number fifteen he says, Well and the prayer of faith shall save the sick. That tells me the prerequisite for prayer. He doesn't say the prayer shall save the sick. He says the prayer of faith And then he goes on and says the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up, and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. That is the promise of prayer. So we have first of all a prerequisite, and then we have a promise. Now, what I want to do tonight is just begin looking at this prerequisite: the prayer of faith. As I pointed out, God doesn't say here, prayer shall save the sick, but he says the prayer of what? Faith shall save the sin. Anytime we are dealing with the Christian life, we have to begin with faith. Faith is the lifeblood, so to speak, of the Christian life. We have to get to the point in our Christian lives where we trust God completely. We have to get to that point. And I believe in these years of walking with the Lord and serving the Lord and interacting with God's people, I'm becoming more and more convinced that the trials God sends our way The sickness God allows us to experience, the difficulties that God uh uh the difficult situations that God puts us into All of this is designed by God primarily to get us to the point where we learn to trust God. Have faith in God. I cannot overemphasize the importance of faith. We must get to the point where we trust God completely We have to get to the point in our Christian lives where we believe that what God says is so, regardless of how things appear. Do you get what I'm saying? If I can get to the point in my Christian life, regardless of how circumstances may appear Regardless of how things may look like to my eyes and how they register in my mind, and rather than taking it at that, but taking what God says is so And trusting that, then I'm at the point where I'm growing. Now I want to show I want us to turn to a number of verses. I hope this comes together the way I felt like it should But if you have your Bibles here, I want you to turn with these with me. I want you to note them and maybe underscore them, because I want you to see what he's saying here. If you would turn to 2 Corinthians. Now we're going to end up here back in James, so Don't lose your spot there. But turn with me to 2 Corinthians chapter number 4. Now we're talking about this subject of faith, the prayer of faith. The prayer of faith. We've got to get to the point where we are trusting God. We have faith in God. Rather than, and here's what I'm addressing. Rather than seeing things, rather than what's the word I want, rather than evaluating things by the way it appears to me, but evaluating it by the way God says That's where I need to get to in my life. I'm not sure if I'm making that go. Look with me at verse 18, 2 Corinthians chapter 4. He says, while we look not at the things which are what? Seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal In other words, in my Christian life, I have to get to the point where I don't view the world scene, I don't view circumstances, I don't view situations. I don't view the way people are treating me, the way it looks like to my natural eyes, but I see it all from God's perspective. And I critique it by the way God says it so. Turn over to chapter number five of the same book, 2 Corinthians. And he kind of summarized it here in verse number 7. 2 Corinthians 5. 7, what does it say? For we walk by faith, not by sight. So we don't go by the way things appear to us. We go by way God says things are so. One more passage, Colossians chapter 2 and verse number 6. In fact, I wrote that reference beside 2 Corinthians 5, verse 7. Colossians 2 and verse number 6. He says, as ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord. Now let's stop right there. How did we receive Christ Jesus the Lord? We received him by faith. As ye receive Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him. In other words, I received the Lord by faith. I got saved by trusting Jesus Christ, and I put my hope, my trust, my dependence on him. He says that same way that you got saved by faith, you didn't see Christ, you didn't hold his hand, you didn't see him die on the cross, you took God's word at it. You believed it was true, and you put your faith in him, he says, that very same way is how we live our Christian life. By faith, by faith. And so I've got to, in my prayer life, I've got to get to the point where my prayers are in faith, trusting that what God says about prayer is so. That's what God promises is true. And that what God instructs me is correct, is the best and right way by faith. I put this down. When my faith fails, My walk with God fails. If I get to the point where I'm not trusting God, I'm leaning on my own understanding, I'm living by my own evaluation of things, I'm making decisions. It's based on my reasoning rather than based on what God says, then my walk with God begins to fail. But if I get to the point where I say, Lord, you know, you said this, it looks like this This is my reasoning. This is my understanding of the situation. But you said this here in your word. God, rather than going by the way I see it I'm going to go by the way you say it is. When I get to that point, then my walk with God takes off. Then I begin to grow as a Christian. Then I begin getting stronger in the Lord Faith in God does that which is humanly impossible because it brings God into the equation. You say there's no hope, there's no situation, uh uh there's no way this marriage can ever be saved. Well, humanly, you might be right. By our evaluation, by our circumstances, you might be right. But I'm telling you, God brings the supernatural into the situation. And God can change everything I was asked one time to uh go to a divorce um uh hearing down at the courthouse and they asked if I would sit in. I really did not want to, but It's trying to help a person and I I thought I just had to sit there. I didn't know I'd have a part in it. I'd never been involved in that. And uh they're going through the little p very, very sad process. And finally, the judge, they had introduced me, and the judge said, uh, Pastor Leatherman, he asked me this question. He says, do you think there's any hope for this marriage to work out? And he caught me off guard. And I had to think for a minute. And I said, to be honest with you, humanly doesn't look like it could work out. I said, but I think all things are possible with God. I think it'd be possible with the Lord. Well, they went forward with a divorce anyway, and um I don't know why he even asked me, but um he asked me that. Faith says humanly, I don't see how this could be. Humanly, this is my only recourse. Humanly, the way I see it, this is the only thing that could happen, this is the only solution. But faith says, you know, God is able to do the impossible Jesus put it this way, with man, this is impossible. But with God, all things are possible. And I am afraid we are losing that level of faith in our Baptist churches We are falling back more and more and more, leaning on our own understanding, acting on our own evaluation, coming to conclusions that are based on our reasoning Rather than coming to the Word of God and taking God's word on it. You follow what I'm trying to say? I don't know if I'm getting this across. Faith in God brings that which is humanly possible into the equation because it brings God into the equation. And God can do things that we think is impossible. So the prerequisite. Now, coming back to our passage, and we're going to look at some other verses, but coming back to our passage where he says in James He says, um uh let me get back here. He says the prayer of faith Shall save the sick. The prayer of faith, here is the prerequisite of faith. Now, here's my thought under that. Prayer of faith shall save the sick. I put this down. Faith is a priority in prayer. Faith is a priority. The prerequisite to getting my prayers answered is I have to have faith. And that must be a priority. That must be a priority. Now there's several ingredients necessary if I'm going to get my prayers answered. How many folks here have ever had a prayer answered in your life? Raise your hand. Of course we raise our hand. We're expected to. Right? It would look bad if I as a Christian was asked, have you ever had a prayer answered and I don't raise my hand, how many people agree with me? That would be bad. That would look bad. I don't know about you, but sometimes I get in my head, looks to me like we ought to have more prayers answered than what we really are. Anybody agree with me on that? If these promises are what God says they are, if God's word is true and God's made some fantastic promises in his prayer And if I'm not seeing that happen in my prayer life, that bothers me It looks to me like if this is true and all this is why do I not see more prayers answered? Why do I not see more direct results of the requests I'm bringing to God? And I ask myself that sometimes And I look at my prayer life and I look at the answers to prayers versus the prayers that are prayed, and I wonder why is it not a higher percentage? Of my prayers being answered. Is God's word not true? No, I reject that conclusion. I'm convinced God's word is true. I'm convinced God's promises are exactly what God says they are. The problem for answered prayer is not on God's side. The problem for answered unanswered prayer, I should say, is on my side. So the Bible tells us there are certain things that must be in place. If my prayers are going to be answered and I'm going to see answers to prayer the way the Bible presents it, the way the Bible does. And so what are these prerequisites? Well, we said one of them is faith, but let me give you a few of them here. First of all, these things that must be in place to have God answer my prayers clearly and consistently Number one, I must come to God with a pure heart. I must come to God with a pure heart. Now I wanted to take time and go to these verses, but I'm not going to. But I'll give you the verses. I really want to encourage you. If you're with me tonight, if you're on the same wavelength that I'm trying to preach I want to challenge you to take your Bible, maybe this evening or sometime before it gets too cold in your heart, and look these verses up. And see exactly what God is saying. Isaiah chapter 59, verse 1 and 2, and I'll summarize what it is so it saves us time from turning there. But it says something to this effect that God's ear is not heavy that he cannot hear. God's arm is not shortened that he cannot save. It's not that God doesn't hear our prayers. Not that he's unable to hear and answer our prayers. The problem is he says your iniquities have separated you from God so that he will not hear our prayers. So again, the failure for answer prayer is not on God's side. The failure for answer prayer is when I regard iniquity in my heart, Psalm 66, 18. David said, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Doesn't say he cannot, he will not. And so if I'm going to have consistently answered prayers, if I'm serious about this matter of God answering my prayers, of God hearing me, and God doing things and changing circumstances and meeting needs and changing my heart and and uh directing me if I'm serious about this, I have got to get serious about the purity of my heart. I've got to deal with the sins in my life. I've got to confess and forsake them, and I've got to come clean with God. And I'll be very frank with you, I'm including us all of us, you know, I'm just including, just making this statement here I'm coming to the conclusion we really don't take seriously the sins that we tolerate in our heart. And we get to the place where we love them. We cherish them. We don't let anybody know about it, but we regard them. And we know it's wrong. We know it's sin. But we're not that burdened about getting my prayer answered that I'm willing to forsake that sin. And so I see the promises in God's Word. This verse 15 of James chapter 5 is a fantastic promise. The prayer of faith will save the sick. And so one of the prerequisites, if I'm going to have my prayers answered, is I need to have a pure heart. I need to come clean with God. I need to confess my sin. I need to repent from it, forsake it, and get clean and right with God. And then maintain a short account as things come up, thoughts or whatever, I deal with them, I confess them, I forsake them, I make things right as quickly as possible, because I want God to hear my prayers. I need God to hear my prayers. So one prerequisite, you're joting these down, one is have a pure heart. I put this down. Now this might sound a little strange, but I think you'll see w what he means here. I put this down. I must be in fellowship with my spouse If you would turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 3. Now I do want you to see this one, because I need to make application here a little bit. 1 Peter chapter 3. Of course, the first part of chapter 3, he's addressing the wives. I love that first statement. Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands. That's one of my favorite verses in all the Bible, right there. I that was one uh I memorized that one there. I like that one. Uh there's some others there that kind of annoy me a little. But um if you would come over to verse number seven 1 Peter chapter 3 verse 7. Likewise, ye husbands Dwell with them, your wives, according to knowledge, giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel, as being heirs together of the grace of life. Now that this last phrase that comes after what I just read, that next phrase captured my attention. Dwell with them, according to knowledge, as heirs together, as unto a weaker vessel, as being heirs together, the grace of life, that your prayers be not what? Hindered, huh? In other words, now this is addressed to the husbands. In other words, if I'm not if I'm not in fellowship with my wife, as the husband I should be That hinders my prayers from being answered. Hey fellas, you know why sometimes we don't get our prayers answered? Because we're being knuckleheads at home. Right or wrong. We're being stupid in how we treat our wives. We're not following God's instructions. And God takes that very seriously. He says, all right, if you're gonna treat her that way, if you're gonna be that way. Then I'm not going to answer your prayers. I'm not even going to hear you. Go ahead and pray all you want. If you're going to be that way, I'm not going to answer your prayers. Now that's addressed to the husbands, but I think there's a principle here, and I would like to suggest that that shame concept goes both ways. That sometimes a wife may not have her prayers answered because she's not treating her husband the way God instructs her to treat her husband. And a husband has his prayers aren't answered sometimes because that husband is not being the husband God instructed him to be in the home. And thus we don't have our prayers answered. And we pray and pray and pray and pray and pray, but they're hindered. We don't see any results. We don't see any consequence. We don't see God doing anything. It's because he isn't. We got sin in our hearts and lives that we're unwilling to confess and forsake. We're not in fellowship with our spouse like we ought to be, and I think I can show you other verses I could, that that same concept is applied not just within the marriage, but outside within the body of Christ If I'm not treating my brothers and sisters and the Lord like the Bible instructs me to, I believe that hinders my prayer. If I can't get along with those who I can see, how in the world do I get along with the God who I can't see? And so our fellowship within the marriage and within the body of Christ is a prerequisite, having that right. So, number one, a pure heart, number two, being in fellowship with my spouse. and by extension with my brothers and sisters in Christ. Here's another one real quickly, and I'm about done here. The will of God. I need to pray within the will of God. I'd like you to come to another passage not far away, 1 John chapter 5. Now I know we're using our Bibles a lot tonight, but that's a good thing, right? I would rather be a part of a church that uses their Bible the whole time than a church that doesn't use their Bible. And so look at 1 John chapter 5, and he makes uh uh uh uh an important statement here in verse number 14. He says, and this is the confidence that we have in him. That if we ask anything, look at this next statement, according to his will. He heareth us. And we know that if he hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petition that we desire of him. That is a fantastic promise. Now the condition, the prerequisite is my request must be what? What did the verse say there? Must be in the Will of God. And if I ask something that I know is the will of God, I am confident that He hears me. And if I know that He hears me, I am confident He will give me what I'm asking. Very simple thing. I need to ask in the will of God. Here's our problem. We ask for things sometimes uh maybe not as much as Some other things, but sometimes we ask for things that are flat out outside the will of God. Twenty-three years as pastor here almost, you'd be shocked at the things people asked me to pray for them about I mean, just flat out sinful stuff. I said, I'm not going to pray for you. That's meaningless. God's not going to do that. I had one guy in my office, I mean he spent almost an hour with me trying to get me to approve of an adulterous situation I said, you're nuts. God's not going to answer that. Listen, don't go and ask God to work it out where you can do something that God forbids. God's not going to hear that. God's not going to answer that. Now, sometimes we can ask God for things that He doesn't necessarily forbid. They're not bad and wrong in and of themselves. And he wants us to ask, make our request remembered unto him. But we need to understand, if that's not God's will, God's not obligated to do it. I've said this often over the years, and some of you know exactly what I mean when I say this. There's been things I've asked God for that God said, no, I'm not going to do that, and later on I looked back and said, Praise the Lord, he didn't do what I asked him to do. God knows that. So a prerequisite to prayer, one is I've got to get my heart right I need to be pure in my heart. Confess and forsake sin. Get it out. As long as I'm holding on to that sin, God's ears are blocked. The line is cut. The volume is off. He doesn't hear it. He's not listening. I need to get right with my spouse. I need to get right with my brothers and sisters in Christ and get that stuff straightened out so that God can hear and answer my prayer. Then I need to be sure what I'm asking is in the will of God. Jesus stated it perfectly in the Garden of Gethsemane. He says, let this cup pass from thee. Nevertheless not my will, but thy will be done He said, I want to pray according to your will, God. Of course, it wasn't God's will that the cup be passed from him, and he drank of it. And so I need to pray in the will of God and need to have a pure heart and need to be in fellowship with my spouse. However, I said all that to say this Over and above all of these other ingredients that must be in place, I must have faith in God. And I've got all that if I get along, my wife and I are getting along fantastic better than we ever have, and I'm getting along with all God's people, and oh we're singing kumbayong, we're just having a wonderful time And my heart's pure have confessed to all my sin. And I know I'm asking exactly what God says, but if I don't have faith in God, that's not going to do me a hill do uh be worth a hill of bees Turn with me if you would to Hebrews chapter 11. And I'm going to end with this one. Hebrews chapter 11. And verse number six. The prayer of faith. The prayer of faith. Hebrews 11, and look with me to verse 6. This is a great verse if it's not underscored in your Bible. This is a great verse to underscore in your Bible. Hebrews 11 and verse 6. But without faith, without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God, would you agree prayer would fall into that category, coming to God? Sure. He that cometh to God must believe that he is. And that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Faith. What is faith? Faith is unwavering confidence that God is exactly what the Bible says he is, and God does exactly what the Bible says he will do. Faith. The prerequisite for answered prayer, the primary prerequisite for answered prayer is I must have faith in God. I must believe that he is the person the Bible says he is, and that he does what the Bible says he will do. Now I've got to have my heart pure, I've got to be right, all this other stuff has to be a place, but the biggie is having faith in God, having faith in God. Here's my question, then we give the invitation. And maybe you want to jot this down. What is, here's my question, what is the one thing You need God to do for you tonight. If you and I were alone in my office, we sat down We're talking about prayer, and I would say, what's the one thing above everything else in total confidence, confidentiality, you would s uh I would say, what is the one thing you want God for you to do uh you want God to do for you in this point in your life right now. What's the one thing above everything else you want God to do? Let's trust God with that. Let's bring it to Him in prayer and say, God, I believe everything the Bible says that you are, I believe that's true. And everything the Bible says promises you will do, I believe that's true. I'm trusting you. And bring that to them and pray and pray. Um go through it go through this checklist Is my heart pure? Am I right with my brother and sister in Christ? Am I asking according to the will of God? And do I have faith in God? And let's trust God. Let's trust God. To answer our prayer. How many folks? Let me just do it this way. How many folks tonight you say, Preacher, there is at least one thing on the top of my list heavy on my heart that I really, really need and want God to do. Is there anybody anything like that? How many of us have at least one thing right there we're pleading with God to do? Let's do this checklist, let's ask God, and let's just trust Him and have faith in God. Does it make sense? Did that make sense tonight? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would use these thoughts. And we just look to you and ask, like the disciples did, that you would increase our faith. Help us to trust you and believe you, Lord, and meet these qualifications in Jesus' name. With our heads bowed, eyes closed We already asked about that one need. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I'd be willing tonight, as we finish out the Lord's Day, go into a new week, I'd be willing tonight to go through this list, just this simple little list of prerequisites And ask the Lord to search me and show me. And whatever needs attention, I'm willing to do that. Make whatever changes need to be made so that God can hear my prayer and answer it. And I want to trust him wholeheartedly, absolute confidence that he can and will do what he's promised to do. Is there any like that? I'm willing to do that, to let God Search my heart and try me and make these adjustments. God bless the hands all around. We all have a request. We all have a need. And let's finish out the Lord's day, just asking the Lord to help us and get to that point where we see prayers answered the way the Bible presents it. Father in heaven bless now the imitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.