We're in 2 Samuel chapter number 3. 2 Samuel chapter 3. We're studying the life of David. And David, of course, was anointed by God as a young teen to be the king of Israel. God designed for him to replace Samuel, who had rebelled against the Lord, and God rejected him as king. Samuel eventually, after pursuing David for years, chasing him all around the wilderness, trying to kill him, murder him, really, is what it was. God finally dealt with Saul. He was killed in battle with his son Jonathan. Jonathan, a good man, a good friend of David's, but they were both killed in battle with the Philistines. And now David has returned to the tribe of Judah, and he's brought his family with him, his household, and the men that had joined themselves with David out as he was fleeing Saul. They come back to Judah after prayer, waiting on the Lord. And the tribe of Judah anoints David publicly um to uh uh as king of israel. Now the other eleven tribes they don't recognize David just yet. In fact, Abner, Saul's chief of staff, his captain of his host um rises up, gets uh one of Saul's sons, Ishbaseth, and uh and puts him in as king of the other tribes, and thus we have competition set up And eventually it leads to a conflict between the two. And David's men go to war against Abner's men. Ishpa says men, and uh David's men beat them, conquer them. And so now we notice in verse number one, we looked at this last week, it says there was this long war. Between the house of Saul and the house of David. So this thing extends, we figure, about seven, seven and a half years is how long this war lasts. Notice the statement here. But David waxed stronger and stronger And the house of Saul waxed weaker and weaker. Now, from that statement, we go right into verse number two. Now follow along. Look at verse 2. Now, unto David were sons born in Hebron. And his firstborn was Amnon of Ahinoim, the Jezreelitis, and his second Chileab of Abigail, the wife of Nabal, the Carmelite. And the third, Absalom, the son of Mekah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Gesher. And the fourth, Adonijah, the son of Hagith. And the fifth, here we go, Sheph-A-Tiah, the son of Abital. And the sixth, Ithraim, by Eleg, David's wife. These were born to David in Hebron. Now, we're going to look tonight at the house of David, the house of David, this family here. And uh I want you to notice something before we pray, and I get into this, I want you to notice something. Uh there's a slew of boys named there, slew of kids named there, of David's sons named there Did you notice anything interesting as we read through the names of those boys? Anybody notice anything? Every one of them comes from a different mother. Every one of them a different mother. So I want to talk about the house of David tonight. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven. We come to you this evening, a snowy night. A lot of folks are snowed in, and we understand that. And some of us are here in the church house. Others are scattered around watching online or listening online But I pray that you take this record of David's family, his household, and Lord, we could learn some spiritual lessons from this that would help us be better Christians. Help us in our families and our homes and our Christian life. And Lord, you have to do that. You're the author of this. Lord, you're the one that preserved this and inspired it for us. So I'm asking tonight that you take this lesson and I pray that you would apply to each of our hearts and lives the truths that we need. Help us. And I yield my will to you. I present my body, Lord, just as an instrument for your Holy Spirit to fill and use and speak through me. So help us again, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. The Bible says that the house of David waxed stronger and stronger. House of Saul is getting weaker and weaker. Now, what did he mean by the house of David getting stronger and stronger? No doubt he meant by that he was getting stronger politically. Um in other words, uh his um uh his a his uh administration, he had a more organized administration. Remember when he was out in the wilderness, he's fleeing Saul, he just had a band of ruffians really joined up with him. Was a lot of organization. He wasn't overseeing a a country or a tribe at this point. But now that he's king He's getting stronger. He can organize his administration. He can put policies in place now that are good for the uh Judah and for the nation of Israel. He's getting stronger militarily Um now he has an official military, where before they were kind of a guerrilla army, basically. Now he's got an official military. They're more highly organized, no doubt he has access to more weaponry than he would have before. He can get this thing together and put together a strong military for the security of Judah. So he's getting stronger and stronger politically, militarily. Uh the acceptance by the people of Israel now, I think as we'll see we go through here, we're gonna notice He's getting more and more accepted by the people of Israel as their next king. Some are a little hesitant to begin with, and again the opposition from Abner. And so, but David's strengthening, he's getting stronger and stronger and stronger. So one de no doubt one way he's getting stronger was his political position, if you want to use that term political. But there's another. I believe verses two through five our text for tonight. He is given to us to indicate to us that he is getting stronger in his posterity. Now, what I mean by that is by his family. His family is growing. Uh he has more and more offspring. These uh these boys are mentioned here, these sons of David are mentioned here. Now this was kind of typical, really. It's kind of typical back in that day when You had kings and rulers of that sort. It was kind of typical for a king to garner a lot of wives and have a ton of children. And they would kind of associate the strength of the man would be uh measured somewhat by his ability to rule the nation But also by his family, by his harem, you might say, the number of wives he has, and how many children he is producing And so if a man had many wives, he was considered to be a strong leader. Many wives, and a lot of kids considered a conqueror in many ways. And so David is here in uh Hebron. For seven and a half years, he begins accumulating wives. He's gathering up these wives. They have them listed here. Some of them listed here. And of course, along with the wives come offspring. And so he's having more and more children, more and more children. And actually, what we see beginning here, in the seven years in Hebron, as king of Hebron, David get accumulating these wives. We're going to see this throughout his lifetime. He picks that up and it continues on. I think some of us are going to learn some new things about David we never realized before. We're going to see some things about his home and his family that perhaps we never noticed before. As far as I can tell, As far as I can tell, uh here we have eight wives are named. Eight of them are named here. Uh six in verse uh in verses 2 through 5, 6 are listed. Now we know he already had two wives. We know he already had one wife before this. Anybody remember who was the who was the wife he had before this six listed here? Anyone remember? Remember King Saul gave him his daughter, Michael? And gave him and then uh that fell apart. Uh he gets her back later on. So we've got Michael. Then we have the six listed here By name. So we have uh these six here, we know their names. We have Michael, we know her name, that's seven. And then later on he picks up another wife that is named. Anybody remember remember who that was Picks up a wife later on that is named. You know, you'll know it. When I say it, you'll know exactly. About Bathsheba. The illegitimate encounter there. And so he has eight wives that are named. All right. Six here, the one before Michael, later on, Bathsheba. However, If you'll turn with me over to 2 Samuel chapter number 5, we find out there's a whole slew of more wives that we're not even given their names. 2 Samuel chapter 5 And uh look with me, if you would, at verse number 13. 2 Samuel chapter 5 and verse 13. And David took him more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem after he was come from Hebron. And there were yet sons and daughters born to David So after this seven and a half year period, he's got six wives here named. He's got Michael from before. Has he six wives here? Then when he then when he becomes king of all of Israel Then he starts accumulating more wives. In fact, we're not told how many he has. We're not told how many sons he has. Um, of course, with many wives comes many children. The best I can tell, we can we can count at least Twenty-one children of King David. Now there's a slew of others. We don't know who they are. We're not told. We don't know who the mothers are But there's 21 named children of David in the Bible. Twenty of them are boys, and one is the daughter, Tamar. Tamar is the daughter. And so David is accumulating these wives. Now there's something else I want you to notice here. If you come back to chapter 3. And there's a little statement at the end of verse number three that's kind of interesting, tells us a little bit, maybe, or I should say this, it implies to us A little bit maybe what David's motive was in marrying one of these gals, taking one of them in his wife. Look at the last part of verse 3. And the third, Absalom, now we'll learn about Absalom later on in the life of David, the son of Mekah, the daughter of Talmai. Now, what was Talmai? What's the last part of the verse tell us? He was what? He was king of Gesher. He's marrying this Mekah is the daughter of a king. Now, I can't say for certain, maybe I'm reading a little bit into this, but I'm wondering why would the Bible point that out? It doesn't tell us the uh who they the daughter of other people were there Um they didn't tell us uh who the other wives were daughters of, but this one, God takes the time and effort to include here that she was the daughter of this king of Gesher. I'm wondering if that's not included in there in order that uh to communicate to us to let us know that maybe This marriage was an arranged marriage between the king of one nation and the king at this point of Judah as some sort of political alliance here. Now that was not uncommon. Uh it was not uncommon for people to marry people. In fact in the history of England, uh they would marry princesses from other countries and they formed this alliance. And I just got wondering. I wonder how this gal, Ma uh Maka, I wonder what kind of relationship he would have with this gal knowing that the only reason perhaps that he married her was so that he can have an ally, a political, maybe a military ally, as he anticipates uh conflict with other with Abner and others and so, well I'll marry your daughter and we'll be partners. I just wonder what kind of relationship he would have with a wife that he uses for political gain. Now I don't know that that's necessarily the case. They may have been madly in love. I don't know. But I just thought it was interesting that God points out that she was the daughter of this king of Gesher. Now, here's what I want to get at, and this is what I want us to think about this evening. This is what I took from this. I want us to notice how marriage had so deteriorated to this point where even a man after God's own heart is accumulating to himself Many, many, uh perhaps dozens, maybe scores of wives. And then concubines, which is like a second-class wife On top of all of that. How many people ever heard about the wives of Solomon? Anybody hear that? 700 wives, 300 concubines. Man alive, can you imagine having 700 mother-in-laws? Wow, that'd be something. 300 concubines. Uh and of course we say, then that was crazy, and they turned his heart away from the Lord. I'm wondering where Solomon learned that. I'm wondering where Solomon got that idea. I'll just get as many wives as I can. Here we see David with at least eight Who knows how many more piled up. Marriage had so deteriorated. If you would, take your Bible and come back with me to the book of Genesis I think anytime you're going to study marriage and family and the home, you've got to start at Genesis, where God in the garden there formed the very first marriage. He performed the very first wedding, so to speak. And here we have, right at the start, we get a pattern, we get a model where God shows us what marriage and the home was intended to be. Did God intend for a man to have eight, nine, ten, fifteen, twenty, seven hundred wives? Is that God's intention in marriage to look with me if you would at Genesis and chapter 4 and verse number 19. This is after the fall of man. Adam and Eve have sinned. Sin has entered into the world. Things are beginning to deteriorate morally, physically. The world is beginning to deteriorate with the presence of sin. We know where Cain killed Abel just a little earlier in this chapter. And now notice in verse number 19 we have this fella Lamech. And notice what it says. This is the first time it's mentioned in the Bible where a fellow has more than one wife. And Lamech took unto him what? Two wives. And the name of the one was Ada, and the name of the other was Zilla. And then it goes on and talks about Lamech. Lamech was a bad guy. He was not a good guy. He took two wives. And what I thought was how quickly God's plan for the home, how quickly God's design for marriage began to fall apart once sin came into the world. Um man's failure, I put this down, man's failure to follow God's plan for marriage has taken a heavy toll on the well-being of mankind. I want to suggest to you that much of the problems we have in our society Much of the unrest and the violence and the crime and the corruption we see in our society and not just ours but around the world. I want to suggest that is m uh the uh the cause behind much of that. Of course We're own sinful nature. But I want to say it's aggravated by the deterioration of God's plan for the home and for marriage. Um uh uh David's failure Coming back to David, David's failure to follow God's design for marriage is a very dark spot on a man that has an outstanding testimony. I'm telling you, David is one of the greatest men of God, perhaps, that have ever lived. A man after God's own heart. A man who the throne that Jesus Christ is going to sit on is named after David. And yet here we find this dark, dark stain on a testimony of where he disregards God's instructions on marriage, and he accumulates to himself all these wives. So it's a dark spot on an outstanding testimony, but it's also it hurt his children deeply His kids, we're going to see this as we work our way through the life of David, but David's children, his sons in particular, had deep, deep problems, very serious problems. With each other, with people, with pride, with rebellion. And uh David paid a heavy price for his uh disregard for God's plan for the marriage. All these multiple wives that we read about here in 2 Samuel chapter 3, listed one after another, and children from all these different wives, rather than being a blessing to him. Uh they became a great aggravation. They became a great heartache and a great stumbling stone for him. What we see here In 2 Samuel chapter 3, these verses here we see in the life of David is what we refer to as polygamy. Polygamy. And we see that throughout the Old Testament. I'll touch on that here in a little bit. We see that throughout the Old Testament. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, even Joseph. Multiple wives, polygamy. And uh I got thinking, what exactly does the Bible teach About a person having multiple wives, about polygamy in this type of situation. I mean many wives all at once. We hear it talked about in certain extreme liberal groups, that they want to uh take away uh the barriers to polygamy. In fact, our country, our world is just distorting and perverting what marriage is in unbelievable ways But what does the Bible say about this, about David having multiple wives? What does the Bible say? Well, I wrote a few things down. I'll share these with you and then um We'll wrap it up. Few words about polygamy from the Bible. Number one, I put this down. Polygamy is not God's design for marriage. It is not God's design for marriage. Are you still in Genesis? Come back there with me if you would to chapter number two. Genesis chapter two. Again, as I said before, you can't study marriage in the home without looking at Genesis. particularly chapter two. Here we have God is uh created Adam. He's about to bring Eve into existence. And he is going to bring them together in marriage and the home as God intended, as God designed it. I want to begin reading in verse number 18. Notice what the Bible says. And the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him and help me for him. Important phrase there. We'll get back to that. And out of the ground, the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them And whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the name thereof. And Adam gave names to all the cattle and to the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field. Can you imagine that job having to go out and name every animal. Wow. And so when it's all said and done, look at the last part of verse 20. But For Adam, there was not found a help meet for him. That word meet means adequate, able to fulfill. It's not a help that's meet for him, adequate for him. And the Lord, verse 21, the Lord caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept. And he took how many ribs? One of his ribs. I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but let me ask you this. How many ribs does that guy have? How many ribs do we have? Anybody know? Twelve. I think we have twelve ribs. That's how many we have. How many ribs did God take out of Adam? One. How many could he have taken? Could have taken all twelve if he wanted, but he just took one. Alright, we'll get back to that. He took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh thereof instead thereof, and the rib. singular, which the Lord had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man By the way, ladies, uh, I put in the margin of my Bible aside that, of the woman is God's gift to a man. How about that? What a neat thing. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones Flesh of my flesh, and she shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. I believe that's Adam's wedding vows right there. Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave unto his wife singular, and they shall be what? One flesh. They were both naked, man and his wife, and were not ashamed. Alright. I notice here that Polygamy, having more than one wife, many wives, is not God's design for marriage. That's not God's design. If you notice in verse number 18, he says, I will make him a help Meet for him. He says, I will make him a help, singular, not help, plural. God has intended, if man's not good to be alone, I'm going to make one help for him, one person. To be his help that is adequate, sufficient to meet his needs and be what she needs to be to him. And so it's a singular, not helpers But help. Again, I already pointed this out, verse 21. Adam had 12 ribs, but God took one. He could have taken twelve ribs and given them twelve wives at one point, but he didn't do that He took one rib and gave him one wife. And then again, verse 24: therefore shall man leave his father and mother and shall cleave unto his wife. Singular, not plural, cleaving to his wives. Now this next one throws me, and they were and they shall be one flesh. I don't know how you have multiple wives. How would you be one flesh with multiple wives? That's a whole distortion Of what marriage is. One man, one woman, one flesh. But then you take what is happening through the Old Testament, David's doing here, and you inject all these other wives, and it's a complete distortion. of God's design for marriage as he established in the garden of Gis in the Garden here of Eden. Then number two, one number not God's design for marriage. Number two, Deuteronomy chapter 17. Turn over there very quickly with me. Deuteronomy chapter 17 I was reading one commentary, I was looking to see what other fellows said about this, and one fellow said, Well, the Bible doesn't address it directly. The Bible just kind of ignores the polygamy in the Old Testament. I beg to differ. Deuteronomy chapter 17, and look with me if you would at verse 17. Deuteronomy 17, 17. And uh he's addressing the kings of Israel at this point, but he makes a statement, verse 17, speaking of the coming kings that Israel will have. Neither shall he multiply wives to himself. Notice this, that his heart turned not away So he's saying that the king here is not to multiply wives to himself. Very clear instruction. Very clear command. And then he puts this caution in. He says basically that having multiple wives will be dangerous, would be helpful. It's not good for spiritual well-being. It's not good for his walk with God. They will turn his heart away. And we see that in the life of Solomon. Exactly that happened and many, many others. And so God clearly forbids it, particularly for the kings. Now the question comes up in my mind: why did he give this instruction to the kings? Why not to everybody? Can I suggest to you, because of the influence a king might have over the people? Listen, what our leaders say and do has an influence on the on the population, on people And God's saying right from the start, listen, from the top down, we are not to do this. We are not to have multiple wives, not to be polygamy. And God clearly forbids it. Number one, it's not God's design for marriage. Number two, God clearly forbids it. Now, I'll just add a few others here real quickly. Jesus was born to a monogamous relationship. Joseph and Mary. Not Joseph and Mary and Martha and Elizabeth and Isabel and Jane and Margaret Oh, it was Jesus. It was Joseph and Mary. Jesus was born into a relationship. Now, when he was conceived, they were not yet married, but this is a miraculous thing. There's no fornication here, of course And then they got married. They came together, and Jesus was born. And it was a home and it was a marriage exactly as God designed for it to be, all the way back in Genesis. That's the home that God brought the Son of God into the world to be our Savior. And so Jesus was born into a home that was after God's design. Number four, I wrote this down. Jesus confirmed. The plan of God for marriage in Mark chapter 10, verse 1 through 12, Matthew chapter 19, verses 1 through 12. Jesus quotes back from Genesis and he confirms the fact. God made them male and female. The two shall be one flesh. What God is joined together. Let not man put asunder. He goes back and confirms, not wives, many, many wives, but one man and one woman. And so Jesus confirms God's plan for marriage. And then I put this down. Polygamy is expressly forbidden in the New Testament church. If we had time, we could go to 1 Timothy 3. In Titus, chapter number one, where he gives instructions and qualifications for the pastor. Now in Timothy and uh and um Titus he's referred to as bishop. That's a title for the pastor And then for the deacons, he gives a very clear, specific instructions for the leadership of the church, those that have influence in the church, they're to be the husband of one wife. No polygamy in the New Testament church. No polygamy in the leadership of the church with the pastor and the deacons. And so the Bible, it's in my mind, if you just take it for what it says, is very, very clear. The Bible addresses this matter of having multiple wives. As something that is forbidden, condemned by God. And it's not to be, it's not to be practiced. It is a perversion, it is a distortion of God's intention for marriage. So we come back to Samuel, 2 Samuel, chapter number 3. Here we have David's household. He's becoming king. He's king of Judah in a few short years. He's going to be king of all of Israel. And I'll say this, he's going to be a tremendous king. But I tell you, his family is a terrible mess. Is a terrible mess. Where did they get this polygamy? Well, it came from the sinful heart of man. We see that back with Lamech. But it became so commonplace. Would you agree with me? There's a lot of sin out in society that's very commonplace. Things that God absolutely forbids. Things that God absolutely addresses. And yet society, our culture, just disregards what God says about it completely and just living in sin. Here's the problem. For David, at least in this matter, with these multiple wives, he chose culture over scripture. He followed the pattern that the world was doing rather than sticking to the design that God has given for marriage And I'm telling you, that is the problem in our Christianity today. We are allowing culture To dictate and influence us, not just in this matter, but just across the board. We are allowing culture to have that influence and dictate us what we do and not do and how we live And any area of our life, culture anymore in much of Christianity is more of an influence than the scriptures And our call, I believe God's call to the churches of America and around the world is to reject culture's morals Reject culture's standards and return to the teachings and the standards of the Word of God. And David, at least in this matter, followed culture And rejected and neglected the teachings of Scripture. And I see that all around in our churches, bringing the world in, the world's values, the world's pleasures, the world's priorities. And putting the Bible aside. I'm telling you, we are not going to have God's blessings on our churches. We are not going to have revival in our churches. Till we refuse to be conformed to the image of this world, but we allow the scriptures to transform our thinking, and we become more like Christ and stick to that old book right there. Say, preacher, I ain't I don't have multiple wives. I only got one and I got a handful there. Well God bless you. But let me ask you this. What other ways is the culture dictating and driving your actions and behavior? We had to come to the Word of God. We get to the point where we allow the Where we allow the world to pervert the marriage and one of the very first institutions God established and alive. How many other areas? is world and society corrupting us. So let's commit ourselves. Here's my challenge tonight as we wind this up. Let's commit ourselves to stick to the old book. Amen? Stick to the Word of God. God says it, that settles it. Well, what about the culture? We're not concerned about the culture. We're concerned about what God says. I learned a long time ago, early in my Christian life, I'm not going to stand before this old world and give an account for how I live my life. I'm going to stand before Jesus Christ someday. And give an account for how I live my life. My concern more pleasing him than pleasing this old sinful world. My concern is being more like Christ than fitting into this old world. I don't know how you feel, longer I'm a Christian, the less I feel like I fit in this old world. I feel like a I feel like um Third thumb out in this world. I just don't just don't fit in. I know a lot of y'all feel the same way. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord that your Holy Spirit would help us to uh be very, very careful and examine ourselves and our lives and not allow this world and its values and its priorities and the principles this world lives by to overshadow in our lives the principles and values and priorities of your word As Christians, we want to be faithful to the Word of God. And I pray you would help us. Holy Spirit, help us. Search us and try us. And those areas that are out of line, help us to bring them back in line. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen