Ought to solidify those decisions in your life this week, how to solidify them and carry through with them that you will be what God wants you to be I want you to take your Bibles and turn to the Book of Romans, chapter number twelve, a very, very familiar passage of Scripture, and one that I'm sure that you could quote if you know anything about the Bible at all. The book of Romans, chapter 12, Verse number one and in verse number two. The Apostle Paul said, I beseech you, therefore, brethren. So you notice that he's talking to Christians Anytime we find that word brethren, he's talking, he's addressing the family of God. He said, I beseech you therefore, brethren. By the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. How can you solidify those decisions this week? How can you follow through with those decisions that we have made? I know in my own life I've made some decisions this week. I've knelt right here and talked to the Lord and allowed him to speak to me. And I want to follow through with those decisions and make sure that I bring honor and glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I believe embodied in those two verses is the key of following through with what God has burdened our hearts about. Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer, and then I'll bring the message the Lord has laid upon my heart. Father, we thank you ever so much for the blessings that you have bestowed upon us this week. It's been a wonderful time to be here. This spring revival has encouraged my heart, and I pray, Lord, that it's been an encouragement to each and every person of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I pray, Father, that the days ahead, if you tarry your coming, that the effect of these revival meetings would be manifested in a wonderful way. May the church be enriched, may our families be fortified, and may our individual lives be strengthened to carry on the work and the assignment that you have given to us We ask on this last night that you would open our hearts to receive what you have for us. And I pray, Father, that you'd be glorified through it all. Save the lost and encourage and bless your children. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. The Bible declares that we are more than conquerors through him that loved us and gave himself for us. You and I and the family of God are declared to be conquerors. The Bible tells us in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 And in verse number fifty-seven, thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. We already are victorious. We already have been declared overcomers. We have been declared the conquerors. The Bible tells us in 1 John chapter 5 and in verse number 4, for whatsoever is born of God. Now just stop there for a moment. He's saying if you're saved tonight, if you're born again tonight, if you're in the family of God tonight, whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world. He's not saying that you might do that. It's not saying that it's possible for you to do that. The Bible very clearly is declaring That when we are in the family of God, we are declared and we have everything that we need to live a life of godliness unto the Lord Jesus Christ. And as a result of that, we are overcomers of this world. And the victory that overcomes this world Is our faith. Our faith. So why do we have so much defeat? If God has already declared, you've got the victory If God has already declared you're the overcomer. If God has already declared that you and I are more than conquerors through him that loved us, and gave himself for us, then why is there so much defeat and discouragement among God's people? The Bible tells us in the book of 1 John, chapter 4, and in verse number 4, greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. Now stop and think about that for a moment. We know that the devil is powerful. We know that he's deceptive, that he's a liar, that he's a deceiver. And that he's doing everything in his power to dethrone God and defeat the saints of God and keep people in spiritual darkness lest they come to the light and receive Christ as their personal Savior. But God says that what's in you and what is in me is greater than what is in this world. You and I have the victory in and through the Lord Jesus Christ. Now listen to it very carefully tonight. The key to the victory that you and I have is not in you and I getting more of God That's a misconception of people today. If I could just get a little more of God, if I could just If I could just get more of him in my life, then then I would be the person that he wants me to be. No, no, no. You've got all the God you'll ever need. You've got everything that God has given to you. You've got it. It's at your disposal. The secret and key to victory is not you and I getting more of God, but God getting more of us. That's the key. That's the secret. Our greatest calling is to serve him with all of our being. We're not to deny him anything. We're not to hold back on him We're not just so segment in our life that certain things belong to him and certain things are off-limits to him. The key to victory is that everything is placed at his disposal, and he enables us to live that overcoming, conquering life for his honor and glory. You and I are to serve him wholly. You and I are to serve him continually. You and I are to serve him sacrificially. He doesn't want just a portion of us. He wants all of us. All of us. Laid on the altar for his use. In Romans chapter 12, Paul begins by saying, I beseech you, there's an earnest plea that Paul makes to the family of God. When he uses that word beseech, I beseech you therefore, brethren. When he uses that word beseech, he's talking about I'm urging you. I'm exhorting you. I'm admonishing you. I'm trying to do everything in my power to encourage you. I beseech you, brethren. What what is the basis of your plea, Paul? Why do you make such a request? On what basis do you think is worthy to give our all to the Lord? He said, because of his mercies. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. In light of what God has done for you, in light of what God has done for me in displaying mercy to us, giving to us what we do not deserve, withholding from us and keeping from us Those things that should come our way, God has showed mercy. And on the basis of that mercy, you and I are to give our own. If you've experienced and tasted the mercy of the Lord, then he deserves everything that you have, everything that I have, is to be laid at his disposal. When you stop to think about what we deserve as sinners, the hottest place in hell, believe me, we deserve it. We've even earned it. But he showed us mercy, and he's withheld from us that which we deserve because he is a merciful God. And on the basis of that mercy, he said, Give me your all. If you've tasted of the goodness of the Lord, you've tasted and experienced the mercy of the Lord, give him your all. Not only has God poured out his mercy upon us, but he's been so kind and gracious in forgiving us of our sin. He's removed it as far as the east is from the west. He said, I'll bury it in the depths of the deepest sea, never to be remembered again. And you get over into the book of Revelation, the Bible says that there's a day coming when he even gathers up all the sea and does away with that. So there'll never be a reminder throughout all eternity when we're on the portals and the great place called heaven, when we're walking those streets, there'll never be a reminder of what we failed to do in this life and how we failed the Lord and the sin that we've committed it's all done away with. I'll tell you that's mercy. And on the basis of that goodness and that mercy that God has showed us, He said, I want you to present your oil to me. He's favored us. He's favored us. He's blessed us. He's showered us with his love and with his grace. Stop and think about how much the Lord really loves us. I was thinking as Mark was singing tonight and talking about thank you, Father, for the gift of your son. There is the blessing of the Lord. His willingness to give his only begotten son for you and for me. We weren't deserving of that. There's nothing that you and I have ever done to earn that There's nothing that he looked upon and could see in you and me that deserved the favor and the blessing of him giving his only begotten Son and placing upon him the sins of all of the world. That brutal punishment that he went through, and that horrible death that he experienced. And oh my, that certainly displays the love of God, doesn't it? And on that basis, there's a plea. If you really are thankful and appreciate the grace that He's shown and the mercy that He's given, the love that He's displayed, If you really appreciate that and are thankful for that, lay it all at Jesus' feet by giving him your everything. When you stop to think about how good he's been to us, he saved us Well we we ought to come on glued on that one. You're you're you can get out of your Presbyterian state and get a little bit Pentecostal tonight and just praise the name of the Lord. When I start to think about how good God has been in saving me, I get excited about that. And I I'm not sure, but I'm I I might have a lame foot that I could swing on those raptors tonight when I think about how good God has been to me He saved me and he has forgiven me. He's just poured out his blessing after blessing after blessing. He's freed me from sin's power. I no longer have to live under the dominion of sin anymore. He's reconciled me. He's brought me back into his divine favor. For you and for me, he's justified us. And he looks upon us just as if we've never sinned. Now we all know, we all know all too well that we sin. There's no one in the house tonight that hasn't sinned today. One way or another. We've messed up, we've fouled up, we've stubbed our toes, we've skinned our shins We've done something that we should not have done, thought something we should not have thought. And yet the Lord justifies us and looks upon us just as if we've never done that. Not only does he justify us, but he takes up residence within us in the person of the Holy Spirit. How we ought to be appreciative of that. And how we ought to put a guard up in our life because of that, entwelt by the Holy Spirit of God, and I'm sure we subject the Holy Spirit to conversations that he's not comfortable with. Hello? I'm sure that we take him places that he's not comfortable in going, that we subject him to see things that he's not interested in seeing. All because we're not walking in the light as he is in the light. And the Bible tells us he's indwelling us, and we ought to be very careful about what we say, what we think, where we go, what we do, because we're in drought. By the Spirit of the Living God. He shed His love in our hearts. Because of that, we have the capacity and the ability to love one another. Have you ever met someone that's kind of hard to love? I better let it at that. There's too many too many smiles and agreements in the house. I know that there's individuals that, boy, I'll tell you, they really put you to the test as to being able to love them, but we're commanded to do so Love one another. If there's ever a place that love ought to be displayed, it's right here in the house of God. There ought to be no dischisms here There ought not to be any criticisms here. There ought not to be any wars here. There ought not to be any fussing and fuming and murmuring here. We ought to love one another. We're going to spend eternity together. Now look at the person beside you and say, I'm sure glad you're going to be there, and we're going to have a wonderful time together in heaven. Now go ahead and do it. All I can say is there's a change coming. And it's gonna make it a whole lot easier to spend all eternity together. We're caught up, we're changed, and we're going to be different throughout all the ceaseless ages of eternity. But the very motivation That ought to compel us and propel us to give our all to Him is the goodness and the grace and the mercy and the gifts that He has so graciously given to undeserving people. God warns us, don't you hold out on me. And yet we do. God has warned us: don't be unfaithful to me. You go back into the Old Testament, you see how Israel treated the Lord and the anger that it provoked. It's not a pleasant sight. I was reading in the book of Judges this morning for my devotions, and I come across a portion where uh Israel refused to deal with their sin and the judgment that God brought upon them. And I wrote in the fly leaf of my Bible, deal with sin or sin will deal with you God warns us, don't be disobedient to me. God very clearly, unmistakably warns us don't you sow to the lust of the flesh. Don't do that. You're going to reap what you are sowing. Not only does Paul make a plea in this passage of Scripture, but He also calls for a sincere presentation in this scripture. He said, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies A living sacrifice. When he talks about presenting our bodies, he's talking about putting it at God's disposal. If you want to carry through, and I want to carry through with the decisions that we've made this week, then we need to place our bodies At his disposal, so that he can work in us and through us to accomplish what he's purposed to do. The very reason that we were convicted to make some decision is that God has a work that He wants to complete in us. And so Paul said, I urge you, I beseech you to present your bodies a living sacrifice. Put it at God's disposal. When you put your body at God's disposal, that means that you might be able to roll up your sleeves and be a Sunday school teacher in this church. When you woo you put yourself at God's disposal, and you're saying, God, use me, use me. Then it's possible that you could be a bus worker in this church and run a bus route and bring people into the house of the Lord. I look across the auditorium, I believe there's some room for folks to come in. I look out there in the uh parking garage and I I I see that there's some buses out there uh that need to be run and people that could be picked up and brought into the house of the Lord. When you present your body and say, God, here it is, I'm presenting it, I'm yielding it, I'm placing it at your disposal. Use me in whatever way you want. He might put his finger on and say, I want you to be a bus worker. Presenting your body and placing it at God's disposal means that you might be able to join the choir. I believe there's some room up there. There's some expansion areas that might have your name written on it. If you're capable of singing and you're not singing, shame on you. Shame on you. God has talented you and blessed you and you are capable of carrying a tomb And you can sing a joyful noise unto the Lord, roll up your sleeves, place your body at God's disposal, and sign up for the choir. You might be able to join this orchestra. We've got two pieces up here now. By June we ought to have five pieces up here. I'm sure that there's more people that play instruments in this church. Uh I go down to Brother Don Leatherman's and they've got the stringed instruments. They got a guy that plays one of those big things, you know, and uh plucks away. He's got guys that play banjos, he's got guys that play guitars And uh boy they've got the they've got themselves the the pickin' grinnin' group that just carries on for deer life. I want you to I want you to win souls. You know our job is just to tell the story. God's got to do the saving. You you and I can't save anybody. But we sure can tell the story. And we sh sure can put out the literature and God can use that to bring a multitude of people to Christ. Our daily, daily need, our daily action, what is required of you and of me is to place ourselves at the disposal of God Almighty. And do you know why it's a daily routine? Because our bodies didn't get saved when we got saved. This old flesh is decaying. This old flesh is corrupted. This old flesh has that old nature that is wanting to take charge. And so every day of our life, we need to present our bodies as a living sacrifice to the Lord. We are very much subjected to the lust of the flesh. Our bodies are very much subjected to the pride of life, and our bodies are very much attracted to the allurements. Of this world. And so God says, I want you to present your body. I want you to give it to me. In the book of Romans, chapter 6 And in verse number 12 and verse number 13, Romans chapter 6, verse number 12 and 13, the Bible says this Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lust thereof. Neither yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness. Unto God. Do you know what God wants? He wants your all. He wants everything. He wants our ears. He wants our hands. He wants our eyes He wants our legs. He wants everything placed at his disposal to be used for his honor and for his glory. So the answer that the Lord has for us is yield, submit, give, surrender, put it all at the disposal of the Lord I think not only do we place our bodies at His disposal, but we yield our bodies to live a life of holiness. We're to be holy. And the criteria of that holiness is not you and me. The criteria of that holiness is the Lord Jesus. How do we measure up to Him? If he was holy, he's instructed us to be holy. He even tells us in the book of 1 Peter 1, even as I am holy. That ought to be a daily desire of our hearts to be holy unto the Lord. And he certainly deserves it because he bought us. He becomes sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God. Not only did he buy us. But your body and my body is not my own. It belongs to Him. We're purchased with the redeeming blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Our bodies is to be disciplined. Our bodies are to be corrected and controlled and brought into subjection to the precious word of God. And so he says, yield your bodies to me. He tells us to yield your life unto holiness. And then I believe the Bible is very clear on this: yield your body to be. As suitable to God. He tells this in Romans chapter 12. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, and now notice. Acceptable unto God. That word acceptable means well pleasing. Something that brings him pleasure. We're to present our bodies in such a way that God is pleased with that, that he finds pleasure in that, that he gets excited about that I can understand you and I getting excited about the things of the Lord, but boy, it just blows my mind that he gets excited about us. And as we yield to him and present ourselves to him and surrender it all to him, that's acceptable to him. That's well-pleasing to him. That's honoring to him Is that really your desire tonight? If we're going to follow through with the decisions that we've made around this altar, It's so easy to come in and make a decision and go out and forget all about it. The devil's in the business of snatching that and robbing us of that and following through with that He's working hard. But if we really want to follow through with it, then I I believe we need to accept the fact that there's a plea made here. To present your all to him. There's a presentation that is demanded here that we turn it all over to him and lay our bodies at his disposal. I surely want to please the Lord. Do you? I I surely want to honor the Lord. Do you? I I I want to make sure that I I'm serving God in the way that He wants me to serve Him. Whether it's in the pulpit or Whether it's in the fingerprint ministry or whether it's in the youth ministry, the bus ministry, or the choir and music ministry of the church, whatever we do, I want to make sure that we're doing it his way. That we're doing it to His honor and to His glory. Now, I I'm sure that you would agree with me that there's some people, the only reason they do what they do at church is so that others will see what they do. Well amen, preacher. I I will concur with that one. Our our thought is not what whether it brings glory to the Lord. It's whether somebody notices that. That's why we get dead out of shape when no one slaps us on the back and thanks us for the song that we sung or the message that we preach or For the work that we are doing. We just get bit all out of shape because we're not doing it for God, we're doing it for others. So that they see it and recognize how valuable I am to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. You remember when it was so characteristic in days gone by? When I I I I know in the church that I was raised they'd pass out pens for perfect attendance. You remember that? And uh next year you'd get another one and there was two up there. Next year you'd get another one, there'd be three up there and four up there. And there were some people that boy I'm telling you they they had a change that you could wrap around their neck and hang them if you wanted to. And they displayed that very proudly. Look what I've done. Look what I've achieved. That's not why you go to Sunday school. Right. That's not why you have perfect attendance at the house of God. That's not why you sing in the choir. Or preach in a pulpit or go to the mission field. Is that why you show up for the various activities so that you can show off of how big and how important you are? We do it for the honor and glory of our Lord, who so graciously gave us everything, and without him, he says, you can do nothing. You can do nothing. I I I sure surely want to serve him and I want to give my all to the Lord. Is that your drive and your aim? And then very quickly, there's a proposal here. Not only a plea, not only a presentation. But Paul makes a proposal. And he tells us in verse number two: be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. That ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. If I understand that verse correctly, Paul is saying: here's the proposal: don't conform to the world. Renew your mind, and in so doing, you are going to prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Remember, the key to victory is giving our all to Him. So here's the proposal. Don't allow your life to be controlled and shaped and molded by this world. There ought to be a distinctive difference between what the world thinks and what we think. A distinctive difference between where the world goes and where we go. A distinctive difference between the activities of the world and the activities of God's people. And it ought to be very noticeable. Because the world is nothing more than a sewer pit that's on its way to hell. It's in the hand and lap of the evil one, the wicked one, Satan himself, and he's the God of this world. And all of the evil and deception and corruption that is present in this world is generated by the devil himself. You and I are to be different than that. That's why the Bible says, come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. Don't touch the unclean thing. And I'll be a father to you. God is calling upon you and upon me. Don't allow this world to squeeze you and mold you into its form. Stand against it. Be different from it. Allow your life to radiate the love of God and the joy that we find in the Lord Jesus Christ. The world is nothing more than an instrument in Satan's hand that he's using to send people to a crisis eternity. He's the one that promotes the corruption of this world. The devil is the one that is behind all of the rebellion that is present in this world. The devil, the devil himself. It's the one that is behind all of the false religions that are blinding people to the fact that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. And no man comes to the Father but by Him. So there's a transformation that needs to take place, and you know where it begins? Right in the old thinker. You gotta think differently. And the only way you and I will ever be able to think differently is to get in this book and know the ways of the Lord. That's the key. That's the key. When you and I understand the will of God, he says that it's beneficial, it's good. It's helpful. It's profitable. It's certainly going to bring blessing into your life when you know and understand what God wants of you. And then he says and caps it off by saying It's acceptable to God. It's pleasing to Him. Are you in the will of God tonight? Are you walking in that will? If you want to follow through with the decisions that you made this week, it begins by presenting your all to Him every day. It is strengthened, strengthened, as you're motivated on the basis of his mercy, his goodness, and his favor that has been placed upon you. You're motivated by that. To present it, to yield it, to surrender it, to give it without reservation, holding back nothing. Because he purchased it. And it belongs to him. And in so doing, you prove that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. It's in our hands, church. This week and go by the wayside and accomplish nothing. Or it literally Can sow the seeds of revival at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Our song of invitation tonight We'll begin in just a moment, and when it does. If you made a decision this week and You surrendered something to the Lord this week. It's not going to be confirmed in your life because you did that once. It's going to be confirmed and well established and followed through. When every day of our life we yield it to him, we give it to him. We allow him to do in and through us what he wants to do. Maybe you've been holding out on the Lord. Maybe you've been resistant to what he really wants to do in your life. Tonight's the night that you can change that. You don't have to run from them. You don't have to rebel against them. But you can walk in harmony to him and bring honor and glory to his name. If you're here tonight without the Savior, we'd love to take a Bible and show you how to be saved. If you're here tonight as a Christian and you know that there's some areas of your life that you've just kind of been resistant about yielding to the Lord, come and yield it to him. Turn it over to him. Allow him to do in and through your life what he is able to do. Would you do that tonight? Father, I pray in Jesus' name The Holy Spirit would tenderly, mercifully work in our midst tonight. To bring us to that place of surrender, that place of yielding our all to you, that you might work in us. That you might work through us, and that we might prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Lord, deal with us, I pray. While our heads are bowed and her eyes are closed and the instruments are playing, God is speaking to you. Would you come tonight?