First Peter chapter number three and verse number eight and nine is what we've been looking at, and uh we kind of parked it here for a little bit. This these two verses, he has a list here. Peter is giving a list of six qualities of a mature, godly, submissive Christian. Six qualities he lists here, and we just kind of part And we're spending a little time looking at each of these six qualities. If I'm convinced if we could get these to be true in our lives We could see revival. We could have a profound impact on our community. Notice there in verse number 8, he says, finally. Now he'd been talking about submission to authorities that God has put in our lives And he says, finally, be ye all, now look at this, be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another. And he goes on, he says, Love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous. And then verse 9: not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing. But contrarywise, blessing, knowing that ye are thereunto called, that ye should inherit a blessing. God has called us to have these characters, characteristics, these qualities in our lives. And he says, when we do, when we behave this way, when these are true about us, Then God will bless us. God will bless us. You know what I found? I found that those who are walking with God humbly and living for the Lord, I found those are the happiest Christians you'll ever come across. They experience the blessings of God. But Christians that are self-centered and hard and and uh seek in their own way, uh I've found that those are the un the most unhappy Christians So let's pray. We'll look at this here and ask the Lord to help us. Father, I thank you for the Word of God and what a good day. And now as we finish out this Easter, it's coming going. You're looking forward to a new week as we go out into the world. I pray you prepare our hearts, and I pray your Holy Spirit would just move and challenge us. Convict us. Get down into our hearts, Lord, tonight and change us and make us into the Christians you would have us to be. That we could be, have these qualities in our lives as a individuals and corporately as a church, these would be true of us So fill me with your spirit is my prayer. Speak to us tonight, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. We noticed the first characteristic or quality was that of unity. He says, Finally, my brethren, be ye all of one mind. And the point there was this: if we can all individually get the mind of Christ and have his values, his perspective, his priorities, or thinking the way Christ thinks And if we all have that, then we'll all be thinking the same way, we'll all have the same values. It's not uniformity. It doesn't mean we all look the same, talk the same, have uh uh uniform, but we're Unified unity. And then we noticed last week was this matter of compassion. He said, having compassion one of another. And that is kind of along the lines of our word for sympathy. Sympathize one another. In other words, enter into the heartache and the joys that another person is experiencing. The Bible puts it this way: rejoice with them that do rejoice and weep with them that weep, sorrow with them that sorrow. And so we pointed that out. We said that when we do that, when we show compassion, we're obeying the Bible Over and over, we're told to have compassion one of another. We're Christ-like. Jesus Christ, when he saw the multitudes, was moved with compassion on them. And we become like Christ. And then we have an influence. Jude verse 22, he says, some having compassion make a difference. And I tell you, this whole world, you get a person that has genuine compassion on this old sinful dark world, they stand out like a bright light. Showing compassion. And now tonight I notice this. This is the one I want to look at, and I'll try and get right to the point. Be of one mind, having compassion. Now here's what we want to look at tonight Love as brethren. Love as brethren. The quality he's bringing out here is brotherly love. Brotherly love. One of the great themes all through the Bible, from Genesis to Revelation, a great theme all through there. It's very, very evident, very prominent all through Scripture, and that is this: God's love for mankind. Anybody notice that in the Bible? Over and over we're show we're told God loves us. God loves right from the get-go. When Adam and Eve sinned, disobeyed God, and they were estranged from God. First thing God did was went down to restore that relationship, restore that fellowship. He loves mankind. God loves his creation. God loves mankind. And that's all through Scripture. Now there's another theme that is emphasized through Scripture, almost the same emphasis as God's love for us. It's a little bit under the surface. But you don't have to look very hard and you'll find it, and that is this, man's love for God and for one another. A fellow came to the Lord Jesus Christ one time and he said, he asked him, he said, What is the greatest commandment of all the commandments God has given to us? What is the greatest commandment? And what was Jesus' response to him? That thou shalt what? Love the Lord thy God, and he doesn't stop there, but with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength But he didn't end at that. He tacked on another statement. And thou shalt love thy as thyself. And that is a current That runs throughout Scripture, kind of under the surface. And as we read through our Bibles and we pay close attention God is continually, continuously admonishing us to love God and to love one another, love our neighbors It's a theme all through Scripture. Now I got studying and thinking a little bit about the subject of love in the Bible. It's kind of interesting, and I'll explain here in a minute why I'm uh approaching it this way. It's kind of interesting. The Bible presents three types of love, Among mankind, between mankind. Three types of love in Scripture. Three types. The first one, and I told I was telling my wife, I think, if If love, if types of love were drink sizes at McDonald's, this is how my mind works, so bear with me. If types of love were drink sizes at McDonald's, the biggie, the large would be agape love The medium would be Phileo or brotherly love, and the small would be the one I want to start out with tonight, would be the sensual love. So there's three types of love presented in the Bible. First, one of them is, and this would be the small glass, would be the sensual love. That would be the intimate physical love between a husband and wife You say the pre uh preacher, the Bible doesn't talk about that. Oh yes, it does You ought to read the you ought to read the book Song of Solomon. Wow I give you some references, but I won't. I'm going to have you find them yourself. Song of Solomon talks about the intimacy, the sensual love between a husband and wife. Proverbs Chapter 5 and verse 19, the Bible says, speaking of the husband, the wife of the husband, he says, let him be ravished always with her love. It's talking about that intimacy between a husband and wife. Now, here's the emphasis of that type of love. The emphasis of the teaching in the Bible about that type of love is this: its restriction. The Bible emphasized over and over and over that this type of love, this intimacy, this sensual type of love, is restricted to a husband and a wife. Period. No exceptions. Nothing outside those perimeters. It's restricted to the husband and wife. Now, within that perimeter of marriage, within that perimeter of a husband and a wife committed to one another for their life, within that perimeter, the Bible's pretty open about that. In Hebrews chapter 13, I think it's not verse 5, I think it's verse 4. Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 4. It says marriage is honorable in all, and the bed is undefiled. Talking about that intimacy. Now, whoremongers and adulterers, God will judge. Mark it down. You get outside the perimeters, you get outside of the boundaries that God permits this type of love. You get outside of that, brother, you're dealing with the judgment of God outside of that. And by the way, America has to deal with the judgment of God. Because we have flaunted that sin in unbelievable degrees. So one of the loves mentioned in the Bible is this Sensual, intimate love between a husband and a wife. There's a second type of love that the Bible references, a little more so. This would be the medium cup at McDonald's, in my bizarre illustration in my mind. And that is brotherly love. That is brotherly love. That would be the kindness that people show one to another. Kindness. Boy, I'd like to stop and park it there for a while. This whole world could use some kindness. Let me bring it home a little bit. Our churches could use some kindness I've been in some churches and around some Christians that were awfully unkind. The things they said, how they treated one another. I'm telling you, that is a shame. And that is going to bring, I believe that will bring the judgment of God. We are unkind to our brothers and sisters. This brotherly love, Phileo, Philadelphia. Brotherly love. It's a family type love. It's a love that a Family has one for another, a brothers and sisters, mom and dad, parents and kids, their kids and their parents. It's that family love that uh that uh that comes naturally. Now I I put this down. I cannot choose who my family members are. Right? We can't choose who our family members are. I didn't I didn't choose my sisters. I hope they're not watching But uh I do need to decide to love them. As a matter of fact, just the very fact that they are family, there is a love that they're that is there naturally, right or wrong. Later on. That's what he's talking about. This brotherly love, this love that is characteristic of the family unit. I cannot choose who my family members are, but I can and must choose to love these family members with this brotherly love, with this kindness. With this graciousness seeking to be a blessing to them. And by the way, this love is not a feeling. Don't misunderstand, love is not a feeling, love is a decision. Now this is where the world has got us hoodwinked. The world has convinced us that love is some sort of, oh, oh, he's so divine. Right? You follow what I'm saying? And it's like, oh, I get this little and there's little tweety birds flying around us. And um that is not love. That could be in tatuation But that is not love. Love is a decision. I want to challenge every one of us to study what the Bible says about love. Brotherly love, it is a decision. It's something I decide to do. Study 1 Corinthians 13, the great love, charity chapter of the Bible, the greatest piece of literature on love in all of history. And every one of those statements, every one of those descriptions is an action verb, action verb, action verb. Something I'm deciding. It's something I'm doing deliberately. And so brotherly love is me treating brothers and sisters like their family, like their family. In fact, Peter presents the church as a type of extended family. I don't know about you. We've been here, we're coming up on 28 years here in a few months. And I'm telling you, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has become family. Has become family. And other churches I've been in, it becomes family. In fact, a lot of people would say that the church family, they're closer to the church family than they are even to some of their blood family. Family. And that's what he's talking about. Brotherly love. This love that is between brothers and sisters and people that make up a family, people that make up a church. Brotherly love, it's kindness, it's graciousness. Over the years I was studying this and You know, uh here at Mountain Lake for all these years and then previous ministries we were in, every now and then uh you come across a church member that's a little contrary Now none here. No no not I mean you were talking long time ago, far you know, far away and long ago. Every now and then over the years you come across the church members or somebody or brother and sister in Christ and they're a little bit contrary. And the Lord taught me something years ago. And I'd be going through it with the church member, a brother and sister in Christ, and maybe they're giving me a hard time. I never gave anybody a hard time, as always. They would And um, and uh, but uh, and I'd have to get on, and the Lord would speak to my heart. The Lord would say, I've called you to love them. I've called you to love them. Contrary or not, my responsibility is to love them. Have brotherly love. Be kind. Be gracious, try and be a blessing. I tell you, if we can learn to do that, say even people that are contrary, yeah. Yeah. Um growing up, uh, you know, my sisters got contrary And I just loved them. And I was a blessing to them. Brotherly love, brotherly love. God says, I've called you to love them. Then there's a third type of love, and we talk about this one probably the most. Because it's very prominent through scriptures, and that is the unconditional love of God. What we refer to as the Gape love we get from the Greek word. This is God's unconditional love for you and I as sinners. We break his law, we blaspheme his name, we violate his holiness. We disregard his clear instructions as our God, our creator, and how he's designed us and created us to function. And we disregard that and we do our own thing, and yet God loves us. Unconditionally. There's not a person in this world that you can't approach and say to them, uh there's not a person in the world you can't say to them this: God loves you. There's not a person in the world you can't say that to Unconditional love, the agape love of God. This is a supernatural love that God is And he places it within the hearts of believers. It's a love that God supernaturally gives us to love people unconditionally. It's the love that he has for us. The Bible says that the Holy Spirit has shed abroad in our hearts this love of God. I tell you, if we can get to the point as believers where we're so yielded to God, we're so submissive and filled with the Holy Spirit of God, so filled with the Holy Spirit of God that this unconditional love of God is. shed abroad out of our lives. What a place to arrive at when we can get there. Three types of love. Very sensual surface, very shallow sensual love And then there's this family, brotherly love, where we seek to be a blessing and an encouragement, a kindness one to another, like family. And then this divine, supernatural love that is agape. That is completely unconditional on the part of the one that is loved. Now, Peter said all that to say this. Peter is talking about that middle love. That family love. He's referring to the church as almost like a family, an extended family. If you're here in your Bibles, if you notice, this is the third time Peter's mentioned this. I don't know if you remember. Come back to chapter 1 and look with me at verse 22. He says, seeing that ye have purified your hearts in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren. Look at this. See that ye what? Keep reading that ye love one another fervently. See that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently. He's talking about that brotherly love. That we have as brothers and sisters. Look over there in chapter 2, in verse number 17, he had brought it up again. And we looked at this not too long ago. He says, honor all men. Look at this. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the King. Here again is this brotherly love. Now in chapter 3 and verse 8, he brings it up again. He says, love as brethren, love as brethren. Now three thoughts about this. No, I don't. I have th four. Nope, I have five. Real quick. You'll be alright. Hold on there. Number one, I put this down. Brotherly love indicates a new birth. Brotherly love indicates the new birth. Come with me if you would, real quick, to 1 John. We're in 1 Peter. Just come back towards the back of your Bible a little bit. Get to 1 John. Look at chapter 3. And verse number 14. This is an important verse. 1 John 3:14, he says, We know that we have passed from death unto life. Because we what? Love the brethren. He says, we know we passed from death unto life. I know I went from an Unsaved condition to a saved condition. I went from a lost condition to a saved condition. I went from a darkness to light, death to life. And I know that because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brethren, his brother, abideth in what? Death. That's a strong statement. Whoso hateth his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. Brotherly love indicates the fact that there's a new birth. I don't know about you, but before I got saved, I was a mess, of course. But before I got saved, I didn't care too much about others That's their problem. That's their life. But I tell you, when God saved my soul, there's a powerful change took place. And suddenly I started thinking about others. And I started going to church and I met brothers and sisters in Christ. And you know what? I started to love them and care about them. I want to be a blessing. I started seeing them like brother and sister. I'll never forget old Mike Stubler. Remember Mike? My old boy, God saved him, God got a hold of him I've never seen anybody grasp what Christianity is all about as quickly as Mike Stubbler did. One day we were doing something around here. He'd show up during the week and different things, and we were doing something, and I said, Hey, Brother Mike. Boy, that caught his attention. He said, what'd you call me? I said, uh, Brother Mike He says, brother, why'd you call me brother? I said, well, because we're brothers in Christ. We're saved. We're part of God's family. Until you he'd beamed ear to ear. I'm a brother. I'm a brother. Tell you, God saves a soul. We become brothers and sisters in Christ. The power of the gospel produces a significant change in the heart and life of the believer. Before we loved money. We love possessions, pleasure, self. That was number one priority, all of these things. But Christ came in our heart and life. And he gave us a new nature. And there, now all of a sudden, God Is dear to us. My brothers and sisters in Christ become very dear to us. In fact, we even find that we start loving our enemies. Our enemies. Brotherly love is an indicator that a person's been born again. Now it's not what saves us. Loving my brother isn't what saves us, but when I do get saved by trusting Christ That becomes an indicator. Number two, I put this down. Brotherly love characterizes the true disciple of Jesus Christ. John 13, 35, Jesus said, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if you have love one for another. He says, that's how they're going to know your disciples. Whether we like it or not, this whole world's watching us. Whether we like it or not, this whole world's paying attention how we act and our attitudes and reactions. I tell you, one thing that stirs my heart is such a blessing to me as pastor. Somebody comes and visits our church, and I go follow up and visit them later, and they say something like this to me, your church is the friendliest church I've ever been to in my life. You know what? That's a testimony that we are disciples of Jesus Christ. Now I don't know that we always live up to that as much as I would like for us to do, but I'm glad to hear that when people say that. Amen. By this shall all men know you're my disciples, if you have love one for another. It is our love for one another that distinguishes us from this world. We live in a world that is saturated with lust. And lust, in its very fundamental definition, is self-centered. Is self-absorbed, is self-focused. It's what do I get out of it? God says, if you're what's going to identify you as a disciple, isn't this self-centered seeking No, it's a love for others. Love for one another. I put this down. Number three, brotherly love comes naturally as we walk with God and submit to God. Turn with me real quick I'm winding down here. Come over to, if you're in Peter here, come back a little bit to 1 Thessalonians And he talks about this a good bit to the church there at Thessalonica. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. Is everybody with me? Okay, I'm coming to the end here a little bit. Hang in there. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. Look with me at verse number 9. He's writing to this church at Thessalonica, which is a tremendous church. He says, You guys are a model church. Other churches should pattern themselves after you He's praising them. And in chapter 4, verse 9, he says this, but as touching brotherly love, ye need not That I write unto you. Look at this. For ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another. You know what we say? As they walked with the Lord, as they submitted their will to God's will, as they trusted God and faith in Him and followed Him, this love for brothers and sisters came naturally It was just there. You don't have to even be taught. God's doing it in you. God's producing that in you And uh uh so brotherly love is something that I believe comes naturally in the heart and life of a Christian as I walk with God, as I submit to God. Now here's the problem. Jesus said in Matthew, I think it's 24 He says, because of it, I'm not quoting this exactly right, I'm trying to rush here a little, but because of iniquity, the love of many has waxed cold. In other words, if we walk with God and we submit ourselves to Him, we trust Him and humble ourselves, follow the Lord's leadership, God produces brotherly love in us. It comes naturally. But As we allow sin in our lives, as we get caught up with ourselves and our own self-will, that brotherly love gets cold, it gets quenched. And it's not there as it ought to be. And that tells me this. The cure for a lack of love within a body of believers is getting sin out of my lives and submitting to the Lord and letting the Lord's will be done and then that love will be produced. I tell you, it's very difficult to have sin in my life and try and force myself to love someone else when I'm caught up with love for for myself. Follow what I'm saying? And so it comes naturally in the life of a believer. Fish swim. You don't have to teach a fish how to swim Um was it Evan came home the other from visitation the other week? They had little uh frog eggs thousands of frog eggs. And they killed them all. But uh if you have a little f you have a little what's a frog turn uh tadpole, if you have a little tadpole You don't have to teach that tadpole how to swim. You get down in there. You don't have to do that. It just comes naturally, right? You don't have to teach a bird how to fly, it just comes naturally. You don't have to teach a horse how to run, it just comes naturally. You don't have to teach a dog how to bark, it just comes naturally. You don't have Teach a cat to What do cats do? Ignore you. Ignore you, yeah, you don't have to teach 'em. Spit up hairballs and And you shouldn't have to teach a Christian to love If we walk with God, it would come naturally. Paul wrote to Thessalonians, he said, I don't have to even talk to you about it. God does that in your life. God produces that in your life. And then number four, brotherly love is displayed in our actions. Chapter four, verse ten of Thessalonians, he said, Indeed ye do it towards all the brethren. It comes out in our actions And number five, I am with this. Brotherly love can be developed and increased. Look at the last part of verse 10. But we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase. This brotherly love, you increase more and more. More and more. The longer we're in the family of God, the our love for one another, the spirit of love, ought to increase more and more and more I see Chester over there. I think of the song. If you don't love the brother, don't love your neighbor, you don't love God. What a good song So one of the characteristics, one of the qualities of a mature, submissive, humble Christian is brotherly love one for another. Brotherly love. We were years ago when our boys were very small, they were just five, six years old maybe. We had a we we had a pretty good snow And uh they were all bundled up, you know, they had all these layers of clothes, they were all bundled up, and they went out back and they were going sledding. We had these little plastic toboggans. Anybody know just this little plastic And if you've ever been to our house, the back of our house there's not really a hill, it's just a slight decline. But it was just enough where they could sit on that little thing, give a little push, and they'd shh about that far. And they bring it back up and shh. I was in the kitchen. They were out there playing. It was snow and they were all bundled up and they're going down. Our youngest son, I don't remember if he hit a tree or what. Something happened, he fell over. He was laying in the snow, it was pretty deep, and he couldn't get up, and he was crying Our oldest son saw it and I'm watching out the kitchen window and he went over to him and went down and put his arm around him and he helped him get up He's just cried away, put his arm around him, and he walked him into the house. I was studying what the Bible teaches about brotherly love. I think that's probably about the best description I can give of brotherly love. I looked out that window and I saw that and I thought, Lord Lord, teach me to love my brothers and my sisters that way. Care about them. Want to help them. Want to be a blessing. Deas sir, the Lord's alive. We celebrated that today, our living God. He sees us. He hears us. He's alive. Maybe we could come and ask our Savior this coming week, the next seven days. Lord, would you teach us to have brotherly love? Monday, Tuesday, all through the week, at home, at work, at the marketplace, wherever. Lord, help us to show brotherly love. One another. Father, bless now. Help us to have this quality in our life that it would be evident We need you. We got this old selfish sinful nature. Lord, we want you to put this in us. I wonder with our heads bowed eyes closed. How many would join me, say, preacher, that's what I want God to teach me I want to have this brother love. Anybody at all like that? That's what I want. Why don't we just an old altar tonight ask God? The do that force teach us. Produce that in us. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen