We'll be doing a picture each night, as you know, and uh some of them will be good and some of them won't. This one is good. I just thought I'd let you know what my judgments are Uh Galatians chapter three. And and I wanna let's see, I want to I think we'll we'll read over here. Uh Let's start in verse, let's just start in verse 10. For as many are uh as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse. For it is written, cursed is everyone that continueth not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. But that no man is justified by the laws in the sight of God, it is evident for the just shall live by faith. And the law is not of faith. But the man that doeth them shall live in them. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree. Verse thirteen again. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the lawless free. Heavenly Father, we once again bow before you as humble as we know how and ask for your mercy and grace and your filling. Praise you just uh take that piece of this piece of clay and uh use it to get honor to yourself. Thank you, Lord, for these folks who've come out. to listen to this preacher preach and watch him do a chalk drawing and sing a few songs to glorify your name. And Lord, it's uh time now to just uh Gather around the Word of God, and I just pray that you'll help us as we preach. Do a work in our hearts tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. The book of Galatians is written by the Apostle Paul, and the Apostle Paul, dealing with the Galatians, he ran across some people who were hung up on the law. And uh we have we have some of those today. We have churches today that that believe the Ten Commandments were given so that people could be saved by them. If you keep the K Ten Commandments, why you can you can go to heaven. If you don't keep them, why you don't go to heaven? The tragedy is that no one can keep them. That's the tragedy. So it is a curse. The curse of the law is the fact you can't keep the law. No way that you can do it. So we have people that uh uh still though uh teach that uh you know you have to uh although thou shalt not sit in there, you're not supposed to do those things. That's all there is to it And you're not. But the tragedy is we do. You know, every uh every one of us has broken the very first one. Thus have no other gods before thee. That's I mean they're you're messed up just right off the very b very beginning of things. But the curse of the law is a uh it's a universal thing. Because every man, m uh man, woman, boy, girl, all are under the under the curse of the law. The Bible says if you if you sin in one point of the law, you're guilty of all of them. Breaking them all. That's well you say, well you how about if you if you tell a lie, that's not as bad as murdering somebody Well, as far as God's concerned, it it it is as bad. Now it has different consequences. Of course you murder somebody, you've taken a life and there's you know, there's a death to that that uh that particular uh sin. But the but the as far as God is concerned, he sees every sin the same. Whenever you break the law of God, you've offended in that that point of the law and it's like a chain. It's not It's not uh these are not individual things. It's the Ten Commandments is like a chain. And if you break one of them, you broke the chain. That's that's the way God looks at it Every sin has with within it the uh the seed of rebellion. And rebellion is the sin of witchcraft, and so it's You know, uh mankind is uh is in dire situation because it's under the curse of the law. Under the curse of the law. And you may be sitting out there and you're saying, well, that's not be not me, because I trusted Christ. Well thank God you have because that's the only way you can get out from underneath the curse. If you trust Jesus Christ your Savior, he becomes your substitute, and your substitute is taking your hell for you Your substitute has done the job that that uh God demands of that one who's offended uh in all in all points of the law So uh the the curse of the law is not just universal, but it's also just. It's not just for the the grossly wicked. It's it's for anyone who has offended in any point in the law It's also for the the uh uh for the slightly wicked and not just the grossly wicked. You say, well I'm not that bad, it's just a small sin. But uh I tell you it still has that that s still has that smell of sin, you know. It still uh stinks like sin. Little sin has in it that essence of all sin. It's also, the Christ of the law is also fearful. And when I say it's fearful, some are not uh not concerned about death and hell But uh if you knew the truth and and the results of offending in the in the law and realized what hell was, uh there'd be uh fear in your heart as a result of it. You die here, you die in the next world, and then you die a death, which never dies. I don't know who said that, but it's uh certainly is true. You die here, die in the next world, and die a death that never dies. You feel a worm. You feel a worm that gnaws forever. That would be your conscience, I would guess. You feel a fire that never quenches, even a even a flood of tears of sorrow doesn't quench the fires of hell. So there's this thing of the curse of sin. You know, I'm afraid I'm afraid that we as independent fundamental Baptists, we have the doctrines down pat And we know what hell is, we know what sin is, and we understand the curse of sin, and we know what the answer is. But having knowing the answer is not help your fellow out here that uh uh that is lost and on his way to hell. Knowing these truths is one thing, but applying it and saying, hey, because of this curse of sin, there is there needs to be something inside of me that is trying to keep people from from uh uh receiving that the uh the end of that curse. The curse removed It's removed instantaneously. Whenever God does something, he does it right. The individual that uh the blind man receives his sight immediately. The one who is lame, he's he gets up and carries his bed immediately. God, when he touches a life, he touches that life immediately, and it and it has uh instant ramifications. Illustrations in the Gospels of all the healings deal with that same situation. I see him as he as he walks by the little girl's deathbed. She lays there, her eyes are already glazed over. She's she's already died. But he says, uh, Elitha Call me, arise, and the eyes open up, they blink, and life has come into that dead body. That's the the instant touch of the master's hand. There is therefore now no condemnation to them that uh uh to them who are uh Who are in Christ Jesus. I should have known that one. I tell you I have a problem remembering some things. They just don't come to me like they used to. I doubt if you've noticed that, but I thought I'd just let you know, so just feel sorry for me or something, you know. He doesn't just he doesn't just uh remove the curse uh instantly, but he also does it entirely. I'm glad we have a have a God that can save to the uttermost, aren't you? I like that verse back in the book of Hebrews. Let's go back there and just read that one. In Hebrews chapter seven and verse twenty-five it says this. If you're where I can read it. He says, wherefore uh you need to read the verse ahead of that in order to get the the gist of it. It says, But this man he's talking about Jesus, because he continueth ever as an unchangeable priesthood. You know, the reason we have eternal security is because we have a a uh uh mediator and a high priest that has an unchangeable priesthood. And so we have eternal security because of he's ever ever living to make intercession for us. Isn't that a wonderful Savior? But this man, because he continueth ever hath an unchangeable priesthood. Wherefore he's able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. So he's able to save to the uttermost entirely. I like uh John chapter five, verse twenty-four. For it says, Verily, verily I say unto thee, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life, shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. There's everything in that verse there speaks of of salvation, security, and uh how God takes care of his own. Not only is the curse removed instantly and entirely, but also irreversibly. I like that one. It's in Romans eight. Go there if you will with me. In Romans 8, he goes down a a litany of of uh of things that uh cannot separate you from God. I want to read these once again I'm starting in verse 35, where it says, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all day long. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors. Wow, I like that verse, don't you? Through him that loved us. For I'm persuade that neither death nor life nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers. Nor things present nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Thank you, Rose. So there isn't anything you can undo what God does in removing the curse, thank God. Uh some say, well how about if I jump out of his hand? You know, it talks about about being hidden in uh in Christ and Christ is in God and and so forth and sealed by the Spirit, but what if I jump out of his hand Um I I remember when uh we were raising our children. We uh when we got ready to cross a busy highway, I did not just uh tell my son to walk beside me and walk across the busy highway. He was my son. I'm gonna make sure he gets on the other side with me. And so I just get him by the hand. I put a firm grip on him, and I don't let his hand hold my hand. I got a hold of him. And that's exactly the way it is with God. He's got a hold of you, and that's a that's a wonderful part about salvation, is that salvation is is uh has nothing to do with with us and everything to do with God God's the one who saves and the one who keeps and the one who preserves. He's the God that I want to serve. You're probably here today and in uh uh Maybe you've maybe you feel like you serve him pretty good. Whenever you look at all the things that he does for us, then then we have to sort of question that, don't we? Realize that uh there's so many opportunities we pass up. And you know we're going to be judged by the things we don't do, as well as the things that we do do. And that's that's kind of a scary thing because I know in a day's time there's a lot of good that I pass up. He that knoweth to do good doeth it not. To him it has sinned. That's kind of a scary verse there when you really get into it. And whenever we uh we think we we're we're so uh uh so necessary in God's plan uh I go to the graveyards and I look at the tombstones and I see I see children there, I see old people and young people every age. So there isn't any of us that are uh you know uh that uh he can uh he has to have in order to carry on his his business The third thing, the curse, the curse replaced. The curse is replaced by grace. Oh I love that word, grace. We're saved by grace through faith and that not of ourselves, the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. I like that that uh that thing of grace. Grace is an unmerited favor. It means that that uh uh he extends that grace to me and I don't deserve it. I don't deserve it And neither do you. And yet uh we just uh soak it all in and and take what what he gives us without having a thankful heart. Well the curse replaced by by grace, just as the curse was uh too uh was too exact uh I'm trying to read this thing and and I can't read my own writing. So the just for the unjust that he might bring us to God. I remember that part of it anyway. There is no gospel where there is no substitute. I want you to think about that sentence for a moment. There is no gospel where there is no substitute. You think of all the people, uh the different uh uh groups that uh believe different about salvation. They don't uh they think that it's just a matter of living right, doing the best you can, doing unto others you'd have others do unto you, all those those good things that that we sh should be doing as Christians, no question about it But those are not the things that bring salvation. The thing that brings salvation is the grace of God through this thing that God calls faith We're saved by grace through faith, and that not of ourselves a gift of God, and not of works, lest any man should boast. God never remitted the penalty Death for sin. He never took that away. When Jesus died for our sin, it was because he was our substitute that he accepts us I have one more point. Hang in there now. Christ suffered the equivalent of your hell and my hell He died for everyone. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. So who then is free from the curse? Well, it's that uh that one who's willing to humble himself before the mighty hand of God and and ask forgiveness? Confessor sin to ask forgiveness, and as the Bible says, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved Now I realize that probably in this auditorium there's probably there's probably some folks in here that's never trusted Christ. Maybe you think you have and maybe you've gone through some emotions or maybe you've uh you know Uh you've play acted a little bit. Uh it's a tragedy when those things happen. But I uh Uh I was preaching a meeting up in Michigan years ago and and uh that morning service, uh uh a lady come forward and knelt down at the altar. Somebody dealt with her and she prayed and asked God to save her. And uh it was a preacher's wife, and I thought, wow She was the daughter of a preacher and the wife of a preacher, and yet she'd never been saved. You know the tragedy is that Satan is real good at uh switching the bait, so to speak. And uh there's only one substitute for sin, for mankind, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. There's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. It's that name, the Lord Jesus. It's a precious name. It's a precious name and it's a sweet name. And uh I love him today, and I hope you do. But if you're here today without Christ, you have the curse of the law on you. You've broken God's law, and God is going to exact a penalty. as a result of that that uh breaking the law. But if you'll take the substitute that God's provided That one mediator between it God and man, the man Christ Jesus. If you'll receive that one who died for your sins, you can have eternal life. And the curse will be lifted, and you can enjoy the grace of God Enjoy the joy that He gives when you are born again and have a new life in Christ. I want to show the shark drawing for you now. I trust it'll be a blessing. I I uh spend a lot of time on it. And my wife really gets after me when I do that because it uh uh I can't do this on every one of them. I I told her last night or today sometime I said that I I did the chalk drawing and I spent extra time Because I wanted people to work for the chalk drawings. And I think this is one that uh it you'll work for. At least I would. I'd work for that thing, it's a good one.