Verse five tonight. First Peter chapter five. And um I apologize for the terrible jokes today. Look at verse 5. 1 Peter 5, 5. Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility. Then to finish out the verse, I'm not going to really look at this last part, we'll look at this separate message, but For God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. And look at that little phrase there, be clothed with humility. I want to speak tonight on the garment of humility. It's what I've titled the message. Let's pray together Father, I ask you bless now our time in the book of First Peter. We've been studying this for quite some time now. And I pray that you'd open our hearts and minds tonight once again to the truths and the instructions, particularly Given to us here in this passage. We understand, Lord, that you have given us these instructions by way of inspiration and preservation of the scriptures So I ask you to help me be faithful in teaching and preaching these instructions. I pray, Lord, your Holy Spirit would take these and apply them to their lives as you know we have need. All of us are different. We're different stages in our Christian life. So we're asking you, Holy Spirit, to challenge us and instruct us and apply to us these And I pray you'd work through me to do that, speak through my body, and say yield my will to you. Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Two major themes, if you've noticed, in the book of 1 Peter, have been, first of all, the importance of submission. All of chapter 2 and the first 12 verses of chapter 3, he talked about the importance of Christians, you and I as believers, being submissive to the authorities that God has placed in our lives. And by the way, all of us have authorities placed in our lives. These are authorities that are delegated by God in various capacities. And he deals with just about every aspects of society talks about governmental authorities He talked about employment and then the voc our vocations and authorities there and that and in the home and in the church. And so he talks about the importance of author uh of submission to authorities and or a proper approach to authorities as a believer. um and just dying to self and submitting to those authorities God has put over. So that's one major theme. We've extended a good portion of The first Peter deals with that. Then there's a net second theme that we picked up, and that was this, the reality of sufferings. And we noted that in the second half of chapter Chapter 3 and about halfway through chapter 4, he talked about the sufferings that we have, the trials, the great trial of affliction that comes upon us. And uh we uh and he instructed us there concerning uh having a proper attitude towards adversity. I'm telling you, if we don't see adversity the way God instructs us to see adversity, we're in danger of becoming very, very bitter. And let me say this, a bitter Christian is a hurting Christian. Bitterness is something we need to fight, we need to keep out of our hearts and minds and lives. it will destroy us. I heard one preacher say one time, and I've mentioned this myself a number of times, bitterness is like battery acid on the soul. It is bad for us. And so he instructs us in the reality of suffering, the reality of of uh of adversity, and having the right approach to it, having the right attitude about that. I put this down. These are two major factors in the Christian life. And if I do not have my thinking clear on these two factors, I'm going to have a difficult time in my spiritual life. In other words, if I got a wrong thinking about authority, I'm going to struggle in my Christian life, right or wrong We're studying in Sunday school. We're studying John the Baptist and and recently we've been looking at the Pharisees approach and their uh their issues they took with John the Baptist. And really what their issue was was with authority. Well by whose authority do you do this? What authority do you have to do this? What authority? They had a problem with authority. And so we have to get that settled. And then the same thing with adversity. And over the years, I've seen it so many times, uh something, some hardship comes, there's some adversity, there's some setback in a Christian's life. Something doesn't go the way they want, or they're hurt, or some injustice comes in. And brother, rather than trusting the Lord and submitting to the Lord and giving it to the Lord and following the Lord's instruction, how to respond to that, they get hard, they get angry, they get bitter, and they destroy their lives, they destroy their testimonies. And so two very, very important aspects of the Christian life, authority, submission, and dealing with suffering. Now Peter is coming back to this matter of suffer of submission. Here in verse number five. Now he'd been talking in the first four verses, you remember, he's talking about the elders. The leadership in the church, the pastors in the church, and then ultimately the great shepherd, and uh answering to him someday. Then in uh in uh verse number five he says, likewise these younger submit to uh uh yourselves unto the elder. He starts this statement here with that phrase likewise So if somebody says, he makes these statements, then he says likewise, what does somebody mean by that when they say, well, likewise See if I get you on the same page I'm thinking here. What's that? In the same way. Likewise. The elders are among you, feed the flock of God. Lead the flock of God. Be an example to the flock of God. Because the great shepherd someday will hold you accountable, and if you're faithful, he'll reward you. Likewise Ye younger, submit yourselves to the elder. He's making a correlation here. The word likewise means in the same manner or in the same way. He's referring back to those first four verses. About the responsibility of the pastor, the elder. And this is what I think he's saying. I think he's saying just as the elders, the pastors have responsibilities in the church, and they're going to be held accountable for that. Even so, the flock, the church itself, has responsibilities as the body of Christ. And I notice here he gives uh uh I see here three areas that he says that all of us are to responsible for. Now three thoughts here tonight, three observations I make. Number one, he mentions the submission of the youth. Submissions of the youth. Now I'll be very honest with you. You don't hear much teaching and preaching on this nowadays. But look what he says. Likewise, ye younger Submit yourselves unto the what? Elder. The submission of the youth Now that term younger there, I got looking it up and uh and I thought what exactly who is he does he can I narrow this down and what exactly does he mean by the younger Well, the word itself means those who have most recently arrived. The newest among you. The idea is actually, if you look how it's used throughout scripture, it basically has to do with young people. In fact, some instances it's used to refer to almost infants, and in other cases, it's used to refer to folks in their teens and even into their twenties. I was reading one man's comment, one Bible scholar's comment on this, and he suggested that in the Jewish world, a younger person would be considered anybody under 30 years old. Now, I'm at the point in my life where a younger person is anybody under 50 years old, you know? And uh I remember Uh Nancy Kite. Everybody remember Nancy? She's been with the Lord now a while. But uh we uh she was in the hospital as visiting her and her husband was there, Brother Kite. And uh we were talking a little bit and she goes, Well, how's your father? I said, Good. And at the time he was like seventy-eight years old. She said, uh, how old is he? I said, he's seventy-eight She goes, Oh, and as serious as a heart attack, she goes, Oh, he's still young She was like ninety-seven or something like that And uh so but in the this term younger here in the Jewish world, as I understand it, anybody under 30 would be considered the younger. So he says, ye uh ye younger, you folks there, younger folks in the church uh uh you know twenties and teens down all the way the children. That's who he's talking to. Everybody here under 30 years old, raise your hand. That's who he's talking to. You all of all all y'all, all you guys Ye younger, submit yourselves. Then he uses the term elder. Now the word elder, it's unclear who he's referring to. You know, in the first four verses, he was referring to the elders as to the title of the position of pastor in the church. That's very, very clear. Now he uses that term again. Is he referring to submit yourselves to the pastors, the leader in the church, the under shepherd, the pastor of the church? Is that who he talking about or is he just talking about folks older folks in general just the olders the seniors what we would say in the church My thinking is, but just going by the context here, I think he's talking about directly, I think he's talking about the pastor, just to keep it in context with what that's what he was talking about leading up to this However, this would apply across the board. You younger, submit yourselves to the seniors in the church, the older folks in the church the folks that are uh the elderly that are around sixty years old, those uh folks like that, um the older people in the church. And so he's saying, ye younger, submit yourselves to the elder I think Hebrews 13, 17 talks about submitting to those that have the rule of you. I think he may be referencing the pastor, but it applies across the board. The interesting thing here is this. He's talking about folks in the church, and he references the younger. And he references the uh the uh elders and um try not to point at anybody that's real old, but um But here's what I thought. I thought, wow, I believe a healthy church is made up of multi-generations. A good healthy church has juniors and primaries in it. A good healthy church has teenagers. in it. Good healthy church has young couples starting out in their marriage. A good healthy church has a uh what do you call 30 to 50? What's that called? Young. Kids, uh uh there. And then you get sixty, seventy, middle age But you follow what I'm saying? A good church is made up of multi-generations. And uh I I'm grateful for our church. I'm grateful for these young people here. I tell you, I sit up here and I get preaching these little young people, these little young people down here. Uh they're taking notes, following their bottle. I tell you, that's like throwing gasoline on a fire And that's like throwing red meat to a lion. And uh so he says, ye younger, that's the young generation in the church, submit yourselves to the elder. That's the senior generation of the church. What a good, healthy church. To have multi-generations there. A healthy church is made up of all ages. You know what youth do for a church? You know what young people do for a church? They bring some zeal in. Bring some zeal and I enjoyed praying with uh um what's your name? Evan. I enjoyed praying with Evan this evening. We're down at men's prayer meeting and you talk about zeal. He got fired up praying And uh young people bring some zeal into the church. They're out there soul winning, it's 20 below zero, pessimist, let's go! And they're all out there soul winning, knocking on doors. Us older folks are like, eh It's a little cold out. But they bring some zeal in the church. What do the older folks do for the church? They bring some stability. Sometimes zeal can turn into wildfire. You follow what I'm saying? Sometimes younger, when I was younger, I get all these ideas. Oh, we're going to do this, we're going to do that. And sometimes the older folks have to come along now, you need to think this through a little bit. We don't want to get outside. I'm all for thinking outside the box, but I'm totally against thinking outside the Bible. Sometimes they get stirred up and we get careless on things. And so that balance there, the young people keep us fired up, and uh the the older folks sometimes keep them focused and on the right track. You follow what I'm trying to say So Peter's addressing these two generations of folks, the younger and then submit yourselves to the elder. Now, what he tells them to do here is to submit. The word submit is actually a military term. It's used throughout the New Testament many, many times And it's a military term, the one that is used here, that it comes from, is used here. It means this, to and it has various applications, but it means basically this to place into its proper rank. There's certain uh ranks, there's certain places. And he's saying, listen You younger, make sure you place yourselves in the proper rank as to concerning the elders. Submit to the elders. You could put it this way, and I don't mean it, this sounds harsh, and I don't really mean it the way this comes across, but you could almost say this: know your place. In the church. Know what your position is. Know what your place is in regard to elders. In regard to elders. Younger, submit yourselves to the elders. It's a military term. It means to place yourself under, place yourself behind them. The idea is this: allow them to lead you Put yourself in place behind them. Put yourself in place underneath their leadership and let them lead you. Let them direct you. Let them guide you. I tell you what, I'd far rather have somebody that's already been in the battle lead me than somebody that's never been through it before. Follow what I'm saying? Bill Barron used to come through here and preach, one of the dearest friends in the world to me I love, I don't think a week goes by. I don't think of Bill Barons and loved that man dearly. It's with the Lord now, number eight years or whatever it was. Um but um he was a combat veteran in World War World War II uh in Vietnam War. He's combat and he had experience and he could tell you stories And our gu and our military was wise enough to know, hey, he's had experience, he was successful, he was uh he was a leader on the on the battlefield, and they brought him back and they put him in instruction in drill instructor and instruct those coming along. Because he knew what he was talking about. And that's what Peter is saying to the younger people. Listen, submit yourselves, place yourselves under those that have been through this before. Place yourself behind those that have already been down this road. They've been walking with the Lord for years. They've seen how God answered prayers. They've seen what the gospel can do. They know the power of the Holy Spirit. They know the standards of Scripture. Follow them. Place yourself behind them. Let them direct you. That's what he's saying. To the young people. When I was a young past when I was young in the ministry, in fact in uh Bible college, God called me to to the to preach uh my senior year. And so I'd already had I had I'd already crammed five years uh schooling. I already crammed four years of schooling into five. And so uh I was about to graduate and God calls me to preach and and And so I took a preacher boy class, the last one under Dr. Robertson. And this is what we were always told as young preacher boys. And even early in my ministry as youth pastor, I was always told this Sit down, be quiet, and you listen to the older preachers. And I thought that was good advice. And so I tried to do that. I'd listen to what these older men, I'd go, I'd drive two hours, go hear some of these old Tom Malone, these old old leather-lung powerhouse. Preachers, uh Harold Seitler and all these guys and this new generation doesn't know those folks. They were powerhouses, Lesterola. I'd sit down, I'd be quiet, I'd listen to what they said, and the principles they taught, and the advice they gave, and I listened to it. Ow, I'm an older pastor. I'm an older preacher. And guess what I'm being told now? I need to sit down, be quiet, listen to these younger preachers, because they know what this generation is and they know how things are. You're an old goat, you're over the hill, you don't know how things are. And you laugh at that, and I'm telling you, that's uh in some situations, that's uh pretty much what I've been told And God is telling the young people through this passage of scripture here, he's telling them, listen, make sure you know your place. Get yourself behind the good godly older folks, those seniors, those elders that have been through it and have battle scars and know how to win wars and know how to have victory over sin and know how to win souls and know how to uh uh uh walk with God. Put yourself behind them and lead them. How many people agree with me? That's good advice So he says, uh the submission of the younger. The submission of the younger. All through Scripture, the Bible teaches youth to be respect the respect their what? Elders. That's the Bible. Respect their elders. To honor their other honors. Honor thy father and thy mother. The Bible instructs, I believe the seniors in our church, those that are younger, we ought to honor the seniors in our church. Amen? Amen. Listen to them. Listen to what they have to say. I heard read years ago, and I believe this was an accurate account of an event that happened. A fellow was uh he had uh back in the early days of motorized vehicles. And this guy had a motor car and he's driving down the road it broke. Broke down. He had the hood up. He's uh working under it and um it was a Ford and uh fix or repair daily on found on roadside dead. And um so anyway he is working under the hood and another car came up and pulled over. A guy got out, a sharp looking guy. He came over. He says, uh having problems? Yeah, I'm having problems and said some bad words. And the guy said, um, can I maybe take a look? Maybe I could help you out. And he says, I don't need your help. And he said some more bad words. And the guy said, Well, I think I could really actually help you And he says, you can't help me. And he said some more bad words, and then I said, All right. He got in his Ford and he drove off. Later he found out it was Henry Ford. I think he could have helped them. He should have listened to him. He should have submitted to somebody that knew what they were talking about been there And that's what Peter is instructing the younger. The submission of the youth. The submission of the youth. Second of all, I notice he gives a second instruction here, likewise. In the same way that the pastors, the elders, have responsibilities and they're going to be held accountable. God, the Lord will come back and he'll reward, he'll hold them accountable. Uh, ye younger, just like the pastor has responsibilities. Younger, you have a responsibility. Submit to the elder. Then he says this the subjection of the flock. The submission of the youth. Now look at verse 5. Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves to the elder. Now look at this. Yea, all of you Be subject one to another. Submission of the youth and the subjection of the flock. He says, yea, all of you. Every individual that makes up the body of Christ, we can put it this way, every individual member of the church. Let's bring it home to us. Yea, all of you, every individual member of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. That's who he's talking to. Yea, all of you. Just like the pastor has responsibilities, held accountable. Yea, all of you. So he's talking to every individual, young, old. The pastor included all of you, all the way they said down Tennessee, all y'all. That's the young, that's the old It's the pastor, it's all of you. It's very emphatic. The way it's worded here, yay! All of you. He's emphasizing every single one of you. Now, what is every single one of us supposed to do? Look what it says. Be subject one to another. The word subject, get this. The word subject here comes from the exact same word as the word used for the young people. To submit. To place yourself under, to place yourself behind. Same word as submit. In other words, this is what he's saying to all of us. Young, old, middle Pastors, church, Sunday school teachers, deacons, busworkers, choir, you name it, nursery, everybody. All y'all Submit your, be subject one to another. It has this idea. Defer my rights to the other person. Just like that drill instructor, that leader in the military, he has his rights over me. I defer my rights to the authority over me. He's saying you defer your rights one to another. In other words, a servant attitude is to permeate the church. A servant attitude. Um we are to be subject one to another. A servant attitude. Every member, I believe, if I understand this correctly, he's telling us every member ought to have a servant attitude towards every other member. You follow what he's saying? Be subject one to another. Defer my rights. Now, this is not the only time, and it's not the first time this is taught in Scripture. If you would, take your Bible and turn with me to Philippians chapter number two. This is Paul, of course, writing under the inspiration of God in Philippians. And Philippians chapter 2 and verse number 1, he says something along these very same lines. Philippians chapter 2 And uh look at verse number one. If there be, therefore, any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love If any fellowship in the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies, look at this, fulfill ye my joy, that ye be what? Like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord and of one mind. Now look at verse 3. Let what? Nothing, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, getting my way, vainglory, me But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem or consider other what Better than themselves. You know what that sounds like to me? Subjecting ourselves one to another. Look, he goes on, verse 4. Look not every man on his own things But every man also on the things of others. Now he doesn't leave it alone. He doesn't stop there. He presses this issue. And he says, let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. Now he brings Jesus in as an example, as the standard. Who being the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. In other words, he was God, and it wasn't wrong for him to cons to unre recognize that and acknowledge that Being the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal to God, but look at this, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a what? Servant, servant, and was made in the likeness of man. And being found in fashion of man, he humbled himself And became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. You know what Jesus did? He subjected himself. He humbled himself. And Paul is writing to the church at Philippi, and he's telling them that is the exact same frame of mind. That is the exact same type of thinking you and I are to have as members of a church. To be subject one to another, be like-minded. Let each esteem other better than himself. Let not every man look upon his own things But also on the things of others. It's not my, it's not about me, it's not me getting what I want. It's not that. It's about God being glorified and others being helped and others lifted up. Subject one to another. Youngers, younger, you submit to the elders. Submission of the youth. The subjection of the flock. All you all. Subject yourselves one to another, one to another. Go over to Ephesians chapter 5 real quickly. Back, just before you get to Philippians, you have Ephesians. Look at chapter 5. He says almost identical. Paul, again, here, under the inspiration of God, is writing the church at Ephesus And look at verse 21. Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. Submitting yourselves one to another. Putting aside my self-will, submitting myself, deferring my rights to others, to others, a servant attitude. By the way, that verse introduces the husbands and wives, the roles of the husbands and wives. Can I just throw this out there while we're looking at it? I think verse number 21 is the substance of marriage vows, submitting yourselves one to another. That's the whole substance of the marriage vows. Submitting yourselves one to another. I believe that what he's saying here is one of the chief characteristics of agape love. Now, some of y'all have been around here long enough. You know what agape love is. What is that? What is It's unconditional love. It is the love of a holy, pure, a thrice-holy, pure, infinite God. An unconditional love of God for sinful created mankind. And that is the characteristic of Submission one to another, I believe, is characteristic of an unconditional love that we have one for another. I love that person. I want what's best for you regardless of the cost to me. I want what's good for you, and regardless of what the cost to me. You follow what I'm saying? Not me. Not me. But the good of others, the glory of God, the well-being of the church. So the subjection of the flock, the subjection of the flock. John 13, verse 35, Jesus made a powerful statement. He said, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have what? Love one for another. Love, love submits itself to the one loved. Love serves the one that's loved. Jesus says, by this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one for another. I believe a servant attitude God desires, God instructs us. to have a servant attitude permeate the local church. A servant attitude to permeate the local body of Christ, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, a servant attitude, one toward another, subjecting ourselves one toward another. That's what he's telling us here. If you would come back on one last observation I make here, he says, likewise, in the same way that pastors are responsible to feed and lead and be an example to the flock They're held accountable for that. They're responsible for that. Likewise, ye younger, you're to submit yourselves to the elder. All y'all, the whole flock, you're to be in subjection one to another. Then one last thing he says here, he says and be clothed with what? Humility. So we have the submission of the youth, the subjection of the flock. I put it this way, the suit of humility. We're to put on this garment. We're to be clothed with this garment that he calls humility. Now, this got really interesting. I enjoy studying, I enjoy word studies. And I got looking at that little phrase, be clothed with humility. That actually comes from a word that refers to a very specific type of garment. It's not just talking about, yeah, go in the closet and grab something, you know, throw it on. That's what most men do. I've only worn this shirt eight weeks in a row. It's still good. And uh, you know, you guys you smell it? It's not too bad, put it on. Uh ladies, you know, they go, they got a in walk-in closet, they got seven hundred and thirty-two blouses and six hundred and ninety-five shoes. Uh can I get a witness? You men are too scared to say anything is what you're doing. But uh, you know, he's not talking about just throwing on so many old clothes. He's talking about a very specific garment here And the people he was writing to, the believers there, they knew exactly what he was talking about. That phrase, be clothed, is referring to A specific garment, a very unique garment, and it is a protective garment. We are told that is a garment that was worn over top of other clothing. In other words, you maybe were dressed, you know, maybe you came to church, you got a suit, and on the way to church, your way home, you had a flat tire And you didn't want to change the tire in your suit, so in the back, they used to do this, so in the trunk you kept some over-alls or cover-alls. And you would put that on over top of your suit so your suit didn't get dirty. It was a garment you put on for service. to do something. And the one there particularly was it was kind of like, does anybody here know what a schmuck is? Not a schmuck, a schmuck. A schmuck, you put that on. When you're painting, you know, remember in in school in art class and you put the schmuck on and it had anybody here ever uh go in the hospital, you have to put that thing and those strings are all over, you tie it around, you're trying to figure out how does that thing tie? And that's the idea. It was a, get this, it was a garment that the servants used when they would come in and do their tasks as a servant. And Peter's writing under the inspiration of God to these believers, and he's saying, put on this servant's garment, this coverall type thing. Put on this garment of humility. It would protect you. By the way, it cap It kept the garments that you had on underneath, it kept them in place from getting out, you know, and getting caught in something. It made you safer, it kept you clean. Uh it helped you serve. It was a very protective. Um it held the other guardian uh clothing in place. It was uh sometimes they referred to it as a scarf. Now what we think of a scarf you put over your head, but then it was more like, like I said, a schmock or an apron Do folks still wear aprons when they cook? And they used to have one. Remember George Futch? I've been thinking about George Futch a lot lately. Oh George, what a blessing. And he would always get breakfast ready back there. Sunday mornings he'd put uh breakfast and snacks out for church service, and he had the apron. He didn't want his suit to get dirty. So he put that apron over and he'd tie it up. That's the idea. He says, clothe yourselves with humility. Put this outer garment over it Now I looked up the word humility. It means to have a humble opinion of oneself It means this: to abandon all self-exaltation. I don't exalt myself. I don't put myself forward. In other words, it's not about me. This isn't about me. That's what humility is. Sometimes people think humility is thinking lowly of yourself. And pride is thinking highly of yourself. Fact of the matter is humility is not thinking of yourself. Not lowly or highly. It's just I'm not a factor. It's not about me. And he says, put that garment on, that frame of mind, that mentality. It means to be lowliness of mind. Here is one definition I came across. To have a moral sense, to have a sense of moral littleness before others. Paul expressed it this way: I am the least of all the apostles. That's humility. I told you I've mentioned this fellow often, and it just s sticks out in my mind, uh fellow in the church that I've served in years ago, another church And the pastor had some a couple sing, and they were kind of opera-ish a little bit, not bad. And uh it was good. I liked it. It was fine. And it just beautiful. But this guy took issue with it for some reason. He was kind of a leader in the church. I'm telling you, he started running his mouth And he's in the lobby that there between Sunday school and church. Now this church runs four, five, six hundred, four, five hundred probably the time. And so the lobby's filled. People are coming in for church and Sunday school mingle around. He starts running his mouth. And he gets louder and louder. He's just going on bringing these people in here, oh these people are high falling. And finally he I I was across the lobby. I could I could hear every word clear as a bell. He says I'm the best Christian in this whole church. That is not clothing yourself with humility That is pride to its very core. And God is writing through Peter to the church and says, listen, you take that schmock, that apron of humility I'm the least of the apostles. And you put that on. Now it doesn't mean I go walking around, oh, I'm the sorriest Christian in here. That's not what he's saying. He's saying it's not about me. It's not about you. Put on the garment, the clothe yourself with humility. If you would, take your I want to show you one last verse, I'll make a few statements, and then I want to quit. Come to John chapter 13. Now in John 13, 35, he says, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one towards another. But the beginning of the chapter. He displays, in fact, in the beginning of the chapter, the Lord Jesus Christ puts this garment on that Peter is referring to. In fact, some have suggested that when Peter used that phrase, uh, clothe yourselves with the with humility, when he used that phrase, clothe yourself, some have suggested his thoughts went back to the upper room in John chapter 13 when the Lord instituted the Lord's Supper and the Lord put on that very garment that Peter was referring to. Look at John 13, verse 1. Now, before the feast of the Passover, when the Lord knew that his hour was come, that he should depart out of this world unto the Father. Having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. And supper being ended, the devil now having put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him, Jesus Knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands and that he was come from God and went to God. Now look at this. He riseth from supper. And laid aside his garments, that's referring to these outer garments, like your suit coat or something along those lines, and took a towel, and what It suggested, it said, that that towel was that garment that slaves would put on. When they served that apron it apron type garment. And look what he did. He took a towel and girded himself And demandeth that his feet be washed. Right or wrong? No. Look at verse 5. After that he poureth water onto a basin. And began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. Now think with me for a moment. This is the one who spoke this infinite universe into existence. This is the one that Isaiah in Isaiah chapter 6, when the year that King Uzziah died, and he saw the Lord high and lifted up. And his train did fill the temple, and the smoke did fill the temple. And the cherubim cried out, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty! This is the one that clothes himself, puts on the garment of humility, and he's washing the feet of sinful men. Peter says that attitude ought to permeate the church. That ought to be the frame of mind that we have. Clothe yourselves with humility. It's a humble servant's attitude that will protect our church spiritually If we can all clothe ourselves with humility, that will protect our church spiritually. Satan's pretty powerless when God's people humble themselves. Satan's pretty powerless against a humble church, a humble Christian. It protects our church spiritually. When we humble ourselves and have this servant's attitude, it unites our church spiritually It's hard to divide a church where all the members think more highly of others than they do themselves. If everybody thinks, oh you know uh uh you know they're more important than me, they're uh I think more highly of others than I do themselves, it's gonna hard to divide that. It keeps the church together, keeps it unified, it protects it spiritually. And I put this down, a humble servant's attitude. It's a humble servant's attitude that will empower a church spiritually The last phrase there, verse 5, he says, God giveth grace. God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. You know what we need to have the power of God? We need God's grace. Let me put it this way: when we have God's grace upon us, we have God's power upon us. And Satan and the world cannot withstand the grace of God. And we humble ourselves. God gives grace. God gives that empowers us. That's what empowers us. I'm grateful for our facilities. I'm grateful for the finances. Lord's blessed us so much. But that's not where our spiritual power is. It's on our humility before God and one another, and God gives us grace, and that empowers our witness. You follow? So number one, younger? Submit yourselves to the elders. Number two, hey, all of us subject ourselves one to another. And let's put on the garment of humility. Father, please bless us. Help us to follow these admonitions here. And we want you to have your way. We want our church to please you. We want your grace. We want your glory to be upon us and help us, Lord. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder how many young people would say, preacher, I really want to take that instruction seriously And I want to allow the older folks to influence me and to mentor me and to provide direction for me. Is there any young people like that say, I want to submit myself to the elder? God bless you. I wonder if all of our church, all of us all, want to have us to say, preacher, I want to commit myself to subject myself one to another. Not not pushing me, my agenda, what, but Lord just uh just giving myself To help others, to help others, putting a self my rights to help others. Anybody anybody like that? Sure. My hands raised. I want that. And then this matter of clothing ourselves with humility. And just developing a service attitude. I think we need the Lord to help us do that. We need the Lord to help us do that. How many say, I need the Lord to help me do that? My hands raised. Let's let's let me just hit an old altar tonight. We're going into a work week now. Got five, six, seven days ahead of us. Let's ask the Lord to get these things in line that we can be of good witness, have God's power. Father, bless our invitation, I ask, in Jesus' name.