Chapter 2, and um in the bulletin I put the title for the message this morning, Away in a Manger, and uh but I've kind of amended that title a little bit to the message of the manger. And what I'd like for you to do is find Luke chapter 2, as I just said, but I'm going to do something a little uh along with that a little different. Get your hymn books out, and if you would, go to hymn number 88, I believe. Luke chapter 2 and hymn and then also in our hymn books, hymn number 88. Now I'm not going to preach from the hymn book. Or preachings from the Bible, amen. But I do want to look at a song here, number 88, in the hymn book. It goes right along with our message. If you would, uh find your place there in the hymn book 88, and we'll come back to that here in just a moment, and uh Luke chapter 2, and I want to notice a few verses here. Bear with me if you would Notice with me, if you would, verse number seven. Luke chapter 2, verse number 7. This familiar Christmas passage. Verse number seven says this, and she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a what? A manger. Because there was no room for them in the inn. She laid him in a manger. Come down with verse to verse number twelve with me, if you would Luke chapter 2, verse 12. And this is the angel speaking to the shepherds outside the city of Bethlehem. They're out in the fields watching o'er their flocks by night. The angel shows up And notice what the angel tells the shepherds. And this shall be a sign unto you. Ye shall find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a what? A manger. If you would come down to verse number 16. And there came with, and they, this is the shepherds, they've heard the message from the angels. They leave their shape, they're rushing into the city there, the outskirts of the city perhaps. And they came with haste, and they found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a what? A manger. Manger, manger, manger. Three times the Bible mentions the fact that Jesus was laid in a manger. It's almost like God is emphasizing to us and wants us to notice with special attention the fact that baby Jesus was laid in a manger. Now, what I want us to consider this morning is the significance of that manger. What is the message that God was trying to convey When three times he mentions in his word the babe was lied in a manger, in a manger, in a manger. And so the message of the manger this morning. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for the young people. And Lord, the songs they could sing for us. We're just so grateful. And I pray now, as we look into your word, we ask that you would just speak to our hearts. I pray, Father, that you would challenge us, instruct us And I pray maybe a truth from the Word of God would affect us in such a way that our lives would be changed, our faith would be stronger. Our life would reflect more of what you intend for our lives to be. And so, Lord, I yield myself to you. I present my body this hour anew to you I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you speak through me, and that our hearts and minds would be open to what you speak to us about. And we be agreeable and submissive to your leadership in our lives. So please bless now, I ask. Have your way, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. I think one of the first Christmas carols, Christmas hymns we learn as a child, see if you agree with me, would be Away in a manger, right? You can't hardly get, now we didn't this morning, but you can't hardly have a children's Christmas program with some point they're going to sing Away in a manger. Now, in your hymn books, hymn number 88 there, we have the words of the Away in a manger. It's one of the most popular Christmas carols. It's one of the most well-known Christmas hymns And I just want us to look at the wording here in this song, Away in a manger. Notice what it says there. It says, Away in a manger, no crib for a bed. The little Lord Jesus lay down his sweethead. That's I think that's beautiful poetry there. It's a beautiful song Look at the next phrase, the stars in the sky, look down where you lay, the little Lord Jesus asleep in the hay. The cattle are lowing. Now notice this next phrase. The cattle are lowing. The poor baby wakes The baby awakes. But look at this next phrase. But little Lord Jesus, no crying he makes. Now I want to point out the fact that the hymns are not inspired of God. These are man-written hymns. And they're beautiful and they're wonderful and they have a lot of great teaching in them, but they are not perfect. They are not without error. I want to submit to you, if a baby, a newborn baby doesn't cry, something's wrong Am I right or wrong? I mean if that baby's not crying, we're concerned. There's may maybe it can't hear, it can't speak, there's something wrong with it And I want to suggest to you that as beautiful as this little chorus is, this little uh Christmas carol is, I think that I don't think it's correct that Jesus wasn't crying. We know for a fact that later in life Jesus did cry. When he looked over the city of Jerusalem, who he loved dearly, and he had come to offer himself as their Messiah and Savior. If they would just turn to him and trust him as their own personal saviors, the people of the Savior, the people of Jerusalem could have been saved, but they would not turn to Christ The Bible says that he looked over that city of hundreds of thousands of unsaved people in their sins, lost in their darkness, of uh spiritual darkness. And the Bible says he wept over that city. He was moved with compassion on them. I'm here to tell you Jesus Christ wants people to be saved. God is not willing that anybody should perish. God doesn't want one person to die and go to hell. God does not want you to die and go to hell. He wants you to find forgiveness. He wants you to find eternal life. He wants you to be saved. Later in life, Jesus wept as he looked over cities in darkness, without God and without hope in the world, in their sins, doomed for a devil's hell Jesus wept. Later on, we find in John chapter 11, Jesus wept again when he went to the grave of Lazarus, a man he loved dearly, and Mary and Martha there, his sisters are there with him. And they're upset that Jesus didn't come sooner and heal their brother before he died. And in their minds, Jesus got there too late. Their brother was dead and he was gone. And as they made their way out to the grave, out to the tomb where Lazarus was buried. Jesus observed Mary and Martha and their friends and family weeping over the death of Lazarus, and the shortest verse in the Bible, verse 35, I believe it is, says, And Jesus wept He wasn't weeping over sorrow over Lazarus. Lazarus was fine. He was a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. He had been saved. I'm here to tell you: when a saved man dies, he's okay. It's in the presence of God. Everything's alright. Jesus wasn't weeping over the death of Lazarus. Jesus was weeping as he shared in the sorrow of people he loved. I'm telling you, when our hearts are broken, we stand beside the grave of a loved one, or somebody has hurt us, or some disappointment in life And our heart is broken, and we weep. I'm here to tell you, we have a Savior that is moved by our sorrows. And he notices our tears and he cares about our heartaches. And when we weep, Jesus weeps with us. Jesus wept. And so when the hymn writer, and we don't know who the hymn writer is of this, uh these words here. But when the hymn writer wrote this little chorus and he said in there, The cattle are lowing, the poor baby wakes, but little Lord Jesus, no crying he makes. I don't think that's an accurate statement. I think little baby Jesus wept just like other babies wept. I think he got hungry just like other little babies got hungry. He needed to be held and nursed just like other little babies needed to be held and nursed. And so as beautiful as this little Christmas chorus carol is I think they missed the mark there. Now look it goes on and says the no crying he makes. I love thee, Lord Jesus. Look down from the sky And stay by my cradle till morning is nigh. I am glad that when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, He has promised to never leave us or forsake us. I remember when I was little, nighttime was kind of scary for a little kid. Anybody here remember when you were little? Did you ever did this ever happen to you? You're laying in the bed there and there's little shadows And I remember sometimes the bedroom door would just be open, just ajar, and I'd lay there and I'd be certain that door is opening up. It's moving. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And it's like, yikes! There's a monster coming in. Or uh did you ever anybody here ever at night it's dark and you gotta get you maybe you had to get up in the middle of the night, get use a restroom and you're coming back and you're convinced there's a monster under the bed. Anybody here with me? And so what I would do is I was afraid to step up right beside the bed because he'd grab my ankles and yank me and pull me underneath and eat me alive I mean that happened a lot, you know. So I don't know what how you dealt with it, but this is the way I dealt with it. We'd stand back. And get a running start and leap so he couldn't reach and grab me and land in the bed and immediately crawl under the covers. Because everybody knows if you're under the covers, monsters can't get you Stay by my cradle till morning is nigh. I'm glad that we have a Savior. If we know Jesus Christ as Savior, when we're scared, we can trust Him. The time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. He said in Hebrews chapter 13, he says, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. I'm telling you, if you don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior, you're missing out. On peace of mind and comfort and strength in the most difficult times. Stay by my cradle Till morning is nigh. Be near me, Lord Jesus. I ask thee to stay close by me forever, and love me, I pray. I'm glad Jesus never leaves us. He never forsakes us. If you trust Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you have His Personal promise that he will never leave you or forsake you. Key word there being, never leave you, nor forsake thee. Under any circumstances, for any reason, in any situation. Is the Lord Jesus Christ going to leave one of his dear children? Stay by me forever and love me, I pray. Bless all the dear children in thy tender care. and take us to heaven to live with thee there. What a wonderful song. One of the most popular Christmas carols ever written. No doubt one of the most well known. One we learn as a small child. And there's tremendous truth in there Now I did a little research on that chorus. I like to find hymn histories years ago. We used to, Brian used to do on a monthly basis, a hymn history behind the hymn. There's not a lot of history behind this hymn because we don't know much about it. Initially, it had been attributed to Martin Luther, the great reformer, German reformer of many, many years ago. Apparently they've done some research and they can't find anywhere where Martin Luther references this or writes it or even any of the lyrics of the song during that time period in any Christian writing. In fact, this chorus, this carol didn't show up in writing until in the 1800s, I think it was, 1885 The first we know of it being recorded in any kind of music book or hymn book was a German Lutheran hymn book out of Pennsylvania. Away in a manger. That's when we first really shows up. But like I said, it's a very well-known and very loved quest uh hymn. Now come back to our text, if you would, three kinds. It's like God is emphasizing. It's like God is going almost out of his way to make sure we understand that Jesus was laid in a manger when he was born. Three times he references that. My question is this: why in the world would you put a newborn baby in a manger? Manger is a feeding trough for the most part where the cattle would come in and the sheep would come in and the goats would come in. The horses and the donkeys, no doubt, and they would feed from this manger, this trough. Although the manger had multiple uses, we'll notice here in a moment. It's primarily known to be a feeding trough. Who in the world would take their baby and lay it in a manger? I think it's a legitimate question. It's about the time that Mary is to give birth that Caesar Augustus, verse number one, makes this decree. He gets this great idea, of course, he's the potentate there, he's the ruler, and he makes this decision. We're going to tax everybody It says the whole world, what it's referring to is the Roman world, the Roman Empire. He says, we're going to tax everybody in our empire. And not only we're going to tax them, we're going to do a census along with that. And everybody has to go back to the city or the town where they were born. Go back to their hometown. For me, if this was the case in our day and they did something like this, I would have to go back to Harlingsville, Pennsylvania. Wherever you were born, you would need to go back there and you would have to register and you would have to pay these taxes. And so Mary is here with child, and Matthew gives us the account of her conception of the Holy Spirit and the miraculous conception. By the way. The virgin, it's the conception of Jesus Christ that is miraculous, not necessarily the birth. There was no man involved in the conception of Jesus Christ. God Almighty prepared a embryotic body of the Lord Jesus Christ. Hebrews tells us. And placed it in the womb of Mary, and her womb conceived that, received that, and then the child's uh Jesus body, infant body developed in the womb of Mary And so Mary is about to be due. It's time. And lo and behold, Caesar comes up with this decree that everybody has to be taxed, and they've got to go back to their hometown. And I can hear Joseph saying, oh great, what a perfect timing. We got to pack everything up and we got to travel. And uh Mary's about to give birth. This is just a bad time for us to have to move and pay taxes when my wife is about to give birth. But they do what they're supposed to do. They're good citizens. And they get to the city of his birth, the Bethlehem. And when they get there, the place is packed. All these other people of the Roman Empire are making their way to the towns and cities where they were born And they find that when they get there, because of this great influx of people coming in for this taxation, uh the accommodations there in the town are overwhelmed Now, years ago, it's not this way anymore, but years ago, people were more hospitable than they are today. How many people just remember that in your lifetime? Years ago, even in the history of our country, if someone was traveling and it got to be nighttime and there was a home there, maybe, you would knock on the door and the folks would say, Sure, come on in, spend the night That was true here in America in the early days of our country. A lot of the circuit riding preachers would just stay in the homes of total strangers as they traveled around preaching their circuit. And that was true back in the day of Jesus Christ. Back in the Bible times, folks would open their homes up to strangers. You read in the Old Testament, Abraham did that. Total strangers in different accounts in the Old Testament. They'd say, come on, don't stay in the street. Come on in. Stay in our house. And the place is so overwhelmed, all accommodations. are overwhelmed with people. And it mentions the end. There was no room at the end. Now I don't know what you picture when you hear that word in. But most of the time we think of something like a motel, right? Or Castleman Inn. You know, you've got a place to stay. You can eat a meal and stay. Or a uh some sort of hotel type thing That is not what they're talking about when it mentions in. They didn't have motel six back in Jesus' day. How many people learned something new today? They didn't leave the light on for you. When it says there was no room in the inn, was I was studying this and what I understand to be the case as I was reading some historical accounts of of that Uh what I understand to be the case, this inn was really nothing more than a temporary shelter they were trying to put up for people that were coming in by the uh thousands and thousands and flooding the streets and uh in the city of Bethlehem. And so they would put up these temporary shelters that people could stay in, and even those were overwhelmed Even those were so filled there was no room for Mary and Joseph to spend the night. And so they ended up outside the city in a little shelter type thing where cattle were kept and were fed, and they end up out there. So the reason that Jesus was laid in a manger was simply because the circumstances there was no other options This was the best that was available. And so Joseph and Mary took advantage of what was available. She gave birth to the Lord Jesus Christ, and as that child was born, they wrapped it in swaddling clothes that perhaps were there in that shelter with them And laid the baby in a manger. That's why he was laid in a manger. That leads me to a second question. Why in the world would God Allow his only begotten son to be laid in a manger. Would you agree with me? God's all-powerful. How many people agree with that? If you agree with that, say amen. I'm going to get you to say amen some way, one way or another. God is all powerful. Would you agree with me? God is sovereign. Now what I mean by sovereign is God is in control. Amen or not? I'm glad he is. If God is all powerful and God is in control, could he not have somehow provided better accommodations for his son? Yes or no? Yes, God is God. He could have arranged to have a palace With uh uh uh uh uh is it feather bed? A mattress filled with feathers, right? Somebody help me now. You always just staring at me. He could have arranged to have a posturepedic bed What's that pillow guy? My pillow. He could have had a my pillow for Jesus to lay on. God is God. God is all-powerful. God is sovereign. He's in control. He could have done better than this. But he didn't. God could have arranged this. He's sovereign. He could have arranged this that somehow Jesus, Mary, and Joseph end up in some sort of palacious building, some big a summer lake house at Deep Creek Lake? A million dollar palace he could have stayed in with midwives and all the best sanitation and all the best formulas and baby care. He could have done all of that. But he didn't. You say, why in the world would God Almighty Allow for his firstborn son to be born in a manger. Now here's the conclusion I come to. There must be more to this manger than simply a place to lay a baby. He mentions it three times here. He goes out of his way in a manger, in a manger, in a manger. He could have arranged this 10,000 other ways, surely come up with something better than a feeding trough. But he didn't. So there must be, would you agree with me? There must be some significance why Jesus is being laid in a manger. There has to be more to this than simply the only accommodations available. Yes, God could have found something else, but he didn't. Take your Bible, keep your place here. If you would go to a little Old Testament book, it's kind of an obscure book for a lot of Christians, Micah. It's back towards the end of your Old Testament. If you find Jonah, it's right after Jonah, is Micah. I'll give you a moment to try and find your place there. Micah was an Old Testament prophet, and In the book of Micah, in his writings, under the inspiration of God, he references this city of Bethlehem as being the place that the Messiah would show up. And if you would go chapter 5, Micah chapter 5, are you finding it there? And if you're just flipping around, go to your index. I know you guys don't like directions, but go to the index, find it there. And if you go to Micah chapter 5 and notice with me verse number 8, or I'm sorry, verse number 2. Very popular prophecy. A lot of times preachers will preach on this and reference it At Christmas time. But verse number two of Micah 5, he makes this statement. Look what he says. But thou Bethlehem Ephrata. Though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, just a little town, nothing extravagant, nothing You know, huge New York City type thing, just a little town uh in Judah, yet Out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler of Israel. Whose goings forth have been from old from everlasting. Anybody want to take a guess who that he is referencing? Jesus Christ. He's saying, Bethlehem of Judah, your small town, and all the thousands of towns of Judah, you're just a small little one, but out of you! Is going to come the future king of Israel. And not only that, he says he's actually God in the flesh. His goings have been from everlasting. How many people here understand Jesus' existence did not begin with his birth in Bethlehem. Jesus Christ is God in the flesh. He always has existed. He always will exist. He is the eternal son of God. But he became flesh. He took on the the biblical term, the theological term is he took on incarnation. He took on flesh, God, eternal God, second one person of the Godhead, eternal God. And takes on human flesh. And he's born as a baby, an infant, in this town of Bethlehem. So there's significance about the town he's being born in. If you would come back to chapter 4 of Micah. Now here is another reference that doesn't get Recognize too much. Chapter 4, and if you would, notice verse number 8. It says, And thou, O tower of the flock, The stronghold of the daughter of Zion, unto thee shall it come, even the first dominion, the kingdom shall come to the daughter of Jerusalem. Now it's a little obscure wording there. Let me explain what I believe he's saying here. The first part of the verse, he references this tower of the flock. Now that is actually a literal tower that's set outside the city of Jerusalem And it has a Hebrew name. I can't give it to you up Tom ahead. But actually what had a name. It was a very well-known tower. It was what we would call a watchtower Anybody here ever notice uh I I don't know if it's still there or not, when you're going down to Friendsville off on the left on 42, there used to be a fire tower used to set up on top of the mountain there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Does anybody know is it still there? Still there. And what they would do is they would man these fire towers. They did it all over the country. They would man these fire towers. This is back before planes and radar and all that And they would watch for smoke out in the wilderness in the forest, and if they saw something, they would alert the authorities and they could try and catch it. Well that was very similar what this tower he's referencing here. It was just outside the city of Jer of uh Bethlehem. But it wasn't built to watch for fires. And it wasn't built to watch for enemies coming in. This tower, we're told by historians, Jewish historians, had a very specific purpose The tower was to watch over these flocks of sheep that were surrounding Bethlehem. You say, why in the world would they worry about those flocks and these sheep any more than any other, I don't think it's sheep's sheep, any more than any other sheep. Because the sheep that were raised in Bethlehem were significant. Bethlehem and the shepherds and the people around the city of Bethlehem They would raise these little lambs for one purpose. These lambs raised in the fields around surrounding Bethlehem. were raised for the purpose of sacrificial lambs in the temple in Jerusalem. These were not just ordinary lambs. These were bred and born to die. They were going to be bred, they were going to be cared for, they're going to be groomed, they're going to be inspected so that they're blameful uh that they are uh uh spotless and have no blemishes And they meet the criteria. They're taken into Jerusalem, and they're offered up as sacrifices to cover the sins of God's people. That was the whole purpose of this tower. These sheep need to be protected. These were significant. These were very, very unique sheep and the lambs. Now we're told, historians tell us, that when lambing time came There would be certain seasons when the sheep would give birth and the lambing time came. What they would do is they would bring them into the base of this tower And there they would wrap and clean the sheep and wrap them in swaddling clothes. And until they were prepared to get the sheep out and start nursing them, they would, for purposes they need room and different things, they would Take this newborn lamb that's bred and born for the purpose of dying uh in the uh on the altar in the temple for the sins of the of man They would wipe this and wrap this little newborn lamb in swaddling clothes, and they would lay that lamb in a manger. Until it was settled down and all, then it would go out and be with its mother, and the guards in the tower would watch and make sure no beasts or any dangers would affect these very, very precious lambs. The sacrificial lambs. Now it is believed by a lot of historians That when Mary and Martha uh when Mary and Mar uh when Joseph and Mary showed up in Bethlehem And all the accommodations were filled, and these temporary shelters that were put up were all overwhelmed. They could find no place. And they made their way outside of the city, and at the base of this tower They found shelter. And when Jesus was born, it is believed That Mary took some of these swaddling clothes that were used for these sacrificial lambs and wrapped Jesus up. And just like these sacrificial lambs, she laid Jesus in the manger. That brings new significance to that manger. Jesus Christ's birth and entrance into the world was exactly Like the birth of these sacrificial lambs that would be altered up for the sins of mankind. When those shepherds were told by the angels out on the fields watching their flocks or night, and the angelic choir shows up and makes this Profound announcements, glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill to men And they said, you'll find the babe in a manger. Now this is my speculation. I wonder if those shepherds who probably were raising lambs for the sacrifices in the temple It's probably what they are shepherding. I wonder if their thought wasn't, huh, that's interesting. That's exactly where we take the sacrificial lambs. In a manger? I wonder if when they showed up, perhaps in the base of this tower, where they brought thousands and thousands of sacrificial lambs, they make their way in. And there in that manger is a little baby wrapped in the same clothing that they wrapped the sacrificial lambs in. I wonder if they didn't get the picture. I wonder if they didn't think, who is this? What in the world? That's what we do to the sacrificial lambs. When God arranged for Jesus to be born in Bethlehem, wrapped in swaddling clothes and laid in a manger. He was arranging for Mary to do the exact same thing that the shepherds did with the sacrificial lambs. And I believe the fact that Jesus was laid in a manger is a powerful message to the people at that time and for the rest of history that Jesus Christ came to uh and was born to die for the sins of all mankind It's a powerful statement. I believe God is declaring very clearly and very powerfully at the very beginning of Jesus' life as a man that he is the Lamb of God, that all these temple lambs that were sacrificed They foreshadowed, they were a picture, they were pointing to that coming Lamb of God that would one day not shed the blood of bulls and goats and lambs and sheep But shed divine sinless blood for all the sins of mankind. The message of the manger. Jesus came to be our Savior. Jesus came not to be a great teacher, not simply to be a miracle worker, not to change society, not to be a political reformer. He came to be the Savior of man. And from his very birth, pointed to that fact. Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God. In Matthew chapter 1 and verse number 21, the angel told Mary, she said, Thou shalt call his name Jesus. By the way, the name Jesus means Jehovah is Savior. Thou shalt call his name Jesus. Why? For he shall what? Save his people from their sins. From the moment of his conception, from the moment of the announcement of his conception, God wanted Mary and all the world to know that Jesus Christ Is the Savior of mankind. That's why He came. Laid Him in a manger. Powerful message. Notice, uh come back to Luke here, if you would. Notice in verse 16 It says they came with haste. They got the message from the angels, and they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe. Lying in a manger. Now notice, look at the next verse. And when they had seen it, I think just the wording there, at least in my mind, implies it registered They came and saw it. Ah. The message got through. And notice how they responded. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which had told them concerning this child. The good news, the message, a Savior had come. The manger was a message. Jesus Christ came to die. You know, most of the world celeb much of the world celebrates Christmas. And the message of Christmas to the world is about as varied as you can come up with. To some, it's just an opportunity to some, I hate to say this, some folks, Christmas is just another opportunity to get stoned. For some, Christmas is just an opper another opportunity to live it up. Some people, Christmas is an opportunity. To get the family together, enjoy family. And by the way, that's not a bad thing. That's a good thing. Get the family together. Some, it's uh m it's uh fanny, it's uh fairy tales. Of Santa Clauses and reindeer and and elves. But I'll tell you The message of Christmas from that very beginning, when Jesus was laid in a manger, the message was that we are sinners in desperate need of a savior, and the only way we can be saved is for some sinless uh one to die in our place and pay the price of our sins for us. And Jesus Christ laid in a manger is that Savior That provides hope of forgiveness of sins and eternal life. When those shepherds looked and saw the babe lying in a manger, what did they see? I think first of all they saw the passion of God. That babe lying in a manger was used for sacrificial a manger that was used for the sacrificial Temple lambs. Born to die. Raised to be slaughtered for the sins of man And those shepherds looked in there and they saw the Son of God. They saw the babe lying in that manger. They saw the visible evidence of the love of God for them. God commended his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Listen, there's not a sinner on planet earth that Jesus Christ doesn't love. For God so loved the world that he gave into that sacrificial lamb manger, he gave his only begotten Son. To die for you and me. Oh, what a Savior. What love is this? From everlasting to everlasting, God has loved us. When we think of Christmas and we think of the babe and a manger and the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, our thoughts ought to immediately go to the fact that God loves me. Enough to die for me. Greater love hath no man than this, and a man lay down his life for his friends. Christmas time can be lonely. Christmas time can be sad. But I'm here to tell you, Christmas time ought to be a reminder to every one of us that we have a God that created us and loves us dearly. Loves us there. This world has lost sight of the fact that God loves us enough to die for us. So when they looked in that manger, they saw the passion of God. They saw the love of God for an old sinner like me. Now he would die so that I could have a new life and so that I could be forgiven, that I could have a home in heaven He was willing to come and offer himself as a sacrifice so that I could have purpose and meaning in life and have peace in my heart and mind through faith in Christ. Several years ago we took a group, Eric was in on it, we went down to uh St. Lucia with our missionaries in um uh uh West and Faith Ann Bartley down in St. Lucia doing a great job down there They got two churches up and running, women's souls, and getting after it. And we were down there doing some work and we were having like a I I think I did some preaching at night. We had uh uh like a dec uh church growth conference type thing and I was preaching at night and we did work. uh during the day. And we had one evening, towards the end of the week, we had one evening free. And so he said, I want to take you over and we're going to go visit another church over on the other part of the island here I don't know if you remember this, Derek. We went and visited this church, and it was a national pastor, it was a St. Lucian that had gotten saved, and he was pastoring this church, and it was a pretty good-sized church. There was a a good number of folks there And when we got there and we began meeting the people, and of course they speak English there, so we could interact with them very easily and we're talking. And uh Brother uh Wes said, uh Pastor Emma, I want to introduce you to a woman And uh he went over and he found this lady. She was an older lady, and uh he gave me her name, and we made it. He says, Let me tell you her story. This woman owned a bar. In fact, the church building that the church was meeting in was the bar that she owned. And he was saying how that bar was notorious for its wickedness, drunkenness and drinking, and blasphemy, and fighting, and dancing and fornication. And it was a wicked, wicked spot on that island. But this dear lady, she heard about a savior. That died for her sins, was buried and rose again. And she believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, and God forgave her sins and changed her life And now, she's a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, and she said this. She says, I cannot keep this bar open. And she shut the bar down, gave the building to the church, and now the praises of our Savior are sung in that old old bar that used to be a bar, now is a ha a church house. I'm telling you, that's what Jesus was born to do. He was laid in that manger so that he could pay the price for your sin and my sin. So their lives can be changed and our destiny become heaven, and we can have meaning and purpose and joy and peace and purity in our lives When those shepherds looked in that manger, they saw a sacrificial lamb. They saw the love of God, that he would be willing to come and die for our sins. And rise again. They saw the price of salvation. Jesus Christ was born to die. To suffer the judgment of God for you and for me. 1 Corinthians 15:3 says, how that Christ died for our sins. That word for means in place of. Rather than you and I going to hell, Jesus on that cross suffered hell in our place as our substitute. He took the wrath and judgment of God for my sins. And he says, I'll take responsibility for that. And God's holy judgment for my sins was poured out on Jesus Christ, the sacrificial lamb. So that I could be forgiven, so that I could escape the judgment of God They saw the price of salvation. They looked in that manger, a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, and they were seeing the price of sin. That's what it would cost, the life of Jesus Christ, so that you and I can be saved. John the Baptist understood this. When he was preaching there by the Jordan River and calling people to repentance, and Jesus Christ came by and he said boldly and loudly, He said, Behold, The Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. The Lamb born in a manger. And give his life on a cross. The price of our sin. Behold. And again, in John chapter 1, verse 36, he said it again: Behold the Lamb of God. Peter understood this when he wrote back in 1 Peter 1, verse 18-19, he says, We are not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. As of a lamb without spot and without blemish. John the Baptist understood exactly what Jesus was about. It wasn't about Santa Clauses, it wasn't about uh snowmen, it wasn't about red-nosed reindeer, it was about God paying the price for your sin and my sin, so we could be forgiven and have a new life and escape hell and live eternally in the presence of God. It's all about Peter understood that. So that manger, when they looked in that manger, they saw the passion of God, they saw the price of our salvation, and last of all, they saw the possibilities of God. You know, if Jesus would have been born in a palace with armed guard all around and a moat. If he'd have been born in the inner chambers of some king's uh uh castle Those shepherds would have never been able to get in and see it. They would have had no access to the Lamb of God. But him being born in a field, in a manger, anybody can come to that. A poor lowly shepherd can come in and see that babe lying in a manger. The magi, the kings from the east can come. Now he's out of the manger at this point. But they can come and have access to Jesus Christ. What I'm trying to say is this anybody can come to Jesus and find salvation. Rich and poor, young and old Educated, uneducated, all classes, all colors, all education, all backgrounds. It is possible for every man, woman, and child to be saved if they'll come in humility, trusting Jesus Christ, acknowledging their sin, trusting him as their Savior, all can be saved. Now, not all people are going to get saved, but there's not a person in the world that can't be saved if they won't come to Christ as God instructs us. There's one Savior, Jesus Christ. No man comes to the Father but by Jesus Christ. But whosoever will. Can come to Jesus Christ and be saved. We're going to have a baptism here a little bit, little Nikita. He's going to follow the Lord in baptism. I love Nikita. I call her Nikita Barita. I'm so glad a little girl like Nikita can come to Jesus and trust him as her savior and be forgiven and have eternal life. Aren't you glad? A few months ago, Ron had me come visit his brother-in-law. He's elderly. He was older, I should say. I guess you'd say he was elderly. Anybody older than me is elderly at this point. Only had a few months to live, Joe. I'm glad old Joe, laying in a hospital bed, can come and trust Jesus as Savior. That babe in a manger was a powerful message. Jesus Christ came to die for our sins, to give his life a ransom for many. And that whosoever Whosoever, an old man in a hospital bed, a little girl on a Sunday school bus, anybody can come to that manger and believe and be saved. I'm glad an old drug, drunken, drug addict, pervert, 19-year-old teenage boy could kneel beside his bed outside of Philadelphia and come to Jesus Christ and be forgiven. Have a new life. The message of the manger is this: there is life, there's eternal life in Jesus Christ. Because he came and paid the price for our sins. In Luke chapter 1 and verse 37, Mary asked when she was told that she was going to have a child How in the world can this be? How can this be? Verse 31 of Luke chapter 1. And then Mary said unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? This is impossible. What you're saying is impossible. I tell you, I've talked to folks All my years in the ministry, I've talked numerous times, I've talked to folks, and they've said something like this to me. Preacher, God could never save me after all that I've done. God can never say me the things I've said and the things I've done and the deeds I've committed, the sins I've committed. God, it's impossible. God can never forgive me. Mary said, this is impossible. How can I give birth? I've never known a man. It would come down to verse 37. For with God, I love this verse, for with God nothing shall be impossible. I'm saying this, God can save even the worst of sinners. I don't know what your attitude is about yourself, but if you see yourself as an old rotten sinner You see yourself as someone that has failed God terribly. You're the one Jesus came to save. He doesn't call the righteous to repentance, he calls sinners to repentance. The only person ever gets saved is an old sinner. And apart from Jesus Christ, it is impossible for anybody to be saved, but with Jesus Christ it is possible for anybody to be saved. Born in a manger. Born in a manger Let me ask you this question. Are you saved? Do you know for sure your sins are forgiven? When you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. You don't know that if you say, well, preacher, I hope so. I think so. Maybe. I tell you, Jesus didn't come and die and suffer hell, so we can have a maybe salvation. He wasn't born in a manger and live his life and die and suffer the wrath of God and eternal hell on that cross, so that we could hope that we have eternal life. He says, These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that you have eternal life. Why don't you settle that today? Why don't you come to that, not a babe and a manger, but a risen Savior? And trust Him, believe, receive Him as your personal Savior. God will forgive you. You can have eternal life, have a new purpose, have a clear and clean mind and heart. And those of us that know Christ as Savior, you say, preacher, I've got that settled. I know I trust him. I know I'm saved. Let me ask you this: are you living for him? He died for you. Can't you at least live for Him? Can't we at least say, Lord, you've saved me from hell, you forgave my sin, you gave me a new life. The least I can do is love you and live for you. A fellow asked Jesus one time, he said, What's the greatest command? Jesus, what's the greatest command? And Jesus didn't hesitate. He answered, The great first and greatest commandment, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength, and love your neighbor as yourself. Saved people ought to love God. Now don't make me do this. Saved people ought to love God. And saved people ought to love their neighbors. And if you're saved, you and I know Christ is Savior, let's fall in love with Jesus. Let's love our neighbors. And then let's do what the shepherds did. Let's go out and tell everybody. They went out and just told everybody, you don't believe. You don't believe. These angels showed up and told us about a paved lion in a manger and went down, and there in the manger where we prepared the temple lamps. Wrapped in the same swaddling clothes, we saw the savior of the world, the hope of mankind You need to trust them. You need to I just have a I just have a feeling, this is just me. I just have a feeling everybody in Garrett County ought to know about Jesus Christ. Everybody in our part of the world ought to know how to be saved. Ought to know the gospel. And you know the only way anybody finds out about the gospel is if someone goes and tells them. Government's not going to do it, amen or not. Media sure are not going to do it. The only institution, the only people on planet Earth that can spread the best news that has ever been given to mankind Is the church and the people of God. It's on our shoulders. Spread the news. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, you'd help us this Christmas season. Number one, to make sure our salvation is settled. Number two, to fall in love with you and love your people. And number three, to share that message of Christ with everybody we possibly can. Our heads are bowed, our eyes closed. I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher. I'm saved, I know I'm saved, but I need to work on loving the Lord like I should. There's some areas of my life that I know are not where they ought to be. I just want to love the Lord. I want to know I love Him. And you say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me fall back in love with the Lord God. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. God bless you, hands all around. Maybe there's some say, preacher, you know I love the Lord, but uh there's some folks I have a hard time loving. And maybe there's someone on your mind right now. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I can love folks even when they're unlovely. I can be kind to folks even when they're unkind. So anything like that, say, preacher, I really need God to help me. To love folks. To love people. Just God bless you. Hands already. And maybe there's some say, preacher, I need to work at this matter of sharing the message of Christ with others. I need to apply that. I need to do better at this. Is there any like that, preacher, I need to be a better witness. I need to be more bold and vocal and And uh aggressive in sharing Christ with other people. God bless you. Father, I ask you to bless our invitation time now. Please have your way in our hearts and lives this Christmas season. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.