Messiah chapter three. I'm going to begin reading in verse number eight and um down through verse ten, the last three verses of the chapter, and um My intention was to finish up all three of these, but I think we're going to get to verse 8. The Bible says, Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, thou and thy fellows that sit before thee For they are all for they are men wondered at. For behold, I will bring forth my servant the branch. For behold, the stone that I have laid before Joshua upon one stone shall be seven eyes Behold, I will engrave the grieving thereof, saith the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. In that day, saith the Lord of hosts, shall ye call every man his neighbor under the vine and under the fig tree. This is uh Zechariah's visions, one of his ten visions he has And uh we've already looked at the first part. Tonight we're gonna look at this branch that is mentioned in this vision. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, please bless now as uh we look at this portion of scripture, kind of unusual. And not real clear on the surface as to what's taking place here, so I pray that you would help me uh to be um true to your word in the things I say Help me to expound this so that we can understand it and apply it to our lives. Lord, we need your Holy Spirit to do that for us, to open our understanding. And we need him to apply it to our lives. So I ask, Lord, that you fill me with your spirit tonight. I yield my will to you, present my body in this hour. Ask that you would um Speak through me and help us, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm amazed at the Bible. The Bible is a miraculous book. I meant to bring up a little object lesson. I left it back there, but um the Bible is a miraculous book, not just in its effect on people, but just in how it came together and the unity of the Bible, if you'll stop and think with me for a minute, and we talked about this in Bible Institute The Bible has 40 human, I don't want to say authors because God is the author, but the Bible has 40 human penmen Men that God moved on their hearts in such a way and they recorded down what God wanted them to record. There's 40 different men. Zechariah being one of those forty. Those forty men come from as various backgrounds as you can imagine. Some are kings Some were prophets, some were farmers, some were fishermen, some were doctors. Uh you have Uh all s all all s categories of society, every imaginable background Makes up these 40 men who were used of God to put together the Bible. Now think about that. How different they all were Not only that, it was written over a period of sixteen hundred years. So you have 40 different men writing a portion of the scripture under inspiration. All different backgrounds, all different personalities, all different approaches. It's written over 1600-year period of time. That's a long time. The Bible's made up of 66 different books. Now here's the thing about that. That in and of itself. i is is fine, but here's the miraculous part. 66 books written by 40 different men over a 1600 period of time and the whole thing fits together like a jigsaw puzzle. Now think about that, presenting one message, presenting one image. Now that would be like 40 different men. Who most of them don't know each other, live in completely different generations, taking a piece of wood and whittling out a piece of a puzzle. They don't know each other, most of them. They live in sixteen hundred different sixteen hundred years apart, many of them All different backgrounds. Each one whittles out a little piece of puzzle, and when you put the thing together, it fits beautifully all together. Isn't that an amazing thing? The Bible is a miraculous book. Now we come to Zechariah, and I said that for a reason. When we come to Zechariah, he has these series of visions we've been looking at. They all deal with the nation of Israel. They all are pointing to a future time for Israel when God is going to restore Israel's relationship with him, he's going to restore them back to the land. And God is going to fulfill his promises that he made to Abraham and to the early fathers of Israel, he's going to fulfill them someday. That's the message of these visions that Zechariah is having and he's communicating to the people of Israel. The amazing thing about that is this. They all, these these visions, these messages fit beautifully into what other prophets Said before Zechariah showed up, and prophets have said after he showed up. They all fit together beautifully. God's word to his people at this time was the fact that they were still his people. He had not abandoned them. And his assurance to them is he will never forsake his covenants to his people. And he's reassuring that. Now, here in Zechariah chapter 3, we have the vision of Joshua the high priest. Now, this Joshua that Zechariah is seeing in this vision is actually a real literal man. He is the high priest serving in what's left of the temple. They've started rebuild the foundation. That's about all they've got. But he's serving as high priest He's become high priest since they've returned from Babylon. A minority of them are in the land. And remember, we noted in the first couple verses, Joshua as the high priest is standing before the Lord. He's standing before the Lord as the high priest, representing the people of Israel. Satan's at his right hand. He has filthy garments on. We already looked at all of this Filthy garments imply that uh God was restoring his relationship with Israel, yet all they had to offer was filthy garments. They had nothing to present worthy of themselves. So and Satan's there making accusations at his right hand, trying to tear down Israel, God's people. God takes the filthy garments off and puts a new garment on him. Zechariah gets excited. He says, hey, put a miter, a fair miter on his head too. And so they do that. But the angel protests and he says, wait a minute, salvation is a gift But the crowns are a reward. And so he says there, verse number seven, that if you want to have the rewards of the Lord, then you've got to obey God. You've got to live for Him. You've got to live by His Word. And then God will reward you. Now we come to verse 8. It's the same vision. Continuing on, Zechariah is seeing this. And tonight's message isn't so much preaching as it's more of a teaching thing tonight, because there's information given to us here. Now look at verse 8. Hear now, O Joshua the high priest. Now, who is speaking? You've got to come back to the first part of verse 7. Thus saith who? The Lord of hosts. So God, in this vision, Zacharias sees, God, Jehovah, is speaking to This high priest Joshua. And look what he says. Hear now, O Joshua, the high priest. First thing I want to point out, and my little outline here, is there's a reminder given to Zechariah and to Israel through this vision. And that is this. The Lord says, here now, O Joshua, the high priest. My question is: why did God say, the high priest, again? It was already pointed out in verse number one, and this isn't that long of a vision. I mean, this has taken place in a moment's time. And God, in verse 1, he says, he showed me Joshua the high priest. Now, verse 8, the Lord says, Oh Joshua the high priest. Why would he repeat that? God doesn't say stuff just for the for the sake of saying something. Amen? Anybody here ever in a situation And it was a little awkward and you just felt like you had to say something, and then after you said it, I thought, Well, that was the stupidest thing I ever said. Anybody can can I get a witness on that? I've done that from the pulpit. And um Uh, you know, you just say something. Uh God doesn't just say something. God says something on purpose And when he says that and when he repeats something here, there's a reason. How many folks, when you've been reading through your Bible, do you ever notice there are certain times it seems like God's repeating himself Anybody ever notice that? Sometimes they'll just say like the same thing over and over and over. And you think, man, why does he do that? There's a reason. And the reason I believe he repeats the phrase the high priest here is he is reminding Israel, he's reminding Zechariah That this vision does not deal with Joshua the high priest as an individual person. He's not talking one-on-one with Joshua He's talking to the nation of Israel through their high priest Joshua. Right? We talked about that before. And God's reminding them of this. I am dealing with my people as a whole. And uh he refers to Joshua the high priest again to do that, uh to remind Israel of that. Now, it's important. When we study scripture, we study scripture very carefully. There's a lot of false teaching goes around because people do not study scriptures carefully. They see something, come to a conclusion, and they teach it. Rather than studying the scriptures and say, alright, is that what God is saying here? I read a fascinating book. I don't agree with a lot of it, but it was fascinating. It was written by a fellow by the name of Jim Baker. Does anybody remember the name Jim Baker? Not the Secretary of State for George Bush's daddy, but the evangelist Jim Baker. I use that term very loosely Jim Baker got arrested for embezzling millions of dollars uh from people who gave money to the Seven Hundred Club. Was it no, it wasn't What was it called? PTL. And uh he was Besley Money and um his wife Cami Pay and all that fiasco He went to prison. And when he was in prison, he wrote a book. And the name of the book is entitled, I Was Wrong. And I was out of the library, this is years ago, and I and I saw the head on it, I saw Jim Baker, and it said I was wrong. And I said, I knew that. And um But I thought I want to get the book. I want to read it. So I got the book. And he made a fascinating confession, I guess. He said this. And uh I should have bought the book because I'd like to use it as a reference, but he made this statement. He said, When I was in the heyday of the ministry, we never really studied the Bible. We would get an idea, find some verses that appeared to back it up, and develop a message. without really studying the Bible. He says, but now that I've been in prison for however many years it was at the time, I've studied the Bible and I realized that a lot of what I preached was not taught in scriptures. Now that is an amazing admission from a man who preached thousands of messages to millions of people and he says, I didn't even study what the Bible said about what I was preaching. Now the sad fact is there's probably more of that goes on than we even realize. And so when we come to the scriptures and we notice a statement where God says, Oh Joshua, the high priest. We need to understand there's significance to that. There's a reason he's pointing out to the fact, I'm not talking to you as an individual, I'm talking through you to my people, and that is this. There are statements made to Israel that do not apply to other people. There are promises given to Israel that do not apply to the church. There are promises made to the Church that do not apply to Israel. There are promises and statements made about Israel that do not apply to you and I personally. And so we have to understand what's being said here, who's being addressed, why is what's the context, and uh uh we have to be careful. Now, having said that, I want to say this Now I hope you're with me on this because this is very important in our Bible study. That does not mean That does not mean if God makes a statement to Israel or gives a promise to Israel that doesn't necessarily made to me as a believer in the New Testament That does not mean I can't learn something from it. Because the Bible is very clear, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is what Profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction rightness. So I'm studying my Bible, God makes a statement It applies to the nation of Israel, his people, his witness of the Old Testament. Doesn't apply directly to me, but I learned something about God through that. I learned something about life and how God responds and how God deals with his people. So it's profitable to me, although I may not be able to claim that promise directly to me. Everybody with me? Everybody alright? You say, well, what's the big deal about that? Big deal about that is, and I say this fairly regularly, we've got people going around claiming promises that God never made They got people expecting God to do things that God never said he would do. They misapply a promise of God or a statement of God about somebody or something, and they misapply it to themselves. So. He's saying, here now, O Joshua, the high priest, the representative of Israel. He says, then he goes on. So there's our reminder. Then he makes reference to some representatives. For Israel. Look what he says. Here now, O Joshua the high priest, he was reminding him, I'm talking to the nation, thou and thy fellows that sit before thee. For they are men wondered at. I thought, what in the world is he talking about there? The fellows that sit before thee, for they are wondered at. I tell you, sometimes I'm preaching I look out at people sitting before me and I wonder at them. Wonder what in the world? I don't think that's what he's talking about here I believe when he says thy fellows, I think he's talking to the other priests that serve in the temple with Joshua the high priest. You know, the high priest didn't do everything. Right? On the Day of Atonement he did, but the rest of the time there was a ton of priests. Well, I don't know if they weighed up to a ton or not, but there was a bunch of priests that uh were involved in various things The high priest was the one in charge. So he's addressing these, for lack of a better term, lower level priests. uh that who serve in the temple with him. And he makes a strange statement about him. He says, for behold Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, thou and thy fellows that sit before thee, those that are serving with you that are there in front of you. For they are men wondered at. I thought, what in the world men that are wondered at? I looked up the word wonder, and I looked how it's used throughout the Bible and other places, and it has this idea. Men who are a sign to people. Or men who are a picture of something that is to come Or, and this is the one that attracted my attention, men who attract attention. So I thought, all right, what's he talking about here? I think what he's saying here is, is that Joshua and the priests are Signs or illustration of what God is doing. Their lives, their actions, their testimony. Is an indicator, is an illustration to people of what God is like and how He operates. They're not the only ones in Scripture that have been signs or illustrations of the Lord's doings. In Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 18, God says Isaiah is a sign to the people of Israel. That he is someone to be wondered at. Someone that the people can look at and learn something about God from. In Isaiah chapter 20 and verse 3, or I'm sorry, in Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 18, Isaiah's sons are said to be signs, and they're given prophetic names. He says they're going to be pictures of how I'm going to operate. Isaiah 20 and verse 3, Isaiah himself is said to be a sign. And that he is, when people look at him and observe him and watch his behavior and the things he says and what he does, they are going to learn something about God. They are gonna, their mind is gonna work, they're gonna wonder, and their mind is gonna work, and they're gonna realize things about how God works by observing Him In Ezekiel chapter 12, in various places through Ezekiel, God had Ezekiel to do certain things as a sign. One place he was supposed to lay on his side. What was it, for three months, Chester? Something like that? Three and a half months. I think it was three months and fifteen fourteen days actually. No. It was somewhere around three and a half. He was supposed to lay it aside for a period of time And he had this little uh thing built like it represent the city. Remember, do you know what I'm talking about Yeah, it was a long period of time. And he was supposed to lay there and do something. Then he was supposed to lay on the other side and do something. Then he was supposed to cut his hair and burn half of it and throw the other half and do all this. And God said that's a sign And he says, I want you to do some very specific things so that people will learn something about me. God told them to do. Isn't that interesting? Are you thinking? Um Isaiah, Isaiah's sons, Joshua and the priest, Ezekiel, and all through the Bible. There to be something to be wondered at. People look at it and watch, and their mind begins to work, and they learn something about God. You know what that's called? It's called being a testimony of the goodness and grace of God. And the truth of the matter is every one of us are signs. We are men and women to be wondered at that this old sinful world can look at us and say, hey, you know, there's something about them There's something about that woman. There's something about that man. It makes me think of God. Boy, you can just see the Lord in his life. You can just hear the Lord through her speak. She makes me think about God. That's a powerful testimony. Remember Peter says they uh uh took note of them that they were unlearned and ignorant men. I'm killing this quotation, but they had been, they noted that they had been with the Lord Jesus. There was something about them that made the people wonder and think about Jesus. Now let me ask you this question. Now I ask myself this. When we're about town, when we're at the store, we're on the job, we're in our home Do people hear the way we talk and watch the way we behave? And do we make them think about the Lord? Do they learn anything about what God is like by observing us? Now I'll be the first to say simply living the Christian life isn't enough to get people saved. We've got to tell them how to be saved also. But If we're telling them and we're not displaying it in our lives, our words are going to be very empty. Right or wrong? And so there's a powerful truth here when God addressing Joshua, who represents the people, is Priests and he says these men are men to be wondered at. They are men too who are assigned the the way they behave because of the position they hold and because of who they are, uh the way they behave and how they talk about the Is a sign, is a symbol, is a picture of what I'm like, and so the people of Israel can see and learn what I'm like. So you have the reminder. You have these representatives here of the Lord, the high priest and his associates. Then there's a revelation given, and this is where I want to try and get through quickly. In the last part of verse 8, he says this He addresses all that, makes those statements. Now here's what he's getting at. For behold, I will bring forth my servant the branch. Huh. My servant the branch. He is explaining, this is all as I said, this is what the Lord's getting at, but he's giving them a very key message here. God is through this vision, this particular vision, is introducing how He is going to restore Israel Now all the visions up to this point, he kept saying, I'm going to restore you, I'm going to restore you. Day's coming. I'm going to restore you to the land. I'm going to restore your prosperity. I'm going judge the nations that have treated you so badly, I'm going to restore a relationship Now he's saying, this is how I'm going to do it. This is the key factor in restoring our relationship. And it's through my servant, the branch. I was reading various commentaries on this. Nearly everyone said this is one of the key passages in the Old Testament scripture concerning the Israel's Messiah. This is one of the rich passages of scripture of God's Messiah. And he describes him as my servant, the branch. Now it's interesting that God's title for the branch here is a servant. His official title is my servant. the branch. All through the Bible, and we've pointed this out often, when God wants to honor someone, He gives them the name Serpent. My servant Moses. My servant David. My servant Joshua. My servant whoever. Paul, a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. When man wants to honor somebody, they ignite them and they call them sir or doctor or whatever. When God wants to honor someone, they say, That's my servant. Tells you a lot about the way Lord tells you a lot about what the Lord honors and what God's looking for. So he makes reference to his servant here. The one who is going to do everything necessary to restore God's people to himself, God calls them a servant. That tells us a lot about the ministry and the attitude of our Lord Jesus Christ. The branch here is the Lord Jesus. And God says he's a servant. I like what Mark 10, verse 45 says. Says this for the Son of Man, the branch, came not to be ministered unto, but to what? minister and give himself a ransom for all. When Jesus came to earth, he didn't come down to earth for what man could do for him. He came to earth to do something for man. And as the Father has sent Jesus, even so hath He sent us. We're not in this world for what the world can do for us. We are in the world for what we have to offer to the world, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we've gotten this thing backwards. We think we're in this world to get as much stuff that the world has to offer as possible. That is not why God has left us here. God has put us here on earth as believers Not to get stuff from this world, but to give to this world to serve God through giving the gospel to the world Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. He's my servant. Then he calls him the branch. I thought, what in the world? Why would he call Jesus a branch? I think this term branch here reveals four different aspects about the Messiah, about the Lord Jesus Christ. Four times in the Old Testament, Jesus is referred to as the branch. One of them is in Jeremiah 3, chapter 23, verse 5 and 6, and then verse 33, verse 15 and 16. It's Two references one one time he's being identified. And there he is referred to as a king of righteousness. The branch shall reign in righteousness. So Jeremiah refers to Jesus, as the branch, as a righteous king. He's going to come to earth and he is going to reign and rule a righteous kingdom. I've often said, and I still believe it, the best form of government known to man that has ever been devised is a dictatorship. But the only way a dictatorship works is if the dictator is absolutely perfectly good and wise and all-knowing and flawless in every way. And if the dictator comes short of that, then dictatorship is the worst form. There's a day coming when there's going to be a king that is going to rule as a dictator of this world. But he's going to be all-knowing, he's going to be all good, he's going to be all-wise, he's going to be perfect in every way. It's going to be the Lord Jesus Christ. And this branch makes reference to the kingdom of our Lord. Now I started the message by saying the Bible's a miraculous book. Forty different men, 1600 years apart, write this and it all fits together beautifully like a perfectly fit puzzle. I got looking at this. And when I was reading the description of this branch as a king, it reminded me of the book of Matthew, the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew presents Jesus to Israel as their king, as God's king. Do you remember back in the Old Testament, Samuel was the prophet, and all the people said, hey, we want a king just like everybody else does. Remember that part? And the Lord says, oh no, no, if you get a king, he's gonna raise your taxes, and uh he's gonna make you do all this stuff for you, he's gonna be a democrat, and he's gonna do make all these uh sorry, uh he's gonna um he's gonna do all these things and um And God says, no, I'll be your king. And Samuel protests to be and finally God says, all right, if they want a king, give them a king. And so they got Saul, and things just deteriorated. I believe when God said, No, I want to be your king, I believe God was planning the day when the Lord Jesus Christ would come back and Jesus would rule literally the nation of Israel. They rejected that. They had a series of kings. They progressively got worse. Few highlights through there, but progressively got worse until now they're in the condition where Zechariah is appro is dealing with them. And he says, through the branch I've got a king coming. Matthew presents that king. It's interesting. The genealogy in Matthew, if you follow it in the first part of the book, it goes back to Abraham. Matthew is dealing with Jesus' relationship with Israel. He's presenting them as their king. Of course, he came unto his own, and his own what? Received them not. Then in Zechariah chapter 3 verse 8 where we're here now, the the branch is presented as an ideal servant. Jesus referred to a servant. That corresponds with the Gospel of Mark. The Gospel of Mark presents Jesus as God's servant. If you read through Mark, you find very few sermons. Of the Lord Jesus. Matthew, you have blanket sermons on the kingdom and prophecy dealing with Israel. Mark, very few sermons. It's all Jesus' actions. His miracles. He's serving people. He's providing food. He's calming storms. Mark presents This branch, the Lord Jesus, as God's servant. It focuses on his ministry. And another interesting thing, Mark has no genealogy given. A servant, it doesn't matter what his genealogy is. He's a servant. There's no royalty in being a servant, there's no blue blood in being a servant. So there's no genealogy in the book of Mark. Then we go to Zechariah chapter 6 and verse 12, and we'll look at this some other point. Here the branch is presented as the ideal man. The first man, Adam, failed. So God, Romans talks about this, Hebrews talk, God gave the second Adam. A second man, the Lord Jesus Christ. And the branch as a man corresponds to the book of Luke. Luke, Jesus referred to more than any other gospel, he's referred to as the Son of Man. The Son of Man. Luke 19:10, for the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. He came as man's substitute for man. The first man, Adam, failed, and in Adam uh sinned uh and we all uh death passed upon all men for that all have sinned. In Adam we've sinned. So God sent the man, Christ Jesus, the Son of Man And he lived a perfect life for us, what Adam did not do, and he died the death of a man, what none of us could do. As a sinless man, he died for us. He was the man substitute, sacrificial substitute for us. I was fascinated reading this. I thought this is incredible. And if you look at the genealogy in the book of Luke, guess who that goes back to? Adam. The first man. And so this term branch is used for the Bible, a king, corresponding to Matthew. a servant corresponding to Mark, a man corresponding to Luke. And then in Isaiah chapter 4 and verse 2, Jesus is referred to as a branch. And there he is referred to as a branch having the glory of God. It is making reference to the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that corresponds to the Gospel of John. There are four books that deal specifically and exclusively with the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, who and what he is. It's Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. They have the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That's the whole purpose. And every one of them shows a different aspect of this branch, as the term is used in the Old Testament. The book of John presents Jesus as the Son of God, as the deity of Christ. There's no genealogy in the book of John because God has no genealogy. He had no beginning of days. From everlasting to everlasting, he's God. He has no father and mother, regardless of what the Mormons may teach. God is not and never has been man. And so the Gospel of John corresponds to the branch as the deity, Jesus' deity. No other book in the Bible manifests the deity of Jesus Christ. as the Gospel of John, with the possible exception of the book of Revelation, who happens to be written down by who? John. So we come back to Zechariah chapter 3. I will bring forth my servant the branch. I thought, alright, why would he use the term branch? So I looked up the word branch. I don't know what you picture in your mind when you read that word branch. I picture just the immediate picture that comes to my mind, like you know how the psychiatrists they hold the thing up, what do you see Oh, I see an elephant. You know, ink blocks. Anybody ever know what I'm talking about? You never done that? It's fun. You ought to try it. Um I read that word branch, what's the first thing that comes to your mind? I picture an old dead stick laying in the backyard, fell out of a tree. Alright, is anybody else? No, you all are more spiritual than me. That's uh as as a branch. Alright, there's a den thing. Branch fell out of a tree. That's not what it means. The branch here has the idea of a sprig. Anybody know what a sprig is? It's a branch that is growing, a small, and it it in the springtime they grow almost so fast. Sandy would know this. You can almost see them growing day by day. And that's the idea here. This branch is expanding and growing. And I think what God is referring to the Lord Jesus Christ is Every bit of information God gives, we learn more of about how fascinating it is. He grows in glory and in goodness. He's getting larger in his wonder of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the more we learn about the Lord Jesus Christ, the more magnificent he becomes. And we read in Matthew that he's Israel's king, and then we see he's a servant, and then we learn he's a man also, and then he's God. And then Revelation, the Bible says, they see the Lamb on the throne, and what do they do? They fall on their face and they worship, say he's worthy of glory and honor and power and praise and strength. And this branch just gets greater and greater and greater as time goes by and as he's revealed. I thought it was more teaching than preaching. But the fact of the matter is, the more we learn about the Lord Jesus Christ, the more wonderful he becomes. The more you study the Old Testament, the more you see Jesus is revealed all through it. Now, Jesus our Savior. He's our branch. Let me ask you this question. However long you've been saved, is Jesus more to you now than he was before? Or is he diminishing? When he first got saved, oh he was everything. Well, you've kind of lost that and now caught up in everything. Listen, that's not the intention. The intention, he ought to be growing and growing and growing in his greatness and his wonder and his authority in our life. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord, to see you as the branch. The God, the man, the Savior, the servant, the King. Lord, help us to submit to you that your love and your influence in our lives would grow And that folks would see us as a testimony of who and what you are. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, say you'd say, Preacher I want the Lord Jesus Christ to be more to me. I want to grow in my relationship with Him. I want Him to grow in His influence over my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Say preacher pray with me. God bless you. Hands around. I don't know exactly how to apply this. The Holy Spirit knows. So perhaps the Lord spoke to your heart tonight. We have an invitation. We'll invite you to come. Father, bless now, I ask in Jesus' name.