Psalm 19. I'd like for us to read verse number seven. You wouldn't believe the hate mail I get when I don't tell jokes like that. Verse 7 is our memory verse for the month of April. I hope you'll work hard, try and get this verse in your heart and mind, and memorize it through this month as we as a church work together on that. But notice the Bible says the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure. Making wise the simple. I just, I'm entitled to the message this morning, the perfection and the power of the Word of God. The perfection and the power of the Word of God. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you this Sunday morning. We thank you for a beautiful day you've given us. Lord, we recognize today is not our day. It's not the family's day. It's not the sports day. Lord, today is the Lord's day. And so we want to honor you today with the things we say and do, with our songs. Lord, I can't help but think you've been pleased with the hymns that were sung, special, the choir. And now, Lord, as we open your word and seek your will for our lives, I pray you would open our eyes that we could see what you have for us. I pray, Holy Spirit of God, that you would speak through me, through my body, each of our hearts and lives, and that show us what we need. What decisions need to be made and where we're at spiritually. I yield my will to you, and I pray that my thoughts would be yielded to your word. And Lord, my opinions and my reasoning would not be a factor in the message, but it'd be the truth of the Word of God. And I present my body anew, Lord, with all my heart. I pray you fill me with your Spirit And again, that you would speak through me. And that when we leave here, we know we've heard from God. And so give us wisdom and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. That's a roll-off. Some of you might be familiar with that name. He's on our radio station, 88. 7, every weekday morning at 10. 30. Mr. Roff had the opportunity to hear him preach numerous times back years ago he was killed in 1982 in a plane wreck And uh had a tremendous ministry down in Texas, the People's Baptist Church in Corpus Christi, had uh children's homes for uh troubled youth, uh huge, tremendous work, had uh homes for drunkards, men. uh that would help them dry out and know the Lord and and live productive lives. Tremendous minister. He made this statement and I actually quoted this some not too long ago in a message but he said this The best brain food in all the world is the Word of God. The best brain food in all the world is the Word of God. I'm convinced this old book is good for our brains. Help us think clearly, help us think correctly, help us have wisdom, think wisely. The best brain food in all the world is the Word of God. There's a lot of stuff out there. There's a lot of voices. There's a lot of books and blogs and and movies and talk shows and everything in the world is screaming at us. What we should and should not do and how we should and should not live, but I'm here to tell you, nobody comes even close to the wisdom of the Word of God. The best brain food in all the world is the Word of God. Our good friend Gerald Miller, who's with FBN and representative, he'll be with us in June again. He made a statement very similar. I jotted it down. He was preaching for us one time. I jotted in my Bible. And he said this: no book is more nutritious to the soul No book is more nutritious to the soul of man than the Word of God. The Bible's the best thing for your heart and mind, and my soul is the Word of God. As believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, those of us that know Jesus as our personal Savior, we ought to feed on the Word of God on a daily basis. We ought to open God's Word and God's book and absorb it into our hearts and minds and then incorporate into our daily life the Word of God. There's no book like the Bible. Our church meets together pretty regularly, if you haven't noticed that. We have Sunday school every Sunday morning. We have the morning service that we're in now. We have a Sunday night service. We have a Wednesday night service. We have many other services, revival meetings like we did this past week. We have Bible Institute. We meet together many, many times throughout the week and month and year, and we do it because of one reason. We believe that the Bible is the Word of God. That is the basis. And we say this over and over and over. I don't apologize for repeating myself, but the Bible is the basis for everything we believe and everything we do as a church and as individual members of this church. The Word of God, the Word of God. We believe the Bible is God's Word. Psalm 19, that Pastor Matt read a portion of. We didn't read the whole chapter. We could have, maybe should have. But Psalm 19, I believe, is one of the most, gives us one of the most beautiful descriptions of God's word in all the Bible. Verse 7 through 11 in particular gives us the Word of God. There are two other Psalms, chapters in the book of Psalms that Pay tribute to the Word of God. Now, there are scores of Psalms all through that mention the Word of God and have different verses referencing it, but I think there's three chapters in the book of Psalms that target particularly the Word of God. One of them is Psalm 19 that we just read. We're going to look at this morning. The other one, I believe, is Psalm chapter 1. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor Sitteth in the seat of the scornful, nor standeth in the w uh I got that out of order there. Let me try again. Blessed is a man that walketh not in the counsel of godly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night, and he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water whose Leaf with uh does not wither, and and uh whatsoever he do it shall prosper. Psalm chapter one is a beautiful tribute to the Word of God and its power in the life of the one who will live by it The other chapter in the book of Psalms that is a tribute to the Word of God is the longest chapter in the book of Psalms, Psalms 119. 175 verses he references, the writer, and God of course, references the Word of God in so many different ways. The Bible. The Bible. Now we're going to look at portion of Psalm 119 this morning. Like I always do. I like to try and study the chapter and maybe who the penman is and some background on that. It's a couple things we do not know about the book of uh about the uh Psalm chapter nineteen. We don't know when it was written You notice above verse number one that gives no context to the hist it gives no historical context to the Psalm. We don't know what the circumstances were behind when it was written, whether it was uh uh you know, a time of peace, a time of war, we don't know. We're just not told. Um we don't know uh uh anything that might have influenced other than the inspiration of God what might have influenced the penman to write this. So We don't know a lot of the background is what I'm saying. In fact, I'll say this. We don't know anything about the background of Psalm 19. So we don't find any insights there However, we do know that Psalm 119 was penned by David, a man after God's own heart, a man who loved the Word of God dearly. A man who lived his life and patterned his his home and his uh uh I should say his administration of king of Israel, he patterned it after the Word of God Now, question, did David live up to the teachings of the Word of God perfectly? The answer is no. He did not. In fact, he failed seriously numerous times in living up to the standard that the Bible gives and the instructions that God gives. And by the way, so have you and I. There's an unrighteous, no, not one. There's not one of us that lives up to the perfect standard given to us in the Word of God. And by the way, that's why we need the Lord Jesus Christ. Because we fail to live up to that. And Jesus Christ, in his love and compassion for you and I, came to earth, and he lived that perfect life for us. On our behalf, in our place, He fulfilled every command, every instruction, every requirement of the Word of God, of the law of God. He fulfilled it perfectly for you and me. And of course he went to the cross and died for your sins and my sins, paid the judgment of our failures to keep God's law. Our sins, he paid the judgment, was buried, rose again And now is at the right hand of God. David loved God's word. And God used him to pen this tremendous tribute to the Word of God. And then we notice there in verse number one also it says to the chief musician. Now this would have been the music director of the temple, or the tabernacle probably at this, well, it would have been at this time the tabernacle. The music director. David penned this down under the inspiration of God for the intention of God's people to know this psalm and to sing this psalm and to celebrate the Word of God through the psalm that David penned. We do know that it was penned by David. We do know that it's considered by many a masterpiece of poetic literature. Numerous Bible scholars have said that Psalm 19 is one of the greatest poems in all of the book of Psalms. We study, if we had time to study the whole chapter, all 14 verses, we don't, but if we did, we would find that it consists of two, what we call two books of Revelation. Two books. The first book is in verse 1 through 6, and let me take some time and read that if you would. Look at verse 1. It says, the heavens declare the glory of God And the firmament showeth his handiwork, day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night showeth knowledge There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard, their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the son, which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race His going forth is from the end of heaven and his circuit unto the ends of it, and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof. We refer to those first six verses as the book of creation The Bible is telling us here that God in creation declares his glory. One thing, as we look at the world we live in, we look at the created world we live in. We learned some things about God. Now, by the way, I don't know how in the world somebody can look at this planet we live on and look at the uh the night sky and observe life all across and come up with the idea that there is no God Now I don't mean to be rude and I don't mean to be unkind, and I know sometimes I come across that way, but I really don't mean to be that way. But if you can't see God in creation, you are a fool. In fact the Bible says that. How can you look at the intricate design of any given living thing? I don't know how you can look at this guy. By the way, does anybody uh know what's about something going to happen tomorrow? Yeah, eclipse. And how many people are just amazed by that I just is I'm enthralled by the eclipse. Do you know that thing is so precise, the movements of the moon? And the earth and the planets and the sun is so precise they can time where that shadow is going to be of the moon down to the second hundreds of years in advance I mean this pl this place is clockwork. You look at the eyeball, and I was I don't mean to get off on this, but I was reading this this past week. The eyeball, the the the structure and design and the technology That is c that an eyeball consists of. And to suggest that somehow that just formed over time. You are nuts. Give me a break. I say this all the time, but to me it seems so obvious Uh we lived out in Colorado for a while and you go down to the southwest corner and they have these cliff cliff dwellings where Indians lived for years ago and you can tour that. Maybe some of y'all been there and always enjoyed down there We go down there and some of those places you get into and they have drawings on the walls. Cave uh what do they call them? What is it? Hieroglyphs. Hieroglyphics. I thought that was in Egypt Petroglyphs. I just call 'em drawings on the wall. But they have these little stick figures, you know, and and some Indian with a spear, and there'll be some uh uh what are those hairy big ha mast We'll be mammoth. There'll be that. And they'll have that. And you can go down there and you can look at it. You know what every one of those scientists say? Without exception, every single one of them say some man drew that There is no way in the world that drawing could just somehow form on that wall there. Some intelligent being drew that. That's obvious. That wasn't just weather and circumstances and chaos. Some intelligent thing drew that. And then they'll turn around and look at a bison out there which is 10 billion times more complex, 10 billion times more design than that little drawing on the wall and say, oh, that just happened. I don't know about you, but that is a mental disorder in my mind. No, you know what it is? It's a deliberate refusal to state the obvious. Psalm 19, the first six verses are saying, hey, this creation out there is a testimony of the fact that there is a God. And he is a glorious God. Now, there's a lot we cannot learn about God from creation. We don't know what God's, we look at creation and we see God's power. Man, a lie. We look at creation and we see the fact that God is an intelligent being to create this We look at creation and we come to the conclusion that God is artistic in his thinking. Anybody ever see a sunset and just blow your mind the beauty of a sunset? My father-in-law taught me how to brook trout, catch brook trout. Anybody brook trout fisherman here? I love catching brook trout I mean, you look at the little brook trout, particularly in the fall, and those spots and the color, the beauty, a God that would design a little fish with such beauty My father-in-law told my boys when they were young, he said, when you find a girl as pretty as a brook trout, you marry her. We look in creation around us and we see God's power. What a power, what an awesome, powerful God we have. We look at creation and we see the immensity of God as we looked up in the night sky. Last night I stood after a prayer meeting, I was I stood over in my driveway, I just looked at the night sky First time I'd seen the sky in weeks. The clouds were gone. And uh looked at the night sky and saw those stars. And I got thinking those that they're telling us now that the universe could possibly be infinite And I'm looking up in the sky into infinity and think, my God is bigger. Than what the heavens can contain him. The immensity of our God. The power of our God. The intelligence of our God. The wisdom of our God. Psalm 19 says the heavens declare the glory of God Now, creation, there's some things that creation doesn't tell us about God. We can't ascertain from creation. We don't know what God's name is. Creation doesn't tell us. We don't know really what God's will is, what his expectations are of us. We know, looking at ourselves and the world, we know we've messed up. Things aren't functioning the way they were designed, obviously. So we see something's happened, something has entered in, but we we don't know what And so then we have in verse 7 through 11 of Psalm 19, we have the first six verses are the book of creation. 7 through 11, we have the book of Revelation. And that is the Word of God. And in the Word of God, we find out who this God is. We find out His name: it's Jehovah. We find out that he is a great three-in-one, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. We learn that He is a holy God. We learn in Scriptures that we're sinners before this Holy God in need of a Savior We find what God's will is, what his plan is. We learn of a spirit world that we cannot see with our natural eyes, but we sense and know is real. We look into the book of Revelation, we find out that there is a spirit world that consists of God and the angel, holy angels, and Satan and the fallen angels. And there's a spiritual warfare that goes on for the souls of every man, woman, and child. We learn this in the book of Revelation. The Bible. The Bible. Um In creation, we see every day we have a message from God. As that sun comes up, he references there and makes its way across the sky. It's a message from God. Every night is a message from God. All creation, I put this in the margin of my Bible there besides verse number four. I put all creation as a missions agency. Pointing people to the fact that there is a God and we need Him. We need Him. The book of Revelation and referenced in verse 7 through 11 David, under the inspiration of God, gives us six names for the Word of God. Six synonyms. Notice in verse number seven, he says, the law of the Lord. Then again, halfway through he says the testimony of the Lord is sure. Verse 8, the statutes of the Lord are right Again, verse 8, the commandment of the Lord is pure. Verse 9, the fear of the Lord. I believe he's referencing God's word there in that phrase. Then he says, the judgments of the Lord, six references to the Word of God, and how it affects those who will read it and believe it and do what it says God's word, the Bible, gives us all the information we need to know God. God's word, the Bible gives us all the information we need to find salvation. The Bible, God's Word, gives us all the information we need to live a life that is pleasing to God. I don't know about you, but I want my life to please God. One of these days every one of us, you mark it down. This is as true as anything taught in this book. You mark it down one of these days every man, woman, and child is going to stand before this holy, all-powerful Creator God, and we'll give an account of ourselves. As believers, born again, child of God, we answer at the judgment seat of Christ. God forbid any of us here, under the sound of my voice, die unsaved? Die in their sins, separated from God for all eternity, will one day at the great white throne stand before God and have the sentence declared: eternity in the lake of fire. And we don't like that, we don't relish that, but that is an absolute fact of God. You mark it down, it will happen. And we ignore that and we neglect that fact to our own detriment. I don't know about you, when I stand before that judgment seat of Christ, I can't fathom the intimidation and the The trembling that takes place as I stand before my God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Give an account for how I live my life as a Christian. I don't want to displease God. I want to hear the Lord say, are you listening, girls? I want to hear the Lord say, Well done. Thou good and faithful servant. Amen? To do that, to live a life that produces that outcome. It must be lived according to this book. Must be lived according to the teachings and instructions given to us in the Word of God. The Bible has everything we need to know about God, to know how to be saved, and know how to live for the Lord in a way that pleases Him. I got a couple minutes. I want to give you real quickly a few thoughts, three thoughts from verse number seven. Our memory verse for this month. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The first thought is this: the perfection of Scripture. The perfection of Scripture. Now he references, he says, the law of the Lord. Now he's not talking about just the Ten Commandments there When he's using that phrase, the law of the Lord, the word law there means this, the instructions of the Lord The directions that the Lord has given to us, the teachings that God has given to us. He's referring to more than just the Ten Commandments, He's referring to the entire Word of God He says it's perfect. The law of the Lord, the Word of God, the Bible, the scriptures, he says are perfect in every way I did study on that word perfect. I want to know what he means. I looked how it's used other places in Scripture. I looked at the word it comes from. The word perfect simply means pretty much what you would think. It means without blemish, undefiled. I like this definition, flawless. The Word of God is flawless. Without error, the law of the Lord is complete. The word perfect means complete. It's complete in its origin. It's perfect in its origin. It comes from God. It's perfect in its inspiration. It's God's word breathed into the Bible. It's perfect in its completion. There's nothing to be added. Listen, we can't uh uh if you have something perfect, are you with me? Think with me. How many people are glad you came to church today? Say amen. How many people really need a nap? Anybody really? Yeah, my hands raised. Uh just save it for an hour, okay? I forget what I was talking about. Uh perfect. If something is perfect, let's see if you agree with me. If something is perfect and I take something away from it, is it still perfect? No. Now it's flawed if I take something away from it. If something is perfect, flawless And I add to it, is it still perfect? No, I've defiled it. I've added something to it. If something is perfect, I don't take anything away, I don't add anything, but I just rearrange it a little bit or I reword it a little bit. Is it still perfect? No. God's word is perfect. What I'm trying to say is this, man cannot improve on the word of God. Try all he wants. And rewrite it and re redo this and redo that and take this in and put this out. The fact of the matter is God's word is perfect and man can't do a thing to make it any better Just leave it alone. The law of the Lord is perfect, it's complete. Think with me: the same God That spoke everything that is, heaven and earth, the same God that spoke heaven and earth into existence is the God that gave us this book right here. The Word of God, the law of the Lord is perfect. Perfect. There's no other book like the Bible There's no other book like God's Word. This year we've our theme is Standing on the Promises We're making 2024 the year of the Bible. Now, I think every year ought to be the year of the Bible. But we're emphasizing it this year. I'm preaching on it over and over and over I'm telling you there is no other book like the Word of God. I have at least, I never counted, I should maybe, but I got, I'm confident, at least a thousand books in my library, between the office here and my office at home I tell you, not one book on any of those shelves comes even close to the perfection and beauty and godliness and holiness of the Word of God. Every book man ever wrote has some sort of flaw. One thing I learned when I was in college, I think it was a money-making scheme on the part of the publishers, but You'd have the same class, and every year they would have to come out with a new edition. You couldn't use the book from last year. You had to buy their new edition where they changed five words in it or made a few corrections I'm telling you, there are no new additions to the Bible. There are no corrections to the Word of God. There are no updates. It don't need to be rewritten. It needs to be rewritten. The Word of God. The Word of God. Perfect. It's perfect. God cannot lie. And His Word contains no lies. God makes no mistakes. And his word contains no mistakes. Years ago, a liberal preacher, back in D. L. Moody's day in the late 1800s, a liberal preacher, I think it was in New York. He preached a sermon and he said, the story of Jonah and the whale is a myth. It's just made up. There's no factual support behind it. D. L. Moody was in town preaching, and some of the reporters went over to Moody and they said, What do you think? This preacher said that the story of Jonah and the whale is a myth, it's not based in fact D. L. Moody just turned to the reporters and he said, I stand with Jonah. And I say to you, I stand with the Bible. He was saying what Jonah says is true. What Jonah happened to Jonah is correct. There are no mistakes in the Bible. There are no lies in the Bible. We stand by God's word. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church stands by the Word of God. So the perfection of Scripture. Number two, I thought I made up a new word. I like to make up words. But my second thought is this, the provenness of the Bible. The provenness of the Bible I got looked it up. Lo and behold, that is a word. I found one dictionary written 7,000 years ago that had that word in it. No, I did. I found not many dictionaries have it in, but I found one that did. So boom. The provenness. By that I mean this, and this was the definition I found for the word proven-ness. It means being in the state of having been proven. And I get that from verse 7, the second part. Says the testimony of the Lord is sure. That word sure means firm, means fixed, it's trustworthy. It has been proven time and time and time again, the Bible has been proven true. Liberals and critics of the Bible like to say, well, this person in the old one thing they had for years was Joseph never really existed. There's no record in archaeology of Joseph having ever existed down in uh Egypt and uh never this famine that's all just made up and that's just a myth. And then one day they were digging around in Egypt and they found a letter from a very rich woman that lived in another city, was writing to another woman Praising this fellow named Joseph that helped save the nation from starvation. Oops. And over and over and over and over again, we can give documentation of events recorded in Scripture that man at one point thought that never happened, and lo and behold They dig long enough and they research enough, and lo and behold, we find out every single time the Bible comes out proven to be true. We are I say this often, we are not afraid of the archaeologist's state. We are not afraid of the scientists' telescope or their microscope or any other scope they have. I say dig, baby, dig. The more you dig, the more it proves the Bible true. The Bible is proven. It's sure. The testimony of the Lord is sure. It's fixed. If you would, keep your place here. Come with me to Psalm 93, just real quickly. A few pages back, Psalm 93, right after Psalm 92. And notice with me verse number five. Psalm ninety-three, verse five. Thy testimonies are very what? Sure, fixed, firm, proven. We can trust it. We can rely on it. Come over to Psalm 111 A few pages over, and notice with me verse seven and eight. Psalms one eleven, right after Psalm one ten Says verse 7, the works of his hands are verity and judgment. So look at this. All his commandments are what? Now look, read on. They, his commandments, stand fast forever and ever. And are done in truth and right uprightness. Look at verse 10. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. A good understanding have all they that do his commandments, his praise endureth forever. The Bible is absolutely proven. We can trust it. It's the most reliable book that's ever been written. It's the most reliable book on all the earth. We can have complete confidence in God's Word. Psalm 118, verse 8 and 9 says, Don't put your trust in man. Don't put your trust in princes. But you're trusting God and in His Word. Um I'm tell you, I'm I'm at the point I hope I hope you understand what I'm trying to say, but I'm at the point, I don't hardly trust a thing that comes out of Washington. I don't care what side it's on. I just I just don't trust it. Um I'm at the point, uh I I gripe my wife about this, but uh I'm at the point I don't trust the thing on media I don't care whether it is a conservative, liberal, I don't I don't trust any of them. Maybe I'm just getting old and grouchy. Old and narrow-minded. The only thing I trust almost anymore is that old book right there I question everything man says, but I tell you that book says it, I'm not going to question it. It's proven. It's short. I have based my eternal destiny. Where I spend eternity, heaven or hell I made the decision to base my eternal destiny on what that book right there says. That book says, if I come to God recognizing myself as a sorry sinner, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, I don't debate that at all. I know that's true. I'm a sinner. My Bible says the wages of sin is death. That means to physically die, be separated from God forever in a horrific place called hell. Eventually the lake of fire. Listen to me. The Bible says that you mark it down, that is sure. Person dies unsaved, unforgiven. They are separated from God for all eternity. I hate that thought. I dislike that teaching very, very much, but it is scripturally true. My Bible teaches this book right here teaches that when Jesus died on that old cross, he paid the debt for every one of my sins, everything my ungodly thing my hands have done, every ungodly word that's come off my lips, every sinful place my feet have taken me, every wicked thing I've set my eyes on, every thought that's gone through my mind Jesus Christ said, God the Father, I'll take responsibility for Dennis's sins. Judge me in his place. I believe that's true. That's what this book teaches. It's sure, it's proven. I bowed my knees, 19-year-old boy. I said, God have mercy. Come in my heart and life. Forgive me my sins. Save me from my sin. God did exactly what he promised he would do in that book. I called on him, he forgave me and saved me and gave me a new life. What I'm trying to say is this. This book is proven, proven, proven, proven. You take God at His word. God said it, that settles it. It's proven. The perfection of God's word, there's no mistakes. There's no errors. There's no lies. It's absolutely true. Unlike any other thing produced by man, the Word of God is perfect in every way. And it's proven. For thousands and thousands of years, people have been coming to this old book, and they've been finding forgiveness and new life and hope and promise. purpose and meaning in life from the pages of this book. Amen or not? It's proven. It's proven And last of all the power of Scripture. The power of Scripture. The Bible's power to convert Convert the soul. Look at verse 7. The law of the Lord is perfect. Converting the soul. The word convert means restore, to repair, refresh. No other book has the power to convert a sinner to become a saint. No other book has the power to take an old drunkard and make him sober and clean. No other book of the Bible has the power to take an unclean fornicator, adulterer, and make them pure and clean and faithful. No other book has the power to take a habitual liar and change their very nature. Make them into an honest, respectable man or woman. No book has the power that that book has to clean up a light and to heal a home and to fix a marriage and to give purpose and direction and light and take a young child and keep them from the wickedness of this world. Amen. The power of the word of God. The law of the Lord is perfect. Converting the soul No book has the power of God's word. 1 Peter 1. 23 says being born again, a new person, a new nature, a new life, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but uncorruptible by the word of God. That liveth and abideth forever. Nobody ever got saved apart from the Bible salvation. If you have any other kind of salvation than what's taught in that book, you do not have salvation. Bible salvation is the only salvation there is. Salvation is not found in a church, it's not found in the baptistry, it's not found in the offering plate, it's not found in the Eucharist, it's not found in the Last rites it's not found in good works It's found in the promise of that book that by grace are we saved through faith, not of ourselves, it's a gift of God. Convert a soul, the power, that book to change a life, clean up a heart and mind. Make us pure and good and find fulfillment, purpose in life. Nothing like it. Nothing like it. This whole world wants to destroy us. This whole world wants to destroy our young people. We need to get the Word of God into the hearts and minds of our young people. I was talking to Byron Fox this morning. He's working on a youth row. He says we've got to get the word of God to our young people. I said, Amen. It's power to convert, and then not only is it power to convert the soul, but notice its power to make wise the simple He says the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. That word make wise means to instruct in wisdom, to teach wisdom. The Bible contains the wisdom of God, and it teaches us how to live a life that's pleasing to God. How foolish. How foolish to neglect the Bible. I tell you, churches are making a terrible mistake when they stop preaching the Bible. Our schools made a terrible mistake when they took the Bible out of our schools. Our homes and families have made a terrible mistake When we stopped the family altar and the reading of the Word of God with the mama and daddy and the kids in the home, we made a terrible mistake and we're paying a heavy price. Because we moved the Bible from our homes. Tell you, Christian, you're making a terrible mistake if you're neglecting your daily walk with God. It's a heavy price to pay. A heavy price to pay. The Bible's perfect. It's proven. And it's powerful. The Bible stands like a rock undaunted mid the raging storms of time. Its pages burn with a truth eternal, and they glow with a light sublime. The Bible stands like a mountain towering far above the works of men. In truth, its truth by none ever has been refuted, and destroy it they never can. The Bible stands and it will forever. When the world has passed away, by inspiration it has been given, all its precepts I will obey. The Bible stands every test we give it, for its author is divine. By grace I alone expect to live it, and to prove it, and to make it mine. Let's get back to the perfect, powerful word of God. Father, pray you bless now. Help us. Get back to the Bible in our hearts, our homes, our churches, our nation, our own personal lives, just come and say, Alright, Lord, I'll start following your instructions. I'm gonna Live by your word. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say this morning, preacher, I'm saved. I know God saved me. There's no doubt about it. I've trusted Christ. I've been born again according to Scripture But you say, preacher, that book doesn't have the place in my life that it ought to. Doesn't govern my decisions like it ought to. I'm not spending time with it, I ought to, I let it slip, and they'll neglect it a bit. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll get back to the Bible. Get it back in my home and back in my heart and mind again. Is there any like that uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get back to that old book. I'm telling you, the world is so deceitful, the world is so powerful in its influence, but nothing comes close to the Word of God. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, we need to get that family altar back. Whatever your home consists of, maybe the kids are grown, maybe there's grandkids, I don't know, maybe there's little ones you say, preacher, we need to get back that old-time family altar. Read and pray together as a family. Is there any like that? Preach or pray. We'll be able to get that back and make that what it ought to be. God bless you. Hands all around. Oh, that's the only hope for our nation. That's the only hope for our community. It's only hope for our children, the Word of God. Wonder if there's some say, preacher. I don't know for sure if I die, I'd go to heaven. Say, I don't want to go to hell. I'd like to know that God has forgiven me. I'd like to know that God will accept me when my day comes to die, that He'll accept me into His heaven, into His presence. And you say, preacher, I'm concerned about that. I'd like to know that, have that settled in my heart. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'd like to have that settled. God bless you, and God bless you. Are there any others around? Say, preacher, I'm concerned. I'd like to have that settled. Any others? Any others? Father, I ask you to bless now our old time invitation. And help us, Lord, to respond an old altar, let you have your way in Jesus' name.