Elbow bump, not a hip bump. Yeah. Amen. Good evening, church family. Good to see you this evening. A blessing to have you back tonight. And uh great to see a good crowd on a Sunday night in spite of the panic demic that's going on out there, all right? That's what I call it, a panic demic But uh I was talking to somebody this morning, and I said, really, the biblical balance is simply this the horse is prepared against the day of battle. You do prepare a horse for battle, amen. But you ride into battle with this thought, but safety is of the Lord. Amen? And uh so there's the biblical balance, and uh I will say this men's hearts do fail them for fear today, and most of the time it's because they're unsaved For we the redeemed, though, the worst thing could ever happen to us is we die and go home to glory. Amen. And so there's a a blessing to be saved. Now very quickly, thank you for your hospitality. Thank you again for all who were involved in the stake out yesterday. That was a blessing. I'm still recovering from that volume of food that I ate yesterday. People say you eat like that, you're gonna die. It'll kill you. But I do want to say it's a wonderful way to go, all right? So thank you for what you guys did, all of you involved, and then a great meal this afternoon, and a wonderful time of food and fellowship. We want to say thank you for your hospitality. The RV hookups, we're enjoying those. All that uh uh everybody involved and just already what the Lord is doing and how many of you have helped us. Draw your attention to the table, be sure to go by after the service. If you don't have our uh family newsletter, our ministry newsletter, it's a full color. About a four-page newsletter that will kind of update you on a number of things we're doing. Our ministry continues to expand. I serve as the board of on the board of directors at Hope Children's Home down in Tampa, Florida, a wonderful ministry. ministry, a rescue, 50 acre rescue recovery ministry, and I have featured that in the past. And then we've also, I have law enforcement here. Mark is law enforcement. Our pocket pack program in the next few months is going to expand. to include a law enforcement pocket pack. All right? I have a uh uh individual who's a pastor in the Washington, D. C. or Florida area, who is getting his uh story lined out and we're going to have pocket packs going to law enforcement hand. Now I want to mention one thing. I have a fella in law enforcement. He's out of Baton Rouge, Louisiana He has a very unique ministry. The body armor that goes out of date in many of the units and law enforcement units around America, he collects it. He then goes overseas And while he's over there, he finds law enforcement divisions in other countries like Israel, the Philippines, places like that. And what they do is they allow him to come in. He donates that body armor. Sometimes he'll have a hundred units with him. And then they allow him to preach the gospel clearly to him, to them, in exchange for receiving that complimentary body armor. He already has gone to Israel this year. He's heading to the Philippines shortly. He's one of the guys I'm going to be sending those pocket packs with overseas. to the mint the areas that he impacts. Alright? So a lot of good things happening. I do want to say visit our ministry table, pick up a prayer card, a newsletter, and then ask my wife about the book. She's an author. This thing just came out. It's for ladies. It's entitled Becoming a Glorious Daughter of the King. Alright? Doesn't just happen. Proverbs 31, womanhood. And so you will get here a lifetime of experience. from a gritty and gracious woman that not only raised six children, but is engaging eleven grandchildren now, and tolerated me And put up with me for all those years as well. You see, great wit, great wisdom. She has a gift from God for writing, and it's a blessing. All right, take your Bibles tonight. Go to Philippians chapter two. Philippians chapter two. Philippians chapter two, I'll let you remain seated. I want to begin reading in verse number twenty-five. I've told a number of you, this is uh A message that I'm going to begin tonight. This will be a series of messages that will continue beginning tonight on through Wednesday. We're going to build on each previous message And we're going to focus, I told a number of you, on an individual that I've never heard a single preacher ever preach on. He's a very obscure man. In verse 25, his name, Epaphroditus. Notice this in verse twenty-five of Philippians chapter two. All right, what happened? Matt? That's oh is that Man, I thought I have never had that response in a church before. I said, they've got the name up there. I mean, they already heard this message. It's like, what is going on? That's the name of your son Oh future Future son. This just keeps getting better, doesn't it? Amen, brother. All right, I can do that. Epaphroditus. Amen. Verse 25. Notice the Apostle Paul The Spirit of God through Paul, look at how he refers to this man in verse twenty-five of Philippians chapter two. Yet I suppose it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and companion in labor and fellow soldier. But your messenger and he that ministered to my wants, for he longed after you all, was full of heaviness, because that she had heard that he had been sick For indeed he was sick nigh unto death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. I send him therefore the more carefully, that when ye see him again ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful. Receive him, therefore, in the Lord with all gladness And hold such in reputation. Because for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not regarding his life to supply your lack of service toward me. Here in Philippians chapter 2, we find this obscure individual named Epaphroditus. You'll note that he's only mentioned twice in your entire Bible And in both instances, it's here in the Epistle to Church at Philippi. Who exactly was Epaphroditus? Well, history would tell us that he was a messenger from the church of Philippi. And he was assigned to the Apostle Paul while Paul was in prison in Rome. His responsibility was Literally to bring the contributions for Paul's support to Paul while he was under Roman arrest. And Paul's life literally hung in the balance based on the faithfulness of this man To Paul, he was refreshing. To Paul, he was faithful, loyal, and sacrificial. And notice here Paul, in considering this man, bestows upon him three incredible titles. Notice with me again what they are in verse 25. He says, Yet I suppose it is necessary to send to you Epaphroditus title number one, my brother. Title number two, Companion in Labor. Title number three, Fellow Soldier. Maybe we could line them up tonight and just simply say it this way: to Paul Epaphroditus was a fellow brother, a fellow laborer, and a fellow soldier. I want to preach to you about the household of Epaphroditus. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you tonight. The great, great honor, and privilege we have. to call you our Father. Oh, thank you, Lord, for the day that you opened our blinded eyes, to not only who we were, Father, who you were, and then Father, who your Son was, and all of His mercy and all of His forgiveness, the perfect sinless sacrifice our filthy soul needed. Thank you for the day that our faith found a resting place in Jesus Christ alone. We rose up from that encounter, changed, forever changed. And having eternal life. Lord, we ask in your Son's name you would bless our time as we consider this obscure individual you've chosen to record and to preserve and to pass on to us. Lord, may you use him to challenge our lives tonight. Father, may we be of the household of Epaphroditus in every sense of that title and that name. Bless tonight is only you can. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. The household of Epaphroditus I notice here the very first title Paul bestows upon this obscure individual. Notice with me, he says in verse number 25, he refers to him and calls him my brother. He says Epaphroditus is my brother. That's an amazing title. If you're not careful, you'll blow right past that and miss the import of that. You'll just kind of almost shrug it off as two insignificant little words. They really don't mean much. But you and I need to realize that was an amazing title Paul bestowed upon this man when you consider who these two men were and where they came from. Who was the Apostle Paul before he became a believer? Well, if you go to chapter 3 here, just the next column in verse number 5. The Spirit of God gives you a biographical autobiographical sketch of the Apostle Paul. Through Paul, Paul says this. He says, here's who I was, Philippians 3. 5. He says, I was circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel. I was of the tribe of Benjamin and Hebrew of the Hebrews. Paul says, as touching the law, I was a Pharisee. Who was the Apostle Paul Well, if you read that biographical sketch and then you move to Acts 22 and look at another bit of information in your Bible, you'll find out, first of all, Paul was a Jew. Paul was not a Gentile. Paul was a Jew, but he wasn't just any old Jew. Paul was an ultra-orthodox Pharisee. If you want to picture one of those today, you can go to the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem. You'll see the guys with their fuzzy hats and their earlow. earlocks, longer hair down here, robe down there, bobbying at the wall. That is the ultra-orthodox Jew today He lives in a community called Mia Sharim. He would be referred to as the Hasidim or Hasidic Jew. Paul was that, a Jew, an ultra-Orthodox Jew. But Paul was also this, raised at the feet of Gamaliel. Paul would have been an incredibly well educated individual. He would have been an upper crust, elite, Jewish, powerful political figure. That's who Paul was. But if that was Paul, then who was this Epaphroditus guy? Why, he was the polar opposite of the Apostle Paul He was the polar opposite and we use of Saul. Alright? Where Paul, before his confrontation with Christ, was a Jew, Epaphroditus was a Gentile. Where Paul had been raised an alter Orthodox Pharisee, Epaphrodites was a pagan Gentile whose name literally meant belonging to Aphrodite, a pagan sensual female goddess. Where Paul would have been an upper class, well-educated individual and a powerful, elite Jewish political figure, Epaphroditus would have been a common, minimally educated, low-cap-class blue-collar worker. You could have visited their two houses, you would have find an interesting thing. Around Paul's table, that whole table mocked. Those guys over there, those Gentile jaw dogs like Epaphroditus, the Gentiles were the butt of every Jewish joke. They sneered at them, they scorned them, they hated them, and they treated them better than their own pets if they had any. But over on Epaphroditus' side of the town, the side of the tracks, boy, every Gentile home hated those proud. arrogant Jews. Every joke they had that demeaned anybody, demeaned the Jew in all of his pomp and arrogance and all of their high saluting ways. And I want to just say this. These men could not have been more opposite. Literally, for centuries, men like these had no common pond They were separated politically, socially, economically, religiously, and even culturally. They could have called each other enemies They could have called each other adversaries, but they would have never called each other my brother. Ever. Great barriers and divisions have been built up between these two men and men like these for centuries, even in their approach to God. This is noted in Ephesians chapter 2, if you go back there with me, just a few pages earlier. In Ephesians chapter 2, we see the comparison done between these two men, if you will, the Jew and the Gentile. The pagan Gentile and the proud Jew, notice what said in Ephesians 2 and verse 11. Great barriers. Understand that Great barriers have been built up for centuries, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years between men like these, even in their approach to God. They literally had nothing in common Notice in Ephesians 2 and verse 11, it begins with this statement. Wherefore, remember. Look up for just a moment. When you read your Bible and God tells you to remember something, it's because you're going to be prone to forget this. You're going to be prone to minimize this. You're going to be prone to discard this as inconsequential and begin to act differently than if you had this in your mind What does he tell us to remember in Ephesians 2. 11? He says, wherefore remember that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision, by that which is called the circumcision in the flesh, made by hands. Look up. See, I'm supposed to remember what? I don't even know what I read, and I'm supposed to remember it I mean did that thought go through your mind as we read that? Where Paul remember and then you're just like, oh, that's the original language. It's not even English So let me just give it to you in just the layman's terms. God's saying this, don't you ever forget. You're a Gentile, not a Jew. That's all verse 11 say. You're a Gentile. Don't ever forget that. You're not a Jew Question tonight, do we have any Jews here? Just out of curiosity, anybody who's a Jew, any any Jewish heritage here, just slip your hand up. Amen. Shalom. Shmi David. Zodhistitavora. Okay. Alright. Noah Frit. Alright, so one, would there be any any others? You say, well, I don't know. Am I a Jew or not? If you have to ask, you're not. Jews know who Jews are Amen. Oh yeah, they know who they are. Amen? So, other than our sister here In the back, this text I just read, wherefore remember, don't forget you're a Gentile, not a Jew, is absolutely, specifically to every single one of us tonight, with the rare exception right there. What is it? Why is it? We're not to forget this. Watch this. Notice, he says That at that time, verse 12, you were without Christ. Now remember the context, Gentiles, that at that time you were without Christ. Think about this. There was a time you wandered this earth without Jesus Christ. Amen? The day you were born physically, you were not born spiritually into the household of faith. You had to be born again. John tells us. So there was a time you wandered without him as a Gentile, and I did as well. And because we weren't Jews, we weren't Gentiles. Without Jesus Christ, what did we have coming? Look at verse 12. That at that time you were without Christ. Here's what we had. We were aliens from the commonwealth of Israel. We were strangers from the covenants of promise. We had no hope and were without God in this world. Wow. You know, I think we forget sometimes, we American Christians, that for centuries this world never revolved around us. You wanted to meet the God of this universe, you had to go to a Jewish camp to find him. He didn't hang out with the Gentiles. He dwelt with the Jew. He was the God of Jewish. Israel. He met with them in Shekinah glory. And access to this God, this God of the whole universe, this God of Israel, was limited and extremely restricted. As you consider the approach to this God, there was one room that was closest to him in the temple. It was the highest up in the temple, it was the smallest room, and it was the closest to God. It was called The Holy of Holies. You know how many people got in that room to meet God face to face? One man. The high priest on the Day of Atonement, one day out of the year, and he better do everything right, or they were pulling him out dead. One man. Got closest to God, one day out of the year, the high priest in the Jewish nation. And then as you stepped down, the room got a little bigger, got a little further from God. The occupants a little more numerous, and it also went down. It got a little lower. The next room was the holy place. Who was there? The Kohenim. One group of men ministered there. Then you took a step down and went a little further out And one tribe, the inner court, the tribe of Levi, that's as close as a Levite could get to God. He was down a little lower and a little further from God than the Kohenim and the high priest Then you took another step down and went further out. There was the outer court. That was the court of the Jewish men. That's as close as a Jewish man could get to the God of this universe. Then you took another step down and went further out. That was the court of the Jewish women. That's as close as they could get. To the God of this universe. Where were we Gentiles? We're the furthest out and the lowest down. We're like little kids at Christmas trying to look over the fence. What is going on over there? He was their God, they were his people. Those promises were given to the Jew, not the Gentile, the Davidic prominence, the Palestinian promise. The new covenant, all of that. Those were Jewish promises. We were aliens. We were strangers. We were outside, looking in, lowest down, furthest out. We had no access to this God. We had no right to his presence. And we had no opportunity to fellowship with the Jews as well. And for centuries, that's how this world operated. Amen. But then one day someone came along and changed the whole formula. His name? The Lord Jesus Christ. Look at what's said here in Ephesians 2. Notice these divisions being noted, then and look at how everything changes. Go back to verse 12. He says that at that time you were without Christ You were aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus. Wow Man, you ought to have that just underlined. But now in Christ Jesus, you say what's that? That's a game changer right there. This is a huge deal, but now in Christ Jesus Ye who sometimes are far off, we Gentiles, way out there, trying to get in on the things of God, we are made nigh or brought near to the God of this entire universe. Hi. How? By the blood of Jesus Christ. Wow. But once the way this God was very limited and very restricted. Now suddenly through Jesus Christ it becomes broad and it becomes bold. And Jesus Christ, when he lived a sinless life, you and I could never live. He died the perfect sinless sacrifice we could never hope to offer God for all of our filthy sin. And then he rose again from the dead. He brought with him two things this universe had never, ever seen before. The first thing was equal access vertically to the God of this universe. The theologians call this the priesthood of the believer. It doesn't matter tonight if you're rich or poor. It doesn't matter tonight if you're young or old. It doesn't matter if you're male or female. It doesn't matter if you're educated or dumber than a box of rocks. It doesn't matter if you're African American, white, Indian, it doesn't matter. Jesus says, Whosoever will Whosoever will, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that sayeth, Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. And where was there was a timid And a very selective approach now, the Holy of Holies, that that has been read and twained, it's been exposed, and Jesus said, Whosoever will may now come boldly through my blood into the presence of a holy God of this universe. That is incredible. Amen. The very first thing he brought with him was equal access to the God of this universe. Whosoever will may now come. But second of all, he brought something else. He brought a horizontal change. Not only equal access to the God of this universe, but second of all, common fellowship now with one another, specifically manifested in this local assembly even tonight. Look at what he says in verse thirteen. But now in Christ Jesus you sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. Look at this For he is our peace who hath made both one. Both who? The Jew and the Gentile. He's made them one, and then broken down the middle wall partition between us. Verse 18, for through him We both have access by one Spirit unto the Father, and in him, look at verse 22, ye also are builded now, Jew and Gentile, together for an habitation of God Through the Spirit. Man, this had never happened before. There was no way Gentiles were going to mix it up with the Jews in the tabernacle approach to God. You with me? That was absolutely forbidden But now in Jesus Christ, we not only have equal access to the God of this universe, but we also now in Jesus Christ have common fellowship with one another. Regardless of your backgrounds tonight, regardless of your social backgrounds, your economic backgrounds, regardless of your ethnic and religious and personal backgrounds, and even your personalities We are gathered tonight, and all of our diversity gets swallowed up by our identity with Jesus Christ. Amen? That's powerful tonight. This had never happened before Jesus came. Man, it had neither vertical nor horizontal it ever happened. He brought with him absolute eternal changes to mankind through his finished work at Calvary. The day we were saved, we became fellow brothers and fellow sisters. Amen? And you know what fellow brothers and fellow sisters enjoy? Fellowship. That would be social communication. We enter into a very unique relationship. Brother Matt, come up here. I want you to go ahead and uh come up here. Pastors over there. That was Brother Matt. He's got a lot of humor in him. He sits down after the song service and he turns back to me and says, Can you see okay? I said, well I'm going up to preach. He said, I knew that. We're gonna have fun this week. You're my prop, all right? Come on over here. By the way, if we're playing football you're on my team, all right? All right, cool. No, you're not gonna be the kicker, son. No way. I grabbed a little cheat sheet here because I always like to go through this. I wanna I put a piece of gum on my mouth to save our friendship. I don't know how you're doing. I just I say it then. Here. I'm good. I say it. I'm going to show you. And I don't know. I have never talked to Matt and figured out what his backgrounds are and stuff, but I bet you there's a lot of differences between us. First of all. I would gander to say there's a generational difference. How old are you? Twenty. Twenty. Yeah, just If you're thinking about it at twenty-eight, wait till you get my my age, all right. I'm fifty-eight, gonna be fifty-nine. So we got thirty-year difference. Now, I will just say that He's going to think differently than I do in a lot of just practical things in life. Amen? There's a huge generation difference there. Second of all, I was raised in an unsaved home. Yourself? You were saved to them. That is going to be a different life experience as well. Amen. I didn't get saved until I was 18, and I was raised in an unsaved tool. Though we went to church, we were not believers I wrote this one down. We may have this the same. Education. I'm a high school diploma. You are high school diploma, all right? Military. Marine Corps Nothing. Cub Scouts? Uh no. Patch Club? Okay, there's some differences there. I do want to say that. We call that a civilian, okay? Civilian. I'm being kind. We used to say slimy civilian, but civilian, all right? Civilian, military. That's gonna be a life experience difference right there. We're gonna have not common things. There's gonna be differences. I wrote this, I was born a a farm boy, raised on a farm in the Midwest, driving farm equipment at the age of eight. Yourself? Farm boy? Yeah, rural area. City city city kid? No, rur rural rural area. Okay. Next door to a farm but not on a farm. Okay. Helped out a little bit. We loved you guys when you joined over to help us. Yeah, yeah. The fencer was always where we started. The electric fencer, that's always where we started with the city kids That was fun. German heritage. Oh, I have no idea. I thought so, but anyhow I just thought firstborn, firstborn. You're a middle one of the middle child. Yeah, okay. My personality is total alpha male. Step aside, make it wide. Uh you want it done, I will do it. If you get in the way, I'll run right over you. I don't know what you are. You can adapt, okay. All right. Now here's the thing. As I'm sitting there going through this, we're chuckling, but really there's a lot of differences between Matt and I. We probably shouldn't be seeking each other out to spend time. You with me? We shouldn't be going out of our way to hang out with each other. But one day, Matt's path crossed with Jesus Christ. He saw his need for a savior. And when he rose up from that moment, humbling himself before his God, he rose up born again. One day I saw my need for a savior. And when I took a knee and trusted Christ as my Savior, I rose up, born again as well. And we're really there are so many differences between us now, all of a sudden. We have a huge commonality. His name is Jesus Christ. We belong to the same Savior. We're in the same spiritual household. We're heading to the same heaven. We're dwelt by the same Spirit, the Holy Spirit of the living God, and we're singing the same song. We're sinners saved by grace And the very first thing you will find when you get saved, you'll enter into a unique relationship with other brothers and sisters of the Lord. Turn you'll enter into as brothers we have social communication We enjoy fellowship as fellow brothers, which is a face-to-face relationship. Amen? It is something we didn't have before we got saved. I would have picked at all of the differences. He would have looked at this old gray head as an utter waste of time to even try to spend time with. But now in Jesus Christ, we have a common bond and we enter as brothers into a face-to-face relationship. Alright? Alright, thank you, brother. That's all I need. You'll be back tomorrow night? Alright, adapt, be here. Alright. Now this is interesting because listen, you need to recognize tonight that when you get saved, You enter into a face-to-face relationship with others that are saved, and the basis of your fellowship with each other is fellowship with the Lord. Go to 1 John and watch this. Watch how the Bible describes this in a single verse. In 1 John and chapter 1. 1 John 1. You see, Paul said of Epaphroditus, a polar opposite individual, he said, my brother. And the only way he could say that was through a common savior. That is what changed their relationship with each other. Look in 1 John chapter 1 and verse 3. Look at what said. John here is wanting them to handle the word of life, uh to s to hear about them concerning Jesus Christ. And look at what he says. Here's what I'm telling you all about. In verse 3, that which ye have seen and heard, declare we unto you. Why? That ye also may have fellowship with us. And truly, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Wow. You realize that the day you enter into fellowship with God Through fellowship with Jesus Christ, you automatically have an opportunity now to fellowship with others who've made peace with God through the blood of Jesus. Jesus Christ, amen. You see the fellowship this way gave us the opportunity to fellowship this way. Amen And I am as I travel to America, I get every week I'm somewhere. I can be country churches, city churches, I can be in the hood, I can I can I can I can be uh just i everything you can think of. I am amazed at how Jesus Christ bridges so many differences that politicians and the press try to tell us today we ought to keep and ought to fuss over. I was mentioning uh last night to the men as we looked at chief drill instructor Kenny Grant and how many of you got to see the Kenny Grant story, all right? He's a chief drill instructor that trained drill instructors Kenny is an African-American, and as you heard his story, Kenny for me has become a dear, dear friend. The man who led me to the Lord was the same man who discipled Kenny. And for years, Bill Overway would say to me, Brother Dave, you've got to meet Kenny. I said, Well, I'm in Alaska, and Kenny's in Georgia. He says, One day you've got to meet him. And he'd tell Kenny you got to meet Brother Dave. And when we stepped into evangelism in the year 2000, About a year or so later, we got down to Savannah, Georgia, and I got to meet Kenny Grant. Kenny was working in the hood. He was picking off the African Americans with the gospel in the urban sections of Savannah. I told the men last night when I pulled my motorhome in and I had my six children, I'd never seen a motorhome put up on blocks, and I wasn't about to be the first one. I mean it was rough turf. You had to buzz through two electronic doors just to get in. It was like a police station on steroids They were shooting each other in his parking lot. Kenny himself had been held up twice with a snub-nosed revolver. Preacher trying to make a difference, you know. I remember as we came in there and we began to minister, my, my, my. What a difference in culture, but no difference in our king. I wish you could have been there for the first service. Kenny is up there and he's got the choir behind him and they're all robed. Alright? Robed choir. Over here on the baby grand is my daughter Kimberly Kimberly, playing the baby grand, would introduce every song. There are about 200 in the church that boy, 150-200. And over here on keyboard was a guy who looked like Ray Charles If you've given him a set of sunglasses and had him do this, it's about how he was. He's sitting on keyboard just listening. Kimberly would introduce the hymn, play it exactly like it was written And then as they would go and kick that hymn off, that choir began to sway and clap. You know, they move when they sing. Y'all with me? Ray Charles sitting here at the keyboard, he'd start to swing that song He put a swing to it. Kimberly would hear that, so she'd join him. She could play by ear also, and she'd start swinging it, and he'd do this number. You got it, sister. You got it. That's how this whole song service went. We're all sitting in the front row where you girls are sitting, my wife and I, the rest of the five kids we're watching as Kimberly introduces the song Ray Charles kicks in with her, she swings it, choir swaying, clapping, and he'll Ray Charles just having himself a spell, 'cause that honky girl can figure that out, you know what I mean So we're watching this whole thing, and after the service is done, I remember we went out to the restaurant, we're all sitting there. I said, Kimberly, I turned to my oldest daughter, you should have seen what I saw in the church service today She smiles. She said, What'd you see, Dad? And I said, Well, and I begin to relate what I saw. She's over there playing, Ray Charles here, the choir going, she's swinging, Ray Charles having himself. She thought that was funny. And she said, You think that's funny, Dad? I saw something better. I said, what'd you see? Now Kenny's right there with his family. We're just talking, throwing it out. She said, well, here I am. I'm on the baby grand. She said, I'm playing. I look out at the congregation, there's a sea of black swaying and seven white toothpicks in the front row. We honkies, man, we don't get into all that stuff. We just stand there, you know. Right? Attention, maybe parade rest, but I mean we ain't going anymore beyond that. I thought Kenny was gonna throw up. He was laughing so hard. He about slid out of that chair. I'm telling you, he just cracked up. Now let me tell you something about that church. Now Kenny's pastor in the biggest White Baptist church in Savannah now. In his own words, he's the only chocolate chip in the cookie dough. When we go through the hood and we hit those urban sections, I'm going to tell you. Them ladies were loving my wife just as much, if not more, than any white woman I've ever seen. They'd shout at my preaching and love every second of the fact that Jesus saves. Y'all with me? That men would treat me just as good, if not better, than any white man's ever treated me, any pastor or any any ha uh individual in the house of God. They didn't want their kids going to hell. They wanted the same stuff we wanted They didn't want their kids turned out wrong, they wanted them to turn out right. You know y'all with me? And I'm gonna just tell you something, I'm gonna say it clear. If you can get the politicians, you can get the press out of this race issue We'd all get along. I got something better. You put Jesus in it, we definitely would, because he's the Savior of all men. Red and yellow, black and white. They are all precious in his sight. Man, oh man, I wish you could go the places I go. I wish you could see the things I see. The common bond that is in Jesus Christ. I've met so much of the family. Wow. I've noticed something. The devil's not happy. The unity of the family manifested in this local assembly tonight. Because if you stop and think about it, we got a lot of differences in here tonight. Amen. We got some personality differences. Could I get it, amen? Because some of you could look at your spouse and go, oh yeah. We got some generational differences, some youngins here and some old gray heads. We can polarize on that. Y'all with me? We got some differences educationally We got some differences experientially. There's a lot of differences here. And I want to tell you something, the devil's not happy with the unity of the family manifested in this local assembly gathered in Jesus' name tonight. He tries to mess it up and mix it up by changing the common denominator. Look at 1 Corinthians, look at the church at Corinth, and look at what he did to them. The same thing he'll try to do to you Here in your church family. Look at what's said here in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse number 9. Notice what's said here. 1 Corinthians 1 9. He says this: God is faithful. Praise the Lord. You and I may not be God is, 1 Corinthians 1 9, God is faithful, by whom ye were called unto the fellowship, there it is, that face-to-face relationship The fellowship of his son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Now look at that. Look at the next verse. Now I beseech you, brethren. He says, I beg of you Listen, I beg you. 1 Corinthians 1 10. By the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be how many divisions among you? No divisions among you. You know the devil is not happy with the unity of the family manifested in your local church tonight? You know what he's going to try to do? He's going to try to go ahead and change the common denominator. He's going to try to get the focus on someone else other than Jesus Christ. My lawsuit is math. I grew up in an engineer's home and a surveyor's home. And I've found that if you want to combine unlike terms, you can't do it unless you have a common denominator. Amen? Some of you say, I didn't know that. That's my English students. They wouldn't know that. You cannot combine on like terms unless there's a common denominator. But listen to this. You don't need a common denominator to divide. You know who our common denominator is tonight? It's not you. It's not me. It's him He's the one who combined us to start with. Amen. And our Heavenly Father's desire tonight is a church family here Gathered in Jesus' name, his desire for you is that there's no fussing in the family. The psalmist said it. If you go to Psalm 133, it's not a lengthy message tonight, but go to Psalm 133 and just notice how the psalmist verbiaged this. In Psalm 133, the Spirit of God through the Psalmist says something very profound. In Psalm one hundred and thirty-three, and look with me in verse number one. Psalm one hundred thirty three one, he says this He says, Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to do what? To dwell together in unity. And that's sweet, isn't that? I was listening to the songs we sang tonight, just sitting there and listening. I said, man, listen to us sing. Just listen. God inhabits the praises of his people tonight He loves that when God's people unify and make his son the focus and make him the focus and lift their voice in praise and adoration to him. Amen. That's a blessing. And how good and how pleasant it is for us to dwell together in unity. Our common denominator tonight is Jesus Christ. He is the one who brought us together. He's the one who combined us to start with. Do you know tonight we're not gathered in Pastor Leatherman's name? Do you know tonight you're not gathered in David Sommerdorf's name? Oh, here's a big rug polar. We're not gathered in your name tonight either. This thing isn't about you. We are gathered in the name of the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, the one who brought our redemption with his own precious blood. We're here tonight, gathered in his name So if that's true and it is, say, how should we act? What should we talk about? I like the song Let's talk about Jesus. The King of Kings is he, the Lord of Lords supreme. Through all eternity, the great I am, the way, the truth, the life, the door. Let's talk about Jesus more and more. Oh my. He's our common denominator. You're saved tonight. He's our common denominator. Amen. He's the one who combined us and brought us together here tonight. And one day he'll be the one who combines and brings us together. Up there. I just read it today. There's only going to be one shepherd and one fold. Just read it in devotional time this afternoon. only going to be one. It's all about him. As you and I think about this. Go to John 13. We're almost done. And here's a very challenging thought here before I uh really begin to wind this up tonight. You know, as opposite as we are in many, many areas, our commonality is Jesus Christ. And notice something he reminds us of in John 13. Notice in John 13, in verse number 35, want everybody to see this. This is very important. John 13, 35. Jesus Christ, he's speaking to his disciples, and listen to what he says. Go back to verse 34 of John 13. He says, A new commandment I give unto you, that you love one another As I have loved you, there's the depth of love, sacrificial, he says in verse 34, that ye also love one another. Then look what he says in verse 35. By this Shall all men know that ye are my disciples? Look up for just a moment. Just think about how oftentimes, through actions and attitudes, we complete that thought By this shall all men know you're a disciple of Jesus if you have an incredible faith-promise missions. And I believe in faith-promise missions, but he doesn't say that By this shall all men know that you are my disciple. You're a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, if you have the right scriptures and preach from them. And I believe that book doesn't need rewrote, it needs re-read. But he doesn't say that. By this shall all men know you're my disciples if you have standards of separation and keep yourself away from the world. And I believe in separation. I preached and taught that in Sunday school. But Jesus does not say that. You know what he says? Look at it. Look at it. By this shall all men know you're my disciples, if ye have what? Love one to another. You know, when a visitor comes in who's unsaved They shouldn't be able to explain you away. You should be different than the business world You should treat each other differently than corporate America. I mean lost people should come in here and look at all the differences and all the diversity And they should be blown away by this sacrificial love you have for each other Let me tell you what's happening today. Our churches today, we're looking for better programs. And God is just looking for better people. Who will die to themselves and live for someone else besides them? He's looking for them in marriages The program doesn't keep the marriage going. Sacrificial love will. Amen. Program don't keep a church going. That just becomes a tinkling symbol. It's all hollow. But sacrificial love does. You with me? This lost world, when they come in here, they shouldn't be able to explain you away. They should walk out of here going, I don't know what's up with them. But they love to a degree I have never tasted in my life before. It's not a religion, it's a relationship. Not some program, it's a person. He literally permeates every facet of our being. Makes me fall in love And care and concern for that. Listen, man, I never grew up a druggie. I got no clue what that lifestyle's like. I never s I never smoked a joint in my life But man, for those that do, I go into prisons and preach and I have a love for them. It's way beyond me. Because I'm telling you what I would have been without Jesus. I'd have written them losers off and said, you made bad choices. Suck it up, buttercup. I'm out of here. But in Jesus Christ I have a love for them. I weep when I preach to them. They hug on me, I hug on them, and talk about perverts and all kinds of junk. God gives me a love that's beyond me. By this shall all men know you're my disciples, if ye have love one toward another. You say, what should I do? With a message like this, go to Ephesians 4 and we're done. Here's your assignment tonight. Here's my assignment. This assignment will permeate our home. This assignment should permeate your heart. This assignment tonight should permeate this house we call the house of God. Ephesians 4, here's the assignment. Look what it said in verse number 1. Ephesians 4 1, Paul says, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you. There's that beg of you, I'm begging you. That ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called. He says, I want you to have a worthy walk. What is the worthy walk? Verse 2: with all lowliness and meekness. With long-suffering, forbearing one another in love, and then endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. You know, I know that as a pastor, and I pastored for years in Alaska, I was a lay pastor. I did it for free. Ran a business, paid my freight, just unique. It's not for everybody. It's a real candle burner, but it's a young man's game, and I enjoyed every second of it. But I know as a pastor, an assistant pastor, I counseled many a warring couple. The honeymoon had worn off. My pastor, when he would counsel people, Pastor Gary Prisky said, I don't even know I give them premarital counseling. They're not listening to a word I'm saying. Time to give them premarital counseling is six months after they're married. Now they're willing to listen. The honeymoon's worn off. For some people that's a day, others it might take a year or two, but sooner or later it it wears off, and now they're at each other. And I've had them come in and I've sat in the office and begin to deal with them. And people say, well, you know, how do you solve it? The goal is to get them back together. That's not the goal. The goal isn't to get them working with each other. That's not the goal It's like a triangle. You got the husband here, the wife there, and the Lord is here. The goal is to get them to clot closer to the Lord. And the closer they get to the Lord automatically, the closer they'll get with each other. And oh, by the way We could all get a little closer. You got problems in your marriage? Quit trying to make it right with each other. Get right with God first. Amen. He'll give you grace beyond you. He'll give you power beyond you. And I counsel Josiah and little Chandra. I said, your goal is to not go ahead and keep Christ in your marriage. Your goal is to keep Christ number one in each of your hearts. Because if you'll keep him one here, number one, he'll automatically be number one in the marriage. Amen. Fellow brothers, fellow sisters, those of you that have been saved by grace and purchased by the blood of the Lamb, your family Let's purpose to endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Let's get closer to the one who called us into fellowship with our Heavenly Father, and then automatically called us into fellowship. With each other. Amen. Face to face, fellowship, fellow brothers and fellow sisters in the Lord. Let's bow our hearts before the Lord. Father, we thank you tonight for this thought And Lord, as we close this service now, I pray you'd work in hearts for those that have never tasted and seen. That your son is good. That you're good. I pray tonight you would call them into fellowship with yourself through fellowship with your son. Please open their eyes to their filthiness, Lord. Convict their heart for the need for forgiveness. And Lord, I pray tonight that they would find A resting place, forgiveness, the foot of Calvary, the foot of Calvary in the person of your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ I pray you'd save them tonight. And then Lord for each of the individuals tonight who are saved. Lord, I pray that Father, you would help them to endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Father, I pray there be no divisions here tonight in homes. I pray there be no divisions in marriages here tonight Lord, I ask there be no divisions in your house tonight, the house of God. May the vertical affect our horizontal in every sense of the word. Lord. May the love we've tasted the day we met your son, may it be that which permeates us, causes us to endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. For bearing one another in love. Lord, may it be so we pray. We ask this in Jesus' name Let's stand. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Music's playing softly. Slip out if you need to pray. You come tonight. You're here tonight, you say, I don't know Jesus as my Savior. You know what? Wouldn't it be great to be forgiven tonight? Wouldn't it be great to have all your sins forgiven, to taste and see that this God is a good God, not a bad God? You're here tonight, say, I don't know if heaven's my home. I'm not sure. Why don't you come? Take me by the hand. I'll direct you to somebody. Show how to make peace with God. You're whosoever, just like me. I was 18. When I got saved, I was 18 when I settled this. Do you need a call? Husbands and wives, how's it going? Kids, how's it going? Mom and Dad, you're saved, they're saved. There ought to be a unity there. There ought to be a a peace there. Forbearance. Church, how's it going? Well without unity will never ever be what God wants us to be. This unit will never move forward like it should, could You know what some of us ought to do once in a while is just pause to say thank you, Lord, for calling me into fellowship with you. Call me into fellowship with your son. He could have passed you by. He really didn't need you to make heaven tick. He didn't. You needed him. You needed his son. Brother, can you sing one verse of that song? What page number is that? Okay.