Genesis chapter number fifty, last chapter of the book of Genesis. I want to read the first six verses, and uh we just want to look at a little bit here. What is given to us? Genesis chapter 50, verse 1. The Bible says, And Joseph fell upon his father's face and wept upon him and kissed him. Anybody tell me why did he do that? Jacob just died. Previously we just if you look back there at uh verse 33 of 49 it says, and he was gathered unto his people. So his daddy, Jacob, just passed away He fell on his father's face, he wept upon him and kissed him. And Joseph commanded his servants, the physicians, to embalm his father, and the physicians embalmed Israel And forty days were fulfilled for him, and so are fulfilled the days of those which are embalmed. And the Egyptians mourned for him threescore and ten days. And when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spake unto the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes, speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying My father made me swear, saying, Lo, I die in my grave which I have digged for me, and the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me go up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again. And Pharaoh said, Go up and bury thy father according as he made thee swear I want to talk about uh just get started. We'll probably look at this a little bit, but the funeral of Jacob. The funeral of Jacob. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our study in your word. And again, I'm grateful for folks that made the effort to come out on a And a very snowy night and a little treacherous. We pray you'd bless our time in your word. I ask, Father, that you would speak to our hearts. I yield myself to you I pray you'd speak through me. Help me be a faithful teacher to the text of your word, what this book says. And God guard my thoughts and my words that I not say anything outside of Scripture. And uh pray you'd use it to apply it to our lives. So please fill me with your spirit, I pray. In Jesus' name I ask. Amen. It's interesting. Chapter number 50, the last chapter of Genesis, is actually records the second half of Joseph's life. More time is covered in the chapter 50 than the previous chapters that we were looking at in Joseph's life. The last half of his life is recorded. The last 54 years are given to us in Genesis chapter 50, and he dies, we believe, at 110 years old. And so chapter fifty is significant and we don't have as much details as we do in the previous account of Joseph But um it's the final years of his life. Now, the I got thinking about this or studying and we've kind of, as we're following the text here of Joseph's life, we've kind of shifted over and we've been focusing on Jacob a good bit. uh the last several lessons and um and I got thinking about that and um uh I think whenever you're studying the life of a person, an individual You're inevitably you're going to end up studying people who influenced that person, people that had connections to that person. We noted that in our study of David, did we not? We ended up looking at Saul pretty in-depth because Saul was a significant individual in the life of David. And so to understand David and learn from him, we needed to know a bit about the people that influenced him. uh Saul and then uh A Abner, of course. We studied about Abner a little bit because he was a a big factor in the life of David. And when we studied in Sunday school, we studied John the Baptist some time ago And again, John the Baptist, we looked at his daddy and his mother a good bit and their influence on him. So when we're looking at Joseph, we inevitably start, we have to consider other people, in this case his father. and um uh who was uh incredibly important in the life of Joseph. The fact of the matter is life consists of relationships Of course, the most important relationship in a person's life is not with their spouse. We say this all the time, it's not with their spouse, their children, or their parents. The most important relationship in a person's life is a relationship with the Lord With the Lord Jesus Christ. And we see that in the life of Joseph, his commitment to the Lord. And then, of course, our family is huge factors in who we are And what makes us tick, uh, the influence of our family uh growing up and then as adults. And then I think there's another group of people that have a profound influence on us And that is the church folk, uh the folks that make up the church. I don't know about you, but uh Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, the people of the church are are precious to me. And uh and we say this all the time, but it's true. It's uh Uh uh it's uh it's a family. To me, it's an extended family. A lot of people say I'm closer to the church folk than I am to my own blood family And uh I believe that's true. I was preaching last night and talking about the church, and I said, the best friends I have in the world. are members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, a local church. So God created us. What I'm getting at is God created us and designed us with a need to interact with other people. That's how we're designed to function. We are social beings. Now some people are a little antisocial, but we're not designed that way. We're designed to have relationships with one another. We're designed to interact with one another. We're designed to love one another. Jesus emphasized that over and over, to love your neighbor, love your enemies. And so that's the way we're designed. Years ago when I was growing up, I used to like to read Louis Lemour. Anybody familiar? I love, I think I read just about all of them. My dad had every single book that Louis Lamore Red wrote. And I used to love those old Westerns. I haven't read 'em for decades. But uh and uh and uh I got kind of for a while there I got kind of enamored with mountain men. How many people know what I mean by mountain men? These guys out in col in the Rockies And they'd go up there and they'd be back in there for years trapping. They'd come out maybe once a year, trade their goods and go back. And I just thought those guys were the coolest guys ever, you know And um uh in the you know uh uh Jeremiah Johnson, you have all these famous uh um mountain men. Well one day I came across a book, this is years and years ago And it was a factual history about mountain men. And I got reading them. Now these are guys that go back up. They have no interaction with human beings For sometimes years at a time. And I got reading about them, and not Hollywood version, and not Louis Lamore version, but actual facts about them. I'm telling you, they were weirdos I mean, they were bizarre. And you read some of the stuff they did, and it's like, uh And um you know, and I'm I'm uh I uh uh you know, I like to get away. I like to get out on the lake by myself and get away for a while and And these things, but we are not designed, I guess what I'm trying to say is this, we are not designed by God to be isolated all the time We have to have that interaction. We have to have that relationships. We need them in our life. We're made that way. So, we're studying Joseph, and we find out that he had some relationships. And by the way, that's why I think church is important for a Christian. Because we need that Christian fellowship, not just getting together and yakking a little bit, but I mean relationships one with another. And so Joseph had that. Now, we're not told a lot about Joseph's relationship with his father. We're given a few little facts early on, particularly We know that Jacob loved Joseph very much. We're told that. He was his favorite. It becomes very evident as we study the life of Joseph that Joseph loved Jacob We don't know what it was like as a boy, his relationship with his father, other than his daddy gave him a really nice coat, and no doubt pampered him and perhaps spoiled him to an extent I believe Jacob was a, I think he trained his boys. We find they all worked hard. They had character issues, but they worked hard. They honored their father. And so there was some sort of positive connection that Jacob had with Joseph and the rest of the brothers. But we don't know any details. You know, did what did they go out and work the sheep together? You know, did they spend time? What did they do? We don't know But we know that they had a uh a dear relationship. Jacob loved Joseph, and Joseph obviously loved his daddy. Now Jacob is dead, and uh his father has passed away. And uh and I know some of y'all can relate to this, uh father passing away. And that is uh that's a hard thing uh sometimes and you know my dad and and some of y'all the same thing. So if you would, first thing I want us to notice in verse number one, I want us to notice Joseph's personal grief over the death of his father, his personal grief. Look again at verse number one. And Joseph, now here go back to verse 33, it says that uh Jacob gathered up his feet into the bed. If you can picture this, he's been sitting on the edge of the bed. He's been speaking to his boys, giving his fat last words, his blessings, and talking to them. We looked at that. And he pulls us, he gets all his strength, he pulls his feet up in the bed. Maybe he pulls the sheet up over him. He lays back. And he's gone. Now this is Joseph's reaction to that. He falls upon his father's face. He lays down over and puts his face up to his father's face. And he weeps on him, and he kisses that dead face of his daddy. Joseph's personal grief. I got looking at that there where it says he wept upon him. And I found out that we have seven times recorded in Scripture where Joseph wept. Seven times. And I'd like to take a little time here and let's go back and look at some of them. Now we kind of when we were going through earlier, we just kind of brushed over. I didn't really zero in on it But if you would, the first time we're told that Joseph wept is in chapter 42. So if you would, just turn back there with me, chapter 42. And uh verse number twenty-four. Forty-two verse twenty-four. Chapter forty-two, verse twenty-four. Now this is when Joseph's down to Egypt, the famines uh hot and heavy and uh finally uh joseph's uh Jacob sends his boys down to Egypt And Joseph's there, and again we study this, but he sees his brothers. And notice in verse 24, chapter 42, and he turned himself about from them. when he noted his brothers. He turned himself about from them and wept, and returned to them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, and bound them before their eyes So he sees his brothers for the first time in 17, 20 years, a long time. He recognized them. And his reaction is he weeps. When he sees his brothers. Come over. So that's the first time we find Joseph's weeping, crying in the Bible. Come over to chapter 43. And verse number 30. Now they have brought Benjamin down. This is their second trip down. And in verse number 30 of chapter 43, when Joseph sees Benjamin, his little brother. And Joseph made haste, for his bowels did yearn upon his brother, and he sought where to weep, and he entered into his chamber and wept there. And he cleans himself up and goes back out. He gets his regains his composure. He goes back out. So that's the second time Joseph We're told that Joseph cried, that he wept. So when he sees his brothers for the first time after all these years, he weeps. His younger brother now, this is about a year or so later, his younger brother's here, he sees Benjamin and he begins weeping again. He has to excuse himself. Then come over to chapter 45 And uh verse number one and two. Here Joseph is revealing himself to his brothers Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all of them and stood by him and he cried, call, it means he cried out, cause every man to go out from me And there stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his brethren. Now look at verse 2. And he what? He wept out loud. I mean he is broken. And he's weeping, he's crying, and the Egyptians, the house of Pharaoh, heard him. And so that is the third time. He reveals himself to us. I'm Joseph. And they're in shock, and he just breaks down. And then the fourth time is uh in chapter 45, come over to verse 14. It says that he's sending his brothers back. He's told them who he is. He's gone over, explained to them what all happened, how he got in this position. kind of to not in detail, but he just goes over things with them. He says, now go back and get daddy. Go back and get our father, bring him down here so I can take care of him. And look, if you would at verse 14 And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck and wept. And Benjamin wept upon his neck. Moreover, he kissed all his brethren and wept upon them And after that, his brethren talked with him. So he reveals himself to him, he weeps, he gets his composure, he explains some things to him, tells him, Go get father, bring him down here, I'll take care of you, and he weeps over them again. The fifth time is chapter 46 and verse number 29 Bible says and uh um and this is uh when his father's coming down so he goes out to meet his father and Joseph made ready his chariot and went up to meet Israel his father. Now he hasn't seen him in years and years and years, decades. He went up to his meetest Israel his father to Goshen and presented himself unto him And fell on his neck. Now look at this. And wept on his neck a what? A good while. He wouldn't let go. And I can just picture in my mind he's just holding Jacob so tight. And he's just sobbing and sobbing and sobbing for a long time. So he's reunited with his father. Now, then the sixth time we have account of Joseph's crying, weeping, is here in chapter 50, what we just read when his father dies. And there's one other time. Verse 17 of chapter 50. Look over there. And here we have Joseph the seventh time we're told that he he wept. His brothers, his daddy's died, they've uh uh they've uh buried him, they come back to Egypt, the brothers approach Joseph. They actually lie to him. They say, Daddy told us told us to tell you that you should forgive us. It's kind of weird. Why wouldn't he tell Joseph to forgive him? But anyway But it it breaks his heart. It breaks Joseph's heart that these brothers would think he would not forgive them. Look at verse number 17. And so shall ye say unto Joseph, this is what they're telling, saying that their daddy told him, Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren and their sin, for they did unto thee evil Now we pray thee, forgive the trespass of thy servants of the Lord thy God. And it's kind of a roundabout way of confessing. Their sin. They're lying in a way to ask Joseph to forgive them. But look how Joseph reacts. End of verse 17. And Joseph wept when they spake unto him It just broke his heart that his brothers would think that way of him, that he would not forgive them Now, what's the one thing in common here? Now think with me a little bit. What's the one thing in common, these seven accounts we have of Joseph crying, Joseph weeping? What's the common denominator in all this? Family. Every single time. It's brothers, it's daddy, it's family, family, family. Every single time we have a record of Joseph weeping. Joseph cried a lot, apparently. I mean, I don't know anybody else in the Bible we have a record of seven times them weeping, and some of this is intense weeping. So Joseph cried a lot, but it was always, every account we have of Joseph crying, it's always in relation to his family Now the thing about this, this is what got me, so I was studying this. These people, these brothers in particular Had hurt Joseph so deeply. What they did to him was absolutely inexcusable. By the world's standards, it would be unforgivable. Would you agree with me? This is grievous, what they've done to him, but when he sees them, And he interacts with them. Now he struggled a little bit at first what to do, but when he gets with them, it breaks them. It breaks them. They had hurt him so deeply, here's the thing, yet he loved them unconditionally. If you if we didn't know, if all we had was Joseph interacting with his brothers and we didn't know what all took place, you would think that these were the greatest brothers a person would have ever had in their life. Man, these guys must have treated him great. Look how he's so glad to see him. He's so brokenhearted over him. And they treated him horribly. They hated him. And yet he loved them dearly. You know what that's called? That's called unconditional love. No matter what these guys did to him, his love for them was not based upon their treatment of him. His love for them was based upon his relationship with them. These are my brothers. I love them. That is a love that is made by decision. It is not controlled by feelings. Joseph had we talk about his integrity. And it it affects it controlled his honesty. Because he was a man of integrity, he was honest. Because he was a man of integrity, he worked hard. Because he was a man of integrity, he was faithful. And because he was a man of integrity, he loved unconditionally. His love for his family was rooted in his integrity. He loved unconditionally. This is about the closest that I can find in Scripture, maybe a few other instances, of Christ-like love. What is Romans 5. 8? I tell you that verse means the world to me more and more all the time. What's Romans 5. 8? But God commendeth his love toward us. What? That while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. That is unconditional love. Now I got thinking about that. What is conditional love? Joseph's showing unconditional love. They treat him horribly, and he responded in love and compassion, took care of them. What is conditional love? If I love someone conditionally, that means I will love them if what? Yeah, they treat me right. If they meet the conditions that I have established. If you do this and don't do that, if you're this way and not that way and you talk like this and you don't talk like that, and you meet my conditions, then I will love you. You know what that is? That's self-centered love. That love is saying, all right, you do what I expect, you meet my demands, then I will extend love to you. That conditional love is selfish love. If you don't treat me a certain way, if you don't act a certain way, if you're not this, if you're not that, then I'm going to withhold my love from you. That's selfish love. It's selfish. And that, let me take it a step farther, that would be ungodly love. Ungodly love. Because God doesn't love that way. Amen or not? God doesn't love us conditionally. He doesn't set a standard. All right, you've got to be this, that, and the other. No, no, no. While we were yet sinners He loved us. And so Joseph loved his brothers unconditionally. I'm convinced the more I'm studying Scripture, the last several years, I think studying Peter really Help me. And for 2 Peter 1, we studied those seven things we're supposed to add to our faith, and it culminates in charity, unconditional love expressed. displayed, how how you how you express unconditional love, how you show it. It culminates in that and I am convinced the highest attainment in spiritual life is to get to the point where I can love the way God loves. I can't probably to the degree he does. But I can learn, I can seek towards and try to attain the point where I can love unconditionally the way God loves unconditionally. Are you with me? Follow me? What did Paul say in Corinthians? Faith, hope, and charity. And the greatest of these is what? Charity. That's unconditional love and display. Even greater than my faith that saves my soul. Even greater than my faith in God's word, hope of eternal life and a home in heaven. Even greater than all of that, God says, is loving unconditionally. Joseph loved his father and he loved his family and they treated him so badly. Now Jacob Jacob uh was pretty good probably to Joseph. We know he loved him. Conditional love is self-centered love, and self-centered love is ungodly love. We've got to learn to love unconditionally. Our family, our friends, our enemies, our neighbors. Go down the list the Bible gives us. Now, I found it interesting what Joseph does not weep over. Some of the things that took place, you and I probably would have been crying. For instance, when he shows up at his brothers and he's all excited he found them. Remember when he was sent out by Jacob to find his brothers or out with the sheep? He can't find them and finally maybe he was worried something happened to him and he sees them. And I can just picture Joseph, oh there they are. Hey guys! Throw him in a pit. Now I don't know about you, but I might have cried in that pit that night. But we don't have any record of Joseph crying in the pit Um then these merchants come by and the j and the the brothers say, Ah, let's show up And um man they sell him for some silver uh uh and uh and uh here he is on maybe on chained up behind a uh some sort of wagon or maybe he's up on a uh on the wagon or whatever, but he's being hauled off and there his brothers are. I don't even think they bother watching him leaving And I can see Joseph looking back and see him going off in the distance. I think I might have been crying right then. We have no record of Joseph crying when he was sold as a slave. When Potiphar's wife makes these false accusations, horrific accusations against them, flat-out lies. And he finds himself in prison innocently. We don't have any count of Joseph crying, weeping. When the butler and the Baker, forget him, and he's stuck there. We don't have any record of him crying. The only time we have an account of Joseph weeping, his heart being broken, Wasn't over anything that happened to him, it was over his relationship with his family. I tell you, that is incredible love. That is unconditional love. And that is What you and I, I believe, ought to seek to attain, to love unconditionally, our family, our neighbors, our friends, our enemies. So, come back to the death of Jacob here. Joseph fell upon his father's face and wept upon him and kissed him. Again, I don't see Jacob weeping at the prospect of death. He knew he was going to die. He said that several times. In fact, that was the whole Chapter forty nine is about Jo Jacob knowing he's about to die and facing it, and not one word of not one hint that he's weeping or upset He's at peace, like we said before, he's at peace with God, he's at peace with himself, and he's at peace with his family. But Joseph weeps. Jacob's the one that's dying But Joseph is the one that weeps. Death for God's people, death for one of God's people is simply a doorway into their eternal home. Jacob dies. He's one of God's people. He says, I'm being gathered unto my people. And so when his spirit left that body, now probably went to what we call uh paradise or Jacob's or Abraham's bosom is what it's called in the New Testament and eventually heaven. But when that when his when his soul, when he left his body, he was just simply gone through a doorway to his eternal home. The sorrow is not for Jacob, is it no reason of sorrow, he's rejoicing. I've said this a good bit recently. If we knew about heaven what God knows about heaven, not one of us would worry about dying. And by the way, if somebody knew about hell, what God knows about hell, they'd get saved immediately. So Jacob is fine. He's gone through that door. But we're left behind. Joseph and the boys are left behind. Now we're not told the boys wept, but we would imagine That uh they were sad with this. So it's for the people that are still here alive in our bodies. That's where the sorrow is. And by the way, it is natural to weep over the death of a loved one. And I've done gazillions of funerals over the years. And this may I uh this may sound bad, I I don't mean it bad, but I enjoy doing funerals Now that doesn't mean I'm looking forward to y'all dying, but um when it happens, I enjoy doing the funeral. It's very fulfilling. for me to be able to help and share truths and and try and help. I guess is the word maybe rather than enjoy But it's natural to grieve. And all these funerals I've done over the years, occasionally I'll come across someone that, and it's a lot of times to be a fellow, but not always, and they're very stoic. And they're not going to cry, and they're not going to weep, and they just they just not let it affect them. Now, people grieve in different ways. And by the way, don't ever go and correct somebody for the way they grieve Everybody grieves differently. But God, grieving over the death of a loved one, the passing of a loved one on this end, on our end of it, is natural. God made us that way. To grieve, it's natural, and I think it's necessary. Now, people grieve their own way, and some people grieve a long time, and others sometimes get over it quicker And you never really get over it, but uh they they adapt to it, I guess is what I want to say, quicker than others. How many people remember Ruby Slobo? Boy, what a blessing Ruby was And when Vic passed away, I don't know if some of y'all were around here, then Ruby always sat in a choir over there. And I mean for years. We'd sing songs about heaven or something. Old Ruby, those tears would just be rolling down her cheeks, rollin' down her cheeks She loved Vic and she missed him and she was grieving a long time after. Now she functioned fine, but that grief was there, that sorrow was there, and that's natural If you would, come keep your place here because we want to come back and look at some if I have time. But come with me to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. We have a great statement here and some good information about dealing with the death of loved ones, particularly saved loved ones. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and look with me at verse 13. For m many of us is very familiar passage 1 Thessalonians 4, verse 13. But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep. Now, what does he mean, them which are asleep? What's he talking about? People that have died He refers to it as being asleep. That, look at this, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. Don't sorrow the way people that sorrow for folks that have no hope aren't believers, they're unsaved. He goes on, if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord, this is authoritative That we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent or go before them which are asleep. People that have died in the Lord. We're alive, the Lord comes back. We're not going to go before they do. We're not going to prevent them, precede them. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God. The dead in Christ shall rise first, then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. So he's addressing the Thessalonian church about people who have died in Christ. They're saved. They passed away. The church was uh worried about whether they'll see him again and what happens when the Lord comes back to the people that have already died So he's explaining all that. Then look at verse 18. He says, wherefore comfort one another with these words. There's comfort there for us. Now, come back if you would, and this is what I want to get at. Verse 13, he says, that you sorrow not even as others which have no hope. He's not saying we don't sorrow when a loved one dies. But we don't sorrow the same as someone who's unsaved passes away. Like I said, I've done tons of funeral. Y'all have been to many, many funerals in your life, no doubt. I tell you, there is a difference. There is a difference in a funeral of an unsaved person than the funeral of a saved person. And uh uh ver uh very very common to get a phone call say, will you do a funeral for so-and-so? I don't know them, it's a family, they don't know anybody, can you do the funeral? I'll say sure, I'll be glad to And you get there, and the whole atmosphere, the whole spirit, is very, very different for an unsaved person's funeral and a saved person's funeral. Now just a little pastoral insight here, if I get an opportunity to do a funeral for somebody I don't know or that we know they're unsaved, I jump at that because I just give the gospel. And you preach to the folks who are alive. And I don't even address the situation or condition of the unsaved person, the person that died that was unsaved. I don't even address that at all. I just talk to the living. And point them to Christ, point them to Christ. But there is a difference, and there's a sorrow. I'm thinking of a teen boy in Indianapolis when we were there And uh his daddy was unsaved, and he was a good boy, he was faithful to church and knew the Lord and was trying to live for him, and he was a good kid. And he witnessed to his daddy all the time. And his daddy told him on New Year's Eve day, that day, he said, son, this coming year I'll start going to church with you. Because William had just working them over, dad, you need to get saved, you need to come to church. He says, all right, all right, this year I will. He'd been witness to him for a year or two New Year's Eve night, he died of a heart attack on the spot. Boom. 40-some years old. Gone. I tell you, that was a tough funeral. That boy, bless his heart, at the funeral, he just he knew the situation with his daddy. He knew he'd heard he knew the Bible And he absolutely broke down and had the ambulance had to come. He was so broken over what he knew was true about his daddy. Isn't that awful? We don't sorrow like that if for loved ones who know the Lord. We don't sorrow like that. We know They're in their eternal home. They're good. They're okay. That's why if you'll hear me preach funerals for saved people, church members and saved people, you'll hear me say over and over again, they're okay They're fine. They're better than we are. Now we miss them. And we love them. And there's a sorrow there. And there's an emptiness there. There's a grief that's very real. But they're okay And Joseph is weeping over his daddy, but his daddy's okay. He's been gathered to his people and uh his eternal home. Now there's one other thing I want to notice here, if you would come back. So we have Joseph's personal grief, sorrow over his daddy's death And then I want us to notice here some interesting things, and I'm not sure all the spiritual applications of this, but it's interesting. God gives it to us. In verse number two it says, and Joseph commanded his servants, the physicians To embalm his father and the physicians embalmed Israel. This is the only person in the Bible we have that's embalmed That I can find is Jacob down in Egypt. So we have Joseph's personal grief, then we have Egypt's public mourning, and we'll get to that a little bit. But I want to look at this embalming thing How many people are excited about thinking about embalming? I didn't think so. Embalming, the Egyptians had perfected. Now this is thousands of years ago. And in you know, somewhat primitive, but they had perfected the ability to embalm, the embalming process In fact, they had very specific instruments designed, very precise tools and instruments designed just for the embalming process. They were very, very good at it. It was a very, what I read about the Egyptian embalming, it was a very intricate and important part of their pagan religious practice That is the purpose for the pyramids and the mummies. And uh how many when you were a kid you watched movies about the curse of the mummy and oh yeah That's where all that comes from. They're embalming. It was part of their pagan religious practice, preparing that body for the afterlife. The Egyptians believe strongly in the afterlife Now they were totally wrong, and it was it was demonic a lot of it, satanic a lot of it. But they believed in an afterlife. And so they had this very elaborate process of preparing the body to exist in the afterlife. Now, it was costly. Not everybody got embalmed. It was basically pharaohs and rulers and key, wealthy, powerful people. Embalm everybody. It was very complicated. Any people want to know how they did it? Yeah, Randy, I'm with you. First of all, you have the body, and when they had Jacob's body, the first thing they did, Joseph had the physicians come, they took his body, they went to embalm it. They would wash the body very carefully. They had a very little ritualistic way they washed that body. In fact, the one article I was reading, they had a uh a figure there they had a table they would put the body on and would actually tilt it. Anybody want to hear the details about this? And um and uh they would wash the body very carefully. They would drain the fluids from the body and dehydrate it A lot of times, in here they went 40 days with Jacob's body. A lot of times, generally it was 70 days. They would drain the body out and let it dehydrate. They would remove the organs from inside the body, and they would stuff it with sawdust or leaves or old linens. They'd stuff it in there so it looked normal, wasn't collapsed. Then they would then anoint the body with oils. They'd put perfumes on it and spices. A lot of times, the one I was reading about, they would paint the body with what had these spices and perfumes in it. and they just cover the whole body with some sort of perfumed paint to help uh uh uh decay, help uh uh uh avoid decay And then they would wrap the body up very, very tightly with linens that had been soaked in spices. They would wrap it very tightly wet, and then when they would dry, boy, that would just seal that Body there. In fact, you can go to museums and they have mummified bodies that they did this exact thing to and they're still intact Now what I thought was interesting, notice in verse 2 it says, Joseph commanded his servants, the physicians. So apparently Joseph had servants of varying skills and abilities. So he had some servants that were physicians. These are his personal servants. He has his own personal physician servants. How cool would that be, Penny? Be somebody's personal physician. And apparently chefs and other categories. But he gets his physicians. Now here's where it gets interesting. According to my research, physicians did not generally do the embalming. They had people who were professional embalmers That was their occupation. That's all they did was embalm people. But Joseph, and it's very carefully points out here, doesn't say he just had his servants embalming, he said he had his servants the physicians. embalm them. Now why would that be? Why would he ask his doctors, the medical physicians do this when there's embalmers right there available? I think, this is what I think I think Joseph was trying to re-he wanted to, he wanted to uh, he did not want to offend The uh Egyptian culture by not embalming his father, because his father was highly regarded And so for him just to bury the body would have been offensive to the Egyptians to do that. However, I think he did not want the pagan religious rituals that go with the embalming. He didn't want that to be a part of it. He wanted to be very, very clear. He wanted to be very, very distinct We are worshipers of Jehovah. We don't indulge in paganism. And so this, again, this is my thinking. I'm wondering if he didn't use the physicians so they could do the embalming, not offend the Egyptians, at the same time not use the embalmers, because they're going to do all this pagan ritualistic stuff with it, and he didn't want any of that. And we find this with Joseph. I think he was very, very careful to be distinct in his worship of Jehovah. He didn't want any confusion about whether he's adopting paganism as part of his worship. He wanted to be very, very clear. So uh maybe I'm reading more into it, but I I wonder if uh That isn't the purpose that it says very clearly. The physicians, twice. It says the his servants, the physicians, and the physicians. It's like God's pointing out, wait, it was the physicians do this, not the the priest of Shah the sun god and he's there so he was very careful To maintain his testimony and his distinctiveness as a worshiper of Jehovah. And by the way, that uh the application there, I think, is this. Listen, we don't want to go out and deliberately offend the world We don't go out and just in your face, I don't care, and all that. But on the other hand, neither do we want it to be confused at all as to who we worship. And I believe, I love this phrase, I believe we need to be distinctively Christian in our behavior, our actions, and in the testimony of this world. But on the other hand, we don't deliberately go out and try and offend the world and be hateful. Now, if our message, our worship of Jehovah, and our message is offensive, then we can't control that. But our behavior and our interaction. And if I can, if I can uh you know, I I don't know if I want to use this word, but if I can accommodate Unsaved people around me without compromising my testimony? I want to do that. I don't want to be deliberately hateful, deliberately offensive. And so I wonder if Joseph maybe wasn't trying to maintain a good testimony yet without being offensive. And then notice it says there, verse 3, and I'll end with this. And forty days were fulfilled for him, and so are fulfilled the days of those which are embalmed. And the Egyptians mourn for him threescore and 10 days, 70 days They declared official mourning. I think America declared tomorrow as a day official day of mourning for the death of Jimmy Carter. Well that's what they're doing here in the death of of uh Jacob, except it's for 70 days. And uh mourning, the word mourning itself there means to sorrow or weep over And for 70 days they declared, Pharaoh declared, we're going to mourn for Jacob, Joseph's father. I think It was an expression of honor for the deceased. They wanted to honor Joseph's daddy. He was highly respected among the Egyptians, and we want to honor your father. And so they mourned him. And then I think also, not only that, and this is where we even today, if somebody has a loved one pass away, we want to share in that grief with them We want to share in their sorrow, help bear one another's burdens and weep with those that weep. When I do funerals with the people and they're grieving, specially grieving, what do you say? They're brokenhearted. And you know I've I've come to this point where I just say, and I mean it with all my heart, say, listen, I care about you. I'm so sorry. And we're we our hearts are broken for you, and we're weeping with you. And I think that's what the Egyptians were doing for Joseph and his family. They were trying to share that sorrow with them When you're dealing with somebody that lost a loved one and they're and they're so broken you don't know what to say or do, this is what I do. I just put try and put myself in their shoes. What if that was my mother? What if that's my father in that How would I feel? And then I try to relate to them and and try and share that burden with them. And I think that's what the Egyptians were doing. Now, it's interesting, and I think mo a lot of Middle East countries did this, and I think some to this day still do it. Eastern countries, they have professional mourners They would hire people. I mean that was their job. They had a morning shop and they come and Oh I need appointment for some mourners next Thursday. Uh okay. Man or woman, uh what's the age? All right. How can mourners be good? Yeah, that'll be good. Now we don't want 'em crying too much, all right, but you just want tears. Yep, sure, that'll be fine. That's pretty much the way it was. And uh they'd hire these guys and sometimes they'd wail and holler and just but they were trying to comfort them. So So let's be distinct, amen? And maintain our testimony. And above all, let's learn to love the way God loves Say, but you don't know what so-and-so did to me. I it doesn't matter. You don't you don't know what I did to God. Yet He still loves me, so I can love People, Father, please bless now. And help us to learn from these events in the life of Joseph. Lord, the specifics, the details you've given us in your word, and I think you have something for us. So I pray that your Holy Spirit Would stir us and help us uh in some of these matters. And I don't know, with our heads bowed, I don't know how God may have spoken to your heart if you'd like to. I know it's small crowd tonight with the weather But maybe you'd like to kneel at an old altar and just pray over something I don't know what's going on. Let's stand together and Catherine play