Uh turn to James chapter two And we're going to look at the last couple verses in James chapter 2. Maybe you turn me down just a little bit, Dave. Keep your Bibles handy. We're going to go to a number of different passages tonight I want to look at. We're finishing up a pretty lengthy section here. where James has been dealing with what I'm calling an empty a profession of faith, uh, where he's addressing folks who keep saying that they're saved, saying they've trusted Christ, saying that they're a believer. But that's all that consists of their faith is simply them saying it. If you notice in verse number uh 14 he says, What doth it profit uh uh my brethren, though a man say he have faith And have not works, can faith save him. In other words, he says he believes, but there's nothing there to give evidence of that. There's no behavior, there's no actions, there's no substance to what he's saying. Down again in verse six verse fifteen he says he illustrates, he said, if a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food And one of you say unto them, depart in peace and be ye warmed and filled, notwithstanding you give them not the things which are needful of the body, what doth it profit? And he's illustrating this concept of just saying I have faith and there's nothing really there, there's no evidence of it. He says, you can say, you know, I care about you, you don't have food, you don't have clothing or whatever. I care about you, go on, you'll be fine, and you've got it there for you. Don't give it to him. That doesn't that all you were saying is empty words. And then again in verse number uh twenty-one he used Abraham as an illustration. And he says Abraham believed God when God told him to offer up his son. He believed that God could and if needed they would raise up his son from the dead if needed when God um instructed him to offer him up as a sacrifice. He didn't just say he believed that, he went ahead and acted on it. He went ahead and offered his son up. His actions gave testimony to the fact, his works gave testimony of the fact that his faith was genuine. It wasn't just words And now we come to verse 25 and 26. He says, likewise also was not Abraham the harlot justified by works when she received What did I say? I'm sorry? Let's try that again. I'm telling you what, you all got me rattled tonight. Alright, let's get to verse 25. Likewise was not Rahab the harlot justified by works when she had received the messengers and had sent them out another way. For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also. So now he's bringing in a third or a fourth illustration. He's illustrating Rahab the harlot. And I've entitled it tonight, The Faith of a Harlot. And I'll be very honest with you, the story of Abraham offering up his son. Is just to me one of the most amazing stories in Scripture. That just captivates my heart and mind when I think about that happening. And I'll tell you the story of Rahab. And her what God did in her life is absolutely amazing to me. And so I really enjoy this study and I hope I can communicate it to you in a way it makes sense and I use the right words and right names. You pray for me as we uh begin this message. Let's pray together. Father, bless now our study. And I do pray that you use these last few verses in this pretty lengthy passage dealing with this subject to seal it in our hearts. And I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your spirit. Lord, untie my tongue and help me to speak clearly. I pray, Lord, that you'd open our hearts and minds. And that you would have your way in our lives. Our faith would grow. And our testimony would be stronger And uh I yield myself, you, I present my body anew, Lord, I ask you to fill me with your spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So he goes down, he uses this needy neighbor as an illustration, uh just saying you care about him, not giving it. He uses Oh, and I missed the one in verse number uh nineteen. He uses the devils as an illustration. They believe in God. Uh but um uh and they tremble, their belief in God produces an effect, pr has an imp impact on them. It's not just words, even the devils respond. And uh then he uses Abraham. Now he's here to a very unlikely person. Rahab the harlot. Now first he has Abraham. And we all respect Abraham. Everybody respects Abraham. He is the father of the faithful. But now we have Rahab. She is in many ways the exact opposite of what Abraham was. Maybe someone would say, oh yeah, you put Abraham up there. Of course, he was a tremendous man of integrity. He was a tremendous leader. He had his faults. He wasn't perfect. But uh he is the father of the nation of Israel And uh uh he has great respect. But he said, all right, if you have a problem with that, let's look at Rahab. Abraham was a Jew, one of God's chosen people. He was the father of the Jews. Rahab was a pagan. She was a Gentile. She was outside the nation of Israel. Abraham, as I said, was the father of nations. Rahab was a woman of the streets. She was a woman you'd see out in dark corner, seedy part of town. Everything Abraham was not, Rahab was. Abraham had tremendous integrity Rahab had nothing but shame. Nobody, nobody respects a loose woman. Am I right or wrong? Even the world doesn't. And so he holds up Rahab and uses her as an illustration Of what God can do and how genuine faith can absolutely transform a life. I love the story of Rahab. It's a fascinating story. Abraham, tremendous man. Rahab, woman of the streets. Yet both of these people are lifted up. and highly regarded in Scripture because of the strength of their faith and the power of their testimony. I want you to keep your place here. We're going to jump around to various scriptures, but if you would come back to Hebrews chapter 12 for a moment, I maybe took a dark brush there in describing Rahab. You think, man, this I never really thought of her that way and pretty nasty uh in a lot of ways. I think I just went dead here Dave. Maybe battery died out on me. I'm on. Must be the battery went dead. Can you just I'll just run off of here then? No, I'm good. Look at Hebrews chapter twelve. Look at verse number thirty-one. What What do we call Hebrews chapter 12? The Hall of Faith. Of course the world has their hall of fame. We call Hebrews chapter 12 the Hall of Faith. Hebrews chapter eleven. Alright, y'all pray for me, alright? Hebrews chapter eleven, verse number thirty-one. Notice what the Bible says. By faith, the harlot Rahath perished not with them that believed not when she had received the spies with peace. Here we find this woman, and I think I find it interesting that here, even in Hebrews chapter 11, the Hall of Faith, God refers to her, he keeps that title. The harlot Rahab. You know, I don't know. I it looks to me like maybe you dropped that title off. She's not that anymore. Things have changed. She's being held up here as an example of tremendous faith. She's being exalted here in many ways in this hall of faith. As an example, a testimony of what faith can do. But God keeps that title on there. And why does he do that? Maybe it's to remind us Maybe it's to remind us that even the worst of folks can find grace in the Lord Jesus Christ. I put it this way: it takes as much grace To save an Abraham as it does to save a Rahab. Do you get that? The highly respected The well-known, well-thought-of church member is saved the same way the woman of the street is saved. The drunkard, the thief. The most vile person you think of. Takes just as much blood to save a self-righteous person as it does to save an unrighteous person. And so God holds Rahab up. First we have Abraham, of course. Everybody respects him. Of course he would act on his faith. Of course he would have works that would testify. But a harlot? Everyone needs salvation regardless of their background. Everyone is saved the same way. Abraham was saved the same way Rahab was. I like in the Acts, and I don't have the reference on the tip of my tongue, but in Acts, Peter came. And he was giving testimony of these Gentiles that were getting saved, and some of the self-righteous Pharisees who were saved, but they were still struggling with their uh the way their old way of thinking and they said they were they were finding fault with these gentiles getting saved they were confronting Peter and he makes an interesting statement he says hey folks And it's interesting the way he words it. He says, we are saved the same way they are. The Jews are saved the same way Gentiles. I thought it's interesting the way he puts it. He doesn't say, hey, they're saved the same way we are. He turned it around. And Abraham gets saved the same way Rahab does. Salvation is needed by everyone, whether they're an Abraham or a Rahab, and all points in between. Everybody saved the same way, faith in God's Messiah. For them here in the Old Testament, looking forward. And I put this down. Salvation produces the same thing in all those who are saved. It produces good works. That's what this whole passage has been about. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 10 says that we are saved unto good works. When a person gets saved, God begins changing their their their nature, he begins transforming their heart and mind, and it affects their behavior, and it becomes visible in their works, their actions, their deeds, their behavior. Now those works may vary Abraham's good works were different than Rahab's good works. The faith that Abraham had manifests itself in different actions than how it manifests itself in Rahab's actions. And listen, the effect of salvation upon another person may not be the exact same way it had effect on you. But salvation always affects the one that has it. Now I want to give you three thoughts here. I'm trying to go kind of quickly through this, but I want us to first of all consider the debut of Rahab's faith. Now what do we mean by debut? If somebody has a debut, we mean what? What is it? The beginning, the start, the debut of our faith. To do that, we have to go to Joshua chapter number two. So if you would turn back there to Joshua chapter 2. Fascinating story. Joshua chapter 2, sixth book of the new of the Old Testament. I'm telling ya. I think my brain is still mapping. Joshua chapter 2. And uh I want to begin reading. I want us first to read verse 1, and we'll kind of skip over all the total story here and try to get to the point. But Joshua chapter 2 And verse number one, are you there? And Joshua, the son of Nun, sent out of Shidam two men to spy secretly, saying, Go view the land, even Jericho. And they went and came unto an harlot's house named Rahab and lodged there. Okay, here is Rahab's introduction in the Bible. Not a pretty picture. Then if you would come on over to verse 8, and we'll pick up the story there. See, basically, the town finds out these spies are here, and you know the story. Rahab hides them. And covers for them. Then it picks up in verse number eight. And before they were laid down, she came up unto them upon the roof, and she said unto the men Alright, so she wants to talk to them. She has something to say to them. And she said unto the men, I know that the Lord hath given you the land. I know that. Basically, she's saying, my team's gonna lose. You guys are gonna take this land over. We know that's true. Look what she says. And that your terror is fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. Now look at this next few words, he says, in verse number 10. For we have heard How the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when ye came out of Egypt, and what ye did unto the two kings of the Amorites that were on the other side of Jordan, Sihon and Ag, whom ye utterly destroyed And as soon as we had heard these things, look at this, our hearts didn't melt, neither did there remain any more courage in any man. Because of you. Look at this. For the Lord your God, he is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. Wow. What a statement. Here is a woman that is a uh living in a land that is under the judgment of God, and she knows it. We are gonna be destroyed. She is living a life The life of a harlot that is under the judgment of God. God has given to every man a conscience. And that conscience tells us when we are doing wrong, that conscience, now it's not ideal, of course it's stained by sin, but that conscience tells us You will never convince me that Rahab did not know that her lifestyle was wrong. So here's this woman. She's living in a land that's under the judgment of God. She's living a lifestyle that is under the judgment of God, but she heard about a God. She heard about the Lord and his power and his holiness. And his people were coming, and God was bringing judgment onto this land. I circled in my Bible in verse 10, for we have heard. And verse 11, we had heard. You know what that tells me? And this is a little side trip here, but That that reminds me of missions. Somebody went there and told them what was coming Somebody showed up and told them what had happened in the wilderness and back in Egypt. They heard about it. Somebody had told them. I think of Romans chapter 10 and verse 17. Faith cometh by Hearing. And hearing by the word of God. She heard what God had done. She heard what God was doing. She heard what God had promised his people. And she believed that what God was doing was so. She believed what she heard. That is, I believe this is her salvation. She believed that what she had heard was true. that God was who he claimed to be, and she feared him, and she was casting herself on his mercy. The implication here, I think, in verse number, particularly verse number 11, I think the implication Here is that she can she grasped the holiness of Jehovah. She grasped how good this God was to his people. how he treated his people and how merciful he was to his people and how he took care of his people. And she said, I want that God for myself. I am trusting him to show mercy to me. I am trusting him to forgive me and protect me and make me one of his people. And I see here Rahab's debut of her faith. She made a conscious decision to trust the Lord with her life and her destiny. Now, all she had to go on, get this. All she had to go on is what people had told her about what God was doing with and for Israel. And that's all she needed to believe and trust in that God, that Jehovah God. Now you and I, in 2015, we look back, we've got a whole lot more information about our Lord and our Messiah than she had at that time. We know the Messiah's name, Jesus. We know how he goes about eliminating our sins and forgiving our sins and washing away our sins. We know how he does that by shedding his blood on an old rugged cross, being buried and rising again. We know about his miracles, we know about his person, we know much more about the Messiah than she did And she put faith in the coming Messiah. She put faith in God. Like Paul, she became one of the people that she had previously despised. The folks in Jericho hated the Jews. They feared them. They were going to fight them with everything they can. Of course, they had no chance. And she became one of them. And so here we have the debut of Rahab's faith. An old Laurel, woman of the streets. And she puts her faith in God. Now, the second thing I notice is the display of her faith Uh she takes these uh spies and she hides them and she offers them protection and and uh uh gives them a way out to get out without being killed. Her faith in God prompted her to cure for these spines. I put this down. Genuine faith is alive Genuine faith is active, it's energetic, it does things, it's involved in things. Genuine faith is courageous. I noticed two things about the display of her faith. She put her faith in God, and two things about the display of her faith. First of all, it produced courage to stand up for God and his people. She stood up against the authorities of the city of Jericho and hid these spies and made sure they got out safely. One of the characteristics of genuine faith in God is courage. Courage. Read through the book of Acts. These are just common folk, but they get saved. They accept Jesus Christ. They're born again. And suddenly they're out there in the face of threats, in the face of torture, in the face of martyrdom, and they're preaching the gospel without fear. And they're praying, God, give us more boldness Fear is not a fruit of faith. Fear is a fruit of faithlessness. And this old harlot had faith in God and it produced tremendous courage in her heart and life. So I put, one of the characteristics of genuine faith in God is courage. Having courage to stand up for God and his people. Take your Bible with me if you would, and keep your place here in Joshua, but go over to Daniel. In chapter number three, I was going through the Bible and folks in the Bible whose faith produced tremendous courage. And there's a score of them. I think of uh you could we could look at David and Goliath. David without hesitation believed without a doubt. That God could and would kill Goliath because Goliath was blaspheming the God of Israel. But I want to look at Daniel chapter number three. And verse number 16, we have these three guys that I have tremendous respect for. I look forward to getting to heaven and meeting Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. How many people think these guys are cool? I like them. Everything about them impresses me. You know the story? Nebuchadnezzar gets up and demands that everybody worships this idol. And um Uh, you know, when the music plays, when the band plays, everybody bow down and worships, and Shadrach, Meshach, and Abandon, they bedigo, they don't bow down. And they're hauled in. And I think uh Nebuchadnezzar is kind of feeling bad maybe. He doesn't want to kill these guys, so he gives them a second chance. Says, tell you what, one more time. And look at their response in verse number sixteen. And Shadrach Meshach and Abednego answered and said unto the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this matter. In other words, we're not scared to tell you what the deal is here. You talk about courage. I mean, that furnace is right there, it's burning. They're standing before the most powerful man humanly speaking in the world at this time, openly defying him. We're not careful to answer thee in this matter. If it be so, our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thy hand, O king. And it's like they think a little bit and they say, but if not, even if God doesn't deliver us out of that furnace, even if you even if God does let us go into this furnace Be it known unto you, O King, we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. I put in the margin of my Bible courage and conviction. They had absolute faith that God is who he said he was, that God was true, that what this king was asking them to do was false, it was wrong, and they would not do it. And their faith produced tremendous courage. Now, I don't want to harp on this and I don't want to be overly negative, but I'm telling you, we live in a day and age where some Christians need to start stepping up with some courage. We live in a day and age where simply saying we believe, and simply saying we believe the Bible isn't going to cut it. We're in a day and age where we need to stand up and say, hey, I'm going to act upon what I say, I believe. It's a very real possibility. In our lifetime, we will lose many of the freedoms we have. And we're going to have to make a choice. Are we going to continue to worship and obey God without the freedoms as we do with the freedoms? Or do we only do it when it's easy? Or do we only do it when there's no opposition? Do we only do it when it costs us little or nothing? Or do we obey God and trust God when it costs us our life? Maybe our job. Maybe our freedom. Maybe we go to jail for our faith. We already hear the rumblings. We already hear the rumblings in our country. If you preach against homosexuality That's a hate crime, that hate speech, you'll go to jail for it. It's happening in Canada. Uh we read, we see, we hear the rumblings in the newspapers and in the news. If you own a shop and you don't serve somebody that's living a lifestyle that the Bible says is wrong, and if you don't accommodate that and if you don't acquiesce to that, then uh then you go to jail and your business is shut down I'm telling you, it's time that we may be living in days when our faith, the reality of our faith, is being tested. Am I right or wrong? Thank God for Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Thank God for Rahab. Her faith in God infused courage into her, and she says, No, I'm going to protect these men. And I'll And I'll stand against my own country, I'll stand against my own people. Because God is God. And right is right. I admire Raham. I'm concerned about the salvation of someone who has no concern for God's people. Rahab was these were these two spies were the people of God. She was very concerned for their well-being. She was very concerned for their safety. And I get out all the time, meet people out in the community. Oh yeah, I'm safe. Well, where do you go to church? Who are the people of God that you fellowship with? Who are the people of God you identify yourself with? Oh, I haven't been to church in years. I'm a Christian. You know, that bothers me a little bit. When I got saved, uh uh, you know, you guys got it memorized well as I do. Man, that next Monday, I got saved Monday night, that next Sunday, nobody was twisting my arm. My daddy wasn't kicking me out of bed. I felt like I ought to go and be with God's people. I ought to be a part of the body of Christ. I ought to be active and involved. And that's what Rahab was. Her faith produced this courage. She's going to stand up for the well-being of God's people. She was concerned for the well-being of God's people. So her faith produced this was displayed, first of all, in sh in d in producing courage to stand up for the Lord and God's will. Second of all, I notice her faith was displayed by producing a concern for the well-being of her family. Look with me if you would. Let's come back to Joshua here. At verse number 13 of Joshua 2, she makes another statement Verse 12, actually, now therefore I pray you swear unto me by the Lord, since I have showed you kindness, that you will also show kindness unto my father's house, and give me a true token. And that ye will, look at this, that you will save alive my father and my mother, my brethren, my sisters. And all that they have, and deliver our lives from death. Because she believed what she had heard about God and what was coming. She believed in the power and the holiness and the and the goodness of this God. Whom she now was trusting in produced a concern for her family. You say, oh, no harlot would care about her family. Hey, I want to suggest to you, every person, I don't care how depraved their life may become, down in the depths of their heart, there's a love for their family. There's a concern for their well-being. I get out there sometimes and I I see, you know, somebody that's just living uh made a mess of their life and I often think But they got a mother somewhere that's concern for them. I told you about the boy out in Boulder, Colorado from Iowa. Living in sin, drugs, and just debauchery. Witness to him, began to weep. He said, My mother's a Christian. She's back in Iowa. He says, I know this is a Saturday night down on the mall in Boulder and He said, I know she's praying for me, probably even now. And that young black man prayed and trusted Jesus' Savior there I believe because he had a mother back home was concerned for him. And as soon as we started talking about spiritual things, as soon as his sin was being dealt with and convicted about, his first thought was his family. Isn't that a good sign? I tell you what, I'm always encouraged when someone says, gives testimony that they got saved. I'm always encouraged about the genuineness when they immediately become concerned for the salvation of their family members. I tell you who I'm really concerned about is that daddy doesn't care about whether his kids are saved or not. That bothers me. A spouse doesn't care whether whether their husband or wife is saved or not. A child doesn't care whether their parents are saved or not. Doesn't care whether brothers and sisters are saved or not. Something about that isn't right When Rahab got saved and she put her faith in God, immediately she became very concerned for her family. Their salvation and their spiritual well-being. And then last of all, I want to end with this. We need to come back, if you would, to Matthew chapter 1 We looked in Hebrews chapter 11. We saw Rahab is mentioned in the hall of faith, held up and honored because of the strength of her faith. James uses her as a testimony of someone whose faith produces works, produced action. Because she believed in God and put her faith and trust in God, it prompted her to care for God's people, it prompted her to have a concern. for uh her family and james holds that up and says look genuine faith does produce works even in the life of a harlot Now we come to Matthew chapter 1 and we see the distinction of her faith. Hebrews chapter 11, she's honored. What an honor. Look at Matthew chapter one and come down to verse number five. Now you look at chapter one and what do you see? Somebody tell me, what do you see when you look at Matthew chapter one? A genealogy which is a what? A list of names. Right? How many people here, if you've been reading your Bible over and over any length of time, how many people here ever got to some of these lists of names and you were tempted just to buzz over it? Come on now. Been there, done that. I had a professor in college. He says I get to the list of names, I just flip those pages and go on. I said, I don't know about that. And I tell you, you go down through there and so-and-so begot so-and-so and begot so-and-so and begot so and so. But you come to verse 5 and something interesting pops up. And Solom begat Boaz of Rachab. Who's Rahab? It's the New Testament spelling of Rahab. A prostitute? And Boaz begat Obed of Ruth, and Obad begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David the king. What? You look at this list, it appears to be a meaningless list of names, but Matthew chapter 1 is actually the official genealogy of Jesus Christ. And it is the it is the side of giving Jesus Christ legal right to the throne of David. This is a very significant list. This is a very important list of names. And here in verse number five, Rahab is listed in the genealogy of Jesus Christ. Wow! She goes from being a pagan prostitute to becoming a believer in Jehovah. Ends up becoming the wife of a prince of Judah, and now is the great, great grandmother of King David. What an amazing journey. God honors faith. You may think, well, my faith doesn't but I believe God, but it doesn't go noticed, and nobody really sees how much I trust God, and nobody really sees What I'm trusting God for. I'm here to tell you, God sees. And when our faith is genuine, when our faith is the real deal It produces something in our lives. It changes our lives. It molds us and makes us. And God takes that and God can make something out of us. Now listen, I'm not telling you you'll ever marry a prince of some tribe in the Middle East. But I am saying this. God honors faith And if we will trust God and let Him have His way in our lives, if we will just follow His instruction, believe what He says, commit our lives to. And I'm telling you God will use us in ways that we may not even comprehend at this point. And someday we look back and say, what an amazing thing God has done. Who would have ever dreamed this old street woman would be listed in the Legal Genealogy of Jesus Christ? Giving him the rights to the throne of David. You say you have faith? Great. But if there's no works there, something's not right. Does not produce the change. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I pray you take these simple thoughts. Lord, I was challenged by the testimony of Raham, what you did in her life, and how you molded her and changed her just by Her exercising faith in you and allowing you to work. I pray you'd do the same thing in our lives. I ask you'd stir us, help us not to doubt. Give us courage, dear Lord. Give us concern for others. And I pray that you would get all the glory. With our heads bound and eyes closed, how many say, preacher, I know there's some areas in my life where I really need to learn to trust God? There's some areas maybe the Holy Spirit of God right now is speaking to your heart about a very specific issue and you're saying, preacher, pray with me. I need to trust God. I need to have faith in God and let God change us and mold us and have his way. Is there any like that this evening, Preacher? A very specific area. Maybe you're God bless you, a bunch of hands around. Maybe you're here tonight say, Preacher, you know I don't think much of myself. I don't think I'm that much. That God could do much with me. I don't Have a lot of education, maybe. I don't have a lot of this. I'm not real confident. I'm not much speaker. I'm telling you, Rahab was the street woman. She trusted God, and God turned her around and used her. Now there's nobody here tonight in the condition Rahab was. But I'm telling you, everyone here tonight can be used by the same God that used Rahab to glorify his name. And how many would say, preacher, I'd really like for God to use me, such as I am, and just take me and have his way and direct me however he sees fit. I yield my will completely. To the Lord Jesus Christ. Is there any like that tonight? Say preacher, that's my heart. To be fully and completely yielded to the will of God, such as I am. God bless you, hands all around. Now before we go to the Lord's Supper Maybe some would want to find a place, the old-fashioned owner, and say, here I am, Lord, just an old sinner that you love, you died and rose again for. And I just thank you for saving me, and I want you to take me and use me. Father, bless our invitation, I pray, in Jesus' name.