Turn to John eleven. John chapter eleven. We're going to be looking at a very familiar portion of scripture this morning. A story I don't doubt that the majority of you are quite familiar with yourselves in the book of John and the 11th chapter. We're living in an interesting day, are we not, to say the least And of course, there doesn't need to be a ton of explanation about uh the kind of day we find ourselves living in. And so I would say, you know, with where we find ourselves, we are all acquainted with disappointment. A lot of disappointing things have taken place in our personal lives because of the day in which we find ourselves. Uh, you know, this virus has kind of made life inconvenient for many, if not all. Of course, if you talk to anybody, they're going to have something that they would say, you know, did not take place in their lives because of Corona, you know, or because of this or that, traveling plans canceled, weddings postponed, uh churches closed, open A pastor not being able to be in church because his wife isn't feeling well, they're not sure what it is, you know, things like that. Mask, no mask, handshake, no handshake, you know, can't see people and so um with that aside we're all acquainted with disappointment and even before uh stuff like that uh we have personal things in our lives that have nothing to do with uh the day in which we find ourselves. Uh but so we no matter what age you are, uh you may not understand what disappointment is if you're really, really young, you might not know how to to define it, but you know what it feels like in all of us. Up even through the years of our ages, we know what disappointment is. But this morning, how would you define disappointment What kind of words would you put to it? Of course, I don't doubt that all of us could describe what disappointment feels like. But I would say, and this is how I would define it, it is an emotional state arrived at when an expectation does not become reality. You say that's pretty fair. It's an emotional state that you are now arriving at that you didn't have before because there was an expectation in your life that did not come to fruition did not come to reality. And sometimes this yields frustration, right? You say that's an accurate description of disappointment For each of us, like uh each of us, we we like things a certain way. I think this is why we're so easily disappointed. We like things to go a certain way. When we make a plan, when we set a time, when we set a schedule, we we want that to go according to plan, do we not? So we want things to start on time. We don't want things to be pushed back Um maybe you are some who had vacation expectations and you got there. So wherever you're gonna take a vacation, you watched the video about the place, you read the manual about it You got the uh a good word from a friend, a good review on the vacation spot, and you get there, and it's no big deal. It's not what you expected. You know, the the cabin is all messy, you know, the rides weren't that fun. You know, you go on the trip and the kids get sick, you get a flat tire. on the way there or your your flight is canceled or whatever. We we get um disappointed at times in lives. Maybe there's like that new restaurant. Everybody's raving about it. It's on the news. It's in the newspaper or whatever. Um and then you get there and it's like, what in the world? These people need more time to work on this. And you're not very, very encouraged by that. But of course, there are more serious disappointments in life. Then those examples, you know, you can vacations come and go, there's always going to be restaurants, but The health disappointment list is very long, of course, even before uh this year. You know, just just the normal stuff Someone diagnosed with cancer, someone has a certain disease, or something's going on with their body, we're disappointed with that news. Maybe it's you personally who has received news recently about your own life. And then there's the various financial challenges, the ebb and flow of our bank accounts and different things taking place That can be disappointing or even the the loss of a loved one. No matter what, uh it's hard, even if They're on their way to heaven. It's different. It's disappointing. There's an expectation that someone's just going to live forever, right? And then that expectation's not met. And then we we face that disappointing part of life Or maybe for some of you, there's the personal expectation of maybe where you think you should be in life. You know, you reach a certain age and you think, you know If you're single, I should be married by now, or at least engaged. Right? Anybody like that this morning who wants to say, I'm available? No. Okay. It was it can be disappointing. You you have an expectation, you know, you grow up as a little girl and you say, When I'm twenty-one I will be married and it doesn't happen And the young man he says, By the time I'm forty-five, I will finally get married, and it doesn't happen. He's forty-seven, right? And he g you di disappointed, or maybe you think you should have a certain job. or a certain career or a certain amount of money by uh a certain point of life, right? And we kind of set ourselves up for that because we're trying to predict a future that we have no control over so much. But um there's that as well. But then there are just people who can just break your heart. You know, somebody who may who was faithful to the Lord, somebody who was kind of promising in their walk with God, and then they're gone. They just they closed their Bible, they stopped confessing sin. And they start living for themselves and they're just maybe there are parents in here this morning who've had children that way. It's disappointing. There was an expectation that they would do the will of God for their lives, and it's not taking place. In our passage, we find some people disappointed by the death of Lazarus. Again, this is a very familiar story in God's word. But we know, of course, we know these people well, Mary, Martha, and of course the disciples who are involved with what is taking place here. They were people that Jesus loved very much. Aren't you thankful for the love of God this morning? It's amazing. I don't know if you are, but I am, okay? So the love of God, it is deep. He loves you so much that He's going to take care of you like He loves you. And Jesus loved these people very much. They were people who also Love Jesus very much. But when Jesus did not do things a certain way They were disappointed. And not only were they just naturally disappointed when Jesus didn't do things the way they might uh think he should do things, but even further, when he didn't um keep they thought he wasn't keeping them in mind, they found something else to be disappointed with in the situation. They were disappointed in their disappointment. Amazing. But it was in their disappointment and struggle with faith That Jesus performed his greatest miracle before he went to the cross. I want to ask you this this morning, church, and I want you to think about this as we go through. uh this narrative in God's word. Here's the question for you I want you to think about. Is there anything we can expect from God In the midst of our disappointment, is there anything we can expect from him in the middle of our disappointments? Some of you might be saying, well yes, yes, absolutely. Some of you might be saying, I don't know. You know, I haven't seen it So many of us were were literally all over the room this morning, and even emotionally and spiritually, we're all in different places. Perhaps you walked in here this morning with a disappointment. Many of you were looking forward to hearing Pastor preach And you're just turned off this morning. Please don't be turned off, okay? It could be disappointing, but is there anything we can expect from God in the midst of our various disappointments? I want to preach to you a message this morning from a very familiar story that's entitled The Time When Jesus Was Late. The time when Jesus was late. And of course, uh there's uh this this story c covers about forty six verses But just to get to the point this morning, I'm going to cover, I'm going to read twenty-two of them. And so if we would take a look here at John chapter 11. I'm going to pray, and then I'm going to read from God's Word this morning to enough just to set the stage and to give us the authority about what will be said this morning. Let's go to the go to the Lord in prayer. Father, I thank you for the day. This is your day. Your people are here. They want to be fed. They want to be helped. I think most of them would. God, may you exalt yourself through the preaching of your word. Show us Christ. Show us the risen Christ. Oh Lord, He was not just present back 2,000 years ago when this story took place. But by His death, His resurrection, and the giving of the Holy Spirit, Christ is with us. And Lord, I pray that you would show us your son and show us yourself this morning. Help us, help us all, even this preacher. For the glory of God in Jesus' name. Amen. We'll begin in verse one in just a moment. Bible says, now a certain man was sick named Lazarus. Of Bethany, the town of Mary and her sister Martha. It was that Mary which anointed the Lord with ointment And wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick. Therefore his sister sent unto him, saying, O Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick. Lazarus was sick, and they sent messengers to Jesus, not When he died, but before he died, or if he would die, they sent Jesus, uh sent for Jesus by kind of way of emergency. Verse 3 or verse 4. When Jesus heard that, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. When he had heard, therefore, that he was sick, he abode two days still in the same place where he was. He didn't leave. Then after that saith he to his disciples, Let us go into Judea again. His disciples say unto him, Master, the Jews of late sought to stone thee. And goest thou thither again? They're saying, you want to leave now and you want to go to Judea? Notice verse 15. Jesus says to them after they give their complaint about why they shouldn't go to Judea, he says, and I am glad for your sakes. That I was not there, to the intent, ye may believe, nevertheless, let us go unto him. He's now referring to being there. While Lazarus was sick, verse 16, then said Thomas unto, which is called Didymus unto his fellow disciples, let us also go that we may die with him. Then when Jesus came, he he found that he had lain in the grave four days already. Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off. And many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary to comfort them, according concerning their brother. That's an important phrase. It doesn't seem like it, but it is, verse 19, and many of the Jews came. That's going to be very important for this message this morning. Verse 20, then Martha was as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him, but Mary sat still in the house. Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. Maybe Jesus is thinking at this point, really? You sure about that? You know, verse 22. She says, but I know that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee You can kind of hear the spirit and the tone here. Verse 23. Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again. Shall rise again. Notice with me, verse 35. Bible says Jesus wept. Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him And some of them said, Could not this man which opened the eyes of the blind have caused that even this man, Lazarus, should not have died? Verse 43 And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. And he that was dead came forth. Bound hand and foot with grave clothes, and his face was bound about with a napkin, Jesus saith unto them, Loose him and let him go. Then many of the Jews which came to Mary and had seen the things which Jesus did believed on him. him. A lot going on in this passage. A lot of emotions, ups and downs. I want us to look at this this morning. I want us to notice in verse 15 quickly. Jesus says to these disciples after realizing that Lazarus was sick and he could have been dead. Jesus says to the disciples who respond to him about making his way to where Lazarus was and they're complaining about the journey. Jesus steps back in verse 15 and he says, And I'm glad for your sakes that I was not there. to the intent that ye may believe, nevertheless, let us go unto him. I want us to see first of all, especially in that verse, that is very obvious to me that it was good for the disciples that Jesus allowed Lazarus to die. You say, how could it have been good for the disciples, for God, for Jesus to let this man die. This man whom they also loved and whom they were so familiar with. Why? Why was it good Because the disciples weren't as spiritually alert as they may have thought they were. You know, these men spending time with Christ, walking with him, being seen with him, right? and seeing the miracles he beholds, they weren't as big and as tough as maybe they thought that they were. And so It's even in when Jesus says, let's go to Judea, we didn't read all these verses for sake of time, that they were complaining about the trip and talking about all the bad things that could possibly happen on their way to go see uh Lazarus and his sisters and Jesus says, I'm glad for your sakes that he he was not here. You see, by this time we would even think that they had an unwavering faith in who Jesus was. Oh, you're a disciple. You're probably unshakable, unmovable in your faith, right? Have you ever met anybody like that where you just assume they have they have no struggles in life just because of being a Christian for many years or a missionary or a preacher But again, their comments and concerns, their comments, their words, and their their needless concerns. revealed that there was a little bit more work to be done in their hearts regarding who their Lord was. So when Jesus wanted to make his way to where Lazarus was, the disciples questioned his decision. Now you want to go? You realize like There are people on that route who like want to hurt you and kill you and even us and yada yada yada and all this, and so they say, alright, let us go so that we will die with Lazarus also. So negative But if the disciples were listening in verse four, Jesus said, He said, This sickness is not unto death But for the glory of God, that the Son of God would be glorified thereby. He's saying that with this situation and with this disappointment It's not just because it's time for him to die, but he uh was implying that he was about to use the situation to glorify himself. And it was after that statement that the disciples said, Oh, let us go get hurt and get killed and die with the man. Amazing. So instead of expecting Jesus to do something great. They expected the worst. You know anybody like that? Because it's always negative. You know, if you've you've if you've got a f gotta fly somewhere and there's rain in the forecast, it's like, oh no, we're just we're just not gonna make it, you know, our vacation's already ruined because you know there's bad weather and you know somebody says you know oh wow somebody's birthday's today in February and they just say yeah that that's that's the month my mom died It's like you can't get positive with someone. And here are these disciples just thinking, oh okay, um he's gonna do something great, but we're gonna die on the way there. It's amazing So because the men didn't pay attention to his words, Jesus says, I am glad for your sake that I was not there. saying, you know, to a class, all right, we're going to learn five times five. You teach that, you say that to the first graders or second graders. And they respond, they say, but we don't know what five times five is. And the teacher says, exactly Because you don't know we're going to learn it. And they said, we're going to be we're going to get killed on the way to Judea. And Jesus says, This is exactly why we're going there. So that you might learn something valuable and not speak that way anymore. Amazing. So in the time frame of two days between receiving the news that Lazarus was sick And when Jesus took his men to go to where he was, Lazarus ended up dying. When Jesus and his men approached the village of Bethany, Mary and Martha were mourning their brother's death. And when Jesus and his men also approached the village, Mary and Martha not only were rightfully mourning the death of their brother, but they were surrounded by unbelieving, skeptical. Jews. Skeptical to what? Well, they just so happened to be Jews who were scratching their head about who this Jesus was. And believe on them. And they just so happen to be there. Amazing. Isn't it just like Jesus to draw a crowd He drew a crowd even before he got there. A crowd of on looking Jews The perfect setup for Jesus to reveal who He is. The perfect setup for Jesus to do something great. It was as if God in his sovereignty was just throwing the disciples a softball so that they could just whack it. and see our home run for the glory of God. It was as if God was just setting up up Jesus and His and His men for a spite. To just do something great. Unbelieving Jews so happened to just be there where Lazarus was dead. And here comes Jesus and his men rolling into town. Let's notice now the spirit of Martha and Mary. The original expectation of Martha and Mary blinded them from seeing what Jesus was doing. Their original expectation. What they thought Jesus should have done With the expectation of when he should have been there in their own minds. We can all understand this well. We we have a limited expectation of how we think God should be doing things. Maybe in our lives or in our homes, in our church and in our nation. We have an idea, we have an ex expectation. Uh uh we have uh a list of rules of how God just should be doing things and we think if we were God or if he really loved us and really cared This is how he would do things. And what often hinders or happens is that our expectation sticks on our spiritual eyes. And blinds us from seeing what God plans to do in the disappointments of life These sisters were not only upset that their brother was dead, but they were confused because they expected Jesus to do things a certain way. Hmm. These ladies were distracted enough by their idea of what they thought Jesus should have done that they didn't see what Jesus was doing. They were so overwhelmed by emotion and by their by their plans and how they thought things should go that they they didn't It's like Jesus is there now, but they they didn't see the opportunity that Jesus was setting up for himself. They were saying things like this in our text. You notice verse 21 They then said, Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. And they, like the disciples, they didn't see the opportunity that was set up for Jesus to be glorified. Their emotions caused them to lean on their own understanding. of the situation. Oh Lazarus was sick and and he died and uh Jesus has kind of been there for us before and and now he's all of a sudden not there for us even though he's here, he's not really here with us before And you know these unbelieving Jews are here too. And Jesus should have if you were here, things should have happened this way. See, their emotions caused them to lean on their own understanding of the situation. And now our brother's gone and never to be seen again. Notice verse 19, the Bible says, and many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary to comfort them concerning their brother. Verse 21. She says, but if thou hast been here at a certain time. Friend, if Jesus was there, maybe before Lazarus died, the Jews wouldn't have been there. I want you to think about that. I want you to hold on to it. If Jesus didn't allow Lazarus to die, the Jews wouldn't be there because they would have no comfort to give, because why are you there? If nobody died, there's no comfort to give. There's no reason to comfort, right? Do you agree with that? You understand what I'm saying there? So just for the sake of time, we already read some of these verses. Actually, I want us to look at these. Verse 22, she continues to say, But I know that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee. And Jesus saith unto her. He says, Thy brother shall rise again. Martha said unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day. Speaking of when Jesus will call all those in Christ home to glory. Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection. And the life. He's trying to give her hints and trying to imply that he is there now, that he doesn't have to wait to resurrect Lazarus at the last day, at the end of time. He's saying, I right, I am the resurrection and the life. Jesus clearly implied Lazarus' death was a means to an end. His death was a means to an end. Wake up, stick with me this morning. He said it was for the glory of God. He says, I am the resurrection of life, and whosoever believeth in me, though he were dead Jesus says these words. And yet the if thou statements continue because they couldn't let go of their own understanding. Jesus says clearly to these ladies, I, the resurrection and the life, I'm here now. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, I just I just don't know. The Bible tells us, I want us to see this, because there is compassion. There is compassion from the Lord Jesus. in a way in the situation. The Bible tells us in verse 35, one of the most famous verses in the Word of God, because of its because of its height. It's so short. How many of you sure people are famous because you're short? Right? Well here's the verse, not to be irreverent. Bible says Jesus wept. Jesus wept. Why did Jesus weep? Was Jesus brokenhearted that Lazarus was gone? I can't say that he was because he knew exactly where Lazarus' soul was and he knew exactly where Lazarus' body was. Uh uh was was he uh necessarily brokenhearted over the sorrow of the ladies. I would say that I'm convinced he was troubled because of the overwhelming lack of faith within the sisters of and the disciples Friend, I don't know about you that but going to a a a funeral of a lost loved one who did not know the Lord is more sad to me uh than it ever will be for somebody who knows the Lord and has passed on into his presence and is where everybody wants to go. But these little ladies were responding as if there was no hope for Lazarus. But there was hope for Lazarus and there was hope for those ladies in their present situation. So I believe that the Christ wept because they were responding like there was no hope and he was He was sad that they didn't have the faith to believe that maybe some glory and good could come out of this situation. Why can't you see that I can do something with this situation? Oh. But may we not forget this truth in the midst of our various disappointments that it is okay to come to God with all your anxiety and your care, but we must not neglect to conclude with a spirit of nevertheless Not what I will, but what you would will to be done. Oh, it's okay to come to God and give him your burdens and let him know how you feel. But may it be just like Jesus as he expressed how he felt about going to the cross to suffer for our sin. He concluded with But nevertheless Not my will, but thine be done. I will go to the cross, even though this is how I feel about it. It is going to hurt. It is going to be unimaginable pain But not my will. May it be that we take our cares to God and be transparent with God about how we feel. But may we at the end of the day say, God, my disappointing situation is yours to do something with. Not how I expect God to do things, but how he plans to do things. We have a very limited understanding, folks. Oh, might we be convinced of this fact that God Is our refuge and strength and very present help in trouble. And that's what Jesus was this day in John chapter 11. Present. In trouble, may not be according to their expectations, but he was there. This troubling spirit that Jesus had was not at all a lack of love on his part for these ladies Jesus passionately wanted these ladies to see what he was doing. It wasn't a lack of love. He wanted them to see what he was doing in their disappointment. So what was Jesus doing in their disappointment with their broken heart? What was he trying to do He was trying, number one, to provoke the fruit of faith in their lives, giving them an opportunity to believe him. You know that's what living by faith is? Believing God's word and trusting Him with the results of that obedience. Jesus is the word of God. And he was there in the flesh. And he was trying to give his followers an opportunity to exercise belief that he's going to do something. But secondly, he was setting the stage for the unbelieving Jews to see him resurrect a dead man from the grave. That's what he was doing. Not only was he trying to provoke more faith in those who already believed, but he was trying to give the unbelieving unsaved. On their way to hell, unbelieving Jews, an opportunity to place their faith in Jesus as their Savior by seeing him work a powerful miracle. And these ladies did not see it. The men, his followers, did not see it. They just went on the journey complaining and finding things to be depressed about. Jesus allowed Lazarus to die so that he could raise him from the dead and receive the glory. Jesus allowed him to die. Jesus allowed the broken hearts. so that he could make a great situation out of a bad disappointment so that unbelievers could be saved. Friend, so that believers could grow in their walk with Christ It was vitally important for his sisters and the disciples to face this disappointment, and you would say, why? Because it would provoke fruit in their lives. That's what God is all about in your life. Proving fruit The fruit of Christ-likeness. The Bible says that he predestined us to be conformed into the image of Christ That verse is for saved people. He determined before the world was that saved people would become like Jesus And God is at work in your life to make you like Himself. And the beautiful thing of the gospel is that God can take a bad in Daunting and heartbreaking situation and turning it turn it into something for his glory and for your good. The power of God can do that. I wondered this morning Are you living in these disappointing days as if God can do nothing about your disappointment? Are you living like unsaved people who have no hope? But secondly, again, it would draw this situation, it would draw others to faith in Jesus Christ. Remember the Jews, the unbelieving Jews who just so happen to be there. Listen, if Jesus was not late, he would not have been glorified If he wasn't late. If he was on time and he did everything exactly how Mary and Martha expected him to do things. What we're about to see wouldn't have happened. But because he was late, many of the onlooking Jews Turn to faith in Christ upon seeing Lazarus walk out of the grave. So in turn, Jesus, he was actually right on time. His time, a divine schedule to do something spiritually profitable for all people. Friend, he wasn't just trying to glorify himself, he was trying to make disciples more like him, and he was trying to Save unbelievers, the Jews here. Listen, I want you to understand this this morning that faith does not expect God to do things our way. Faith expects God to be God. Faith, believing this book, believing God, believing Jesus. That doesn't expect God to do things a certain way according to my imagination, according to my blueprints and my drawings. But faith just expects God to be God. God is going to be faithful, He's going to do His thing, and it's going to work out for my conformity into His image and His glory. As believers, you know, we can expect God to take our seemingly inconvenient disappointments And use them for our good and his glory. Notice, please, with me. The Bible says In verse 43, and when he had thus spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus come forth. And he that was dead came forth bound hand and foot with grave clothes, and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him and let him go. Verse 45 Then many of the Jews which came to Mary and had seen the things which Jesus did believed on him. People were saved while some people had to go through a disappointment t temporarily. As believers, we can't expect God to take our seemingly disappoint disappoint uh inconvenient disappointments and get the glory out of it. Listen, friend, be encouraged by this church. No disappointment or difficulty is a waste of time in the life of a child of God. But we can all all be tempted to think that they are if we lean on our own understanding. We can be tempted to Demand that God work according to how we imagine things should be, our timing, our comfort and convenience, according to our limited knowledge. We might demand God to do that. This is amazing, ladies and gentlemen. Uh if we will look here, um verse thirty nine, okay I'll get to that verse in one one moment here. But it's amazing that Mary and Martha they weren't even exactly sure about what they wanted When Jesus was making it very, very clear now that he was going to command Lazarus to come back to life and walk out of the grave, look what they say to him in verse 39. His sisters, Jesus said, take ye away the stone. And Martha, the sister of him that was dead, said unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh. It's as if she's saying, Well, no no no no no I mean are you sure you want to bring him back to life? I mean he's gonna smell really bad. Imagine if Jesus was like us and he said, Okay fine, I won't resurrect him from the dead. You won't have your brother back. Oh wait, no, no, no, bring them back. I'm sorry. Bring them back, right? It's amazing that sometimes we don't even know what we want when we lean on our own understanding. But if we just like God be God. He will do those things which bring him glory and work out for our good. It's amazing if we just let God be God. What can we expect from God in disappointments? Again, we can expect God to be God. You say, well that's it. Well church, think about me about who with me about who God is, exactly who he is. He is Alpha and Omega He's the creator and sustainer of time. He is the one who has perfect knowledge of all that he allows to come to pass. You don't God is the sovereign king. He is the one who ordained that all things work together for good to those who love God. to them who are the called according to his purpose, if you're safe, that's you. And he ordained this to be true before the foundation of the world. He ordained that all things in the lives of your of his children Would be used to conform them into the image of Jesus. God is faithfully at work in our lives No disappointment, great or small, is a waste of time in your life as far as God is concerned. He is at work in every moment of every day of your life. The big things, the heartbreaking things, and just the, oh, well. Pastor won't be here today. Maybe some of you that's monumental, or some of you are like, oh, finally, I'm just kidding. He's a great man. But I'm just for sake of illustration, Pastor, we love you. But what are the inconvenient disappointments Friend, what are the inconvenient disappointments wherein we need to expect God to be God? You name them in your life. You know you. You know your life right now. What is disappointing your spirit today? What did you go to sleep thinking about last night? What caused you to be depressed last week? That's a real thing, by the way. Charles Spurgeon, a great man of God, struggled almost every day of his life with depression. God uses that Perhaps it's the situation we all find ourselves in this year, 2020. It's the year we don't want to see again This is not what we would have ordered for the year, but our God has. Think about that. Your God who loves you deeply, who is sovereign over all, has allowed this to take place. A couple days late, it seems, doesn't it? Are you expecting God to be working in you and through you during this time? Are you closer to God today than you were? December thirty first, twenty nineteen. Are you more like him? Is God using you and working through your life more than he was January of this year because he has allowed some pressure to be put upon you? Are you expecting God to use the turmoil to bring a harvest of souls into his family? I'm amazed in these days, as since churches have just gone live. I know there's pros and there's cons about live streaming because some folks might be comfortable at home and won't return to the assembling of ourselves together and I commend you for being here and people have their different reasons, but friend People have been saved by watching in on gospel preaching churches on Sunday mornings. People have been saved. Who are the people around your life, around your neighborhood, around your cubicle at work who need to see Christ in you during this time? Are you expecting God to be God, or do your words and actions manifest that you perceive to know better than the Lord? If you were here, God, if you really loved us, um, this wouldn't have happened. Uh, COVID-19 and can 2020 get any worse? Uh the Democrats, Republicans, all this stuff, listen, friend, your words are a reflection of the position of your heart. What are you sharing and saying on Facebook about this? I'm gonna be real with you. Although in our eyes, COVID nineteen ruined things. Those some of those things are temporal. But in God's eyes they it didn't. It bettered you. Made you better. Souls have been brought into the kingdom. You've drawn closer to Christ in his word and in your daily walk. You've prayed more. You've sought his face more. Or perhaps your words and actions manifest an expectation that God is doing a good work. You can't help but just praise Him. Friend, he is the resurrection and the life. If you're saved, he is present with you. He is at work in your life. He's at work in the world. And friend, he works in the world through hard times, and he works through the in the world through you. Because he lives in you. Believers who expect God to be God Give their disappointments to Him to do with it whatever He wants. Believers who are just expecting God to be God in whatever your disappointment is, and I believe that it's Very real in your life. But if you're expecting God to be sovereign, He wants you to take your disappointment and hand it over to Him. He wants you to give him your Lazarus. He wants you to give him your broken heart so that he can use it better than we can. The believer who expects God to be God will do that. Believers who expect God to be God, they look for his glory. Oh man, that's too bad that that happened, but what's God going to do in that? What what's he he's gonna do more with this than he would without this? What's God gonna do? Sometimes we we just need to give him our basket and let him multiply the fish and the bread Sometimes we need to let him take us through a storm. I wonder, have you grown in your relationship and obedience to the Lord in the last five months or six months? I wonder, have you taken advantage of the day we find ourselves in and presented the love of Christ to a sinner who is searching now more than ever Searching for answers now, I wonder, have you looked for the opportunity? Oh, this man is probably looking for truth. Let me tell him about the love of God. Am I looking for the glory of God in my situation? Maybe your disappointment is a child or spouse who's out of the will of God. But it's increasing your prayer life. It's provoking you to be a Christ-like testimony to them. Back in our home church, there are a couple ladies who have had or still have husbands who aren't saved. And these women are prayer warriors. God is using that kind of disappointment, that inconvenience in their life of an unsaved spouse. to make them prayer warriors. And I've seen a husband after twenty years of a praying wife come to Christ. And he's faithful, not only to her, but to the house of God. He's a good man, I can name his name. Twenty years praying. Could it be a financial strain that has come about maybe in the last six months, or you've always had one friend expect God to be God, faithful to you Believe that as you concern yourself with his kingdom, his will, living for Christ, that he will concern himself with your earthly needs. You see, God's priority is to receive glory from our lives, and He can use whatever He wants to accomplish that goal. Whatever He wants. He's not limited. China is not in charge of where we find ourselves today. God is, but God is good. He is faithful to use whatever he wants to draw people to himself, to draw you closer to himself, to birth people into his family, whatever he wants. What you and I need to do in disappointment is expect God to be God, and that is true to his plan for your life. We have such a limited understanding. We can't even see beyond this baptistry. God can see in eternity. And we need to cling ourselves to that God. I wonder, are you walking with God? Do you have a daily relationship with Christ and His Word? Do you have a spot where you pray and where you just Chew on his word, meditate on it. Friend, if you're not doing that, then you won't expect God to be God. We need to look for how God is glorifying Himself. God does not promise a disappointment-free life, but He does promise His faithfulness. It's amazing sometimes we'll be telling somebody about the Lord. And how he can save their soul and clean up their lives. They think that that means that God is going to come in and take away every hardship in their life. We're talking to one man and he said, you know, I tried that Jesus name. And my life is still difficult. So I don't believe it. That's not what God is saying. You know, that's not a good play, okay? That's not what God is saying. He'll take your sin away. He'll forgive you, wash you in the blood of Christ. He will, he will, he doesn't promise a disappointment-free life. He promises forgiveness of sin, a relationship with your Creator, and an eternal home in His presence. The father who instructs his son to do hard things, that son often finds that his father knew best. I heard a story one time of a father who was going on a hike with his son. And so they came to the pinnacle, if you will, of their hike. And the the father had his backpack and took his backpack off and sat by a tree. And his son just kind of standing there looking at the view, and he says to his son, Hey son You see that see that boulder over there? And his son looks and says, Yeah, I see it. He said, How about you go push that boulder? Kinda random. Okay, Dad has been hiking for too long. He needs some water, right? Okay, that's Okay, I'll uh Dad I'll I'll push the rock. Okay, so uh go push the rock over the cliff and so the sun goes up to it and he gotta give it a push. Uh okay, kinda awkward. All right, Dad, I pushed it. He's like, son, man, man, you're weak. Go push it again. And so suddenly, okay, gets a little bit of a running start. All right. I'm gonna push this over the cliff and he goes and he runs into it and he pushes it and so he can't do it and so his dad's laughing at him and the son gets a little proud. He's like, Okay Alright, this is initiation in the manhood I guess. So he takes his backpack off, right? And he rolls up his sleeves and he gets uh he gets more space there to run and he runs at the boulder trying to push him over the cliff and oh man this is impossible. So he's like, Dad, what is Whew! What's the deal? I can't push this over the cliff. His dad said, Son, I never told you to push the boulder over the cliff. I just told you to push it And he says, son, look at your arms now. Muscle. See, sometimes God is just wants you to just push the boulder. is strengthen your faith so that you can go do greater things for him. And so many things we're just times we're just waiting for something exciting to happen and for that c boulder to just go over the cliff and we watch it go all the way down there. But God just tells us just keep pushing. Keep pushing. You don't understand, you don't get it, it's kind of random. But look at your spiritual arms. Right? Even the ladies. Then I don't doubt God is doing that in some of your lives. Faith in God is never disappointing. Faith in God is never disappointing. Faith in God is never disappointing when we see things his way. And we've got to have a relationship with this book. to understand things. We won't understand, but you know what I'm saying? And friend, if the reason why y you can't see God through this. It might be connected with your relationship with this book, the lack thereof. No Jesus. No him so you can make him known in your disappointment. Every head bowed, every eye closed this morning. Pianist will come. Our brother will come. Friend, if God spoke to you, however you do it, speak back to him in prayer right now. Give God the disappointment to use for your good and his glory. Some may just be holding it back this morning. Give it. Give it. If God spoke to you, speak to him. Panister will begin to play. To most our world is facing a crisis.