Genesis chapter 32, if you would notice verse number 9. I want to read 9 through 12. This is a prayer of Jacob. And um probably mention this again in the message, but as far as I can tell, this is the first technical prayer in the Bible. Now there's other places. Abraham talked to the angels of the Lord. There's communication between God and man previous to this, and I guess you could say that's prayer, but this Is perhaps the first actual prayer between a man and God recorded in Scripture. Notice what he says. And Jacob said, this is his prayer, O God of my father Abraham. And God of my father Isaac, the Lord which said unto me, Return into thy country, and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee. I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies, and of all the truth which thou hast showed unto thy servant. For with my staff I passed over this Jordan, and now I am become two bands. Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother from the hand of Esau, for I fear him, lest he will come and smite me and the mother with the children. Thou a and thou saest I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude I've entitled the message, The Road Back to Bethel. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father in heaven, we thank you. For the tremendous opportunity to assemble together here in your name. God, it's such a blessing and a privilege to be part of the body of Christ in this local church here, be a part of this body of Christ. You've been so good to us. God, you've blessed us. Lord, you've been patient with us. You've heard us when we've prayed. You've heard us when we've cried to you. God, you've led us. You've protected us. You've strengthened us. God, you've been very, very good to us as a church, and I would say all of us as individuals. And now with our Bibles open, I'm asking, Father, that you would speak to our hearts from your word. I pray you take these truths that are recorded here that we're going to look at, these principles in this passage, apply them to each and every one of our hearts and lives, our homes. As you know, we have need. We're each unique. We each have our own specific situations. And so, Holy Spirit of God, I pray you would help us. Our faith would grow. Our confidence in you would grow. I yield myself to you now, Father. I present my body anew in this hour and with all my heart I yield my will to you and plead with you that you fill me with your spirit. God, I pray it'd not just be me talking up here, but God, it'd be you speaking through me, your word. So have your way now. Help us to be receptive and open and honest with you and with ourselves. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Jacob is one of the most, in my opinion, and I think I'm probably correct on this, one of the most significant men in all the existence and the history of Israel. He's the father of the twelve sons who will become the twelve tribes of Israel that will make up the nation of Israel. So humanly speaking, there would be no Israel were it not for Jacob. Of course, God overrules all of that. So he's a tremendously significant man in the history, the very existence of the nation of Israel. In fact, Jacob is a tremendously significant man, not just in the existence and the history of Israel, but in all of Scripture, both Old and New Testaments, over twenty times God refers to himself. God refers to God himself as the God of Jacob. Now I don't know about you, but that's significant. That God would want people to know all of mankind through all of history, I am the God of Jacob. Would you agree with me? There must be something about this man, Jacob, that God would over 20 times identify himself as the God of Jacob. Would you agree with me? Something about this guy. He's significant in all through Scripture. So not only is Jacob significant in the history and existence of Israel, And then all through Scripture, God's identifying Himself as the God of Jacob. Now, along with Isaac and Abraham, not exclusively, but the fact that he's identifying as the God of Jacob, that means something. But I want to suggest to you, Jacob is a significant figure in all of human history. Again, humanly speaking, if there were no Jacob, there would be no Israel. Now think with me. If there were no Israel, there would be no Bible. We're told in Romans that the scriptures come to us through the people of Israel, the oracles of God. Israel is a significant and important nation in the mind, in the heart, and the plan of God Now let me just throw this out a little aside. We need to be very, very careful that we are friends of Israel. There's a movement, even in our midst a little bit, of becoming anti-Israel, and that, I'm as far as I'm concerned, that's a deadly mistake. We stand with Israel. We stand with them. That doesn't mean we approve every little thing. They're God's people. Are you with me? That's our position. If there were not, if it humanly speaking, if there wasn't if it were not for Jacob, there would be no Israel And if it were not for Israel, we would not have the scriptures. Would you agree with me? The scriptures have had a profound impact on humanity Can you imagine? Can you imagine what history and mankind would be like if there was no Bible? The darkness that we would live in. The depravity. We see it now on every hand. Can you imagine without the Word of God's influence? If it were not for Jacob, there'd be no Israel. If there were not for Israel, there'd be no Scriptures. If it were not for Israel, again, I'm humanly speaking, if it were not for Israel, there'd be no Savior. Jesus was and is a Jew, humanly. He came through the lineage of Israel. And so I come back to my opening statement. Jacob is one of the most significant men. Not just in Israel, not just in Scripture, but in all of history. He had a profound role. God used him. Now, as we look at Jacob's life in Scripture, we look at the Bible record of him as a man and his life, and we come to this conclusion, and again, I'm using a New Testament term here. But Jacob was a saved man. Now, generally in the Old Testament, they didn't use that term saved like we do in the New Testament But he was, again, a saved man. By that I mean this: God had completely, thoroughly, permanently, and eternally forgiven Jacob's sins. He was a saved man. He was accepted by God. He found grace and forgiveness. And it's very important to understand, again, sometimes these little false teachings will creep in, these little false ideas of man and I think doctrines of devil in a lot of cases will creep into our thinking, creep into our teaching and our beliefs. And the fact of the matter is, people in the Old Testament were saved by grace through faith exactly the same as uh those of us live in the New Testament covenant. Nobody has ever been saved or accepted by God because of their good works. Because of anything they could do. Jacob was not accepted by God. He did not find forgiveness of God because of some uh good thing he did or some uh uh righteousness he had of his own or some way he could earn God's favor. No, no, no. Jacob was a sinner, just like every other single human being that's ever been born apart from the Lord Jesus He needed forgiveness through the Messiah of Israel just like everybody else. Jacob was a saved man He was a saved man. We look at his life in Scripture. We notice things that support that. God repeatedly claims Jacob as his oath. As I said a few moments ago, over 20 times, God says, I am the God of Jacob. Never, ever do you find in Scripture God referring to Himself as the God of an unsaved person. God's claiming Jacob as his own. God is identifying himself with Jacob and Jacob with himself. I'm glad when I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior God accepted me as his own. In a very real sense, every one of us that know Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, we uh God is the God of And you name yourself. He accepts us in Christ. And so God over and over and over identifies himself as the God of Jacob. He claims Jacob as his own. In Matthew 22 and verse 32, and we don't have time to go to all a lot of these verses, I would like to But Jesus states that Jacob at that point in time, Jesus states that Jacob was still alive. You say, how can that be? He died centuries before, thousand plus years before. How could he still be alive? I'm here to remind you that the death of the body is not the end of my life Jacob was alive, very much alive, in the presence of God today. Jacob was a saved man, accepted by God. Uh alive. Uh I I did um we had the funeral on uh Tuesday for uh Roger Record, Shirley's husband. And one thing I pointed out there at that funeral, and as I do in just about every funeral I ever do, I pointed out the fact that you and I do not have a soul You and I do not have a soul. You and I are a soul. We have a body Right? You with me? Jacob was not the body that died and was buried. You read about a little later at the end of Genesis. That was not Jacob That was his tabernacle, that was his dwelling, that was his tent. Jacob was a spirit, was a soul. And when the body dies and a person is saved, a person knows the Lord, in Jacob's case, the Messiah, coming Messiah, when we know Christ is our Savior, though our body dies, yet we still live because He lives. So Jacob was a saved man, saved by grace through faith, just no different than anybody in our day and age. He looked forward to the coming Messiah. We look back to the Messiah we know was Jesus Christ. And so he's accepted by God. Jesus claimed that he was alive At that point in time, Jacob claimed God to be his Savior. In Genesis chapter 22, verse 21, he says, I'm waiting my salvation. He's looking to God, his Savior. In Genesis 49, 18, he states that his salvation is in Jehovah. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 13 says that Jacob died in faith. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 39 says that Jacob, along with many, many others, had a good report of faith. Jacob was a saved man. His sins were forgiven. When his body died, he went into what that point would have been the Abraham's bosom. Today he's in the presence of God. Let me ask you a question. Are you saved? Do you know for sure That your sins are forgiven, that you're completely accepted by God, and that when your body dies, you go to heaven and not to hell. It's the most important issue in life. It's more important than whether you have a certain number in your bank account. It's more important than whether how popular you may or may not be, whether anybody knows about you or not. Most important thing in the world is knowing that my sins are forgiven. Through the blood of Jesus Christ, through trusting and accepting Him as my personal Savior, God has forgiven all my sins. And that when the day comes and this old heart quits beating, these old lungs quit pumping air, and God accepts me into his presence of the most important issue in life. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save a soul. Baptism does not save nothing good work we do, nothing, nothing we can do on our part. Can take away our sins and make us acceptable to God. Nothing apart from trusting Jesus Christ, our personal Savior. And in Him, God accepts us. So Jacob was a saved man. That's settled in Scripture. It's very, very obvious. He knew the Lord as his Savior. Now here's where I'm getting at. Though he was a saved man, get this. He lived most of his life out of the will of God. What a tragedy. Have one life to live. One life. That's all we've got. No redo's, no do-overs, no mulligans. I've got one life to live, and I trust Jesus Christ as Savior. I have the Holy Spirit. I have a eternal life. I have the presence of God. And to go and squander that life out of the will of God. What a tragedy. What a tragedy. Now, of course, in the Old Testament, they didn't have the indwelling Holy Spirit, but he lived most of his life. Out of the will of God. Though he was a saved man, most of his life he lived, get this, in a backslidden state. Do you know it's possible for a saved man to be backslidden yet still be saved? I can be out of the will of God, yet still be accepted by God through by being in Christ. Jesus my Saviour. He led most of his life out of the will of God. He lived most of his life in a backslidden state. He lived most of his life, no living his life, his lifestyle for most of his life was no different than the lifestyle of the unsaved around him, for the most part. A saved man, out of the will of God, out of the will of God. Jacob had a recurring flaw. He had one flaw in his character that hurt him deeply, that stained his testimony. He never let God work things out God's way Jacob always had to manipulate things. He always had to ski Everything had to be Jacob's way. I did his song, his theme song would have been, I did it my way. For whatever reason, he had a hard time simply trusting God. To work things out, trusting God to lead him and direct him. He always had to scheme. He always had to lie. He always had to manipulate A saved man out of the will of God. A saved man leaning on his own understanding. A saved man doing uh his own way, what was right in his own eyes. And he paid a price. He paid a price. In our text, chapter 32, Jacob is on his way back into the will of God. His actions are taking their tolls. His manipulation, his scheming, his dishonesty is coming home to roost. And God's gotten his attention. Now he's coming back to Bethel. He's coming back to the house of God. He's coming back to the will of God. God's gotten his attention, and now he's heading back to being right with God again. I think for the first time, perhaps in a very, very long time, maybe ever. Jacob's on his way to finding peace of mind, a clean conscience, fear being gone. And resting and trusting in the perfect will of God. That's what's happening. He's coming back. Behind him is an uncle that hates him He'd stolen, he'd manipulated, they'd cheated each other really. But he had totally blown his testimony, and behind him, as he's making his way back to Bethel, back to the place the will of God back to where God wanted to be, physically, spiritually, mentally. Behind him is an uncle who hates him because of his actions. In front of him, between him and the will of God, is a brother who hates him and had some 20 years before sworn he would kill him Behind him, an uncle that hates him, if he went back there, it would be ugly. Ahead of him is a brother, and by the way, if we don't have time, but you look in the uh context there, his brother's coming out to meet him with 400 men. I'm here to tell you that's not a welcoming party. He's not bringing 400 men to throw a welcome home party for uh Jacob. 400 men, they're taking them out. So he's in this situation. He wants to be back right with God. He's making his way back to get in the will of God, to have the peace of God, blessings of God on his life again. Behind him is an uncle that hates him. Ahead of him is a brother who wants to kill him. He's got twenty, he he worked for his uncle for 20 years. And now he hates them because of his actions. He has two wives, he has eleven boys, and he's extremely wealthy. And he's on his way back to Bethel. Before he can get back into the will of God, he's got to deal with Esau. He's got to make things right with his brother before he can be right with God. You follow me? I put it this way. It is impossible, I hope you'll get this, let's bring it home a little bit to us. It is impossible to be right with God if I am not right with my brother. Huh? Let let let's apply this a little more I've been studying this book a long time. I've read this thing through. I'm working on, I think, my 50th time reading through the Bible. I'm not an expert, I'm not a scholar, but I am a student of this book. One thing I see in God's Word, the Bible, I cannot be right with God if I'm not right with my brother If I'm not right with my spouse, I cannot be right with God. You say, well, preacher, my spouse ain't right. I'm not going to answer to God. to whether my spouse is right or not, I'm going to answer to God for whether I'm right or not. You with me Well, if you knew what my wife was like, you'd know why I'm such uh I treat her that way. Listen, you're not going to answer to God for how your wife treats you. You're going to answer to God to whether you love her the way God told you to or not. Come on now. And vice versa. Well my husband he's such a knucklehead. Well that probably is true But ladies, you're not going to answer to God for what kind of husband your husband was. You're going to answer to God for what kind of wife you were. And I cannot be right with God if I'm not right as a husband towards my wife. And vice versa. We're studying in Sunday school. We're studying the Book of Malachi. Malachi hammers that The husband and wife relationship and my relationship with God. And so, if he's going to get right with God, he's got to get right with Esau. He's got to get right with his brother. He's got to deal with his brother. I put it this way: it's impossible for me to be right with God if I'm not right with my parents. Young people. Say, well, I just can't stand my parents, then you you're not right with God. Well, I just I just say it, uh I I can't stand I I'm not doing what they say. Then you can't then you're not right with God. But can I be frank with you? You're not right with God You're not right with your parents. Brother Charles Holmescher, founder and director of Neighborhood Bible Time, I worked under him for many, many years. Dear friend, great man of God. Millions, literally millions of young people, children, young people, reach with the gospel through his ministry, his leadership. God used them tremendous ways. By the way, his hundredth birthday was this past week I think it was Thursday. He's been in heaven a number of years now. He used to say this. I've s heard him say it to young people s m scores of times. He would say, if you can't obey your parents, you won't obey God. I think there's truth to that. If Jacob's going to be right with God, he's got to make things right with Esau. He lied to him, he stole from him, cheated him. He's got to come back and make that right if he's going to get back to Bethel, if he's going to back where it should be. It's impossibly right with God unless I'm right with my parents. Hey, I can't be right with God if I'm not right with my child You're lying to your children. If you're s you're not being what you ought to be as a parent, you're not right with God. I'm just telling you. If I'm not right with my neighbor, if I'm not right with my boss. I believe a child of God ought to put eight hours of work in for eight hours of pay. We ought to be honest. To our boss. We ought to work hard. We ought to honor him. Employees. Would you I I tell you, an employer, you want to be right with God, you need to be right with your employees. I'm just saying we need to do right. And just go down the list. You can go down the list of any any relationships we have. My relationship with God directly affects and is in many case in many ways directly affected by my relationship with my fellow man And 1 John, we could go there and look in 1 John, he brings that out very clearly. If I say I'm in fellowship with God, I'm not in fellowship with my brother, then I'm I'm lying, I'm not telling the truth. Chester put it beautifully. If you don't, how'd you say it? If you don't love your brother, you don't love God We need to have him sing that again. Amen. It's a good song. So Jacob's coming back to God, but before he gets right with God, he's got to get right with his brother. He's got to make things right. Let me just throw this out there Listen, will you let me be a preacher this morning? If there's somebody you're not right with, and they're coming to mind right now, they're in your mind right now. You've got an attitude. There's some issue there. Let me preach to you. Make that right. Make that right so you can have the blessings of God, you can have the presence of God, you can have the joy of the Lord. God's dealing with your heart right now to make that right. And I plead with you, do what God says. Amen. I wouldn't want a pastor, I wouldn't want a preacher that didn't urge me to do right. Preach it me to do right, do right, do right. So Jacob's got to make things right with Esau if he's going to be right with God. Now we come to Verse 9, 10, 11, and 12. And again, it's one of these great prayers in the Bible. And I may be mistaken, and maybe it's just uh semantics a little bit here, you know, people could debate, but. Looks to me like this is the first formal prayer in Scripture that we would identify as a prayer. And it's prayed by a man that is far from perfect. Get this. It's prayed by a man that in many ways was very weak in his faith. He had a tendency, as I said a moment ago, to lean on his own understanding. He had a recurring flaw of taking things into his own hands. And that is not characteristic of faith in God. And so he was a man in many ways who was weak in his faith and had some flaws in his character. He had a flawed testimony to most of his family. And yet he prayed. And he prayed a profound prayer here. I think Jacob is biblical proof that no matter how badly I've blown it, I can come back to God. No matter how badly I've messed up, I can restore my testimony. God can take the ashes of my mess And if I'll come to him in humility and prayer and submission, he can take those ashes and turn them into something beautiful. He can take a terrible testimony. He can turn that around into a powerful testimony of the grace and mercy of God. Are you with me? Jacob. Jacob. He praised this prayer. It's profound. It's powerful. And there's lessons here for all of us, for all the ages. By a man who had so many flaws. We've been emphasizing the recent messages. I just it dawned on me last night I was looking over and In recent weeks, our messages have emphasized prayer and having faith in God. And I assure you, it's not deliberate on my part And come and say, alright, for the next five weeks I'm gonna zero in and emphasize uh having faith in God and Trusting God and praying. I'm convinced it is God's leadership in our church to emphasize that we need to pray and we need to trust God As a church, we need to learn to have faith in God and let Him lead us and let Him direct us and trust Him to meet our needs and help us and power our witness. Strengthen our faith that we can live for Him throughout the week and be a testimony, a godly testimony to the grace of our God. And it takes prayer and it takes faith. And I believe God's emphasizing that. Jacob prays here. I got a few minutes. Let me just stress the importance of prayer. The importance of prayer. There's a lot of ingredients that go into making a mature Christian. How many folks here? You saved you know it. Say amen. Is everybody with me? Everybody hanging in here with me? How many of those of us that know Christ as Savior, we have assurance of our salvation, scriptural assurance of our salvation? How many of us here would like to be a mature Christian? My hands raised. I don't want to be a babe in Christ. I don't want to be an immature believer. I don't want to have weak faith. But there's a lot of ingredients that go into being a mature Christian. And you could preach series on that. But I want to say this morning: one of the primary ingredients of being a mature, strong Christian is prayer. Having faith in God and praying. One of the there's a lot of different factors that go into developing strong faith. There's a lot of uh uh various issues that go into being right with God and having God's blessings, but prayer is a high priority. Put a few statements down. I put this down. A growing Christian is a praying Christian. Do you pray? I mean, pray. A strong faith requires persistent prayer. Our church has needs. We're we're ne we're in my opinion, we need a new nursery back there. We need to expand it. I think Uh it's gotten to the point we're just stacking babies on top of each other in the corner. It's just like a warehouse full of babies back then. It's not quite that bad mothers You got babies, come on now. We got room. But we need a we need we have needs in our church. We need a bigger nursery. We need some other things around. We need this. The basement needs attention. We need to reach more people. We need more missionaries. We need more soul winners. We need more bus winners. We need, need, need, need, need. The greatest need of our church isn't more money. Greatest need of our church isn't bigger and better buildings. Greatest need of our church is Not more programs. And we can use all of that. But I suggest to you the greatest need of our church is a stronger faith and more earnest prayer. Because if we trust God and we pray as the Bible instructs us, as we have an example here, we can see God meet those other needs. We teach our young people to play sports and how to be a great ball player or whatever. Teach our young people how to hunt fish. I did my boys. Tried to Teach them how to make money and handle money and be successful in business and how to be financially grounded But we don't teach them to pray. We spend more time teaching them how to run a ball. And we do how to get a hold of God. We teach him more about how to live this temporal life here and all these things. And we put so little time and effort into teaching them how to have faith in God Most important issues in life that's going to see them beyond this life into eternity and we don't spend a we don't spend any time Teaching our children the most basic things that are necessary in life, prayer and faith in God. What should it profit our young people if they gain the whole world? They lose their own soul. They never learn to pray. They never experience the power of God in their life. They live their life like Jacob. Maybe they get saved, but they live their whole life out of the will of God. The importance of prayer, the importance of faith in God. When we pray, God meets our needs. When we pray, God gives direction. When we pray, God heals our hearts. And when I mean when we really pray, God gives us power and our witness and power to live and have victory over sin. When we pray, God gives us our witness, effectiveness, and we can see soul saved. All that in answer to prayer. We need our teach our children to pray. We need our teach our children to trust God I still believe, I still believe in the old family altar. I tell you, that old family altar Died off the scene in the United States of America, our nation took a hard dive down into darkness. When mom and dad and the kids would gather around and read the Bible and pray as a family, maybe sing songs to God, when that fell by the wayside, our nation took a heavy toll. Importance of prayer. When churches start dropping prayer meeting When churches stop emphasizing, trusting God and praying and assembling together a men's prayer meeting, ladies' prayer meeting, Sunday school prayer meetings, midweek prayer meetings. Pray! Our churches have lost their power, and our influence in our world has died off What I'm trying to say is the importance of prayer. The importance of prayer. Jacob had his ups and downs. His faith struggled. But he knew the importance of prayer. So, number one, the importance of prayer, too, I end with this: the ingredients of prayer. The ingredients of prayer. For all his shortcomings, Jacob understood a little bit of God's character. He understood how to pray. When it came time, when it came what we call crunch time Jacob knew how to pray. He knew how to get a hold of God. I noticed, first of all, his focus, the focus of his prayer was on God himself. Look at verse 9. And Jacob said, Oh God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac He knew God. He knew that prayer was coming to God. He saw it in his grandfather Abraham. He saw it in his father Isaac. That prayer is not just repeating words, it's not just reciting some poem. Prayer is coming to God Almighty, the Creator of heaven and earth. Prayer is to God. Prayer connects me with the God that created the universe. It's a powerful thing. You see, sometimes some tragedy will happen, and I don't know anymore. I haven't I don't watch news at all anymore. I read a few little headlines. But back in the day when you had the big three networks and they'd have news, you know, and uh anybody remember this name, Walter Cronkite and uh Peter Jennings, all these guys And some tragedy would happen. And they'd make a statement like this our prayers are with you. Alright? Anybody ever hear them say that? Listen, just repeating a prayer is meaningless. When we pray, we're coming to God. You follow what I'm trying to say? It's not just abracadabra. It's coming to God Almighty. His focus was on God. He believed God. He needed God. He trusted God. It's not how fancy my prayer is, but it's how faithful my God is that makes my prayers effective. Jacob had a relationship with the Lord. He placed his faith in God. And when he prayed, he prayed to God. He came to God. Then I noticed the foundation of his prayer. Look at the last part of verse 9. He says, God of my father Abraham, God of my father Isaac, the Lord which said unto me God, you said this to me. Return to thy country and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee. His foundation of his prayer is God's promises to him. God, you promised me That if I come back, you deal well with me. God, you promised my brother's going to kill me. But you said if I go back to Bethel, you would deal well with me. God, I'm holding you to your word. Listen, we need to be very, very careful. We don't claim promises God never made. But if God promised something, we can hold on to it. We can claim it. God, you promise. You said you would dwell well with me. You said you would deal well with me. We mustn't claim promises God never made, but we must claim promises that God did make. The foundation of my prayer is the promises of God. I like Hebrews 10. 19, he says this, having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest of God by the blood of Jesus Christ. As a believer in Jesus Christ, the blood of Jesus makes it possible for me to come into the very throne room of God, right into his very presence, and I can claim his promises to me. Find a promise of God. I have some issues in my life. I'll just be personal with you. I have a couple issues in my life that I'm dealing with, and I have promises. I've uh I've I I have promises in the Bible that God has made some statements. And I'm holding them to God. God, you promise this. That is the foundation of our prayers of the promises of God. Let me ask you a question. Can God deny Himself? Huh? Come on now. We need a stronger confidence than that. No. God cannot lie. If God has promised us, here, let me give you this one. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Is that true or not? Absolutely. If a person calls on the Lord, Tuesday, seven people called on the Lord to be their Savior. God promised everybody that does that will be saved. Amen or not? And every other promise of God is just as true. You can't pick and choose. God's promise. And now don't claim some promise he didn't make. And by the way, many promises have conditions. Alright, I've got to meet the conditions, but if I meet the conditions, I can claim the promise. I think the problem with a lot of believers nowadays is we're afraid to simply take God at His Word. We're afraid to claim promises that he's made. You say, well, I claimed this promise, he didn't do it. Ah give him time. Wait on the Lord. Let him have his way. Let him work it out. So he had the foundation of his prayer. And then I noticed the force of his prayer. Verse 10. Look at this. I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies, and of all the truth that thou hast showed unto thy servant. You know what I wrote in the margin of my Bible there? Humility. You know what makes my prayers powerful? Humble faith in God Learn to say this to God and mean it with all your heart. Learn to say this to God. Mean it with all your heart. God, I don't deserve it. But I'm asking you to have mercy on me. Amen. I come up to God and say, Alright, God I deserve this. Give me what I deserve. Brother, you say that, you're in for a rough road ahead of you, I'm telling you right now. All before God. God, I'm a sinner. I deserve to go to hell. And God, I just humble myself before. What is 2 Chronicles 7. 14? If my people Which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray, seek my face turned from their wicked ways. I'll hear from heaven You know what makes our prayers powerful? Isn't our pride? Isn't how much Bible we know? Isn't how many souls we saved? Isn't how what a great guy I am? What makes my prayers powerful is me humbling myself before a holy, almighty, all-wise, perfect God. Say, God, you promised. God, I don't deserve it. God, I don't deserve it. But you promise. And I'm trusting you. Hey, that's a powerful prayer right there. You know the prayer of God will hear to save a soul? God, I'm a sinner. God, I've broken your law. I deserve to go to hell, but I trust in Jesus and have mercy on me and forgive me and save me. I tell you, God will hear that prayer every time. God will answer it. Amen? Jacob's on his way back to Bethel. He's got to make things right with his brother. And he learned to pray. George Whitfield, one of in my mind, one of the great creatures of years going by, was a key factor in the existence of our nation as we are. God's blessings of our nation, I'm convinced The Great Awakening in the Northeast, George Whitfield, a powerful preacher. John Wesley, many of us are familiar with John Wesley, powerful preacher. They had some theological differences, and it caused a riff, serious riff. George Whitfield and Wanted to be careful that he didn't hinder the cause of Christ because of their differences. They f there was some fussing going on. Someone came and asked Whitfield if he thought he would see John Wesley in heaven. Whitfield replied, I fear not. For he will be so near the eternal throne. And I'll be at such a distance, I'll hardly get sight of them. You know what he was saying? He was saying, I maybe we don't agree on something. But he's so much he's so much farther ahead of me. God's used him. What George Whitfield was doing was this, he was humbling himself. Not me, not how great I am. You follow me? And that's what we need to do before God. Humble ourselves. Father, please bless us. Teach us to pray, Lord. Teach us to learn from, help us learn from Jacob on how to pray. And to come to you in faith and confidence and then claim your promises humbly. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. I've trusted Christ as Savior. Maybe you've gotten away. Maybe you're out of the will of God. I don't know. That's between you and God. But this morning you say, preacher, I need to come back. And maybe there's somebody you need to make something right with. Again, that's between you and God and them. But you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. Maybe it's a parent, a child, a spouse, a neighbor, a worker, I don't know Do you say, preacher, pray with me? There's some, I gotta make some things right. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Just between you and God, any, God bless you, hands around. There's probably more hands ought to be raised than what there are, I would say. I urge you, trust God, humble ourselves, make it right. Wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I need to I need to discipline myself to pray. I need to get, I need to learn to pray. Pray earnestly and Pray in faith. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray with me. I wonder if some would say, Preacher, I need to get this family prayer time going We need to have this family altar established. Anything like that. Preacher, pray with me. Whatever your family can say. Maybe it's just you and the Mrs. or Mr. Maybe it's just you We're going to have some family prayer time. Any at all like that? God bless you. Let's just make it happen. Let's just make it happen. And then whatever specific burdens need you have, come find a promise from the Bible, claim it, and hold it before God. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. One last before we have the invitation. Is there any here to say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm saved. I want to know my sins forgiven. Any like that, by the uplifted hand, preach and pray for me. I need to get that settled. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name.