Scripture that Brother Grant read a few moments ago, this whole story. And I want to remind you, it's not just a story, this is an actual event that took place. uh back when Jesus Christ was on earth. And this has always captured my attention. I don't know if it's because uh because I'm a father of two sons. that maybe uh this father's plight here with his son maybe connects in my heart a little bit. I'm not sure about that. But every time I've read this in my Bible reading and in my study of the Word of God This always catches my attention. I always find myself slowing down and stopping and looking at this passage. There are so many lessons In these verses that we read. There are so many messages here that we can touch on. I think most of us are familiar with this story, many of us I should say. And uh but Jesus Jesus Christ, if you read the entire chapter, what you find here is Jesus Christ has gone up into what we call the Mount of Transfiguration. There Jesus as the Son of God meets and communicates with God the Father. And a little interaction takes place here. Peter, James, and John are there and they witness this And while Jesus is up on this Mount of Transfiguration, there's an event taking place down off the mountain with the remaining disciples. And that's where it picks up in verse number 14. Jesus comes down off the mountain. He sees this going on. And what we have here is uh look at verse 14 again. He came to his disciples. He saw a great multitude about them, the scribes questioning with them. Obviously there's a hubbub going on here. Disciples and men of it middle of it. And these scribes who were critical of the Lord Jesus Christ, these scribes who denied the the miracles and uh and uh uh and just denied who the Lord Jesus Christ were they had just came like flies on a dead possum along the road. They just came on these disciples and they are all over them because of what had taken place. A father had approached the remaining disciples that were not up on the mountain. He had approached them and he had with him his son. Now his son was in a pitiful situation. He was demon-possessed. And the Bible says Jesus refers to him as a dumb spirit. It doesn't mean the spirit was ignorant, dumb as in a dummy. Means he was dumb in that he could not speak and deaf he could not hear caused the boy to be that way. And this dee this demon possessed this little boy and was absolutely destroying him And tearing him and gnashing on him and trying to destroy this little boy. Now put yourself in the father's shoes. Here is his son, who he no doubt loved very, very much, as any father would. And his son is in such a condition there is absolutely nothing the father can do. His heart has to be ripped out of his chest as he sees his boy in this condition. Uh, it is such a situation that there's not a man on earth that could change this boy, that could deliver him. from this demon possession. And so he does what I believe I would have done, no doubt. He hears about the Lord Jesus Christ. He hears Of the miracles Jesus is performing. He hears of the blind that can see. He hears of devils that are cast out. And he thinks, my only hope For my son to grow up and live a decent life and to be the person I always dreamed my boy would be, I've got to get him to Jesus Christ. If I can just get my son to Jesus Christ, my son will be fine. My son will be okay. And so he comes, brings his son, and lo and behold, Jesus is not with the disciples. Jesus is not where the father thought he would be. He was up on the mountain. And so the disciples. He brings his boy to his disciples, explains the situation. I'm not giving all the details of what transpired there, but they could do nothing for the Father. They could not help his son. Uh no doubt they prayed over the boy. Perhaps they had commanded the devils to come out of him. Maybe they Tried to mimic what the Lord Jesus Christ, they had seen Jesus do in previous situations. We're not told all that, but uh whatever they attempted to do, they had failed completely. They were powerless to help this father and his son. So Jesus comes down and uh he sees the aftermath of this event Well, when the scribes saw that the disciples could not do what the Father needed them to do, that they were powerless, they just, like I said, they got all over that. And if you'll notice there in verse 14 it says the scribes questioning with them. That word questioning there has the idea of debating. And uh has the idea of uh of criticizing them, disputing with the disciples. I mean, they're not just come and ask them little questions They are criticizing them. They're trying to get them in debate. They had failed. Why did you guys I thought you had the power of God? I thought Jesus was able. I thought, I thought, I thought. And they are just tearing these guys up Well, Jesus comes down, as I said, he sees all this going on. And I thought it was interesting in verse number 19 that Jesus publicly rebukes the disciple For their lack of faith. Look at verse 19. He answered him and saith, and he's talking to the Father here now, and he saith, O faithless generation I believe he's addressing the disciples, though. O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? And he's in a sense rebuking the disciples and perhaps the father in all this also for their lack of faith in him. He's saying, in a sense, disciples, I've been with you all these years, and you still don't understand my power. You still don't understand the role that faith plays in the Christian life. And so, by the way, that's one thing Jesus continually pressed upon the disciples Is that they've got to learn to have faith in Jesus Christ. Over and over and over them. He would press upon them. You have got to learn to trust me. You have got to learn to take me at my word. And some of his harshest rebukes of the Lord Jesus Christ, even more so than to the publicans and drunkards and thieves He rebuked his disciples for not trusting him, not exercising faith in his word and who and what he was. And so he gives this public rebuke. You guys have got to learn that you can trust me. And then, well, let's back up. Verse 16. Jesus shows up. Why question what question you with him? He basically asks, What's going on here? Fellows, what's happening? And let me stop and ask you a question here. Did Jesus ask that question because he didn't know what was going on? No. I'll tell you this: Jesus always knows what's going on. Amen? He always knows what's going on. Jesus Christ, and we touched on this in Sunday school a little bit, Jesus Christ, to use a theological term, is omniscient. In other words, he is all-knowing. In other words, Jesus Christ, God the Son, knows what is going on in your life and my life. He knows what's happening. Nothing is hid from him. Even the darkness, the Bible says, is light to God. So we cannot hide anything from the Lord. We're never misunderstood by God. Isn't that good to know? We're never misunderstood. He knows what's going on. Sometimes people say, uh, have you ever said this? I don't think anybody in the world understands what I'm going through. Anybody ever feel that way? I'm telling you, there is someone that knows exactly what's going on So when the Lord comes up in verse number 16, he says, why question it? Whether what's going on here? He's not trying to get information from them. He's not, Jesus isn't trying to sort out what's happening, He already knows that. He is doing this for a uh for a uh purpose. Uh he has reasons. I want to suggest two possible reasons why Jesus would ask this father what's going on. First of all, I think he's giving the father the opportunity to express his concern for his son and the father's understanding about what's going on. I don't know about you, but when I come into a doctor, uh sometimes maybe a doctor already knows what's what the situation is But I feel a whole lot better if I can simply express to that doctor what I understand to be happening Can anybody relate what I'm saying? Uh, you know, you come in, maybe the doctor has the tests, he has everything, he looks at you, you know, he sees these huge welts all around your ankles that itch like crazy. And he says, I think you picked up chiggers out in Missouri when you were visiting your son this past week. And uh the doctor says something like that. And um I'll explain that to you later if you see me. But uh but you know, I just want to come in. I know that he probably already knows everything going on, but I just feel good. Telling him what's going on, what's happening. I think the Lord is doing this for the Father. This father, now put yourself in his daddy's shoes He is absolutely scared to death. He loves his son so much, and he sees his son being destroyed by these spiritual forces that he has no control over. And it has to be just reassuring when he can come to Jesus Christ and say, Jesus, this is my situation. This is what's happening to my son. This is what the devil is doing to my child. And uh so Jesus says, What's going on? I think, for one reason, so the father, just out of compassion for the father Let him share his heart. Let him express to him what's going on in his life. I am glad that I can come to Jesus Christ and share my heart to him and he will listen to me I know he already knows what I'm dealing with. I know he knows how broken my heart is. I know he knows how great overwhelming this need is. But if I just kneel before him and say, Lord, here is my situation, and I can just pour my heart out to him and cry out to him, just knowing he's willing to listen. It's such a wonderful, wonderful thing. And so Jesus says, What's going on here? Why question you with him? And um uh uh and he gives the father opportunity To express his concern. But I think there's another reason the Lord might ask this question. I think he asked this question, let the Father explain everything, so that the people standing around They can see how what uh the magnitude of the miracle that Jesus is about to do All they see is a daddy. They see this son acting up. They don't know what's going on. Maybe he's just uh, you know, maybe he's just really naughty or something. And he gives the father to publicly express exactly what the situation is. That way the people there can see and they can understand wow. This is an overwhelming situation, and they can grasp the magnitude of the miracle that's about to take place. Now, I'm trying to build up to my little outline of verse number 23, just kind of set the stage of what's going on. But I noticed in verse 28 and 29 After this comes all takes place, after Jesus heals this boy, the disciples come to the Lord. Look at verse 28 again. And when he was coming to the house, his disciples ask him privately. Why could not we cast him out? That's a pretty good question. In fact, if I was in the disciples' shoes, I would want to know. What did we what did Jesus do differently than what we did? What what why what why was Jesus prayer uh commands to cast this thing out effective and ours were not effective. Verse 28 suggests to me that the disciples were convinced they had enough faith for this to happen. It wasn't obvious to them that they didn't have the faith necessary, whatever. And so um uh they're very concerned Why couldn't we do this? We thought we could. We thought we had the faith. We thought we were better Christians than what we are. We thought we were closer to you than what you were. We thought we had more victory in our lives than what we obviously do. Lord, where were we wrong? And the Lord makes a fascinating statement, and this would be a great sermon and study in and of itself in verse number 29. Notice what he says. He said unto them, This kind can come forth by nothing but by prayer and fasting. Now this is on the disciples' part. If they were going to be effective in this situation, if they were going to change the situation for this father It was going to require much more effort on their part. It's going to require a lot more sacrifice on their part. Listen, there are some situations in life That is going to require a whole lot more on our part than other situations might be. We are in a spiritual warfare And sometimes, sometimes, uh some of you all will be able to relate to this, sometimes we can just fire a prayer up to heaven and man God just answers it like that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Did you ever have that Just some simple little thing. Man, I asked God and boom, there it is. And sometimes, I'll be honest with you, I thought, Lord, you know that's a simple little prayer. It's really not that significant, and you've answered it just so quickly and so clearly And then here I have another situation that is so important and so crucial in life And yet I pray and pray and pray and pray, and I don't see that answer like that. You know what the answer to that concern is? Some situations require much more effort and sacrifice. Jesus said this kind, not all kinds, but this situation here requires uh it's can come forth by nothing but by prayer and fasting. Listen, we need to take our Christian lives seriously. There are souls at stake. The glory of God is at stake. Our spiritual well-being is at stake. And we cannot and must not be flippant about our walk with God, especially those of us who are parents. We have got to invest spiritually in our children. And he is saying here that some situations require more effort and more sacrifice on our part than others. But now I want to get down to the message. This is what uh spoke to my heart here. Verse number 22. Let me read this through again. I'll give you a little outline. Verse 22. And oft times They're speaking of this demon, this devil that's afflicting this child, the father says all times it casts him into the fire. And into the waters to destroy him. Now look at the wording here very carefully. But if thou canst do anything, Have compassion on us and help us. Now think about what he's saying. God, Jesus, if you can. Please help me. Lord, if you can change us, if it's even possible for you to change us, please, I'm begging you. Intervene in my son's life. Intervene in this situation. Lord Jesus turns that around And look what he says in verse 23. Jesus said unto him, if thou canst, did you catch that? The Father says to Jesus, Jesus, if you can do anything, and Jesus turns that right around on him and he says, if you, if thou canst believe All things are possible to him that believeth. And straightway, this just rips my heart out. And straightway the father, the child Cried out and said with with tears, Lord, I believe, help thou mine unbelief. This daddy is desperate. And so, number one, here's my first thought this morning in this passage. Number one, I want us to notice the issue that is pronounced here. In other words, what is it, what is the real issue here Again, in verse 22, the Father says, if you can do anything, Jesus turns that around and corrects, he says, you're missing the point. The issue is not whether I can do anything or not. The issue is can you trust me or not? And the Father's mind, in the Father's mind, the issue was whether the Lord is able to meet this need. That was the whole question. Is Jesus even able to change this? If thou canst do anything. Now why he brought the Son to Jesus in the first place. anticipating the Lord making them well. Why would he now ask the question, if you can do anything? Something, I in my mind, something happened between when the father brought the son initially to have Jesus make him well And to this point now in verse 22, where he says, if you can do anything, have compassion on us, something in between there happened. You know what I believe happened? I believe the disciples' inability to make the child well put doubts in the father's mind whether Jesus could make the child well or not. And I'm telling you, how many folks here, you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Now, those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, there's something, there's an important principle here we need to understand. Our behavior as Christians has a profound impact on unbelievers' understanding of God. Did you get that? I am a Christian, and for most of us that know the Lord, no doubt there's people around us that understand that we're saved, that we're Christians. We've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. We're followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. We worship Him. God the Father. And as they observe our behavior, as they observe our lifestyle, they hear the things we say. They hear how we say them. They observe how we live our life and what we invest in and how we use our time. And they observe that and they come to conclusions about what our God is like. And the disciples' powerlessness to help this child, for whatever the reason was, had a profound impact on this father. in a very negative way in that it put doubts in his mind whether Jesus was really able to help his son or not. I'm thinking of uh back in the Old Testament with um with uh uh Ruth. And uh she comes to Naomi and she says, Thy God shall be what? My God. And he's saying, where you worship I will. There was something about Naomi. That caused Ruth to have a clear understanding of who her God was. Follow what I'm saying? Her behavior, her lifestyle gave her a clear understanding. And that's, I think, is taking place here. The father came, and in his mind, the issue concerning his son getting well was whether Jesus was even able to make a difference or not. When our behavior does not rise to our profession, People begin to doubt God. Can the Lord really change my life? And then they look at somebody who claims to be saved, and they're not living any different than they are Then the issue comes up, well, can the Lord even change my life? They say, boy, can God deliver me from this sin? Can God this sin is destroying my life Can God deliver me from this sin? Then they see someone who claims to be saved living in the same sin they're living in. And it puts doubts in their minds. I don't think God could even change my life. I don't think God could even uh uh uh uh deliver me from this sin. Can the Lord meet my need And then you have a Christian that doesn't pray and doesn't see God doing things in their life. There's nothing supernatural about their Christian life There's no answer prayers, there's no needs being met, there's no nothing God doing and working in their life, and the unbeliever looks at that and says, Well, God can't answer, God's not meeting their needs. Can he meet my need? You follow what I'm saying? Can God give victory? Can God change the life? Listen, God can give victory. God can meet needs. God does change lives But God's people have to be a testimony for folks to see that. And so I got thinking, here this father comes. Apparently he's convinced Jesus can make his son well But Jesus on the Mount of Transfiguration. The disciples, for whatever reason, and innocently perhaps, they failed, and it put doubts in the Father's mind. And the in the father's mind, the issue. Is whether God is able to do anything for me or not. I'm afraid, perhaps it's unique in America, but I'm afraid Christianity in America has been so anemic and so worldly and so powerlessness that we have an entire nation that just mocks the idea that there is a holy God and that he can or will do anything in our nation's life. I'm saying this. We need a revival of faith in God in our churches in our land. We need a revival of godliness. We need a revival of the power of God, of people praying and actually fasting and praying and seeking God for real power to turn this country around and send revival and see people saved because just going through the motions is not cutting it. And so the issue is not, can God save America? The issue is not, can God send revival? Yes. God can change this nation. Yes, God can deliver us from the ungodliness that's taken over this land. Yes, he can. That's not the issue. The issue is, are we willing to trust him, have faith in him, and let him lead us and direct us so that he will do that? You follow what I'm saying? So Jesus confronts this father. And he says in so many words, he says, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. The issue is not whether I can heal your son or not. That's not the question. The question is, are you able to trust me to do that? Are you able to have faith in me, to believe in me? Look at verse 23 again. If thou canst believe, that is the issue. The word canst means to have the ability to. Are you able, in and of yourself, to get, are you able to make the decision that I am going to trust Jesus Christ? That's the word believe there means to put my trust in, to put my confidence in. Listen, the power of God to do what he's promise to do is never the issue. The issue is always whether we're willing to trust him or not. Um person comes uh and says, uh I'm a sinner. I'm on my way to hell. I don't know if God could even forgive me. I had a man tell me years ago, I don't think God could forgive me for what I've done. And the issue for that man and others like him is not whether God's able to forgive him. Sure, he's able to forgive him. The issue is, are you willing to trust Jesus to forgive you? Are you able to put your faith in him and let him do that? One thing God expects from us, and that is that we trust him. In fact, God demands that from us: that we trust Him. God expects from mankind, God created us. God provides for us. God works on our behalf. And the one thing He asks in return, the one thing He demands for us is for us to simply have faith in Him To simply trust him and take him at his word. To simply take our confidence and say, Jesus Christ, I am putting my confidence in you. That is the issue. That is the issue. We cannot be indifferent in our Christian lives and expect God to work on our behalf. We cannot be inactive. Well God I had a fr let me just tell you this. I had a friend of mine through high school. My father knows Danny Schwartley. We were best buddies all through high school. Man, we were just wild, stupid idiots And um and I mean that in every sense, just did the most most ungodly things. And um uh I got saved Did I ever tell you about that? May 7, 1979? See me, I'll tell you all about that sometime. But Lord saved me, 19 years old. And I'm telling you, when God saved me, he absolutely transformed my life, I mean just in amazing ways. God did it And I became burdened for my good friend Denny. I began praying for him, and to be honest with you, it was a little intimidating to approach him. I don't know why, but it was. I'd try and witness to my friend. And by that point we were kind of uh obviously when I got saved we were very much going separate ways. And uh I would try and contact him. I went off to Bible college shortly after I got saved and I would write Denny letters I'd put a gospel track in, pleading him to trust Christ and get saved, never wrote back, never acknowledged them. And he was off just living crazy. And I came home one time, it was Easter or whatever, and I thought, I'm going to look up Danny, I'm going to find him. I'm going to sit down with him one-on-one beside him. I had a little Bible, I had a little Gideon's Bible And I had it all marked in there, and I was going to go through that Bible and show my good friend how he could be saved from sin, have eternal life, and go to heaven and not to hell when he dies I uh found his address, found out, was home, called him up, got a hold of us, said, Dang, I'd like to come by and see you. He says, Yeah, man, it's been years. Come on over. He gave me his address. I went over there and had a nice condominium and all decked out, fancy car, fancy furniture. I mean just everything. All drug money. I know it was all drug money. Told me paid cash. Everything here is paid cash So he showed me around. I was amazed. Wow, that's something, Danny. Wow, that's really amazing. I said, well let me tell you why we can't I wanted to come by. He says, sure. So we sat down on this big sofa there in this big living room And um I said, I want to come by, Danny. I want to tell you how to be saved. I want to show you how God can forgive all your sin and give you eternal life and go to heaven when you die and not to hell. You know what he told me? He goes, don't worry about that at all. Everything's good. Everything's fine. It's going to be okay. I said, Danny, no, it's not. You need to see this. You need to see from the Bible. He says, I had a dream. In that dream, God told me everything's okay. And I don't need that. And everything's going to be fine. Then he refused to put his faith in Jesus Christ. He just flipped it off. He just neglected it. It was just indifferent to him. And he would not listen to the gospel And he would not do the one thing that Jesus Christ asks of us is to have faith in God and trust him as our personal Savior. Finally I tried pressing the issue and I started getting a little bit desperate press the issue and he put his hand out he said he called me Denny He says Denny it's nice to have you come by good to see you again and uh I'll see you later Now I'm a little slow, but I picked up that hint. It was time for me to leave. And I tried to press it. He stood up, walked me over the door. He says, Good jan. Before I left, I said, Danny, I just want you to have this little Bible. I have it marked in here these verses, how to be saved. Can I at least leave that with you? He says, Yep, thank you. So long. I never heard from any again. Wrote them letters, never saw them. A couple years so later after that, maybe not even that long, my dad would write me every every week. I'd get a letter from my dad. Got a letter one time and in it was a little one-column newspaper clipping At the top it said Dennis Wilson Swartley. This is obituary. Then he had a heart condition his whole life, did such drugs and drank so heavily And as a twenty-something year old young man, he died and went out into eternity. My hope and prayer is that maybe Denny read those verses, maybe he called the Lord and trusted Christ. I have no Indication that he ever did that. And I thought, how tragic. Jesus Christ could have saved him from sin in hell. The issue wasn't whether Jesus could or not. The issue was he just neglected exercising faith in Jesus Christ. Listen, I'm telling you this morning, Jesus Christ can save your soul and give you a new life, a good life, a God glorified a fulfilling life, a life of purpose and meaning and joy. God can do that The issue is, are you willing to trust him and let him do that? That was the issue with this father's son. This son could grow up and be a live a God-glorifying life, live a fulfilling life Live a happy life. He would not have to be tormented as life by devils. He would not have to be destroyed as a young man. He could be well if the Father could just trust Jesus. That was the point. And so the issue at hand here was not whether God could do what needed to be done. The issue at hand was whether man would trust him. And so we cannot be indifferent. God responds to faith. Say, well, I put a lot of money in the offering plate God ought to do something for me. No no. God doesn't respond to financial figures. God responds to faith Say, well, I'm very gifted and I do all these different things. I do good things. I'm glad you do it. And by the way, I'm not against you putting big offerings in an offering plate. But what I'm saying is, it is faith in God that changes things. That's where the power is. The power of faith. Putting faith in God. Putting faith in God. Someone says, Can the Lord save me from sin and hell? And the answer is yes, if you'll trust him. The question is, can God meet my needs? And the answer is, yes, God can meet your needs if you will trust him If you'll let him lead you, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you Can God use me? Can I really be a witness? Can I really make a difference in this old sinful wicked world? And the answer is yes, God can use you to make a difference if you will just trust Him. Is it just me, or does it seem like this world is absolutely falling apart? I mean from one continent to the next, uh just unbelievable. I am so ready for Jesus Christ to come back. In the meantime, I want God to use me. I want to be a witness I want to God use me to see some people saved. Can God use me? Yes, if you'll trust him, you'll put your faith in him. The question isn't, can God The question is, can we trust him? That's the issue. Can God save my son? Can God save my parent? Can God save my daughter? Can God save my spouse? Can God save my grandmother? Can God save my neighbor? Can God save my best friend from sin and hell? The question isn't whether God can or not. The question is if we're willing to trust him or not Uh can God save my marriage? Can God salvage my finances? Can God change my life and give me meaning and purpose? The question isn't whether God can or not. The question is, are we able to trust Him? If thou canst do anything, Jesus says, if thou canst believe. And so the issue at hand. Now I want to throw a word of caution out here. I do not want to give the impression, like some preachers on TV suggest That as long as you have enough faith, God will do anything and everything you want Him to do. That is not Bible. All the faith in the world will not prompt God to do something sinful. All the faith in the world will not prompt God to do something contrary to His will So I must always exercise faith in God, but with the frame of mind that Jesus expressed in the Garden of Gethsemane. Nevertheless, not my will, but what? Thy will be done. But it is faith that is the issue. Having faith in God. I can tell you this. You say, well, how do you know if it's God's will or not? I can tell you this: it's God's will for unsaved people to be saved. I can tell you that. I can tell you this, it's God's will for Christians to have victory over sin. I can tell you this, it's God's will for us to do right and be a blessing and be an encouragement and help the others, be kind and Uh f kindly affectionate one to another. I know it's God's will for us to be tender-hearted, forgiving one another And so if we have faith in God, God is able to. So number one, my first point is this, is the uh is the issue pronounced, the issue at hand Not can God, but can I have faith? Number two, the infinite potential. I like my little outline here. Look at verse 23. Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, look at this next statement. This is just mind-boggling. All things are possible to him that believeth. All things are possible to him that believeth. My faith And God's omnipotence is a powerful combination. If I'll take my faith in God, and if I'll take my faith that God has given me, and I put it in God, Amazing things can take place. That word, all things, that phrase all things are possible, all things, it means each and everything, are possible. In other words, they are able to take place I like what Matthew 19, 26 says. With God all things are possible. Listen to Mark 10, verse 27. Exact same wording. With God all things are possible. God kept. God kept the children of Israel in the wilderness. They're coming out. And they started griping and complaining. And they asked this question: Can God provide meat in the desert? The question wasn't whether God could provide meat in the desert. The question was, are you going to trust him? And the answer back was, yes, God can provide meat in the desert. Can God do this for me? Yes, God can do that for me. I am absolutely convinced that God has a plan for every area of our life. Concerning our family life, concerning our finances, concerning our ministry. God has a plan for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. God has a plan for your home. God has a plan for your life. And that plan can and will be fulfilled as I trust him. Say, preacher, there's so many obstacles in my life. I've got so many things to overcome. You don't have anything bigger than God keeping you back. God is powerful, the infinite potential of faith. God is able to bless us. God is able to direct us. God is able to provide for us if we will die to self, trust Him, and follow His plan, God can do great things. Lack of faith limits God's power in my life. If I get like this father and I start distrusting God, I'm going to miss out on blessings. I'm going to miss out on God's leadership. I'm going to miss out on wisdom. But if I will simply say, Lord, I believe, I trust you, I'm going to put this in your hands, I'm telling you, God can do great, great things. Uh turn with me if you would in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 3. Everybody doing okay out there? I'm trying to st I'm kind of got the steam rolling here and um the the steam train Doing something. Ephesians chapter 3. I love this verse. And verse number 20. Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 20. Well, if you underscore verses in your Bible, you ought to underscore this. If you don't underscore verses in your Bible, you should Look at verse 20. Now unto him that is able to do, look at this, exceedingly Abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us. Isn't that a great verse? You know what this is saying? If we will trust God, if we will simply put our faith in him and follow him, and when he says to do something, simply trust him and step out and do that. That God can do exceedingly abundantly above all we ask or think. I'm telling you, I look back on my life when I was a 19-year-old boy, accepted Christ as Savior, I never dreamed what God would do in my life. I never dreamed that I could live a pure life. I never dreamed that I could be somebody and that God would be able to use me and that there would be joy and happiness. I made such a mess And God was able to do exceedingly abundantly above anything I ever asked or thought. And He can do it in our lives. The power of faith. Now let me give you my last thought real quick. First of all, we had the issue pronounced. The question isn't whether God can do it or not. The question is, are we willing to trust Him? And then the infinite potential. You put your faith in God, God can do anything. And then last of all, the intense petition. The intense petition, I get this from verse 24, and this is the verse, as I said before, just rips my heart out. Come back to Luke chapter, or Mark chapter 9 with me if you would. I tell you, verse 24, just is pitiful in this father's desperation. Mark 9, 24, look at this. And straightway, immediately, that means just immediately Straightway, the father of the child, look at this, cried out. I looked up that phrase, cried out, and I wanted to see how it's used in other places in the Bible And it has this idea to cry out loudly. I mean, this is just someone that's just, he is absolutely desperate. And that phrase is almost always used. It's characteristic of people in the Bible who were desperate and they're crying out. Oh God is the idea. I mean, he is absolutely it is it is a heart cry of a broken man And then it goes on, he says, and he cried out and said with tears, uh, that's the idea of just sobbing. He is so broken over his son's condition, and he feels so inadequate in his faith. Look what he says. Cried out and said with tears, just sobbing, Lord, I believe. But he doesn't have a lot of confidence in his own faith. And he says, help thou thine unbelief. He recognizes the fact that his faith is not strong. He recognizes the fact that in his mind his faith is deficient. And he said, Lord, I need that faith. Help me to believe. Like I understand you're telling me I need to. He was desperately honest. About his own condition. Hey, nothing is going to change in our lives till we get honest with God and with ourselves. We got ourselves convinced we're something we're not, we're not going to see much happen in our lives. We have got to humble ourselves before God and say, God Here I am. I'm spiritually bankrupt. I have no power in and of myself. I'm completely dependent upon you. We're studying on Wednesday night the Beatitudes. And one of the Beatitudes are, blessed are they, blessed are the poor in spirit, completely bankrupt before God. And God says they're the ones that will be blessed. And that's where this father is. He says, I do believe, but help mine unbelief. He recognized how feeble his own faith was. Now here's the great thing. Doesn't take strong faith for God to do great works. I may just have feeble weak faith like this father felt like he had, but if I'll take that feeble little weak faith I have and put it in Jesus Christ, great things can happen. And God responded to this man's faith, and he healed that boy miraculously and powerfully. Why is it, now here's what I want to end with, why is it so difficult For us to simply trust God. Why do we struggle with that? Has God done anything To cause us to think that he will not keep his word? And the answer is no. We have no reason to doubt God. We have no reason not to trust him. We have no reason not to follow him and trust him and let him lead us and direct us. We have no reason for that. But yet we struggle with it so much. Why is that? Why is that? Martin Luther, the great reformer back in the 1700s, he said he complained. to uh some of his uh uh preacher folks there that he was with. He said, I feel like I have to beat people over the head with the Bible to get them to simply trust God and take him at his word. I felt like many times I had to beat myself over the head just to get myself to trust God. I look back over my life The biggest mistakes, listen, the biggest mistakes I've made in my life have been not trusting God Not waiting on God, taking things into my own hands, and not letting the Lord deal with it and work it out And I look back over my life and I look at some times where I trusted God and I put my faith in him, let him deal with that, and every time without faith, God has come through. And God has met that need and God has worked it out. And so my invitation this morning is this. Wherever you're at, whatever situation you're facing, whatever burden is on your heart, for this father, it was his son's condition. For you, it may be something different. For me, it may be something different. But we can take that situation, we can take that need, we can take that problem, and we can bring it to an all-powerful God that has promised us That he will help us if we will just trust him. Just simply do what he says and have faith in him and let him deal with it. And God will meet that need. I hope this morning you're not like my friend Danny Swartley. I hope you're not being flippant with your soul's salvation. I hope you're not neglecting whether God has saved you from sin in hell or not. And just a few days after I visited him, a few weeks, maybe a couple months, he went out into eternity. And for all these 20, some 30 years, maybe, I've had in the back of my mind the fact that one of my best friends in the world is most likely burning in hell, even as I speak here now. I'm pleading with you. If you're here this morning, you're not saved. You don't know for sure your sins are forgiven. You die, you go to heaven and not to hell. I plead with you. You come to Jesus Christ. He can and will save you if you'll just trust him. Now, many of us as Christians here, we have needs. Some of us have family members who need Christ. Some of us have situations that are so overwhelming we feel like we can't handle it. We need the Lord. Some of us maybe are struggles in our own heart and soul that we just can't get a hold of. We can't get victory over. I'm here to tell you God's able. We'll just trust Him. We'll just trust him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take this message this morning. Stir our hearts. Maybe, Lord, if just one person would say, you know, I believe. I believe God can. I'm going to trust him. I'm going to put in his hands. As weak as my faith is, I'm going to let the Lord have his way. Let the Lord be glorified. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many this morning would say, Preacher, I do have a situation, my heart's burden, it just seems overwhelming. This morning I'm going to take the little bit of faith I have that I may struggle with and I'm going to trust Jesus Christ with that. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to let Him deal with this and trust Him to work it out and make things right. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Pray Transol. situations. God bless you. Hands all around. Now let me ask this, maybe a little more specific. Is there some this morning say, preacher, I have a friend or a family member that's lost and they need Christ And I'm not trying to be judgmental, you say, but it's so obvious they need the Lord Jesus. And you'd say, preacher, I just want to pray and trust God that God's working in their heart. And God will direct me maybe to be a witness somehow, some way. But I'm looking to the Lord to save my loved one, to save my friend from sin and hell. I'm looking to Christ for that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? I have someone dear in my heart. God bless you, hands all around. Listen, God healed this little boy, and God can save our loved ones Full trust him and look to the Lord. Depend on him. Do what he says. Maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, I just have an overwhelming need. I don't see how that need could ever be met. Humanly, it's impossible This morning I'm going to look to God. I'm going to put it in his hands. Trust him to meet that need. Any like that, by the uplifted hand, preacher, I have a need that's just so overwhelming. I'm going to put that in God's hands and trust him. God bless you, hands all around. Now one last question. You're here this morning and say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven. You say, I don't want to go to hell. I'm telling you, God doesn't want you to go to hell. You say, preacher, I'm concerned about my soul's salvation. And you'd like for me to pray with you along with these others that raise their hand. You say, pray for me also. That God will help me settle that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven I want to know that that's settled. Any like that? Uplifted hand. How about it? Any around? God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know God's forgiven my sins and saved me. How about it? Any others? God bless you back there. How about it? Any others? Down here. God bless you, young man. Now God will God will do what needs to be done if we'll just trust him Father in heaven, bless now our invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.