Enjoy when they come up here. You never know exactly what's gonna happen whenever they come up. And uh that was a blessing. First Samuel chapter twenty-five. Anything anybody notice anything different about our reference tonight? A new chapter. After six years, we've moved on to chapter twenty-five. I don't know about you, I'm enjoying our study of the life of David. I'm being challenged by it. Nobody else is getting anything out of it. Your preacher sure is, I'll tell you. So I'm studying this and um I pray uh I hope it's bearing fruit in my life. I pray that uh it's having an effect in my life. 1 Samuel 25. Um We are going to just read the first verse of 1 Samuel chapter 25. Everybody got it there all set? Notice what it says. And Samuel died. And all the Israelites were gathered together and lamented him and buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran. And Samuel died. I almost titled it Just the Death of a Prophet. Let's pray. Father. I ask now you bless our time of study in your word. I pray that the truths that are in this brief verse, these few statements here, that you would apply them to our lives, that we could Your Holy Spirit would show us what these statements have to do with our lives and how it can it can impact and affect our lives So Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body and I pray with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you be the teacher tonight. Give us open hearts and minds. And uh help us, Lord, to be better Christians and stronger in our faith because of what we learned this evening. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We have here a little bit of an intermission In the saga of David, Saul has been hounding him, chasing him relentlessly, and that's what the last several chapters have been have been David's flight from Saul and eluding him Uh chapter 24 was significant and that David could have taken Saul's life and ended this whole thing, and he did not. He spared Saul and we looked at all the implications of that and how Saul responded And now you have chapter 25. You get to this first verse, and there's just this simple little statement there, and Saul died. Samuel died. And Samuel died. Chapter 25, actually the whole chapter in a sense is a bit of an intermission. in that we don't have account of Saul pursuing David. Remember chapter 24 it ended with Saul saying, all right, you know, uh, you know, kind of making a peace treaty, so to speak. It's very short-lived, we'll find But chapter 25, you have the death of two people. You have the death of Samuel, as we just said. And later on, most of the chapter is dealing with an interesting fellow by the name of Nabal. And uh I think we're gonna enjoy that study. That's gonna be extended. But I want to look at this death of kings of uh of Samuel. I keep wanting to say Saul, of uh Samuel, the prophet Samuel First thought, this is my first observation. I want us to notice the record of Samuel's death. The record of his death. Three words. And Samuel died. Now when I got the Bible out, started looking at it again just a couple weeks ago, looking, anticipating, uh teaching and preaching on this. The thing that struck me about the record of Samuel's death is the simplicity of it. Uh just and Samuel died. There's no details given. We don't know his age. Uh there's no elaboration on how this transpired. We have no idea what caused the cause of death. sickness. He was uh we understand he was an older man. It's referenced earlier. I don't have the scriptural reference here, but earlier it said something about Samuel being up in years in old age. And so we're not given any details. There's no elaboration. We don't know where he was when he died. We're not told how old he was. We don't know what the cause of death was. There's no eulogy given. There's no obituary being read here, just a simple little concise statement, and Samuel died. That's it. We see the people's response, we'll notice here in a minute, but nothing more said about Samuel. I got looking at the record of other people in the Bible who died, and you know what I found? I found a pattern. I found that it's pretty typical in Scripture that when someone dies, it's just a very brief statement about their death. We'll have a lot of the individuals in Scripture will have a lot of details about their life, about their experiences, their exploits. And we'll know all about that. And Samuel earlier is being born in answer to direct answer of prayer of his mother Hannah. And how he was linked to the Lord and raised up under uh um uh the priest, um Eli the priest And all that transpired. And we get a lot of details about different instances in his life. We're given a lot of information about certain events in his life and how God used them and things that were said and done. But then they come to their end of their life, and it's just, oh, and he died. And I found that's a pattern through Scripture. Um, just a brief statement about their death. Uh no information, on a lot of them, very little information given. Talk about their ministries, talk about their experiences, but Just a brief report, and he died, and he died. If you look that phrase up in the Bible, it's repeated all through and he died. And he died. Adam, and he died. Noah. All the ark, everything comes in his life, and he died. Abraham, he died. Moses, and he died. Joshua, and he died. Apostles, we don't even have a record of their death for the most part. We're not even told when, where, how, or anything about their death. Peter's prophesied a little bit. James, we know about James being beheaded. But um as far as scripture is concerned, there's no record of Paul, anything at all about Paul's death. I almost got this impression, this is me. I almost got this impression studying it that a person dying in God's view isn't really that big of a deal In fact, I got this impression that in God's sight, when a person dies, particularly a believer, a pe uh one of the people of God, a child of God, when they die, it's kind of like they just walked through a door. It's one from one place to another. Now for you and I, death is pretty big, right? I mean that's looming. Uh that's a we've many of us have loved ones that have passed away. Family members, friends, and whatnot. And That can be would you agree with me? I I don't think uh I I I think you agree with me. That can be devastating the death of loved ones, someone dear to us, someone family member or something Um it can be l life-changing for some people, have someone dear to us died. So for us, on this side, from our perspective, death is a pretty big deal. We make a you know a fairly big deal about a big visitation. We'll have a services. I was at a um uh I was at an Amish funeral one time a number of years ago, and uh it was like six hours long. And they had three preachers, I think, and uh singing in German and I had a brush up on my German. The only thing I remembered was V Gates, and that's all I remember. Anybody know what that means, V Gates Dad does. Means how are you? How's it going? But anyway, it has nothing to do with my message. My point is this From our perspective, death is pretty significant. And I think it should be from our perspective. I think we ought to realize that is um a point of no return. We don't come back Crossover. Whatever preparations are made for eternity, they got to be made on this side of death. But from God's perspective, all I ever s all I see in the Bible is, and he died, and he died, and he died, and he died. Few exceptions. You have some detail. Of course we know about how he died, pushed the pillars, it collapsed on him. There's a few exceptions, but even those are very brief and somewhat insignificant in God's record of their passing on into eternity, going to be with their fathers Sometimes how it's phrased. But there's one exception where there is a big deal, a lot of detail, about his death. Anybody want to guess who that was? The Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ. Why? Because his death had a profound effect upon all of mankind. In fact, you could almost say it's the central point of all human history, the death, burial, resurrection of Jesus Christ. And so what struck me And the death of Samuel is that uh uh is just a simple brief statement that God says about him, and a man of the caliber of Samuel to just say, oh, and he died So my first point is this: the record of his death is very brief and very simple statement. The second observation I make here is this, that it was a regular death. We have the record of his death. He died. And it was a regular death. Now let me explain what I mean by the a regular death. My view of Samuel is that he's one of the most remarkable men in all of Scripture. Um if we had time, uh I wish we had church on now Sunday we got Sunday morning, Sunday night. Monday we got institute a lot, and I really enjoy Institute. Wednesday nights we're studying David. I really enjoy that. Sunday nights we're studying 1 Peter. I really enjoy that. I wish we had another night of church. I would start a series on Samuel. That didn't go over very well, but um but I would love I've never I've never preached or taught or studied a series on Samuel What amazing study that would be. He was a remarkable man from his birth all through his life. Yet he dies, he lived a remarkable life Yet he dies a very unremarkable death. Now there's a couple exceptions in Scripture. Can you think of somebody that left this world in a remarkable way, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ? Enoch. He walked with God and he was not. Just walk along and then, I don't know, he just vaporized or I don't know. He just wasn't. Uh, can you think of someone else that left this world in a remarkable way? Elijah. How many of you would like that? A chariot of fire? That'd be something. But an overwhelming majority, as I said before, it's just the and he died, and he died. And here you have Samuel, this remarkable prophet of God The power of God on them and how God used them at such a pivotal time in Israel's history, when they transitioned from a theocracy to a monarchy, and how God used him during that time. And then he just dies, just like a beggar would die. And he dies just like a heathen would die or a king would die. He's a prophet of God, but yet he dies. He dies. In fact, who was that? I was talking with was it Brian Somebody we were talking just recently, we were talking about something about death, and we made this statement. Nobody gets out of here alive. The death rate among humans is 100%. And my point is this: death is no respecter of persons. And sometimes sometimes, I don't know, we live our lives. We know it's not true, and we would never say it because it's obviously not true, but we live our lives as if we're somehow an exception And somehow it's never going to knock on my door. It's never going to show up at my house. But the fact of the matter is, even God's greatest prophets died. And he dies, his heart stops beating, and his body dies just like everybody else's. Um God didn't and here's something else I thought. God didn't spare him. Could God have kept him from dying? Sure. Can God heal any sickness? Yes. Can God heal heart disease? Sure. Can He heal diabetes? Cancer? God could just speak a word and boom. But you know what? Almost 100% of the time, with few exceptions, God doesn't do that. Death is part of life. Death is inevitable. And even great prophets get sick and die. All of them have. So I got thinking of that simple little statement and Samuel died and the obvious but profound truths that are there. Now though I got thinking about the last years of his life, I was thinking he died. I said, Well what was he doing? What what happened? You know, where where was he at? What was taking place when he died? We're not told. His last years of Samuel's life are really pretty obscure. In fact, the last time he's mentioned, if you come back to chapter 19 It makes a simple statement about what I would guess I would call his ministry at that point 1 Samuel 19 in verse number 20. David, this is David's fleeing Saul, of course, King Saul. Verse 18, David fled and escaped. And came to Samuel. David finds Samuel, goes down to him in Ramah. That's where he ends up. That's where they're going to bury him. That's where his body is taken. And told him all that Saul had done to him. I got a sneaking suspicion, Samuel already knew all that. But David needed to talk to him. And he and Samuel went down and dwelt in Naoth. And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is in Naoth in Ramah. And look at verse 20. And Saul sent messengers to take David, and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, And here's look at this. And Samuel standing as appointed over them, the spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied. So we looked at that before, but here's what I'm I'm noticing this is the last time Saul is mentioned before he passes away. And what's he doing? It says he was standing as what? Did you notice there, verse 20? He's standing as he was appointed over the prophets. Now I got thinking, well, wonder what that means. He's standing as a po uh as appointed over the prophets. And I looked it up and I couldn't find a really any answer at all And this is my conclusion. This is what I think was happening. I think where Saul is late in life. He served the Lord faithfully. He served the Lord diligently. He served the Lord righteously And now he's late in life, his body is getting old, and I think, I think he's investing himself in the next generation of prophets. I think that's what he's doing. He's got a bunch of prophets around him. He's standing as appointed over him. He's providing leadership for them And I'm suggesting what he's doing is investing the things he's learned that he saw God do, what he knows to be true about God, what he knows to be true about mankind, and he is in in in instilling into them what uh what he had learned and what he had developed. And I think that whether that's happening or not, I can't say dogmatically But I do believe this, that is a good thing for old men and women of God to do is invest themselves in the next generation. And we've got a a bunch of folks in our church that would fit that category. And one of the great ministries of later in life is to be able to invest yourself into the next generation coming by and tell them and show them and and uh uh explain to them the things we saw we've seen God do in our lives and what God has taught us. Follow what I'm saying? So I think that's what Samuel's doing. I think he's investing the last years of his life. I read a bunch of commentaries. They all said, Well Samuel retired in the last years of his life. Now what I've studied about Samuel, I don't see him as the retiring type. He's going to go to the end. And I think what he did was he adjusted his ministry. He adjusted his emphasis, his focus. On to the next generation of prophets, and he's serving them. Has anyone noticed? Now I'm trying to mix it up a little bit, but has anyone noticed a lot of the preachers we bring through here are older preachers that I bring in for different things. That's mostly by design. And a little bit selfish on my part, because I want the older guys to come through so I can learn from them, so they can help me and share and show me. And tell me about what God has done and what not to do and to do this. And uh, you know, um, you know, Dr. Creed and And we were with uh Ron Bragg here not too long ago. When uh at Christmas, I was out with my son, we went to Ron Bragg's church, he was there, and we got to talk, and these guys will say You know, they'll just you ask them questions, and man, they just pour into you. And I think that's what Samuel's doing with the last part of his life. He's investing it into the next generation. And um that's a tremendous thing. That's a tremendous thing. I don't see him uh I don't see him retiring. So number one, we notice in 1 Samuel 25, verse 1, and Samuel died. A very uh concise report about the the death of Samuel. And he died. That's it. No more information. And we notice that it's a, for lack of a better word, a regular death. It's just the it's just like the common man dies. And uh he didn't live a very regular life. He lived a pretty significant life, but he died just like everybody else did. Now my last thought is this And uh I noticed the people's response to Samuel's death. Now this gets a little interesting. Look at there, verse 25 with me, or verse 1 of chapter 25 with me again. And Samuel died. Alright, there it is. Now look what happens. And all the Israelites were gathered together and lamented him and buried him in his house in Ramah. So we see this response to the death of Saul. Three statements here. It says they were gathered together. All the Israelites were gathered together. Now, I You know, I I'm certainly not going to challenge the word of God. This is God's word, it's exact. But I wonder if by all it meant that there were representatives from all of Israel showing up there Because it would be kind of that would be kind of hard to have several million Israelites that are scattered all throughout the nation of Israel show up at this day. Now, maybe I'll, you know, I'll stand corrected. I get to heaven and find out I'm mistaken, I'll I'll acknowledge it. Um if if I was smart, I would acknowledge it and get to heaven as wrong. But um I think I don't know how that all played out, maybe representatives throughout, but this one thing I'm pretty certain of everybody in Israel knew about it His death impacted everybody in that whole nation. I like what um F. B. Meyer was F. B. Meyer had had some comments on this. I saw what he said. And he was very, he was a great orator. He was very uh picturesque in his speech at a lot of times And he was describing a dear Israelite woman, dear Jewish lady. She has some small children. She lives in a little house in a in a in a just a little um outside of one of the cities, you know, way out in just a few houses together, maybe in a little valley or along a street. And word comes that Samuel died Samuel died. She's got a little baby on her hip and there's little kids running around there and he in his statements he he described her going over by the window of the house and pulling her apron up and wiping tears from her eyes as she's impacted by the death of this great prophet of God. She may have never met him personally. She may have never interacted with him, but his influence on the nation affected her deeply. And when he was gone, it impacted her. I don't know. I like the picture of that, the effect it has. But it says the gathered, uh all of Israel gathered together And then it says they lamented him. What does it mean to lament someone or something? To mourn over it, exactly. In fact, it's translated mourn a number of times through Scripture. It means to weep very deeply It has the idea of sorrowing to the point of weeping. And so this had a uh Israel was deeply affected, emotionally affected, by the death of Samuel. What an incredible man. And then it says then this one you had to think about a little bit. It says all the Israelites were gathered together. And lamented him. There the whole nation is weeping, little dear ladies in their homes, and the uh uh soldiers in the barracks and And businessmen in the marketplaces are all lamenting him. And it says, and they buried him in his house at Rama. Now, probably it's not the way we picture the way we're reading it. I doubt they dug a hole in his floor in his living room. And buried them in his house. What usually took place, as I understand it, what usually took place at this time frame is each family had, we would call it today a family cemetery Out behind the farm, out behind somewhere, they would have a family cemetery, and they would be buried at home. They'd be buried at home. That was very common. It's common, I guess, today in country areas some In fact, the one couple of the Bible scholars I was looking at, they were suggesting that there was probably what they would often do would be build a stone mausoleum type thing. Somewhere on the property, somewhere right there. And they would have that and they'd store the body in that. So most likely they took Saul's Samuel's body back to Rama uh to where he lived and he probably had preparations made, uh some sort of mausoleum, some sort of tomb or type thing, right there at the house, right there at home, maybe other family members, we don't know But um but the the the the significant thing here is this is how they responded to Samuel's death. The nation was profoundly moved By the death of this preacher, by the death of this prophet. And I believe they were profoundly moved by the death of Samuel because Samuel's life had had such a profound impact upon that nation. upon those every segment of society. Now I put this in here. I want to make this there. I don't know if it fits the chain of thought here necessarily, but Saul's life was significant in the nation of Israel. How many people have got that? I want to suggest to you every single life is significant in the realm that they lived. There's no insignificant lives. And there's no insignificant death. As I was studying this about Salmon, I want to say a few more words about him here. But I I my mind kept going back, and now as I'm teaching and preaching here, my mind keeps going back to a fellow at funeral I did many years ago. A fella, he was in the uh the Dennett Road nursing home. Um I was with hospice at the time. They gave me a name of a fella that he has no family Uh he is no preacher, he has no church affiliation. In fact, he was from Washington, D. C. , and whatever the social services, whatever, for whatever reason, put him up here in the nursing home up here And so he had no connection at all. And they said, Pastor Leatherman, would you just go by and visit with this fellow named Isaac Brown? And um I said, sure, I'll go visit Isaac. And so I went by and introduced myself. He didn't hardly say anything. I said, hi, are you Isaac Brown? Yep. Said, I'm Pastor Leatherman. Just looked at me. I said, I just come by to visit you. Okay. And he was kind of a cool cucumber there. He didn't interact much. He was He was on his deathbed. And uh after a while I kept going by and we kind of warmed up to me and we became sort of friends and I asked him one time after he started Warren Buffalo Bettis, I shared the gospel with him, and he trusted Christ as Savior, old Isaac And uh we we became a bit of a friend and I could tell when I showed up his eyes would light up a little bit and he was glad I was there. He wouldn't say a whole lot. One day I asked him, I said, Isaac, I said, uh, you got any kids He said no, but I got two children. I got the call one day. They said, Pastor Lemon Isaac passed away last night. Funeral director called and said, Would you come down? There's no funeral plan. There's no family. There's no nothing. We're just going to bury them. And but I really appreciate this about the funeral director. He said, Would you come down here? I he said, I felt like I feel like we ought at least have a word of prayer or something, read some scripture or something. We put this guy in a grave. And I said, Yeah, I I I agree. Yeah, I'll be there. And it was January and it was just it was one of those days where everything is still and the snowflakes are just falling real slow. You know, can you picture in your mind we're down here at the Oakland Cemetery, we're way in the back there where they bury folks that have no money. And we're down there and it's just gray and these flakes are coming down and it's a funeral director and it's two grave diggers there and it's me And when I got down there, he said, um, do you mind there was another fella died. He doesn't have any family or anything. We're just going to bury them both at the same time. Would you mind praying for both of them? I said, No, of course not. And so I got some scripture, I read, you know, some scripture appropriate and I said, I don't know who this other fellow is, I never met him, I don't know anything about him, but I said before I bury him, it's just a funeral director and two others. Oh and About then the hospice nurse came down. She came down with another lady, and they came down and joined us, and she had two roses. And she said, um, she goes, I think everybody ought to have a prayer and a rose at their funeral. That touched my heart. So she laid the rose on top of each casket. And I read the scripture. I said, before I pray and we commit the bodies to the ground, I said, let me just say this about Isaac. I don't know anything about this other fellow. But I said, Isaac prayed with me to trust Christ as Savior. I said, I believe with all my heart he meant it. And I said, right now as we put his body in the grave, Isaac's in the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the two gravediggers said, Amen. They must have been Christian fellows. They were they were excited. And I thought and I thought as I was thinking of Samuel, what a significant impact he had on the nation of Israel And his death was just and had his death had such a significant effect upon the people of Israel. And then I got thinking about it, you know, there isn't one life that isn't significant. And even old Isaac Brown, just a handful of people there, but somewhere he had some kids. Somewhere he had family of some sort, extended. There's people he interacted with. There was people that he affected. He's had a profound effect upon my life. I've used that story many times to challenge people. In their spiritual life. So no life is insignificant. And no death is insignificant. The significance of someone passing away is because their life is significant. And it's had an effect. So I thought about that for Samuel and how the people responded to that. How often do we not appreciate someone until they're gone? Can I get a witness on that? We don't think much about them, we take them for granted, then they're gone. And it's like, oh how boy, I'd just love to hear their voice one more time. And um I think that may be a little bit the way it was with Samuel and the nation of Israel, because if you go back and study carefully, he they didn't really appreciate Samuel during his ministry. And uh we won't take time I wanted to, but we won't take time to turn there. But in 1 Samuel chapter 8 and verse 19, the people, the nation of Israel saying, We want a king. We want a king. We want a king. I don't think they said exactly that way, but it was something to that effect. And uh Samuel said, You get a king You get one, he's gonna take your children, your young men, and he's gonna send them off to war He's going to tax your income. He's going to be a Democrat. I mean, uh, he's going to uh I'm sorry, I should not have said that. Retract that. I retract that. But he goes down this list of things that the king is going to do that they're not going to appreciate And you know what the people said? We don't care. We want one anyway. And uh they got angry at him. And they didn't appreciate, they didn't heed his warning, they didn't take his advice, and they turn against him. He says, All right, this isn't God's will. This is the way, but you want it, God says, All right, you'll get it. But now that he's dead They all miss them. Now they're all lamenting them. And I thought, how true is that of our lives and minute of our lives That we don't uh what's the old saying, you don't know what you've got till it's gone. Till it's gone. And I think we see that taking place here. A lot of things we could say about Samuel's life. He was a man of prayer. I wanted to talk about that Only eternity will reveal the impact that Samuel's prayers had upon the nation of Israel. And I put this down. Only eternity will reveal the impact the prayers of God's people have had upon our church. God's blessed our church. I say that so much. And I attribute it to the prayers of God's people, some whom we don't even know maybe. People who are praying. We don't even know they don't Don't get any attention, they don't get any recognition, their name isn't anywhere, but boy, they pray for Mountain Lake, they pray for the Sunday school teachers, they pray for the ministries, they pray for the preacher And God honored that. And maybe we'd get to heaven and find out it wasn't so much this person's talents or this person's abilities or How great this person was. Maybe the reason it was blessed of God is some dear saint of God was praying faithfully and pleading with God, and that's why God blessed. You follow what I'm saying? And so Samuel was a tremendous man of prayer. Maybe they're realizing that now that he's gone, it's like we don't have his prayers. He was a man of purpose. He was focused on the will of God for Israel. Here's the thing, as I got looking, summarizing Samuel's life. You don't find anywhere where he's living or doing anything for himself. He's not accumulating anything for himself. He's not complaining about anything he's not getting. It is others, others, others, others, others. His whole ministry, his whole life was invested in the kingdom of God, the will of God, and the good of other people. His whole life was invested in that. And now that's gone. He's gone, and the people lament him. So he was a man of prayer, he's a man of purpose. And I put this down, I'll end with this. He was a man who was positive. Now, I'm not saying he didn't shy away from rebuking when rebuke was necessary. He rebuked King Saul severely. He was not timid. Saw Samuel was not a timid preacher. But he was a positive preacher. What I mean by that was is he built up the nation. He didn't tear it down. He built up God's people. He didn't tear them down. You find Samuel preaching against sin. You find Samuel warning King Saul, listen, you're not right. But you don't find him criticizing and whining and complaining about stuff There's a preacher that comes to my mind when I was studying this, and he comes back to mind now. He's with the Lord now, and he's I'm sure he's a fine man. Uh but it's like every time I heard 'em speak it's whining and complaining about this and that the country's not that and the church isn't this and Christians aren't that? And it's just always, always, always a whining, whining, whining. I don't see Samuel that way. He preached against sin. He addressed disobedience. He says rebellion is as a sin of witchcraft and stubbornness. Well you weren't timid, but you weren't tearing down. I I thought of this verse when I thought of Samuel, and it's addressing a woman, but I think the principle applies. Proverbs 14, verse 1. It says, Every wise woman buildeth her house. But the foolish plucketh it down. And I thought Samuel was a wise prophet. He was a wise preacher. He'd built up. He'd build up. You study his He's ministry and he's investing. He's helping. He's building. He's positive. He's not tearing down. And uh and uh can you think of a prophet that whined and complained a lot? There's one in the Bible, whine, complain, he didn't like this. Jonah! The whole last chapter fours, he's whining about the the plant died and the bug and The sun's hot. I don't see that in Samuel at all. And so these pay these prayers, uh the purpose, investing in others, the positive building up the nation. Oh, he's dead. That's gone. And the people are ah And I'm wondering if they weren't when they're putting his body In that grave or what whatever the situation was. They're they're handling his body. I wonder if it isn't going through their mind. And we didn't know what we had. Now he's gone. We didn't know what he had. And so my application is this. Let's praise the Lord for the people around us that God has given us to help us in our Christian life. Amen. Praise the Lord for the people God brings into our life. Rejoice in them. Let's follow Samuel's example and let's build up. Let's have a purpose. Invest in others. Others, Lord. Yes, others. And let's build up and build up and build up. A fella, uh Dr. Parker, he was a preacher years ago in London, and his first name slips in my mind, Joseph Parker uh was a preacher in London years ago, powerful. He was contemporary of Spurgeon and all those big guns. And uh one day he was preaching uh at a church it was called the City Temple in London And he's a great preacher. He preached his message, and people were impacted, the power of God was there, and afterward a fellow came up to him and said, Reverend Parker, whenever they say Reverend, you know something's coming. Reverend Parker, you made a grammatical error in your message. And he says, really? And they proceeded to explain to him this grammatical error he made and how grievous it was and how terrible this was and uh uh the uh this grammatical error he made And then when they were done, he just listened to them very patiently, and when they were done, he says, and what else did you get out of the message? Samuel was somebody that built up. Criticize, tear down, find fault, whine, complain. Rebuke, yes. Confront, yes, but it was all for the purpose of building, building, building. And I want to be like Samuel He's one of my favorites. He's one of my favorites in the Bible. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, that you could help us to learn just from this little statement about Samuel, that he died. And yet the impact he had upon a nation by just being for real, just being true, righteous And I pray you'd help us in our realm, our world of influence, you'd help us to be true and positive and have purpose. And that we can be a blessing and help others. Our heads bowed eyes closed. How many like me say, preacher, there's some areas in my life I sure like to be more like Samuel? There's some things there. Positive, building up, others, yes. My hands raised. I want it. I need it. Maybe we just ask the Lord. Lord help us Do what changes. Do what you need to in my heart and life. Make me be a little more that way. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed.