Say it right now. Grant, Brother Grant, didn't we uh didn't we learn about Joseph on Sunday night? Yes we did. However, because I really like Joseph Um when I told you guys that I just preached on Joseph and Teens, this is the sermon that I preached and honestly I think it's a um I don't know there's a lot of truth in it and it uh Honestly, I just really liked it, so I decided to bring it to you guys. So uh don't worry, I don't think I have any other sermons about Joseph uh or anyone else in uh in the coming weeks. As you've noticed, if you weren't here on Sunday, Pastor is not here. He's in New Zealand. I'll mention that a little later, but pray for him. He says hi. He said that the meeting starts tonight Now you said that earlier today, and I don't know what tonight means because they're on the other side of the world, so I'd I really have no idea what that means. So he could uh I guess the meeting probably started a few hours ago, but uh That's all. Alright. Let's go to Genesis 37. We're going to start with verse in chapter 37, verse number 3. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children because he was the son of his old age. And he made him a coat of many colors. This uh this sermon I usually uh I don't know if I usually do anything, but I will say I don't often uh just announce the title of my sermon. all the time, but this one I have to. It's called the Five People You'll Meet in the Story of Joseph. The five people you'll meet in the story of Joseph. Um I should have called it the five people you'll meet in chapter 37 of Genesis, because really there's a lot more people in the story of Joseph. But uh I singled five people out in this chapter, and we're going to start with Jacob. Now We're going to start in verse number one. And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan. These are the generations of generations of Jacob, Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren. And with a lad was with the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, and his father his father's wives. And Joseph brought unto his father their evil report. So uh Joseph uh was with uh his brethren who were all older than him and uh they were doing something wrong. We don't know necessarily what it was. Whether they were cheating someone out of something, whether they were being violent towards someone, um, as you can uh imagine throughout the story of Joseph, his brothers are not above being violent. We don't know, and honestly, I am a the nation of Israel, the Jews, I support them completely, but man, they came from some interesting people. And uh each of the tribes except for, I don't know, three. Um We're kinda like just kinda jerks. I mean like let's just be honest, they've tried to kill their brother. So uh but uh let's keep going with this. So he told on his though his brothers hated him. And uh and there we go in verse four. And when his brethren saw their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. This is called the five people you'll meet in the story of Joseph, and we're going to begin with Jacob, not actually Joseph, because Jacob is the first person mentioned. Jacob is what I'm going to call a favoritist. He wasn't the favoritist, but he had a favoritist. He had a favorite kid. He put one of his children above all the other. Now here's the thing. Joseph seemed to seem to be, you know, more, I don't know, honest than his brethren. He seemed to be not quite as violent, not quite as vengeful. However He placed Joseph above everyone else. And as you see in verse 4, that caused his brothers to hate him. Now here's the um crux message. Favoritism, or the crux of this point anyway, favoritism is wrong. Whether it be with your kids, and by the way, that causes a lot of trouble. If you were plan if you don't have kids yet and you were planning, you know, I think I'm going to make one of these my favorite. Or if you have kids and you're like, well, this one's better. I think I'm going to like him more than other uh all the others. I'm going to treat him better than the others because he's my favorite Because I like him the most, I will say this. You're in for a lot of trouble. You're in for I mean, just to be fair, you're You're dealing with something you ought not to deal with. Even in the story of Joseph, listen, these his brothers were not good people. They were not good people at all. But the fact that you place one of your children above the other is completely wrong. And actually the fact you place people above other people is wrong. We're going to go to uh James chapter 2 and verse 1. James chapter 2 and verse 1. Pastor has been preaching out of James, so uh so this will probably sound familiar. But in James chapter 2, it says, My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. For is there come unto you under your assembly a man with a gold ring, in goodly apparel, and there cometh also a poor man in vile raiment, and he have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing, and say it unto him, Sit thou here in a good place. And say to the poor, Stand thou there, or sit here under my footstool, are ye not then partial in yourselves, and are become judges of evil thoughts? Hearken, my beloved beloved brethren, has not God chosen the poor of this world rich in faith, and the heirs of the kingdom which He has promised them that love him? Listen, even God, now here's the thing Even when uh when James is talking, but he's but he's speaking the words of God, he's saying, listen, you shouldn't have respect of persons, and that doesn't mean you shouldn't respect people. It means that you should respect everyone equally It means that you should put every treat everyone like you would treat yourself. You're supposed to love your neighbor as yourself. But you're supposed to love your enemies, so you're basically just supposed to love everybody. But Jacob kind of failed here. And it caused strife. It caused hatred. And Jacob is again the favoritist. He puts someone above someone else. And when you put someone above someone else, you automatically put someone below someone else. It's amazing how it works like that. You know, uh there was a old uh old Doctor Seuss book, um, and I don't remember what it's called, and I probably should have looked it up, but It's about a guy a king, right? And everybody had tails. I don't know, it was Dr. Seuss. Everybody had tails. And he was sitting there carrying his tail one day, and he's like, I am the king. Someone should carry my tail. And then at that point he's called someone over and he said, Hey you, Jim, I don't know his name, uh, carry my tail. And the guy who's carrying his tail one day was sitting there thinking, you know, I'm so important, I'm carrying the king's tail. Someone should carry my tail. And they get to the end where everyone has their tail carried except for one person. And he gets sick of it and he just, and since there's no one else to carry his tail, he just drops it. Now it's kind of like that with uh without picking out favorites, and not just in your children, but in your daily life. Listen, someone might treat you really well, and someone might treat you like dirt. I've had people both treat me well, and people treat me like dirt. And it's always more natural for me to treat the person who treats me well, treat them well, you know, as well. But uh that's not right. I should love them both. I should treat them both like they're souls. I just don't know. I'm not a genius. I'm not I can't I'm not God and I can't tell you what would have happened had his brethren not tried to kill him. or had Jacob loved all of his uh all of his kids equally. But I assume that had Jacob not loved his son over or sorry, had Jacob not loved Jo Joseph over the rest of his brethren, I don't think Joseph would have ever been, you know, almost killed or sold into slavery. Now I don't know how that would have worked in God's plan. Like, you know, God meant it for good, but be careful putting people above other people. The next one I have is uh the perfectionist. This is Joseph. The perfectionist, Joseph. In Genesis chapter 37, verse 13, we see uh it says And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem? Come and I will send thee unto them, and I will say to him, Here am I. Now we on uh on Sunday we learned about Joseph's dreams, but Here we learned that Joseph, while he had these great dreams where he was supposed to uh I'm gonna carry this around. I really don't like standing one place. Um Sorry, ADD. And um But Joseph, while he had the dreams, and he was his father's favorite, he still had to do what everyone else had to do. In fact, I know it when someone hates me. Did you guys ever know that? If you hate me, there's a good chance I know it. Or you're really good at hiding it, which is fine. But if I know you hate me, I am going to not or I'm going to go out of my way to not spend time with you. That makes sense, right? You're like that guy hates me. I don't think I'm gonna go hang out with him. You ever uh you ever have a teacher? Uh uh in high school, you know, you had teachers that hated you. I had a teacher that hated me so much, and I was perfect. And uh and you laugh, but that's because it wasn't true. I wasn't perfect. But this teacher just outright hated me. And I found out later it was because she loved my sister. And when she found out I was going to be in her class, she expected me to be like my sister, and I wasn't. In any way, shape, or form. I was loud and obnoxious and uh And she hated me. And that's just how it goes. Um But wait, but I didn't really love it was like, oh man, I get to go to this class where I'm treated like dirt. I need to go to this class where I'm like, oh yeah, she's gonna like, you know, grade me more harshly because she just doesn't like me. No, and when it comes to your brethren When it comes to uh the people that you uh you do care about and they come and they're just mad at you, I I don't know, man, when me and uh me and my wife get in a fight, I don't just want to be like, all right, well let's uh let's go to dinner Or uh let's go be alone for a while. It's like, no, keep me away from them. But Joseph, knowing that his father Or knowing that uh his brethren hated him, listened to his father and decide, yeah, I'm gonna go out into the wilderness and spend some time alone with these people who hate me. I don't know if Joseph ever suspected that his brethren might kill him, but I can say this, I'm not quite sure how surprised he was. Nowhere in the Bible does it say and Joseph was like, What? You guys are gonna kill me? No and and listen, maybe maybe he had no idea, but Jacob sent him out there and he did the right thing no matter the circumstances. He did the right thing no matter the circumstances, and that's why I say that Joseph is a perfectionist. We have the favoritist, which is Jacob. And then we have the perfectionist with Joe with which is Joseph, because the Bible really never says anything negative about Joseph. He always does the right thing, no matter what circumstance he's in. Let's deal with the hateful. The haters. I know the other ones end with ist, but haters is just a better word. This is the other brethren. In Genesis 37, 18 through 20, and when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. And they said one to one unto another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say, Some evil beast has devoured him, and we shall see what comes of it what will become of his dreams These are the hateful people, the haters. We have the famous who puts one person above another. We have the perfectionist who just does what's right all the time. And then we have the haters. Now these haters, and it sounds silly to say that when you're talking about the Bible, but uh these men hated him because of his position. Because they thought that he was better than them, or because they annoyed him, or because they figured that when he told on them that uh he did them wrong. Either way, what they did was they they looked at him and they just they just they just hated the guy. They couldn't stand the guy. Even though uh now listen, they didn't have the Bible back then, but uh Leviticus 19, 17 says, Thou shalt not hate thy brethren, brother in thy heart. Thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy neighbor and not suffer sin upon them. Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thy heart But these men, man, they hated him. Have you ever sat there and thought and you ever found yourself just man you're sitting there and you're like, man, I uh I really hate that guy. And that's literally what you and literally you're just dwelling on the track that, man, if they died, I'd be like, oh well. Or when you hear something bad happen to someone, even if it's not major bad, just like a little bad, you're like, good. Don't tell me you haven't done that, because everyone is Well, maybe you haven't. Maybe I'm just the only sinner in here. And that might be possible. But the fact is, I I've sat there and I've heard someone something bad happen to someone I like and I'm like, that serves them right. That's hatred in my heart. That's hatred towards my brother. And that's wrong That's absolutely wrong. We don't deal with hate enough in this in our uh in our churches. We don't talk about hate enough. But we hate a lot of people. You know, it's it's it's easy in today's day and age to say that racism is completely and totally wrong. It's easy to say that. All right? You know, 200 years ago wasn't that easy. And now racism is a form of hatred. It's a sort of judgmentalism and it's against the Bible. And we I don't know, it's it's so funny because we have I'm not gonna get into that. But the fact is, is that hatred is wrong in any form. Listen, I am not at all pro-homosexuality in any way or form I believe it's a sin and an abomination against God. However, hating the people that practice it is a sin. Hating people, no matter who they are, is a sin. When God said to love your enemy, that was like one of those verses that's like, man, why do you have to say that? I love hating my enemy. Joseph's brethren were haters. Romans 12. 17 says, Recompense no man evil for evil, provide things honest in the sight of all men. Recompense no man evil for evil. Listen, I understand the the want, the drive to punish someone who hurts you, to hurt them back, but the Bible is very clear that is just plain wrong. In 1 Peter 3 9 we say not rendering evil for evil another time. Man, I hate when man, he was like, alright, well I don't know what recompense means so I can ignore that. And he's like, now you can't render it. Ah you can't render evil for evil, nor railing for railing, but control wise blessing. Knowing that ye are thereunto called that ye should inherit blessing. When you're thinking about someone, when you want to do someone to someone else, when you start feeling something against someone, it's burning in your heart, and you're like, alright, this is what I'm going to do, and you're plotting revenge in any way. Remember that if you bless them, God will bless you Remember, if you're good to him, God will be good to you. You know what? You can spend your hatred, you can spend your revenge, and you can do what you exactly what you want, when you want it, and then what are you left with? What do you want with satisfaction? You see here the thing. I uh I love cooking shows. To an extent. And uh I I got a uh I got uh suggested one called Cutthroat Kitchen, which is a blast to watch. 'Cause it's like these you know, they're bidding against it if I it's hard to explain, but basically it's these three or four cooks trying to take away utensils and make other cooks use other stuff and they're all it's a really dirty, gritty, revengeful sh vengeful show. However, I realized that if you don't take revenge on someone, you lose. Or actually and actually it's actually sometimes smarter to not take revenge on someone, but just to go after the weak one. Now I said all that to say this. Life isn't cooking. And life isn't a uh spreadsheet. You see, in a spreadsheet, and I like spreadsheets, I I deal with Excel quite often, and uh I know that there's uh other things you can use, but I like Excel. You're like, well, I'm this much in the negative, I need to be this much in the positive. So you add this much in the positive and then bam, you're equal. But with life, when someone takes away from you and makes it negative You're positive in it to go back at them. And it'll never feel as good as you think it will. It'll never fulfill that void. It'll never make you even out your spreadsheet. But if you do the complete opposite thing than you want to, and you bless them and you are good to get them, the exchange then comes between not here to here. Not between me and this guy, it's then if I bless him, it actually goes bing bing bing. And blessings fall on me. And that's a beautiful thing. Proverbs ten twelve says, Hateth or hatred stirs up strifes, but love covers all sins. Ephesians 4 31 says Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice, and be ye kind one to another. tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God ha for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. You know who's forgiving was Joseph. You know, at the end of the story, and again, we're not going to get into that. We're only in verse thir- or chapter 37 tonight. At the end of the story, he forgives his brethren for selling him into slavery and almost killing him. He just outright forgives them. Doesn't expect a thing from them. The reason that I'm uh that I'm dealing with this sermon, again I taught this to my uh to our teenagers. It's because these are sins that people actually deal with. Favoritism is a huge thing. Putting people above one another, judging people, seeing who is worthy of our attention, worthy of our conversation. Maybe I'm just preaching myself, but there's a lot of Christians I think that might be guilty of that. Hate, bitterness, strife? Feelings against someone, plotting revenge, plotting just. There's a lot of Christians that deal with that. Now we're going to go to the coward, which is Reuben, the coward. Genesis 37 and verse 21. So they're flooding to kill their brother. And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands, and said, Let us not kill him. And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him, that he might that he might rid them out of their hands, till deliver him to his father again. And it came to pass when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that they stripped Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colours that was on him, and they took him and they cast him into a pit, and the pit was empty, there was no water in it. Now you say, why are you calling Ruben a coward? Didn't Rubin just save Joseph's life? Yes. Rubin completely saved Joseph's life? That is absolutely true. In fact, they were going to kill Joe by all accounts, they were going to kill Joseph until Reuben said and said, hey, let's not do that. Let's just throw him in a pit. But there is such a thing as right and wrong. And there's also such a thing as semi-right. But unfortunately, semi-right always falls under the category of wrong When you do a half deed, when you know you should have done a full deed. When you do a half good, when you know you should have done a full good. You know, it's like when God impresses on your heart And it um and you know, I like I said, I'm a numbers guy. Numbers make sense to me. But say God says, you know, you're supposed to give fifty dollars to such and such. And it's like, bam, God just tells you that. And after you go, shh, God, stop it, stop it. And you're like, that is not God. That was some bad candle, but I that's what's telling me to do that. And then you try to convince yourself, but after you find out you know it's gone, and that's when you start wheeling and dealing. And they go and you go up to them and you're like, all right, here's thirty dollars. Same with Faith Promise Mission. Faith Promise Mission is coming up, by the way, here's a little advertisement during the sermon. Grab your globe, fill it with twenty dollars Either in chains or a check. It's really cool when they're filled with change because it's all heavy. And uh then you and we're giving them out during missions conference to the missionaries. It's gonna be great. Be sure to pack pick them up. They're on the back table back there. But God says you are supposed to get three globes. You're like, that's $60. I don't have any money. And you're like, man, that's just after tax season. I just paid taxes, God. He's like, nope, you're supposed to give three globes. And you give two globes. Now it's good that you gave two globes, but that negative globe still makes it a sin. Now the two globes, I'm not gonna say those are sin, but but that that halfway, that I'm not going to do the right thing, I'm going to do the nearly right thing. And that's what Ruben was doing. Ruben should have just said, no, it is wrong to kill our brother. Not like it's that weird of a statement to make, but no, it is wrong to kill our brother. Don't touch him. And Sending did that and she did the undermined half-truth. Or the ha half good thing. He said, Alright, let's throw him in a pit. And in his mind he's like, Alright, later on I'm just gonna release him from the pit and he'll be safe. See here's the thing. Good is good and bad is bad. Right is right and wrong is wrong. And when you start doing your best to blur lines, When you start moving away from right to make it easier, it's wrong. Let me read James 4. 17. Therefore to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is a sin. Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is a sin. Now here's the other thing about Reuben. And I call him a coward because he couldn't go the full length, because he wasn't willing to stand up and actually do what was right. But at the same time, Rubin, you know, Rumin thought, I could have called him a lot of different things, and I'm really glad that he didn't let Joseph die. But Rubin also thought, well, this is the only way. You know, a lot of times we get stuck in this train of thought like, all right, I know the Bible, I know the Bible says this, but if if I bend the rule a little bit, I'll be able to do more. I know the Bible says I'm supposed to do it this way, but if I bend the rules, I I'll get more. And you know, that's actually very common in churches. You see, I can t I can't tell you how many churches, I guarantee, and not not Baptist churches, I'm talking liberal churches. I could probably go into a meeting with their pastor. And if we are very honest here with each other, we'd agree probably on most of the same stuff. Probably almost all of it. But the one point we wouldn't agree is that he's willing to bend. The Bible says this, and we agree, yep, that's what the Bible says. And it says, but whenever you say the Bible says this, but or the right thing is this but or but. It wouldn't have you add the but to a statement like that. You are delving into sin according to, therefore, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not is a sin. When you know it is the right thing to do, and you try to slip by and you try to bend that, a barely crooked rod is still a crooked rod. I am not a carpenter, but I once built a catapult. I'm gonna tell you guys about this catapult. It was awesome. My sister had a project, she was supposed to build a catapult. And so me, being the amazing craftsman that I am, said, okay. I I don't have a picture of it on me. I wish they could post up there. But it it was really bad. It like so you know, it was like all cockeyed and and it and it launched it, but But it didn't really work. I tell that for no reason, except to say I do know a little bit about carpentry, and I know if a piece of wood is warped If these ones worked, you're not gonna get that that's not the PCUs. It's kind of silly. If you're sitting there going on, well, I'm building a house and all these ones are like like this. And you're like, eh, it's close enough. I man, that's I mean that sounds like me building. I mean that's not very good. I that's terrible. Bent, a little bent, is still not straight. It still falls into a little bent column. Alright, and uh next we have Judah, the extortionist. Back to the IST words. Judah, the extortionist. And Judah said unto his brethren, what profit it What is the what is it if we or sorry, what prophet is it if we slay our brother and conceal his blood? Come and let us sell him unto the Ishmaelites And let us not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother and our flesh, and his brethren were content. Now, you think it's one of two ways. Uh some people say that Judah was also trying to save Joseph's life I don't quite think that's true. I I'm more of the persuasion that Joseph was just like, or John Joseph, Judah was like, well, we could kill him. Or we can make money and still be rid of him. And his mind is win-win, right? He that is Proverbs 15-27 says, He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house. But he that hateth gifts shall live. He that is greedy of gain troubles his own house. Now let me tell you something about Judah. If you uh me and my wife were uh discussing this the other day, um and I mean I I I can tell you the date if I looked on our Bible reading calendar 'cause we were both reading at the same time. And she looks over me and she's like What if you guys look in the chapter 38, where uh Judah ends up um ends up sleeping with his uh two daughter-in-laws, or his uh sorry, not his two daughter-in-laws, with his daughter-in-law. And she's like, well this is the story of Joseph. This is the most random thing to put right in the middle of the story of Joseph. It kind of just like takes you out of it, and then Judah uh does this abomination. And then it's back to the story of Joseph So 37, Joseph, 38, Judah, 39, back to Joseph. That's how it works. She's like, well, why is that? And I was reading. And the fact is, Judah's the one that was like, you know what? We can make profit off of this man's misery. We can take what he has and hurt him for our gain. You see, I think that Judah, Reuben, and the rest of the brethren are all different people. You see, Reuben was a coward because he wasn't willing to go, he wasn't willing to do the right thing, but he didn't want to do the far wrong thing. He still did the wrong thing. And the fact is that I always felt bad for Reuben because I understood what he was going through, but he still did the wrong thing. But Judah was a little different. You see, he didn't just hate Joseph. He was hurting Joseph for his own gain. You know who also Sold someone, if you will, for their own gain? Judas. Judas Now I'm not going to get into the whole Judas and Judah being I believe the same name if you look if uh you go back and forth. I think so, is that right? I think Judah and Judas are the same name, but that beside that point. Judas, and let me read this for you because this is just fun. Matthew 26 says, And he said unto them, What will ye give me? This is Judas talking to the Pharisees. And I will deliver him unto you. And they covenanted with him for thirty pieces of silver. And from that time he saw an opportunity to betray him. Now most of you, I doubt, I hope, are not selling people's lives or selling people into slavery for money. I hope that's not the case here. But how often are we willing to sell out someone else for our own gain? How often are we willing to say, you know what? I know this will hurt them. I know me doing this will will hurt them, but it's good for me, so I'm going to do it. Where does that fit? See, that's an extortion. That's someone who is who is grieved for themselves. The um I didn't know what this word meant, but it was a avarice. That's how uh my Bible described him. It's uh there was the thing that looked like anyways avarice, which means extreme greed. Ecclesiastes Ecclesiastes five ten says, He that loveth silver loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver, nor he that loveth abundance with increased. This is also vanity. This is one of the greatest verses in the Bible, I think, period. I think this is one of the most true verses, and I know all the verses in the Bible are true, but this Ecclesiastes 5. 10, he that loveth loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver, nor he that loveth abundance with increase. This explains probably ten percent of the problems in the world today. Maybe fifty percent. I don't know. I can't tell you the percentage Everyone who is chasing money, and in this case, chasing money at other people's expense. will never be satisfied. Or let me say it this way, anyone who's chasing money at the expense of good at the expense of the right thing to do, will never be satisfied. You see it um it's interesting it uses the word love here. And when it talks about loving, there's a Think about go back to the phrase, you know, you should love your neighbor as yourself. Well if you had to pick one thing to love And it's money over people. That's what I think puts Judah in a special category. He decided, you know what? I would rather have money than my brother Money in uh 1 Timothy 6. 10, this is a very popular verse. And in again, it's a very popular verse, but but we often kind of just skip over it. For the love of money is the root of all evil. Which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. For the love of money. Now people, you know, people can attribute this, well, rich people are evil. No. Because the poor person who loves money is as guilty of this as the rich person who loves money. But if money is your main drive in life, if gain is in your main drive in life, and not people, if gain is over people, in your life, and you're willing to sacrifice people, and you're willing to sacrifice the good of anyone else, even yourself, for money Then you're with Judah, and what we call an ex an extortionist. And James 5:3 says, Your silver and gold are cankered, and the rest of them shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as if it were fire. You keep treasured together for the last days. Your gold and silver are cankered. Anything you want, if it hurts someone else, If it if it wounds someone else Just for your own gain. I believe that you're in a s you're doing committing a special sin. And here's the thing I said there's five people in this chapter. And this is what I told uh the teens when I preached this. Unfortunately there's only one right one And do you know why? This is incredible. There's only one right one, and that would be the perfectionist. Because right and again, like maybe if you wanted to give a second right one, it might be Reuben because he was trying to do the right thing. But the fact is he's not even included. Because it's not our life. It's not a life that we live that you know with the good and the bad and who's the best and you know and you know you don't you don't treat like life like well I missed up here but I was good here so that evens out That's not how we treat life. You see a misstep still misstep. Joseph is the perfectionist here. He's the only right one, the only one you want to be, because he never missteps. Because he never sins. Now listen, can you never sin? I don't think so. But man, can we try harder not to? Unfortunately there's only one person you want to be in the story. I like I like sermons where you're like, ooh, you know, the uh the sorry, the Spiritual gifts where you're like, oh I could be that one or this one. There's only one right one here to be because judgmental being judgmental and putting people above each other is wrong. Hating people is wrong. Doing the almost right thing is still wrong. And using people for your own gain, I would want to say is especially wrong. You had uh just uh now you're heading close your eyes as uh Scum is captain comes.