Chapter three, verse number ten, the Bible says this, and again we looked at the first half uh previously, but the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. Okay. Lord's day the Lord's going to come and sleep at night. Now look at the second half, is what I want to zero in on. In the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise And the elements with fervent heat, the earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burned up. And then verse 11, I'll tack that on. We'll look at it a little more in depth, Lord will, on next Sunday. But verse 11 says, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, the heaven and the earth, and the works and the earth. Seeing then that these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ye ought to be in holy conversation and godliness? I want to talk tonight about the Big Bang. The Big Bang. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word. And I thank you for folks that have ventured out tonight. And I just pray it'd be worth the time and effort Uh Lord, and so I pray that your presence should be here. Lord, I believe if you meet with us, it would certainly be worth it. And I pray you'd stir our hearts and challenge us. I pray for folks in their homes or uh maybe out on a snow cloud truck or somewhere else in the world that are tuned in tonight and have joined us for our service. I pray you'd bless through the uh uh through the internet somehow, that your spirit would speak to hearts and challenge us and help us to have a biblical worldview and to have biblical values in our lives, our homes. I ask that you'd fill me with your spirit. As always, Lord, I yield myself, present my body, pray you'd speak through me your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. There are what we call two worldviews a person can have. And by a worldview, by that I mean simply two different ways of seeing the world, all of creation, our origin, our destiny. There's two basically two worldviews. One worldview would be what we call the biblical worldview, and that is we understand that everything exists, came about the way the Bible says it did. back in Genesis. And that truth is what the Bible says is true, and and uh our destiny, the the ultimate end of everything, the universe and our lives and our purpose, is exactly what the Bible says. That would be a biblical worldview. Are you with me? That's a biblical worldview. We see things uh through the lenses of Scripture. And we interpret everything we see and all the facts that we come across and all the evidence we have. We interpret it through the lens of Scripture, what the Bible says. The other worldview would be what we would call maybe an atheist worldview or a humanist worldview That worldview says that we disregard what the Bible says, and everything we see and everything we know, we interpret through the And most of the time it's a predetermined conclusion, but we interpret it in light of the fact that there is no God And that everything is natural, and everything just came about by natural processes over billions and billions and billions of years. And so that would be the humanist worldview. It disregards the Bible, disregards the reality of God, and just looks at everything through natural means. That's what these fellows were that were stopping at Peter in his teaching on the second coming and the ultimate judgment of the world. So you have these two worldviews. One of those worldviews never changes. Its conclusions are always the same and never changes. Anyone want to take a guess? Which of the worldviews would never change? The atheist or the biblical worldview, which one would never change? The biblical worldview. What the Bible says we came from and how we came here and how everything is, that never changes From generation to generation, generation. That is true. That's the truth. It never changes. However, they're humanist worldview, their conclusions are always changing. Their answers to the question, where we come from, how do we get here? Why is this? It's constantly changing. I read a little quit this week uh uh uh and I believe it's uh I believe it's correct. I don't think it was satire. I believe it was actual actual thing. It was about Albert Einstein Apparently he was teaching some advanced class in physics, and uh there were some students in there that were in his class the year before, and then they were taking again for whatever reason And he gave the final, he gave them a test, and they r raised up a concern. They said, Dr. Einstein, these are the exact same questions that you gave last year And you're giving them again. He says, yes, the questions are the same, but the answers have changed. Because they discover things, they find, oh, that can't be true. We have this theory. We have that theory So I said all that to say this. Among the humanist worldview, those that disregard God, disregard the Bible, just natural processes, what we see and understand, that's all there is. Among those, they have a theory as to how everything began. They have a theory about where our universe came from, how it began And they all agree, for the most part, they all agree that our universe had a beginning. It's not eternal. Things are getting older, things are decaying, things are running down. So obviously there was a point where it started and then it things tended to deteriorate from there. So for the most part they all agree that there our universe had a beginning. Now, their conclusion that they come to is that it all began with a, anybody know where I'm going with this? With a big bang Big Bang, Kaboo. Some of them suggest, and again I'm not a physicist, but they suggest that all matter, everything that exists that we can see, feel, and touch and and uh all matter began with a dot compressed into uh uh a point the size of a pencil tip And our entire universe exploded from that. It was so condensed and exploded, and we had a big bang. I have made the decision to stick with the Bible. I believe with all my heart, and the longer I study the book and the older I get and the more I experience, I I'm convinced more than ever, and I never really I never doubted it, but I convinced more than ever The what the Bible says we came from, that's where we came from. And the way the Bible says we got here, that's how we got here And so I'm convinced of that. I made that decision, I believe, with all my heart. And by the way, that's the position of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, for anybody wondering. And so I decided to stick with the Bible. And so as we look at the Bible about our origin and our destiny, We learned some things. By the way, I wanted to reference, we began exactly the way Genesis 1:1 says, in the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. And so that's our worldview, that's our position. The Bible is very, very clear. The universe did not begin with a big bang. The universe began with God's Word. And God said. And everything that is came into existence. Now just the every time just saying that, it boggles my mind. The incomprehensible power of our God to just speak in this infinite universe comes into existence. That's incomprehensible to me The God that you and I, if you had your devotions this morning, personal devotion, you spent some time with the Lord, that God in whose presence you were reading and praying, and that God is so powerful. He could just speak everything into existence. And so the Bible, our biblical worldview, we look at what the Bible says. The Bible tells us we didn't come from a big bang. It didn't start with a big bang. It started with God's Word. However, that same Bible tells us it ends with a Big Bang. And I get that from verse number 10 here, where it says, look what it says. And the heav uh in the which the heavens shall pass away with a what? Great noise. I put in the margin my Bible. Big bang. So the Bible is clear. The world is going to end. The universe is going to end. It has a starting point, it has an ending point. It will end. And and um and and because of that, and this is important to understand when we think about the purpose of our church. And the purpose of our lives, why God leaves us here when He saves us, why'd He leave us here? Why did He establish the church? The purpose for our church and for you and I as individuals is not to save the planet. And this this planet is a sinking ship, right? I mean this thing's gonna be gone, a big bang, boom, it's all gonna be gone. There is an end to this planet, this universe. So our purpose here is not to invest our time and effort and energy into saving the planet. Now I want to quickly amend that to say that doesn't mean we should trash it We're to be good stewards of what God has given us, a beautiful planet to live on, it's an amazing thing. Romans tells us he's given us all things to enjoy. There's nothing wrong getting out hunting and fishing and types like that, getting out and joying this world. There's nothing wrong with that as long as it doesn't take over And so we're to be good stewards of this planet, but our purpose is not to save the planet and save the universe, save humanity. Our purpose is to be like a lifeboat. We're to get people to Christ and get them into the kingdom of God. Because this kingdom of this world in this world is someday going to be burned up. You follow what I'm trying to say? And so our purpose, our whole purpose on this planet, in this universe, is to get as many people to Christ as we possibly can, because this ship is going down. It's sinking. And so the world definitely has an end. The Bible makes that clear. Now we come to Peter, and this passage that we just read here, and then we'll look at it again in verse 12. It's kind of repeated, and we'll look at that later. But um He gives one of the most detailed, probably the most detailed description as to how the universe ends. Now, it it sounds almost like science fiction, but this is Bible truth, how this universe ends. And so that's my thoughts and I've got two points. One, uh we notice here, and we've preached on this before, but the universe ends unexpectedly. Look at verse ten, the first part. And uh but the day of the Lord will come as a what? Thief in the night. Don't expect it. If we knew when the thief was coming, Jesus said this back in the Gospels. If we knew when the thief was coming, we'd be ready for it, and uh we wouldn't let him break in. We don't know when the Lord's coming back And the rapture of the church, as we already preached before, the rapture of the church begins this process, it's the beginning of the end, when the rapture takes place, and then it ultimately ends up with uh the destruction of heaven and earth. And so we don't know when that takes place. Whenever the rapture takes place, it's going to be unexpected. Maybe tonight, maybe next week. And you say, preacher, you keep saying that. Yeah, we need to keep reminding ourselves Jesus is coming back again. There's a rapture coming. We need to be ready So it's unexpected. We do not know when this whole process begins, but we do know it's going to happen without warning. It's going to be sudden. We don't have any information. All right, on February 22nd at 1030 at night, the rapture is going to take place. We don't have that information. We don't know when it's going to happen. So we have to be prepared at all times. So the universe ends first of all unexpectedly. Then I put this down. The universe ends explosively. Now I don't know about you, but this captures my imagination I find this fascinating. And what I want to do is just come down through here and look at these words that Peter uses to describe how this earth and this universe is going to end. Let's look at them. First of all, notice there, he says, in the which the heavens and earth shall pass away. That phrase pass away simply means to perish. In fact, that phrase it comes from is translated other places in our Bible, perish. Heaven is going to pass away. It's going to perish. Jesus made that exact same statement in Matthew 24, 35. He used the exact same words. Heaven and earth shall Pass away, but my word shall not. And so he says, listen, there's a day coming, there's a point in time. When this earth, these heavens are going to pass away, they're going to perish. They're no longer going to be anymore Now let me pause here real quick and point out when he talks about the heavens, he's not talking about the heaven in the presence of God. Alright? The third heaven we Paul refers to as the third heaven. He's not talking about the very presence of God, where his throne is, where the Ark of the Covenant is, where the blood of Jesus Christ. That will never pass away. That's eternal. The heavens he's referring to is talking about what we would call our atmosphere. And our universe, where the solar systems and galaxies and planets and stars and all of that stuff is and and uh comets and meteorites and What else is out there? Black holes and all that stuff. That's the heavens he's talking about. And so it's gonna all end. You say, preacher, you mean this monstrosity of a universe is going to someday end the whole thing? Yeah. So what he's saying It's all going to come to an end. Pass away. Then notice what he says, and he gives us this process, how it's going to happen. He says, the heavens shall pass away, perish, cease to be. With a great noise. A great noise. That's where I wrote in the margin of my Bible, a big bag. Now that phrase, a great noise, that's the only time that phrase is used in all the Bible. What's here? Peter's unique in using that. And the word itself, now get this. It means what it comes from, the Greek dictionaries, I look what they had to say about the phrase where we get that great noise. It means this, to make a whizzing noise And they're like, huh? The heavens shall pass away with a great, very loud whizzing noise. And they tried to describe the noise that this phrase is referring to. They said it would be like the whistling of an arrow going through the air. I don't know what kind of sound an arrow makes, but going through the air. Another one described it as the sound a missile makes going through the air. That's as good a sound as any, right? Um another one said, another tr way they tried to describe it, is like the sound, now I've never heard this. I hope you never have. But um uh the sound of a bullet whizzing by your ear. Has anyone ever had a bullet whiz by your ear? Burnt! And uh it's probably Rissa would be my guess. But uh did you hear it? Yeah that's what he's talking about. So um that's the idea behind that phrase a big bang, like something whizzing, uh another defin another illustration he used was like a bird, like a hummingbird's wings or a bird Fly, do you ever hear s you ever sitting in your tree stand and you hear a a crow or something fly over and you just hear the wing the word the wings making that sound? That's kind of the idea, except it is exceedingly loud Now I thought, how in the world, what's he trying to say that the heaven and earth are going to perish, they're going to end with a giant super loud whizzing sound? And I got reading a little bit about it, and lo and behold, now get this. In Nevada, when they were testing atomic bombs. The reporters, they invited in reporters there, and of course they were at a somewhat safe distance. The reporters recorded that when that thing Right as it exploded, it sounded like a whizzing cackling sound. And then it would explode. Um I find that interesting. It was the sound that atomic energy being released When those two atoms hit each other and it just releases that energy, when they crash into each other, that's what the atomic bomb is The moment of that atomic release, they said, sounds like a whizzing, cackling sound, and then the intense explosion. How many people find that interesting that the world ends? I think so. That maybe God is just giving us a little bit of insight on how this thing's going to come about And by the way, I saw another physicist. I've been watching some little clips of these physicists and preparing for this over the last couple of weeks And um uh one of them, they asked this one fellow, and he seems like a pretty sharp guy. By the way, uh there are people who do not have a biblical worldview, but are absolutely geniuses I mean as far as intelligence, they're phenomenal. I think they're foolish in the rejection of the Word of God, but as far as facts and figuring, they're brilliant in a lot of ways And this guy said, somebody asked him in a question and answer thing, and they asked him, they said, how, what's your greatest fear how this mankind is going to be eliminated? How do we all end And his answer, he says, my very first answer is, he says, we're speculating, of course, he says, but my very first answer is man will destroy himself. And uh he said, perhaps with nuclear bombs and with atomic energy. Now my response is that's not going to happen Because the Bible is very, very clear. This is not a man-made event. This is a God-made event. God is doing this. Uh to have enough nuclear bombs to blow up the entire universe, we we could never come up with that. But God can Now think with me, the God that can speak this thing into existence, that same God can release all the atomic energy and all the atoms that make up this universe all at once and simply kaboom. So it's going to end with a great noise, a big bang. And now to build on that, listen to what he says. He says, the heavens shall pass away with this great noise, this sound that the sound of an atomic explosion makes, right as that energy is being released. That's the sound. And then he goes on, shall pass away the great noise, and what's the next word? The elements. Shall melt with fervent heat. The elements. Now, what's he talking about when he says the elements are going to melt That word elements literally means this, the basic building blocks of all matter. Now here's my question. What are the basics, and we're getting into physics a little bit, and I'm not a physics physicist at all, but what are the basic building blocks of everything that is material? Anybody remember from high school physics? Anybody? Hmm? The atoms are actually even smaller than that. It would be the atoms, it would be the neutrons, protons, and electrons. How many people remember those names from science? They are, and I I guess now they they know there's even smaller than that, but the word elements is referring to the most microscopic things that make up all that matter is. And he says those are going to melt, the very building blocks of everything that exists physically. The atoms, the neutrons, protons, all those m those immensely tiny elements, they are going to melt. The word melt means this, to dissolve. To disintegrate, or one of the definitions was to unbind. They're held together. By a uh uh the uh uh somehow they all rotate around and they're held together. And that word dissolve has the idea of just letting them all loose The atom the atoms, the neutrons, and just letting it loose, melting, dissolving. The only word I could think of, the way I could visualize what he's talking about here, would be this. to vaporize, to cease to be material anymore. It's just vaporized. Um To melt. The very elements that make up all the mass, all the matter of the universe, completely dissolved, completely loose, completely broken apart. That is the definition of atomic energy being released. God is going to bring this earth and this universe To a dramatic, sudden, instantaneous end with an incredibly loud vaporization of all material, of all matter. Isn't that something? That's what Peter's describing to us here And the amazing thing is, a thousand years ago people would read that, they they had they didn't know what he was talking about. Now the more we discover, by the way, here's an important truth, the more we discover, the more we see the Bible knows what it's talking about. I'm all for learning science. Good night. Not falsely called science. By the way, if you would keep your place here, I want to look at another statement here in a minute. But come back to Revelation chapter number 20. John, again, under the inspiration of God on the Isle of Patnos, he's recording down this book we call Revelation. He's giving He's being revealed about what the future holds, particularly the tribulation period. And he makes reference to this. Now, at first you don't really pick it up, but once we understand what Peter is saying, then this This verse explains itself. Verse 11. Revelation chapter 20, verse 11. Look what it says. And I saw, this is John in this vision that God's giving them, I saw a great white throne and him that saddled it. Okay, that's the great white throne. We reference that often for the unsaved. But look what he says. And and if you if we don't understand what Peter's telling us this here It's hard to understand what he's saying. The great white throne and him that sat on it, from whose face, look at this, the earth and the heaven fled away. And there was found no place for them. The earth, the heavens, the atmosphere, the universe. Fled away, and there was no place for them. Why? They didn't exist. They were vaporized. They were they melted. The very elements of the earth and the universe melted away. They're gone. And there is no place. You couldn't find them. They don't exist anymore. Just as God In his infinite power, spoke this unbelievable place into existence. There's coming a day, a very definite point in time in the future. When all of that is just gonna whoom be on and there'll be no place for it. It's fled away, it's gone, it's vaporized No longer there. Now, if you would come back, and I'm being deliberately a little brief here this evening. But notice what he says, shall be uh melt away with fervent heat. That's the the melting that we already discussed. And he makes another statement here, and this is what I want to end with. He says affirming the earth also, okay, so the heavens, he says there in the beginning of the statement. which the heavens shall pass away. Then he adds on the earth also. The earth is involved in this. And then he references something else that's going to be gone And the works that are therein shall be burned up, melted, fervent heat, gone So I understand. It's very clear what he means by the heavens. The galaxies, the universe out there, solar systems, all of that. Then he says, and the earth, and we understand what that is. That's the planet you and I are sitting on right now. It's all going to be vaporized, all going to melt away, purb and heat, boom, gone. But he says, and the works that are therein. So I got looking up that word works and trying to, what is he referring to? And I believe what he's saying here that works are the objects produced by man. All the things that man has produced, the great cathedrals, the pyramids, the amazing transportation machines, jets and planes, buildings and cities and roads. ships and aircraft and and everything that man has been able to produce is going to be wiped away. No longer exist. Nothing material-wise that man produces is going to continue on into eternity. It's all going to be gone. It's all going to be gone All the time people invest their lives, their fortunes, all their talents and abilities. They invest it into the works here on earth. And Peter tells us, under the inspiration of God, it's all going to melt away. The great noise, fervent heat, it's all going to be gone. All going to be gone. Um we saw the fires out in California and multi million dollar mansions and Maserati's multi hundreds of thousands, cars worth hundreds of thousands of dollars and all of that. And you come back and you look, and it's just ashes. Burned up, gone. Never get it back. And people devastated, everything I've lived for, everything I've invested, my life and my fortune in is gone. It's burned up. And that is a small illustration of everything this world that man has produced is going to be gone. Those things we admire so much, and they are, they're very impressive. Some things that man produces are impressive. But we need to understand one day it's going to be gone. Now look what he says in verse 11. And we're going to preach on this next time. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, the heaven, the earth, everything man has produced, it's all going to be dissolved. Then he asked this question, what manner of persons ought ye to be in holy conversation and godliness? Now here's the question I end with. Are we investing too much time, too much money, too much effort? Into material and temporal things that are only going to be burned up someday. Jesus told his disciples this. He says, Lay up treasures for yourself where? In heaven. In heaven. In other words, invest your life. Invest your abilities. Invest the resources that God has trusted you with. Your time that you and I have. Invest all that not in something that is temporary and just going to be burned up. But invest it in that which is going to last and carry on into eternity. Now there's only one thing I know in existence that you and I can invest in that is going to last into eternity, and what is that? That's other souls. That's the other that's other souls. That's all we can invest in. That's going to last beyond this big bang that we're facing. So what are what are our priorities? Now listen, don't misunderstand. The Bible's clear, I think, on this. There's nothing wrong with having a nice car, nice house. There's nothing wrong with having these things But if that is our priority, if that is what we're living for, if that's what we're investing in, we are, can I be bold, we are fools. To invest ourselves in that. I've used this before and there was a young boy in our youth group in Indianapolis and we would go every year we would go down to um Uh there was a Six Flags down, I think, in Cincinnati or somewhere, I forget. But we would take a group down there every year This is years ago back in the eight nineteen eight this is back in the eighteen eighties. Um 1980s. And uh we take a grip, there's a boy in the youth group there, good kid, love the Lord And uh I I loved him. Uh but he was in a wreck as a young teen, probably thirteen, fourteen years old. He's in a car wreck and uh the other party was at fault and there was this huge settlement And he was he was disabled for the rest of his life. Not severely. He could walk and do things, but he couldn't play sports or he was limited. uh because of this wreck. It a f it it it handicapped him uh a good bit. And so he had this huge settlement from the insurance. I mean huge. I mean the kid was loaded. And uh so he got they very wisely had it set up that it was in like a trust and he would he didn't get it all at one shot, it was put up, and he'd get a little bit, I think, on a monthly basis. I mean, I say a little bit, he got a pretty good chunk on a monthly basis. So he could basically buy whatever you want. And the kid had pretty good val values and priorities and he wasn't real dumb with it, but every time We would go down the six flags. They needed so much money. I think back then the tickets were like 15, 20 bucks, which today would be 80 bucks or a hundred probably. And so they were they had to have that money to get in. We made sure everybody had their money to get in. And then what other uh uh what other others uh else stuff they would want to buy They'd need money for that. So we made sure all the kids had their money. We tried to help them out every way we can. We're just going down and have fun. Without fail Every time we go, we'd have to st we'd get in the bus. I was always the bus driver. Get in the bus. We get on the beltway around Indianapolis. Uh I think it was 465, I think it was Then uh we'd get uh sixty-five south, I think, whatever the interstate was. I mean we'd be two exits on the interstate and the girls would start, preacher, we brother Dennis, we gotta stop. It's like, oh brother, so we'd stop. I mean we're we didn't even drive fifteen minutes and I gotta stop go to the restroom. So we pull over. Can any men feel for me, feel sympathy for me? It's the way it is. And so we pull in. They all go in, of course it takes half hour, and um they all come out with chips and soda pop and all this stuff. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And they all come out and Steve come out and he'd buy he'd drank coffee. Man, he'd have five cups of coffee and uh he'd buy everybody everything. So we get finally we got everybody back in. They all got their snacks And uh so we take off. We go about four or five exits down the road. I need to stop use arrest. Why don't you just use it? I didn't have to then, now I do. So we'd pull off again. And uh they all go pilot in. They all come out with snacks. Steve would come out with just tons of stuff. He'd give everybody. And we did that, this whole trip down. And by the time we got to where we were going, the Six Flags, he had spent all his money on stuff And he'd come up, brother Dennis, I don't have any money to get in to buy the ticket. I said, What do you mean? I said, You had it when we left. He said, I know, I spent it all on the way down here. Now I can't get in. I said, You knucklehead. So I'd lend him money, we get back, he'd pay me back. But I thought about Steve. And what he did, I think, was a lot of Christians are doing. God's given us resources. He's given us abilities. He's given us gifts and talents, abilities. He's given us a life And we can live. And what we do, we spend it all on the here and now. And then we get to eternity and we have nothing for all eternity. You follow what I'm saying? I'm not talking about our salvation. We get in But what I'm saying is, if we're living for now, if we're investing in stuff and material things, we need to understand that's temporary. I believe we ought to invest in eternity. That's why, to me, our missions program is such an important part of our church. Because we're investing in that which is not going to be burned up. Soul winning. Bus ministry reaching people, reaching people, reaching people. Because one day this is all going to be gone. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless us and help us to keep a perspective, Lord, a biblical worldview and a biblical perspective On what is eternal and what is not, and what is of value and what is not of value. We're grateful for what you've given us. We thank you for all the things you give us to enjoy. And Lord, we don't want to abuse that. We want to make sure our priorities are right. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, there be some tonight, or maybe you're online and there wherever you're at. But God spoke your heart and you say, Preacher, pray with me. I want to make sure that what I'm investing my life in is going to last beyond the Big Bang that's coming. as going to be uh last beyond uh the the end of this material things. Any like that by the up to the hand my hands raised. I want to be sure I keep that priority. I want to make sure I keep that focus That understanding. Father, bless our invitation night. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together heads above