Four John chapter four Before we read the scripture in John chapter 4, I want you to travel back with me a couple thousand years and And picture with me a meeting between two weary pilgrims. It's a hot summer day on the outside of a little town called Sikhar. And uh that's in Samaria. And uh it's around noontime, so you can imagine it's uh sort of warm out there And Jesus hot and he's sweaty and uh and he's weary, having just uh walked about twenty miles to get to where he was wanting to to be that morning or that day. So he came to a f particular place, a familiar place with just about every Jew because it was a they called it uh Jacob's well. It's a hole in the ground about uh I don't know nine or ten feet wide and and uh Some say it's like 130 feet deep. I've never been there, so I don't know, but maybe the pastor can fill you in on that sometime. But it's uh it's one of the well known uh landmarks in in Israel. And uh the Bible said he he wearily Sat down on the on the well. He's waiting for somebody. And uh That's where the scripture comes in. So let's begin reading then verse 1 of John chapter 4. When therefore the Lord uh knew how the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John Though Jesus himself baptized none but his disciples, he left Judea and departed again into Galilee, and he must needs go through Samaria. I find that sort of interesting. Uh Samaria was an area that the Jews didn't like to go in because they of the people there. They they hated the people. And verse 5 says, And then cometh he to the city of uh Samaria, which is uh is called uh uh Sichar, near to the per a parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. And in verse 6 says, Now Jacob's well was there, and Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, he sat thus upon the well. And it was about the sixth hour, and that would be around noon. And there cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water, and Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. Let's pray. Now, Father, as we Get into the message. We just ask for your leadership and we ask your uh ask you to just uh guide our thoughts as we uh attempt to to preach this message. And I pray especially, Lord, that uh there's someone here that uh the Holy Spirit may be uh dealing with concerning sin. uh perhaps dealing with them concerning the matter of salvation that uh tonight they might listen intently at the the message and and then act upon What the Holy Spirit speaks to them about. So bless our time around your word, and we'll praise you for what you accomplish here tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. In the you never think too much about About God being weary. And yet we see Jesus here. He says being weary with his journey, he set thus upon the well. It's uh I guess it's a difficult concept to think about God being weary of anything And yet we have a God that that uh is angry, he's jealous, you know, he has a lot of those same traits that you and I have. Uh I wonder why. Could it be because we were created in his image? Some of those things that that uh he has in his nature was uh given to us. One of them is is he uh he gets weary. And you say, I just can't hardly believe that. But Uh but uh maybe uh you bear with me a little bit and we'll see. You see the different kinds of weariness. There's the weariness from uh lifting weights. You get weary at that. Um but there's also a weariness that comes from uh from stress. You can be stressed out, you know, you can have a lot of things on your mind and things are just you know you got kind of a jumble in your head and you just You know, and and so there's a weariness that comes with that and it's it's a tr it's a real uh it's a real fatigue. I mean it actually be deals with your body and and Tears you down and gives you, you know, makes you uh want to take naps early in the afternoon, stuff like that. I want us to look a few uh a few verses here that That deals with this this matter of of God being weary. Because he's he mentioned it several times in the Word of God. So uh let's look at uh look at a few of those. One of those is is found over in In the book of Amos, if you want to step over there with me, or if you have a hard time finding it like I do sometimes, why, uh, you'll just put a marker in your Bible, see, and I've got it. But in uh Amos chapter 2 and verse 13, here's what the Word of God says. Let's read verse 12. It says, But you you gave the Nazarites wine to drink. Now, what was uh what is it about Nazarites that we know? That is that they they're not supposed to drink, right? That's one of the things that they're not supposed to do. They're not supposed to drink. So it says, But you gave the Nazarites wine to drink, and commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not. Well So prophets are supposed to prophesy, but they tell them not to prophesy. And uh the Nazarites are were not to be drink drinking and uh getting drunk and they're drinking. So now let's look at the next verse. He says, Behold, I am pressed under you as a cart is pressed that is full of sheaves. That's sort of an interesting verse and it's it's in fact it's so interesting that none of the commentators as I looked at today, and I had about uh twenty of them I guess that I looked through had no comment about that verse They went out and got a cup of coffee. When they came back, they were on the next verse. So that messed that up. But even but but here's here's here's what I'm getting out of that. He says once again, let me read once again. Behold, I am pressed under you as a cart is pressed as full of sheaves. Well I think most of us are aware that a cart that is full of sheaves and and uh that's you know wheat or whatever the the grain is, but they uh if it's a cart that is full of 'em And I I'm I'm look I'm thinking in my mind it's a it's a two wheeler cart, you know, and it has a donkey in the front and is pulling that that cart But the the sheaves are just I mean they've got the thing piled up as high as they can go and it's just waiting down and the wheels are like this, you know, they're it's all spraddled out and it's and that's the picture that God's getting of himself He said, You y you got me so stressed out. You're telling the you're telling the the the prophets not to prophesy, and you're telling the the uh Nazarites not to or to drink liquor and this has stressed me out. Something uh when God gets stressed, uh he has a a blow off valve And that is that he he does he knows how to chasten those that uh cross him. But uh that's uh that's another story for the uh for the time being. So now let's go to Isaiah chapter 43, because there's some other things here that stress God. Isaiah 43, and we're looking in verse 24. Now you may say, well, what does that have to do with me? That God gets stressed out. Well, if you're the one doing the stressing, that's going to have a whole lot to do with you. And so you need to know some of these things. And I need to know some of these things. So in verse four or uh uh Isaiah chapter 43 and verse 24 it says this Thou hast brought me no sweet cane with money, and neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy sacrifices. For thou hast made me to serve with thy sins. Thou hast wearied me with thine iniquities. So now I get the picture that that the thing that really bothers God is when his children begin to step out of line. And they forget the commandments of God and they begin to to uh kind of s stray off of the narrow way And start into that Broadway, this stresses God out. And I I notice it's there's some interesting things about the the stressing part of it. Because he says, first of all, he says, you bought me no sweet cane. Well, sweet cane is uh calamus It's a very expensive. It's used in the anointing oils. When they anoint the items in the tabernacle, they use this expensive calamus. And uh it's a picture of the Holy Spirit. So what he's simply saying is it's that uh if you've brought me no calmness, uh that speaks to you and I today of the Holy Spirit Which is pictured by the the by the oils. So uh God says that one of the things that that really irks me, one of the things that stresses me out. is the fact that you tried to do service without the Spirit of God. You know, I wonder sometimes about the services that we have. I wonder if the Spirit of God has anything to do with with some of them. And I'm not talking about this church, because I I know this pastor and I know I know how uh diligently he he works to make sure that that God's working within the within the uh operation of it. But I'm saying that that as far as our lives are concerned If we are trying to serve God without the Spirit of God, then it it it just goes to a bunch of of nothing. It doesn't amount to anything. Not only that, he said, but uh neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy sacrifices. Well That tells you something else. Now he's he's saying, you're giving me the leftovers. I've heard of people that uh would give missionaries uh secondhand clothes They wear them out and then they give them to the missionaries. And I think, good, night that uh you guys wondered God doesn't just strike them all dead and be done with it. But how about the how about the rest of us? Are we just giving God the second best in our life? I wonder sometimes, you know, uh we have our our faith promise. And I think I of myself, and I won't even put you on this. I mean I think of myself. Is there some things uh that I can do without That would help some missionary across the way to win a somebody to Christ. You know, we have we have so much here in the United States. I mean it's We just we we are just blessed with material things. And I'm not really sure if the word blessed is really the word to use. Because blessed indic uh uh uh speaks of of God doing something. I'm not sure he he wants us to be as uh um Rich is what we m perhaps are. Because we spend most of it on ourselves anyway. Oh me, well I hope you come back tomorrow night. The sweet king of the Calamus. He says you you you don't you don't uh buy any of that for me and and the the fat of the sacrifices while you're not you're you're bringing in all these skinny uh sheep and s skinny oxen and things ones that had broken legs and everything and you're You're giving them, you're putting them on my altar and you're sacrificing them uh to me and and this really, he says, it wearies me. But he doesn't stop there. He says, But thou hast made me to serve with thy sins. And that that verse, when I read that verse, I thought to myself, Good night. You know that's true. Why know you not? Your body's a tip of the Holy Spirit. Wherever this body goes, is where God goes. Whatever this body does, God does. Whatever this body s speaks, God speaks. Whatever these eyes look at, God looks at, we've made God sin with our iniquities. Think about that. Are we guilty of some of these these things that these Old Testament I mean uh There was a day when the preachers used to cry out and say, We need to get rid of every boob box. And all the Christians went, oh no. Well, we probably ought to get rid of all of them, okay? I have one. I have one. My wife won't let me watch anything, but I mean I have it. I'm just saying that I'm I'm saying that we need to examine ourselves uh in what we what we actually are doing for God. Are the uh is the things that that we're doing, are we filled with the Spirit of God As we do them. Because if if we're not filled with the Spirit of God, God just it's a weariness to him. We're going through the motions and not accomplishing anything. And are we giving him our second best? Maybe to serve with thy sins. Some Christians live their lives so recklessly. They make God their partner in sin. That's tragic. To say you're a Christian Must how can I say it? Uh must must realize that that when when we trust Christ as our Savior That the Spirit of God comes to live within our body. And that Spirit that comes in makes us an ambassador to Christ. An ambassador for Christ. That means that that that I represent Christ wherever I go, I represent Him. These young people, you're saved. You represent Christ wherever you go. There's a second thing. It's not just just sin, the fact that we make God a partner in our sin, and but he he says that there's another thing. It's a formality. It wearies God because it leaves the Spirit of God out of the services. In Isaiah chapter 1, verse 14, it says, Your new moons and your anointed feasts my soul hateth. They are a trouble unto me. I'm weary to bear them. Well, I know we don't recognize, you know, the festivals that the Jews did and the moons, you know, the new moon, the blood moon, the this moon and that moon and the different uh seasons and times that they they celebrate a whole bunch of them. And he says all these things and just he says it's just a a bunch of junk. He says it wearies me to even think about and and try to keep track of all that stuff. It wearies him When our prayers take on a form. We're talking about formality. Because there's there's some churches that uh they have they have services just like these Only thing is that it's all done, you know, with very formal operation. They have the robes. I'm not necessarily beaten on robes, but I'm just saying that it's it's it's what you make of it I know that whenever formality sets in, that the Spirit of God slips out. Because those things it's just like uh a repetitious praying over and over, saying the same thing over and over and over and over, and there's some churches that that do that. And I know there's a lot of heathen the heathen churches uh do that. And I know it wears God. Formality. Let me go just through a couple other things here quickly on that vein of thought. If our Christianity does not reach beyond the walls Of this church, and it's no better than the religions of the Pharisees. The third thing is that uh our erring through unbelief wearies God I'm looking at Psalm 93 in verse 10 where it says, Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, It is a people that do error in their heart, and they have not known my ways. And then resisting the Spirit, Isaiah 50 63 and verse 30, verse 10, I'm sorry. But they rebelled and vexed the Holy Spirit. Therefore he was turned to be their enemy and he fought against them. Our rebellion and frivolous complaining. It's in m uh uh Malachi In chapter 2 and verse 17, it says, Ye have wearied the Lord with your words. Did you ever notice that word weary before I mentioned it today? In relation to the Lord. Over and over it it shows up in the Old Testament. Yet you say, wherein have we wearied him? When you say, everyone that that doeth evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delighteth in them, or where is the God of judgment? So the Lord must look down at at times and just sort of shake his head at a bunch of Baptists that go through all the the motions and And without the Spirit of God and and try to pull them off uh uh the second hand clothes and doing all those things that uh mentioned here in the scriptures. But he blesses those who bless him. That's a good thing A spiritual picture of a waiting Savior. He's waiting for the spiritually thirsty and the sin weary to come to the well. I'm I'm reading what I'm getting ready to say here and and uh I'm trying to find a good place to cut in. Oh. All right. He's waiting for uh for the the spiritual thirsty and the sin weary to come in. And we're going to go back to John chapter four again. In John chapter four, we start to read Mm-hmm. Oh. It says, There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water, and Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. For his disciples were going away unto the city to buy meat, and then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How's that thou bringest a Being a Jew, ask us to drink the me drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria, for the the Jews have no dealing with the Samaritans. And Jesus answered, and he said unto her, he said, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink. That would have asked of him and he would have given the uh living water The message has to do with weary travelers. Jesus chose the path that he went on that day to get to the Jacob's well. Because he had a predestined meeting with this woman. Well he knew she was going to be there. He went there speci specifically to to see her and to talk to her because he knew that she would ask a question, she knew that he would uh he knew that that he would be uh giving her the water of life. The spiritual picture of a of a waiting Savior. He knew that she was uh a woman that had uh uh what five husbands and and was not married to the one that she had then And uh the amazing thing is that he did not send her away whenever he found out that she was in adulterer w uh w since he knew it anyway, but yeah, he didn't send her away to clean up her act, turn over a new leaf, uh It uh it was her it was her heart that needed change. She must have been carrying a heavy burden that day when she came to that well. And uh often it's the physical thirst that brings one to the well, but his grand purpose is to swelch their uh to quench, I'm sorry their eternal thirst. And he's waiting. He's waiting for that one who will acknowledge their sin, repent of their sin. He's waiting to enlighten, convince, and convert through the Word of God. He's waiting for someone to accept and be commissioned for service. He waits for each one that will come and take the water of life freely. How long has he waited for you? You've seen the things that weary God Actually, it's the same things that weary us with our children. And something we need to we need to consider is that uh here's a God that has uh Uh he has plans for each one of us. And It's up to us to find that plan and to then perform it. You're here tonight, you've never never trusted Christ as your Savior, then the the main thing. is to get in on the plan. If you're here tonight and you're uh you're saved that but uh you're not where you ought to be spiritually, I'm satisfied of one thing, that is that you know that you're not where you ought to be There's some things that God that wearies God, and I'm satisfied that's one of them, is where his children get out of fellowship. They forget that they're ambassadors for him. And begin to do the things that are displeasing to him. Heavenly Father, I pray that you'll Bless uh the rest of the service. Bless the chalk drawings we show in a moment. And somehow or another, Lord, I pray that there's be someone here that would find some truth in what was said And would act upon it and trust you as Savior. Ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Amen.