And did I tell you that? Acts chapter nine is where I want to head here for just a little bit. I tell you, um Brother Allison, all three things all three messages he's brought these last two days have just been top notch things. I he's he's I I don't know that we're supposed to have favorite preachers or not. I I don't know about that, but certainly uh he would certainly qualify if I'm entitled to do that. I mean I I'd love to hear him and Thank the Lord for his testimony and for uh the blessing he's been to me and my family. And we we love them, love his family, thank God for them. And I enjoy time with him. It's been a delight here these last two days. And Brother Lederman as well. Thank you for loaning him to us once in a while because he's been preaching for us some as well and uh serves on our board as does Dr. Allison. We appreciate him very, very much. Acts chapter nine, and I'm gonna hopscots through this just a little bit, but I'll tell you where we're gonna move forward. So starting in verse number one. And Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest and desired of him letters. To Damascus. And what we're talking about here are warrants, arrest papers. And uh desiring of him letters to Damascus, to the synagogues, that if he found any of that way, That way. Talking about the Christian way. Whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem. Now, verses three and following, which I'll get back to here in a little bit, tell about his conversion. While he's making the journey from Jerusalem up to Damascus, he has an encounter with the Lord, and he yields himself to the Lord and receives the Savior. Now, drop down just a little bit to verse number 13, and there's a man named Ananias. Now, verse 10 tells us that he was a disciple at Damascus. And the Lord spoke to him, and Ananias answered and said, Lord I've heard by many of this man how much evil he hath done, talking about Saul, to thy saints at Jerusalem. And here he hath authority from the chief priest to bind all that call on thy name But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles and Kings and the children of Israel, for I will show him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake. Down to verse 20. And straightway he, that is Saul, preached Christ in the synagogues that he is the Son of God. But all that heard him were amazed, and said, Is not this he that destroyed them which called on this name in Jerusalem and came hither for that intent that he might bring them bound unto the chief priest But Saul increased the more in strength and confounded the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ. Now drop down to verse 29. And by this time they're the there's the enemies are trying to figure out how to kill him. Verse 29 says, though that he spoke boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus and disputed among the Grecians, but they too went about to slay him. And then Then verse uh thirty-one, then had all the churches rest throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria, and were edified, and walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost. Were multiplied. Now, what we're looking at here is the genuine conversion of a really bad man. The genuine conversion of a really, really bad man. Now, in the uh twenty twenty-eighth chapters of the book of Acts, there's a lot of great things I believe I am okay to tell you that the three biggest chapters in the book of Acts, maybe the three most important ones, would be chapter two. That's the day of Pentecost. All the things that went on with that, 3,000 people were saved, a lot of them foreigners who were scattered. Back into their home countries and things, saved and carrying the message. And then chapter 15, where they had a big business meeting at the Jerusalem church. You know, they they had some issues. They some of the Jews weren't sure that whether whether the Gentiles could be saved or not, and if they could be saved, whether they ought to have to become Jews before they would get to be Christians Well, they had a business meeting. And it's the only one that I I mean the only big one I I see. I'm I'm kind of like that. I you know the less of those we have the better. Glad we don't have to have one, you know. But they had one and they settled that issue. They got it nailed down and got it nailed down right And then the other chapter that I think is a huge chapter is the one from which we've just read some excerpts. That's chapter nine. And it's big because we have a man who is an absolute enemy. Of Christ. And he is an adversary to all of those who had embraced the Savior. And he is in fact dealing with them in such harsh ways. He is arresting them. He's hauling them into prison. hauling them into court and people have even died. They've been killed because of what uh is going on uh at hi uh under his tutelage. Now all of that, all of that, and I just lead to me again to say, genuine conversion here. An absolute case of a man being born again who is a very, very bad ombre. Now, let me tell you a little bit about him Saul had a proud heritage. Now, all you have to do is read later in some of his epistles after he gets to be a Christian. about how he felt about his heritage and about his country and about his people. He had a proud heritage. And by the way Uh I think anybody that's worth the salt that goes in their bread, uh they they ought they ought to have some character about them to uh be uh uh uh uh you know thankful for their family, thankful for the country they're from, and all of those kinds of things. I You know, I m I'm red, white, and blue uh about who I am and what I stand for and you know if if uh if my country does wrong then I'll work to try to help get it straightened out But if my country does right, then I'm gonna sound off about that as well. But this man had a proud heritage. And not only that, but he had an elite education This this man was not somebody who dropped out of school or didn't have any tutoring. No, no, no. This man had an elite education, and there's indications of that in various places in the Bible That indicated he was a well, well-tutored man. And at this point where we find him in chapter nine, proud heritage, elite education, and he's got a prominent position He has gotten himself into a place, he's on the payroll of the chief priests, that's uh uh payroll of the Sanhedrin, the big court in the Jewish uh uh culture and economy and then Judaism And uh and he's got a position where they they're counting on him. I mean he's like the the head of the secret service, only it wasn't so secret, and he's uh you know, m more like a Gestapo, I think, probably, the way they were functioning. But uh but he's got a prominent position, no doubt being well paid, a successful livelihood, and because of what he's doing, there's been a measure of fame that goes with that as well. He's uh he's he's prominent in the sense that people know him. He walks the streets of Jerusalem and a lot of people speaking to him because they know who that he is. But here is what we need to know also This man, yes, he had a proud heritage, an elite education, a prominent position, a successful livelihood, and a measure of fame, but he was a lost man He was lost. He had religion, but he was lost. And he was not only lost, but he was an angry man. He was venting himself angrily toward these Christians. Very hostile, very belligerent. Very confrontational, very militant, but so much so that uh some of this indicates, I mean he was orchestrating mayhem and even committing murder to uh get the job done Now you don't have to look for in America to find people like him. Some of them put on a good front, but they're as evil as the devil himself. And uh you look at a guy like this, and you uh you know, and it'll be awfully easy Awfully easy to say that that guy's a hopeless case. I mean, he took charge with this position that he had. He's purging out Christians He basically has weaponized the Sanhedrin. I don't know if you ever heard of that happening anywhere. But he's the Bible says here he's spouting out threatenings, intimidation. Trying to intimidate the Christians into silence and into seclusion. And uh I mean this this guy and and and the killing and the warrants in hand, he's got But basically what he's got is got John Doe Warrants. There's no names on them yet. He just said, Give me the papers, I'll f I'll fill in the name whenever we find some of these people. No, no crimes had been committed, but he went looking for a crime. I don't suppose you've ever heard of that either. Now, bad armory then, bad armbury's now. Alright? And uh and so you know he he went looking for that and he's on his way up to uh To Damascus. Now, something happened. While he's on that journey up to Damascus comes the day of his conversion And what a trip that turned out to be. What a trip that turned out to be You say, what happened with him? Well, uh verses 3 and following tell the story. There was a bright light shined round about him, a light from heaven. He fell to the earth, heard a voice saying, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? And then he cried out immediately and said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I'm Jesus, whom thou persecutest. It's hard for thee to kick against the bricks. And Saul, trembling and astonished, said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? So I mean this man is broken in conviction. My guess is even when Stephen was stoned and Saul was standing there giving consent to the death of Stephen Whatever last words, whatever final uh proclamations that Stephen may have made in his dying hours, no doubt some of that in the dark of the night, when Saul was pillowing his head Some of that it wa it was rattling in his brain as he thought about those Christians who were willing to give themselves in death. They would not would not turn back. They would not recant their testimony. And here this very bad man is hearing that. And God is using the testimony of the Stevens and others Using that testimony and ultimately breaking through and Saul quickly, quickly here, when that light shines upon him, he quickly breaks down in conviction We've seen it. Again and again we've seen it. People just very tough, very hard I remember one case over in Westminster. A lady had come to the church and She told me that her husband was unsaved and would not come to church and and uh she wanted me to stop by some time and see them. She said it just seemed to come unannounced. And she told me a good time in the evening to come. And I went and knocked on the door. It was kind of a cold night And as soon as he saw me, he knew, recognized me, he'd seen me before. And uh and he did invite me to step inside, but immediately when he closed the door, he said, he said, what what what do you want? What are you here for? You know, just pretty matter-of-factly. And I said, well, I said, your wife's been coming to church, and I said, I wanted to come by and talk to you about it. And he said, anytime I want to talk to you, I'll let you know. He recently got the door open. He said, Good night. Just like that. I mean I was in and out in, I don't know, maybe a minute and a half. You say, what did you do? Well, I walked back and got in my car and I said, Dear Lord, you saw all that. You know, you gotta help me with this one. And so help me as I stand here tonight, less than 60 days later, that man came to Christ. And been a church faithful for a lot of years. And other cases like that were somebody seems so hard, but what happened here with Saul? What happened with him? Well, the Lord, I mean, he was living in darkness, but God gave him light He was in the midst of death, as it were, but God gave him life, life that is everlasting All the despair that he was creating, God all at once created hope in him. And in the midst of all of the storm that was going on inside of him, God comforted him, showed him that godliness and wickedness were two different things. That uh in the midst of whatever hurt that he felt down deep inside there was joy to be had, peace to be had And those verses 3 and following tell that this man was born again. He was saved, washed in the blood of Calvary's Lamb, and birthed into the family of God. And I'm telling you You look at a character like Saul of Tarsus, and if that dude can get saved, I'm convinced anybody can. Now, I believe that anyway because God said it. But at the same time you read that and here he I I I mean almost almost immediately verse 18 tells us They told him he needed to get baptized. He probably already knew that because he'd been hanging around Christians enough, seeing what they were doing, spying on them But what does he do? He goes and gets baptized. Do you realize that in some of those cultures, I mean it's one thing if you say, oh yeah, I've become a Christian But whenever you take a public stand in some of those cultures like getting baptized, I'm telling you, I mean you're asking for it You're asking for hostility to be vented toward you. And that's exactly what happens to him here. And verse 20 tells us that he begins preaching almost immediately Can you imagine? Here is a guy who has been as wicked as, I mean, he has been so wicked there's not enough vocabulary to describe it. And within hours, within days, he's testifying and beginning to preach about the Savior that he had been persecuting. Incredible. I have several preacher friends. I don't mean a lot, but I mean a handful of them, but several. Who tell me that the day they got saved, God also called them to preach that very day. Now, it didn't happen exactly that way with me. It was a little bit of time in between But but you know, to realize, I mean here's somebody who's just out living in the world, whatever happens, they get on their face before God, they get saved. And they get up and saying, I believe God wants me to be a preacher, and then they go do it and spend their whole life doing it. Dr. Tom Malone's a case in point. He's gone, dead in heaven, died in two thousand and seven was an elderly man, 93 years or so of age. But when he got saved, I mean his testimony was he believed God put in his heart the day he was saved to be a preacher And what a preacher he was. Now, I'm I'm just I'm just telling you folks, I mean God does some absolutely amazing things, and then we learn here right quick when he starts preaching Man, his former friends now become his foes. Verse 22 says that it confounded the Jews there at Damascus. That he was proving that Christ was Christ. And verse 23 says, after many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to kill him. And then you drop down just a little further down there, and some of the Grecians, verse 29 says they went about to slave. So he's got double trouble. All because that he embraced the Savior. Now, if we do a little study of the biography that's uh painted here about the apostle Paul, there's a few handful of lessons. Um number one, it tells me that even things that look impossible are possible. You know, there's another place in the Bible that says with God all things are possible. Now, here's a case where a troublemaker becomes a peacemaker Where a very bad man becomes a very good man. And haven't we seen it? Drunks become sober, dopers become clean, thieves become honest. Adulterers go straight, get clean, become moral. A husband who's been a sorry, no-good bum, abusive to his family, cleans his life up, becomes a model, husband and dad A wife sometimes who has been hateful and grumpy and maybe living out in the world and doing crazy things all at once cleans up her act, becomes a model of virtue All because they met the Savior. I've seen public officials, public officials that were as crooked, crooked, as we say, as a dog's hind leg, crooked But they come to Christ and all at once they're not crooked anymore. They're honest in what they do. We've even seen some liberals get saved, and by the way they need it. Real bad Now all of the all of this tells me, hey, let's not give up on anybody. Saul of Tarsus, I mean, if if there has ever been an impossible case, I think he was it. But wow, God smacked him down, and when he got up, he was a different man. So we learn all things are possible with God. Don't ever write anybody off and say, well, that guy will never be saved. That guy will never be saved. No, you never know. Second thing I want to point out from this biography of Saul is when a person gets saved, you can expect them to grow spiritually. If they've been born again, they may have some struggles along the way. I've I've seen folks they had smoking habits, uh, you know, one kind or another. And and I've seen folks, man, it was the last last puff they ever took. But I've seen some others, man, for weeks, months they'd struggled to find but but they're fighting it. They're fighting it. They're gonna they're gonna pass it Same thing with drink. Seen some drunks come to Christ, and I mean that was it. They hated liquor from there on. Never touched it. But then there have been some others that they they had to struggle with it for a while. But they did struggle with it, and the reason they struggled with it is because they had Christ in their heart now. And Christ was making the difference, and they were growing spiritually, and when there's no growth spiritually, it may be because the germ of everlasting life hasn't been implanted yet. Now, we also learn in studying this little biography of Saul that it's okay to go ahead and set out immediately to serve the Lord. You want to give your testimony? You can do it. You want to pass out some gospel tracts? You can do it. You want to find a a spot in the church where you can plug in? You talk to the pastor. I mean he may he may start you with some Small assignment of some kind, but hey, listen, there are no small assignments in God's economy. Everything matters. You say, well it doesn't seem like much. You listen, you make a big deal about what doesn't seem to be much, you might get to do something else. I've often said to young people, you know, you want to m you wanna you wanna make more money, you go get a job at McDonald's or Wendy's or Burger King or whatever. And uh you got a job flipping hamburgers and and dipping fries in the grease. Be the best dipper of gre uh fries in the grease they ever had. Be the best hamburger flipper they ever had And you just might be surprised how quick you'll be an assistant manager, how quick you'll get to be a manager, maybe be a general manager of one of those stores all your own. A lot of times, oh man, I want to start you over with management. Well, do a good job with the dirty work that they've assigned you to do. And so it is. You and I can set out to serve the Lord and do it immediately. Number four, just a little lesson from Saul here. You can gain influence among your Christian peers, even though you're starting from zero. I mean, the story is right here. Verse 21. All that heard him were amazed and said, Is not this he that destroyed those in Jerusalem and came hither with that intent? I mean they were suspicious. Then verse 25 says the disciples took him by night after he was they were threatening to kill him. The disciples took him by night and let him down by the wall In a basket. They were taking care of him, protecting him. Verse 28 says, he was with them, the Christians, coming in and going out of Jerusalem. So all at once he he becomes a a uh a compadre in the fellowship. I mean, he is a fellow patriot. in the ministry and in the in the uh fellowship of the saints and the servants of God. And uh y you know, as Dr. Allison said so well a little while ago, man You know, uh uh I mean church is something special. Church is something we all need. Church i I mean I mean I you know I I eat a little bit of breakfast every morning, but before loon, I I won't eat again. And whatever I do at the n loon hour, I walk in the house uh later in the afternoon and I I won't eat again And the Christian life, I mean, you say, well, yeah, I went Wednesday night. Yeah, I went Wednesday night. But I want to go Sunday morning and I want to go Sunday night. I want to get in on everything. By the way, it's worked out pretty good for us. I also see here that reputation and testimony takes time. It was even some of the Christians. Early on, they were, verse 13, even Ananias, he said, I've heard about this guy, how much evil he's done. They were terribly suspicious, but it took a little time, but after a little bit, man, they were they were glad to have him on board. And verse 31 says that even the churches benefited by the conversion of one man. He had been giving them such hostility that when he got saved, the churches, the verse says, the churches had rest. And they multiplied. The churches multiplied because of the conversion of this one bad dude. Now Who would have dreamed? Who could have imagined that this man who was a persecutor Became a preacher. And not only that, but he wrote thirteen New Testament books. Thirteen of them. And that tells me that no amount of bad in past life can overwhelm the ability of God, the redemption of Christ, and the dynamics of the Holy Spirit. So you you got you got some of these uh guys like the Ayatollah or the Hitlers or Who a whoever they are, whatever evil they've done. I we we we put the sword and sword materials into a lot of prisons out across North America Hundreds of prisons, in fact. And I get a lot of prison mail. And I have a one of the ladies in the office that helps me with that. But I sign with my red pen, I sign uh let me take it back. I sign a lot of things with my red pen, but not the prison mail. The prison mail, the prisons require you to sign in blue or black Uh and so but I sign I sign every single one of those prison letters, some of the Some of the ones that uh she's not quite comfortable composing and she composes them off stuff that I've done before. But But sometimes, in fact, any given day I may I may have to deal with three or four or five of them myself. Uh but we deal with every one of them like they are somebody because they are somebody There are people that many of them will be out on the streets again in six months or six years. They'll be walking the streets. And what are they going to be like? Are they going to be out again uh you know, doing all the devilment that they did before, or are they going to really get something in them that will change them so that they will be productive citizens of society Now, I'm happy to tell you that that in my 53 trips last year and almost 50 already this year, uh uh I mean over and over and over and over again through the years, not every week. But I meet people over and over and over again. They'll walk up to me sometimes, they hug my neck, other times they squeeze my hand hard, and they will say I was in prison for 12 years. I was in prison for 25 years. And you wrote to me. You sent me things. And I'm out now and I'm serving the Lord. And sometimes they'll drive 100 miles just to get to the meeting So that they can look me in the eye and say thank you. Now, folks, there's thousands of others of them They don't want any of it. They're still bent wrong, hated wrong. But even once in a while, when one of them comes through, I mean it tells us God is able The redemption of Christ gets the job done, and the Holy Spirit knows how to take our witness, our testimony, the Word of God, and all the things that we provide to them, and make that speak to their hearts, just like it does to us. Spirit of God knows how to do that. And so let me just tell you tonight, the gospel does work. And the Word of God is powerful. It is powerful. Not just for me and you, because we love it. My predecessor, Dr. Curtis Hudson, often said, I heard him more than a few times say Well somebody somebody said, you know, I well I don't I don't you you offer to read the Bible or show them something in the Bible they said well I don't believe the Bible He said let me tell you something He said you don't have to believe in knives to get cut with one And he said, if they'll even though they don't want you to, if they'll let you do it, go ahead and read it to them because it may it may it may get the job done anyway. And he's so we're right. You don't have to believe in knives to be cut with one, and you don't have to believe the word of God for it to cut deep into your heart either. And get you there. So I hope tonight, I hope you'll review your own history. And if you've not been saved, whether you're sitting here in this audience or whether you're watching on camera. If you've not been saved, I want to invite you to come to Christ. Doesn't matter what your background is. Don't matter, listen, whatever you've been into. There's a God in heaven who loved you enough that He sent His Son to die on the cross and rise from the grave and pay your whole sin debt in full. Purchase salvation for you and He's ready to give it to you as a free gift. And if you're willing to receive it, He'll let you have it. And he'll make a new person out of you. If the Lord can save and salvage a man like Saul of Tarsus Saul the persecutor, and make him Paul the preacher, he can surely help me and you. Saul, but then he's Paul. How in the world does that happen? It happens because there's a great God who provided a great salvation through his son. And whose Holy Spirit comes to massage our heart and to warm us so that we're ready to receive it. This message I simply I simply called it the genuine conversion of a really bad man. And I hope it encourages you. Get out sometime this week, scatter some gospel tracts, run your bus route, knock on some doors, talk to some people about the Savior. Just as you're going out and about. You're getting lunch at Wendy's, you're uh, you know, you're going to Wal Walmart or someplace Don't don't hesitate. My my dear wife, who, by the way, she's been watching these services as was noted about last night. She I think she's been watching all of them But uh we we have uh in our city of Murfreesburg we have four super Walmarts inside the city limits. And uh we've got one that's about a mile from the house and we we shop there And I and I call it one of Betty's fishing holes. That that girl, I'm telling you, she she has now, you know, here's another thing. You you get a little age on you And by the way, she still looks like a million dollars. But you but you get a little age on you. You know, Dr. Allison told you he was seventy-five. And I remember when I was seventy-five You get a little age on you, you can get away with things that you might not get away with otherwise. My dear wife, she's gone into that Walmart, and I've lost track, and I think she probably has too, of the people she's led to Christ in that Walmart. She just walks around and she she she lets her personality just she she's got a kind of a glowing personality and she uses that to to a good advantage. And I'm telling you folks, there are people out there who can be won, and this cause that they got a bad reputation don't mean we ought not take it to 'em. Because God's able, Christ is willing, and the Holy Spirit's on the job. Let's stand up, please. Stand up with me, please. I want the anointing of God, I want the filling of the Spirit of God, I want God to use me I hope you want that as well. These altars are open for us to do business with the Lord. And if you're going to come, I'm going to pray. It's open now. You find your way when you want to Lord, help us now tonight, I pray. Speak to our hearts, use the messages we've heard tonight. Use the songs that were sung. I pray, dear Lord, speak to us, move us, stir us up. Get us on the job, get us going, and we'll thank you, Lord, for what you do. May the Spirit of God work and move in this moment, I pray, not only here in this room, but for all of those that are watching On mine as well. Lord, help us, help us impact those folks who are listening to us half a world away. Dear Lord, do some mighty things tonight in Jesus' precious