1 Peter chapter 3, I want to read verses 8 and 9. 1 Peter 3, verse 8 and 9. The Bible says, finally Be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another, love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing, but contrarywise, blessing, knowing that ye are thereunto called That you should inherit a blessing, that ye should inherit a blessing. I've entitled this, as I was looking at these verses here, I thought what he's describing here is the Christian life. How the Christian life is to be lived. And so we're just going to get started tonight. We got Lord's Supper here in a little bit, but uh I just want to kind of give the introduction, maybe the first characteristic of a mature Christian that he gives here. We'll just look at that tonight. But let's pray together and we'll look at what he says here. Father in heaven Oh Lord, my heart is full tonight. What a joy to be in your house with your people. And then, Lord, we had the meeting before the service, and so many workers just excited about serving you. What a joy it is to be a part of the body of Christ. Lord, we've been studying this part of your word here for the last years, maybe, and for the last while, and I pray That you'd teach us again tonight, Holy Spirit, that you'd take these instructions that were given here and help us to trust you, Lord. And to follow these instructions, that these characteristics would be true in my life personally, I pray, and for all of us as a church And so fill me with your Spirit, Lord, that we need your Holy Spirit to convict and challenge and bless. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And pray you'd speak through me to all of our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. I keep mentioning this every time we come back to First Peter, but the subject of this passage, the context of this whole section all the way back into chapter 2 has been submission in the Christian's life. Submission. And he deals with some very specific areas where to be submissive in. If you remember, back uh in the early part of chapter 2, in the middle part of chapter 2, he had mentioned that the Christian submission to governors and kings and the ordinances of man And uh that kind of introduced the idea of this attitude of submission. Uh then he came down and he talked about servants being submissive to their masters. And in our context, if you remember, we suggested that might be in the workplace. I'm hired by somebody in our context and be on hired by somebody, then I need to submit to their authority and and and follow their instructions. And he goes on and he even mentions the fact even if that master Now the context there is a little different. This is more like they don't have a lot of choice. But even if the master is unjust and unreasonable He'd still be submissive there, still be respectful. And he uses Jesus Christ as an example, even as Jesus was submissive to God, even to the point where he was crucified. And out of that brought the possibility of salvation for all mankind. So the whole context had been submission, submission, being subjection is how he words it. He talked about the wife with an unbelieving husband and how she can, by her conduct and by that submissive attitude, be able to win her husband to the Lord without preaching at him and nagging him, but just by her attitude and actions. And then he talked about the husband and his role and his responsibility to the wife, so that his prayers be not hindered. And I think the underlying attitude on the section talking about the husband is that of submission To God and to his wife in the sense that he respects her and treats her as God instructs her to. But that I don't think, the more I study this, I don't think that's where he ends this This thought of submission. I think it carries over into our section, our passage here that we're looking, we're going to start looking at tonight Submission is vital. Now, everything about us, everything about our sinful nature rebels at the idea of submission, right or wrong? We don't like that idea. That's our fallen nature. That's our simple nature. Ain't nobody telling me what to do, right? Or we used to say it this way, you're not the boss of me, right? So we're repulsed by this idea when God says be submissive and have that attitude But I want to suggest to you that I cannot be a mature godly Christian if I don't maintain a submissive attitude to the authorities that God places in my life It's vital to be a mature. Let me put it this way. It's vital to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Now that's not the subject tonight. That's not the message, but I sure am tempted to talk about the importance of being filled with the Holy Spirit. How many people agree the preacher ought to be filled with the Spirit when he's preaching? Anybody agree with that? Amen. I pray for that all week long. I'm praying. Lord, fill me with your spirit. Give me your power when I'm preaching. God has to do this. But I want to turn that around and say it's just as important as the person in the pew is filled with the Holy Spirit also. It's for all of us. And submission The attitude of submission to God and to the people God puts in our life responsible over us. We can't be filled with the Spirit. I cannot be a mature godly Christian if I have this attitude. What's the opposite of submission? Rebellion. God tells us back in Samuel that rebellion is as the sin of what? Witchcraft. And so I cannot overemphasize the importance of submission. Now, I look at verse number 8 there, and I see the first word in verse number 8. And that tells me this subject is still being carried over into this passage. He's still talking about this idea of submission. What's the word there? Finally, my brethren, finally, my brethren. That word finally, and I think we all understand this, means to it's kind of like: all right, I want to bring this thing to a conclusion I want to bring this thing to a head, to sum things up. What all I've been saying, finally, this is what it's about. If you ever hear a preacher say, and in conclusion Just don't bother putting your shoes on, ladies. It's still going to be a while. All right. He says, finally, I want to bring this whole thought to a head. I want to bring this whole thought to a conclusion to sum things up. What he's indicating here by using that word finally is he's saying that whatever we were addressing up to this point Should produce the following conduct in the life of the believer. And we'll look at this, and I'm going to take a week or two to look at these. But he goes down, he has a list, uh uh five or six things he mentions here that ought to be true in the Christian life for the Christian that is submissive has an attitude of submission. These things ought to be true. What has been said up to this point should produce the following behavior. I think the areas that he mentioned specifically that we're to be submissive in, now he's carrying that over, and that that ought to be true in our life as a Christian in general and should produce this conduct. Now I want to stop here and say this. This is an important thing to understand. And I really believe, with all my heart, I believe our church understands this. And that is this: when God gives us information in His Word, when God gives us some truth, or to use the Bible term, God gives us doctrine. That's a bad word in some circles in Christianity, but it's a Bible. When God gives us information, when God gives us some teaching, it is not so we can pile up in our brain Bible knowledge. You follow what I'm saying? He gives us this information. He tells us about the responsibility of government authorities. He tells us about the roles of husband and wife. He tells us about the responsibility of masters and Servants. He gives us that information. But it is never given to us just for the sake of piling up information, Bible knowledge. God gives us information. God gives us these truths, these doctrines, so that we can what? Live it out. So that it affects our conduct, so that it affects our behavior. We've been preaching on Sunday mornings on the Christian walk. Walk in love, walk in wisdom, walk in uh um The light, walk in the Christian walk in the light. There was another one. Walk in some wisdom, love, wisdom. Righteousness. Oh, walk in faith. Walking by faith. And so what I'm saying is this: God gives us information in the Bible, God gives us these truths in the Bible, so it affects the way we live. I've said this often over the years. We are a fundamental Bible-believing church, Baptist church. Means we believe the fundamentals of the Bible. But wait a minute Being a fundamental Bible-believing Baptist does not mean having all these doctrinal truths on our doctrinal statement, this creed. If we're going to be fundamental, then it means we live out those doctrines. For instance, the Bible teaches Jesus coming back again. Men, we sang about that tonight. There will be no dark valley when Jesus comes. You know what? That's not just a doctrinal boy. We break that thing down, the rapture, the tribulation, the 79th week of Daniel, the great Jacob's trouble. We got all these doctrinal truths. But wait a minute. The fact that Jesus came back in ought to affect the way I live. How to live as if he actually is. And so he's talking about doctrine here, or submission, I mean. He's talking about submission, the doctrine of submission, and he says, finally This is how it ought to affect your life. This is what it ought to produce in your life. Would you take your Bible and turn with me to James chapter number one? Keep your place here. We're going to look at one of these. In the list he gives us, Lord willing. James chapter 1. And I want to begin reading in verse 22. Now, if you're in 1 Peter, just come backwards, a book. And you get to James and verse 22. Now, for a lot of us, this is a familiar verse as far as we're aware of it, but we need to make it familiar as far as how we practice it. Look what it says. But be ye what? Doers. I circled the word doers in my Bible. But be ye doers of the word and not hearers only. Deceiving your own selves. Now look, he goes on and expands on that. For if any be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. For he beholdeth himself, he sees what the situation is, he gets the information about himself And goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. Alright, so he looks at it, but he doesn't do it. He gets the information, but he doesn't act on it. Hair is out of whack, uh, you know, uh the bags under the eyes and teeth are terrible. And so he says, oh, yeah, gets up in the morning, looks in the mirror. What a mess Now, I think I think la I think mirrors bother ladies more than men than mirrors bother men. I don't know. I know I gotta be careful here. Sometimes you know a lady look in, oh my word, and you know, be there for hours and doing that. Uh your average guy looks in the mirror, he says, Yeah And that's true, right or wrong. That's why you're laughing, you know it's true. A guy's like, eh, not bad, huh? A lady's like, Ah But the point is, what he's saying here is, you look in that mirror and you see there needs to be some adjustments made. There needs to be some paint applied. There needs to be some rearrangement here. Now look in the mirror. And he says: the guy that is a hearer of the word, the person that's a hearer of the word, and not a doer of the word That person looks, sees the mess, and just walks off and forgets all about it. Oh well, so what? He said, but the doer Looks into the perfect law of liberty. Look what he says here. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, that's the word of God, and continueth therein. He finds out what it says, what it's team, what is it telling me I need? He being not a forgetful here, but a doer of the work. This man shall be blessed in his deed. I think that's what Peter's telling us. He's saying finally, said all these things about the importance of submission in the specific areas and how to do that Now he says, now finally, this is how it should affect our life. This is how it ought to affect our Christian life. The Bible should never just accumulate, Bible truths should never just accumulate in our heads It should affect our hearts and dictate our actions. In other words, it should make a difference in our life. Should make a difference in our life. We walk into church or we spend some time in the morning reading our personal devotions or we go to a revival meeting or we listen to a program on the radio, spring to Allerby Green, or whoever And we walk away and it doesn't have any effect on my life. The word of God doesn't affect me in any way. I'm a hearer, but not a doer. Peter's saying, don't be that. Finally, this is how it should affect. Now we only have time for one. And he gives a list here. Come back to Peter. He says, finally, and then he goes through this list. I like lists. I'm a list kind of guy. And I like to check stuff off. And so I see, you know, this is the way, but uh if it uh I see bullet points here. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I like bullet points. Boom, boom, boom, boom And I see Peter giving bullet points. Finally, he gives, be of one mind, have compassion one of another, love his brethren, be pitiful, be courteous. Then verse 9, he kind of Addresses all of it, not rendering evil for you, bro. So I want to look at the first one here, real quick, our first thought. Number one is this. I put it this way: the qualities of a mature, submissive Christian, number one, unity. Notice what he says in verse eight. Finally, be ye all of what? One mind. All y'all Everybody, be of one mind. Be of one mind. That word one mind, it has this idea of being like-minded In fact, the word that this comes from, we get our word harmony from. Harmonious. All working together, all bringing together to present one piece of music. And it's in harmony. That's the idea here. He's saying Christians are to be of one mind, are to be in harmony. Now that word mind helps us understand a little bit what he has in mind. To have the to be of one mind, I This is what he's saying. It means to have, we all have the same, we are unified in our values, what we value. We are unified in our priorities. We are unified in our principles that we live by. So he says, finally, be of one mind. All be of one mind. If you would, keep your place. Come over to Philippians now with me, if you would. Paul writing to the church at Philippi addresses this issue, but he kind of comes at it a little different angle. In Philippians chapter 2, and if you would notice with me verse number 5. Philippians chapter 2 and verse number 5. Verse 3 says, Let nothing be done through strife or vain glory. Verse 4 was our memory verse a few months ago. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Then he says this, look at verse number five. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. The same mind that Jesus had, you and I need to have. The same way that Jesus saw things, the same way that Jesus thinks about things. You and I need to think about things, the same perspective that Jesus has. We need to have the same values Same priorities that Jesus had were to have. Now I got thinking about that. Peter says, be of one mind, be unified, be in harmony What's the best way to get Christians in harmony with each other? What's the best way to get Christians all of one mind? I had a lady years ago come and I thought the church was doing pretty well. I mean we're certainly not perfect. We always got room to grow, of course. We're growing Christians, we're humans, we got issues Had a lady, I mean, this back in the 90s, a long time ago, she came and said, uh, our church needs to be more unified. I said, all right, I agree. You know, we always need to work on that. I didn't know of any serious things. I think what she meant was, everybody in our church needs to agree with me, I think is what she meant by that It's code word. But um so I preached another week or so later, I preached on unity And I think this is how you have Christians have the same mind to be in harmony. We all get the mind of Christ. Follow what I'm saying? I've got Austin here, and you've got Zach. These guys are fussing. They can't hardly sit next to each other. They're not of one mind. They're not in harmony. There's discord there. It's awful. And so we need to get these guys in one mind. So Austin starts studying the Bible, and he looks what the Bible says about Christ, and he finds out what Jesus thinks about various things. And he starts thinking about those things the same way Jesus does. And he starts seeing things from Jesus' perspective. And he starts valuing things the way Jesus valued things. And he starts having the priorities that Jesus had for And lo and behold, Zach's reading his Bible, and he's doing the same thing. And he starts developing the mind of Christ. He starts developing the values and the attitudes, the perspectives in Christ. And when Zach, these guys are not in harmony, they're errrr, and um Austin gets the mind of Christ, he gets the values, priorities, principles to live by, the perspective of Christ Zach gets that same thing, guess what's going to happen? They're going to be of what? On mine. Because they're both seeing things the way Jesus sees things. Uh, could I get you two guys to come up here real quick? I wasn't going to do this, but I feel inspired. They love it when I have them do this. All right, Austin, you go over there and you're just kind of doing your own thing. Zach, you're over there and you're just kinda you got your own mind and Austin's got his he's watching basketball and Zach's fishing for trout and um these guys these guys they are not getting along but Zach's reading his Bible and he starts getting the mind of Christ and he says, you know, I'm going to be a follower of Christ. Mark, you come up here if you would, please. And you're going to be represent Jesus. I'm sorry, it's the best I can do, all right? And you're just going to slowly make your way there. So Zach, just real slow. Zach and Austin are not getting along. They're not of one mind. But Zach's reading his Bible, devotions, God's dealing with heart. He starts following Christ. And lo and behold, Austin's reading his Bible and God's dealing with his heart. And he starts following Christ. And lo and behold, these guys were far apart. And look what happened as they followed Christ. Amazing miracle moving of God. And you see what I'm saying? Alright, thanks guys. You can be seated. So I think the way for a church or believers or a husband and wife, a family, the way to be of one mind Isn't to somehow overcome our differences and da da da. I think it's just each one get the mind of Christ, and if party A has the mind of Christ and Party B has the mind of Christ, then they're going to be the same mind. So all this Christian unity boils down to is being close to God. All of God's people being close to the Lord. The closer I get, this is an old cliche almost, but The closer I get to the Lord, the closer I get to my brothers and sisters in Christ. As we both so the whole point is that tells me that when the invitation's given and God's dealing with hearts and getting right with God It's very, very important for the unity of a church. For us to be yielded to the Lord, submissive to the Lord, so we can have the same mind. And so he says, first of all, this needs to be, says uh he says, finally, be ye all of one mind. Again, if Christian A has the same mind of Christ, and Christian B has the same mind of Christ, then Christian A and Christian B will be of one mind. So both have the same mind. That approach to unity makes it impossible to violate scriptural doctrines for the sake of unity Now let me say that again. Well, let me say this. There is a mentality in certain circles of quote-unquote Christianity That says we need to put aside our differences, we need to put aside the doctrines that divide us and be unified in Christ. I say that's impossible. Because unity in Christ means having the mind of Christ, seeing things the way Jesus sees. Take your Bible, if you would, real quickly, and come with me to John chapter 17. Jesus prayed a prayer in John 17. It's what you could legitimately call the Lord's Prayer. Now it's not what is commonly called Lord's Prayer today That's more of a model prayer. This is where the Lord is actually praying, not just for his disciples, but get this. He was praying for you and I. I mean directly. Jesus was at this point praying for you and I today. Look with me in John chapter 17. Come to verse 20. Now, this is the middle of the Lord's prayer. He's praying before he's about to go and be crucified. And he says in verse 20, he says, Neither pray I for these alone. Talking about his disciples right there in his presence. But for them also which shall believe on me through their word. Do you know who that is? You and me. We believe on the Lord through the word of the disciples that God has preserved for us. And then he goes on. He says, this. Now look at this. He's talking about this unity of believers. But I pray for them also which shall believe on me through their word, that they all may be one. Oh, the liberals love that. Oh, we need to all be one. Set aside. You Baptists, the Bible's a soul authority. You need to lay that aside so we can all work together. Wait a minute, that's not what he's talking about here. Look what he says. That they may all be one, but he doesn't stop there. He gives us the how we're to all be one. That they may all be one, even may be all be one, as thou, Father, art in me and I in thee, that they also may be one in us. That the world may believe that thou hast sent me. Liberals say, well, if we're going to reach the world for Christ, we've got to lay aside doctrine and quit preaching doctrine. That divides. No, Jesus is saying doctrine unites us. Having the mind of Christ, believing what Christ says is so, uh seeing things from God's perspective. Then he goes on, he says, and the glory, verse 22. That which thou has gave us me, I have given to them, that they may be one. Look at this, even as we are one Here's my question. Does Jesus lay aside doctrines so that he can be one with God the Father? No. Does God have to lay aside some Bible doctrine so he can be one with his son, Jesus Christ? No, that's ludicrous. Jesus Christ and God the Father are one in their doctrine. They're one mind as far as the truths, spiritual truths, are concerned. They're not putting doctrines aside. And so if I if our unity is based on having the mind of Christ and seeing things the way Jesus does, and and having Jesus' perspective on truth and on life and the world Then we're not laying aside drawing. You follow what I'm saying? Now for us that's not a big deal. We understand that. But out in Christianity, this is being hammered That's one reason. That's one reason when I came here. I got a phone call. I was only here about a month. Got a phone call from the ministerial association. They said, Reverend Leatherman, we're a new pastor, we heard here, we'd like to invite you to come be a part of the ministerial association. I said, thank you very much, but I I don't I would not be able to do that And we had a little conversation with Sybil. But I can't be a part of something that's going to require me to ignore or set aside doctrines that the Bible clearly teaches that I cannot disregard. Unity at the cost of truth is unscriptural unity. That's why that's one of the reasons we're independent Baptists. And so he says he says there, finally, be all of one mind. He's not That if I have the mind of Christ, if our unity is because we all have the mind of Christ, then there's no doctrines being sacrificed. Jesus and God held the same doctrines, and in the same way that Jesus and God are one, God's people are to be one. And by the way, unity, when he says that they may have one mind, there's a world of difference between unity and uniformity. Follow what I'm saying? What do we mean by uniformity? Somebody help me. I forgot to look it up. I don't know what the word means. No. What's it mean? That what Yeah, uniformity means we all wear the exact same suit, same color, we all wear the same ties, same color ties. We all are uniform in all of our preferences, in all our personalities, and all our likes and dislikes. We're all uniform. No, no, no. Unity is not uniformity. Doesn't mean we all have to look the same way. It doesn't mean all the guys need to have the same type of hairdo that Wilbur and I have. And some of the men said you watch it, buddy. I can see it already In other words, we can have the mind of Christ yet have some areas that we are unique in. Some areas that we are dip we differ in. Not in doctrine, not in the values that Christ's values have, not in the principles that Jesus had, not in the perspective, but in other areas. Some people like to dress flashy Brother James is a flashy dresser. Isn't he sharp? Man, I'm telling you. And then there's some others that aren't quite as flashy. You follow what I'm saying? I wish uh I took too long already, but we could go to Corinthians, 1 Corinthians chapter 12. And he's talking to the church at Corinth, and he says this, he says, you're one body, you're one body, you're one body. But he says you've got all different kinds of members. Some are eyes, some are ears, some are toes, some are pinkies, some are belly buttons You know, you're all different. But you're one body. You all have the same mind. We have the same values, the same perspective. In other words, we all have different tastes and different things. But we all see this lost world the way God sees the lost world. We all see right and wrong the way God sees right and wrong. You follow what I'm saying? We all we have this one mind even though there's variations within us. Some of us like seafoods, others like um What? State? Some people like Italian. It's not uniformity. In fact, I want to suggest to you the fact that we are different in many ways. enables us to serve God more effectively. If all were the eye, where would the hearing be? If all was the mouth, then where would the sight be? And so a church that is, everybody is identical, you have to And I've seen it in some things, man, they were so, everything had to be exactly the same. You had to had to have the same color tie, you had to have this, the same Wait a minute. God's created us as unique beings, but we're one mind in Christ. You follow what I'm saying? And so then somebody might uh uh somebody doesn't somebody is a geek Is that the right word? Computer geek. They know all this technical stuff. Drives me nuts. And um they all know that. And thank God for it. Another person could care less about that, but boy, they like um They like building things and making things. And those guys, those two completely different interests there, can have the same mind in Christ. Can work together and glorify God and serve God effectively together. You know what that requires? That requires submission. Submission to Christ. And submission in the sense that Mark doesn't have to be exactly like me for us to have the same mind, be able to serve God together. That's submissive. I recognize that and I can submit to that. I learned early on in the ministry there are some people that are better at things than I am. And it's a good idea for me. You say, Well, you're the pastor, you've got to run everything. That's what I thought. You know what I found out? There's some people in the church can run some things better than I can And I need to be able to submit over and say, all right, this is yours. I'll follow your leadership here. You know this better than I do. For instance, fixing fixing die wires on towers Or organizing a bus ministry, running a Sunday school. That requires submission. Say, listen, we got the same mind, different different areas that we're better in, different areas we have strengths and weaknesses. But it comes together, but with one mind. One mind. And that requires following Christ, being close to Christ. Follow what I'm saying? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I hope this came across. Lord, that you could help us as a church have one mind. Not compromising truth, not compromising what's right and wrong, but simply all having your truth, Lord, your standard of right and wrong. Saying things from your perspective in spite of our varying characteristics I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if some would say, Preacher, I need I really need God to help me in this matter of just being a submissive Christian Just being submissive in the areas that God mentions, or in just in my interaction with others, being gracious and having one mind. Is there any like that, Preacher? That's an area, yeah. Our sinful nature. It's for real. What if there's some say, preacher, I've got to get closer to the Lord? I'd venture to say if one of us is always fussing, always an issue with someone. Probably what we need to do is get closer to the Lord. Get closer to the Lord. Anybody here say, preacher, I really need to get closer to the Lord. I need to walk with them. Get closer. God bless you. That's a lifelong endeavor of the believer. Get and stay closer to the Lord. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Help us in Jesus' name