Um before I get him madder at me than what he already is. Well just remember I warned you this week that Brother Bowman would probably do something low, sneaky, conniving, scheming. Am I not right? And what do we got down here tonight? A Bowmanite. A Bowmanite. So uh and she's just not here just to be here. I'm just telling you that right now. She's she's here to take back a report. And uh so uh Uh when you go back there, just tell him that we've only got 125 tracks that we passed out. You need to lull him into complacency, amen. That didn't sound like yes. And uh He's got a lot of goals, Senator Bowmanite, doesn't he? But of course he's not man enough to come himself, amen. You're gonna repeat all this to him, don't you? I don't have to worry about he's just Air Force. We don't worry about Air Force. Amen. Good to see Brother Nicholson here. A lot of memories. We went to Bible college together. Took classes together. He's got a sense of humor just as warped as I have. We had a lot of good times in those classes. Did a lot of studying together. And uh uh when I saw 'em there was just a lot of good memories, uh, going back in years past and stuff. So Good to see him here tonight also. Well, if you had your Bibles, turn over to Acts chapter 4. Acts chapter 4. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Acts. That's for the Bowmanite that's here tonight, amen. I'm not letting her out of here without telling me we're just gonna, you know, let them know, you know, now when this thing's all over, you're more than welcome here. Amen. I mean, you know. But Acts chapter four. And uh look at we love you anyway, you know that don't you? We we you know Verse 36, Acts chapter 4, verse 36. And Joseph, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas. Which is being interpreted the son of consolation. Let me just say something here. That word consolation means to comfort or encourage. Everybody got that? That's important. Consolation, a Levite and of the country of Cyprus, having land sold it And brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. Here's the message I want to bring you tonight. Hey, let me ask you something. Would you like to grow this church? Would you like to fill this church up? I'm going to tell you a good way to do it tonight. And it's a way that every single person can do it. Last night, listen, I've been at this for 40 years. Uh I've been around the block a few times. What I mean by that is this: I can get up and these preachers know this. I can get up, I can preach a message on soul winning, but you know what? I know there are people that are going to walk out there. They'll never be a soul winner. They won't. You'd like them to, but they won't. I could get up, I could preach a message on on having a ministry in the church. We know we ought to, but listen, I already know this. There are some that will never get a min never get a ministry. They'll never run a bus route. They'll never be a bus captain. They'll never that for some reason they they will just never grab a hold of a ministry. Now, what I'm going to preach on tonight, you can do. Everybody can do. Here's the title, The Ministry That Everybody Can Do, but Few Have Let's pray. Father, bless the time that we have here this evening. We thank you for these dear folks that have come out. And I pray that tonight this message Would be a real encouragement to us. I pray that uh as we go through this message That you might be able to give us a vision, a real vision tonight of what could happen in our lives, in the lives of others But especially right here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. If all of us, or even most of us, Took on this ministry. Lord, give us a good service tonight. I pray once again that if we have anybody here tonight that's not saved, we thank you for the nine souls that have already been saved. But Lord, if there's somebody here tonight that's not saved, I pray that tonight would be the night they trust Christ as their Savior, which in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I believe, I, you know, as I travel, you see stuff, and I've gotten to the place in my life where I believe that one of the greatest ministries that a Christian can have is what we might call the ministry of encouragement. And yet it seems to me that there's so few of us that attempt to have that kind of a ministry. And uh I see, I'm talking members here. I see people, members of churches, they come into the church, they sit down, and they never greet a soul. Come on. Uh I I I uh I I see people, they come in, they sit down, they never shake one hand. You have handshakes. Now listen, understand something. Handshake it. What's that primarily what's that for? They went, I'm thinking somewhere tonight. What's that for? That's for the members. Am I not right? What should we be doing? Yeah, we ought to be moving around. Am I right? But more and more, I'm seeing, and again, listen, I some of you I'm preaching the choir, because we we this crowd does move around good. But I see church, they just sit in their pew and and uh they let the visitors come to them. I run into Christians and uh Uh, never, I mean never a kind or an encouraging word do you ever hear come out of their mouth. It almost seems like if you get near them, you get a good case of frostbite. I mean these people almost, I mean, they almost seem like they have the ministry of discouragement instead of encouragement. What you think about something tonight? Have you ever stopped to think that in this church, think about this, in this church, this year God will literally bring hundreds of people to the back door of this church. Visitors Let me go a step further. During the course of your year in your personal life, God lit to everybody here, God literally brings hundreds of people into your life Now, what's that mean? That means that you have a chance to be a blessing and an encouragement to every one of them. And you know what I often wonder? I often wonder with a simple smile. A handshake, an encouraging word, would do in the life of many a person You ever think about that? Come on. Is that so hard to do? Some of you, some, I mean, some of you, you're looking at me like Bambi in the headlight. Just come mmm. Is that so hard? Man, that's a listen, anybody can do that. Let me show you what I'm talking about. I was raised Catholic, and uh I mean, the last thought in my mind, you of course went in the Marine Corps, and uh, but the last thought in my mind uh was was uh was going to a Baptist church. I would have sooner charged a machine gun nest than to walk into a Baptist church. My future wife, Marley, she gets saved. She tricks me. Deceives me into coming to a church like this. And uh now I'm gonna tell you something. My when I for I I'll never forget my first time ever when I walk in the back door Of a baptism. I was scared to death. You ever stop and think when people that they're nervous? For some of them, it's a whole new culture. Come on. Amen. I tell you, I was scared. I didn't know what to expect. I walked in the back door of the church. You can ask my wife, first Sunday, standing by the back door, he always, he always got to church a half hour early. Was a man by the name of Paul Henry. He stood about five feet four. If he was wearing high heels. I'm not kidding. He weighed about a hundred and ten pounds. He was a hayseed farmer, literally. And he dressed like he just he just had bib overholes on. That's all he had. Every Sunday. He uh you could tell when he spoke. He didn't have much of an education. At times he would use incorrect grammar, but you know what he he he had a magnetic smile. He got to church every, I mean every service, but especially on Sunday morning, he would stand by the door. I mean everybody, he would Smile, he would shake their hand, if he didn't know you, he would ask your name, and he would greet you like you're a long-lost friend. I wasn't used to that. Catholic Church, you Huh? I thought, wow. People were friendly around here. And uh it got to be, listen, it got to be. After a couple weeks, I began to wonder, I'd ask, why wonder if that Paul Henry's gonna be at the front door Because I liked them. I like being smiled at. Come on. I like somebody looking at me and acting like, man, they were just overjoyed to see me. What an encouragement he was. There was another guy in the church. He's still at the church today. Name of Jim Rhodes. And uh after about three, four weeks, Jim would come up to me and Me and Marley, and he'd say, uh, he says, hey Bill. He says, uh, you like pizza? Well, I like pizza. I just like to eat. I said, Yeah. He said, why don't you come over to my house? I'm thinking, I didn't even know you. Fuck, you gotta understand something. Some people aren't used to this. Come over to my lab, we're having peace. Come on over to this. And he said, we call this fellow the first time I ever heard that word, we call this fellowship time. And Jim, I mean, he he would look for new people. And he would deliberately go up and invite, you know why, to make them feel more comfortable the next time they came out the church. There were two other guys in the church. Ray Badorf and Bob Burke. You remember Ray Orf, Bob? Ray Badorf and Bob Burke, we had some classes together. I don't know if you remember them right. We all went down to Bible college together. But Ray Banorf and Bobber, you know what they did? I started coming out the church. I didn't know this. But they had a tag team. They take turns calling me up. Ray would call, hey Bill, how you doing? Who's this? This is Ray from Oh Ray, yeah, how you doing? I'm doing good. Hey, good to see you last week. Am I gonna see you this week? And what are you gonna say? Am I gonna see you this week? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sunday school. What time's that? Yeah, no, hey, and listen, what you said yeah, you had to be there Then Bob would call up. Hey Bill, how are you doing? Who's it? Bob, Bob from Sure. Oh, Bob! You're not right on Bob? Hey, good to see you last week. What a bunch of connivers. Hey! Now listen, he already knew Raycoat. He's got me for Sunday morning. Hey, we're gonna see you Sunday night. I'm Catholic. Once a week is more than enough We're gonna see you Sunday. Well, yeah, I guess so. Yeah. Oh Bill Man, I tell you what, I'm looking forward to seeing you Sunday night Are some of you starting to get the point here? Huh? There was a little old lady in our church. She's long, long, long dead. Expired. Her name is Effie Horn. I think Effie Horn was a hundred and ten years old when we met her. If she'd have ate five pounds of banana, she'd have weighed eighty pounds. I mean Effie Horn, you talk about a godly old lady. Now, listen, listen, some of you here, you're a little bit older, but you can still have a ministry. We went off to Bible college. Every, I listen, literally every single month, we just get a little note from Effie Horn I'm praying for you. Oh, I love you and I miss ya. And in that note was a $5 bill. Not much, $5 bill. And she'd always put down, I know it's not much. I wish it was more. But it's all I have. Now we've all heard this, but I mean this. You know what? It wasn't the money. It was the Encouragement. You see, folks, understand this. The world tonight doesn't know that hayseed farmer, Paul Henry. The world tonight doesn't know Jim Rhodes, Bob Burke, Ray Badworth, or Effie Horn, but God does. And those people, those people, I'll never forget 'em. Those people were so instrumental. And so important in encouraging me and giving me to where I'm at tonight. Now, do you know what my question is? What has ever happened to people like this? Have you ever stopped to consider? That the wonderful, wonderful thing about encouragement, think about this, is that anybody in here tonight, I don't care who you are, I don't care what your background is, anybody in here tonight, if you want to make it important. You can have the ministry of encouragement. The dictionary describes encouragement as this The act of inspiring others with renewed courage, renewed spirit, or renewed hope. In other words, when people lift you up. Has that ever happened in your life? When people lift you up in difficult times, it's called encouragement. In fact, listen, that word, it is literally the word. That was used to send fearful and hesitant soldiers and sailors courageously into battle in the old days. Now, the reason I have said all this is because it just seems to me that every place in the New Testament that Barnabas pops up, what's he doing? He's encouragement. He's encouraging. In fact, Barnabas was such an encourager That the apostle in this passage, the apostles finally changed his name from Joseph or Joseph to Barnabas, which means the son of encouragement. In fact, we almost might call him Mr. Encouragement. Now here's what I want to do. Real quick. You say, Amen, I cut back on the sermon by five and come on. I want. I want to show you three things tonight. Get this three things on the ministry of encouragement. Get this that every if if you make this important every single person can do. But unfortunately, in the day and age we're living in, few have. First of all, number one, it is the urgent need of the day. Not far from where everybody here tonight lives, maybe even next door. Let me make it a little bit more personal. Even in this church tonight, there are people sitting here that have needs There are people, I don't know, but I I do know this. There are people here tonight that are hurting. There are people sitting here tonight. Or that you will meet, that have needs and difficulties that you and I will never understand. Turn on your TV set, listen to the radio, pick up a newspaper, walk around town. Hey, listen even in your own home. You know what you're gonna hear? You're gonna hear the sound of this. I need to be loved. I need for somebody to encourage me. Right here in this church tonight. There's church members that need encouragement. We all need it, hey, think about this. We talked about building a church. Am I not right Do you ever stop and think, why do people visit other churches? Now, I understand. I understand first and foremost they want good doctrine. Amen? Come on. But you know what's right behind just human nature. You know what's right behind that? They want to be loved. They want to feel like they are a part of a church family. They want to feel like somebody needs it. Doesn't that just make sense That's where the ministry of encouragement can be so important. I think of a little girl. I think of the little girl that came to her dad, and she walked up to her dad and she goes, Daddy, talk to me like you talk to our dog. He said, What? She said, talk to me like you talk to our dog And then all of a sudden, it hit the dad what that little girl was saying. I'm gonna have a dog How do we talk to our dog? Oh my god. I know he doesn't. He puts his dogs under, amen. Come on, am I not right? Now listen, I'm not talking about you talking to your dog in that high-pitched, whiny, goofy voice. Am I not right? But we taught to our dog what in a loving, friendly, kind, and don't we do that? That's what that little girl, what a lesson from a little girl, Daddy. Talk to me like you talk to our dog. Listen to me, folks. When is the last time that you went out of your way to be an encourager? To meet somebody's need. To love on them. To let them know that you cared about them, that you're praying for them. Have you ever purposely in your heart taken on the ministry of encouragement? Hey, when's the last I'm not trying to be mean, I'm trying to help you again tonight. Seems like I'm trying to be I'm not. But listen, when's the last time you even walked across the aisle? Put your arm around somebody and said, you know what? I just want to let you know I appreciate you. How hard is that? Just don't walk up to somebody and say, hey, I just want you to, I'm praying for you. If there's anything I can ever do, let me know I'm there for you. How much time does that take? But I'll tell you something, oh, what an encouragement that is for the person that hears those words. You know what I wonder? I wonder. If a lot of us, I'm not going to say because like I said, it doesn't matter what I some people will never do it. But I wonder if a lot of people in our churches had this spirit, I wonder how many people we would see saved. You say, what do you mean by that? Let me tell you, listen, you all know I got a sense of humor. If I I'm serious. If if I know, if I know that somebody is in a church service and they're not saved, You know what I do? This might seem weird, but it works. I purposely go out of my way, go up to them, and I joke around with them. I am so I do with everybody comes in. It come on in a night you get what I'm saying? Now wait a minute, you say, preacher, what that does, you know what that does? It shows them, hey, I'm human. It shows them, listen me, it shows them that I care enough about them to take some time to be friendly to them. I have lost count. I'm not kidding. I have lost count of people that I have seen saved. Somebody says this. Why'd you get saved? Now I know it's the preaching of the word of God. I understand that. But I'm talking secondary. Why'd you I don't know I just felt comfortable I just felt at home enough to be able to walk down the aisle or raise my hand. Do you see how powerful that is? Hey, I wonder, I wonder how many of our people and our churches we could salvage. From quitting on God. Because they get discouraged, maybe with personal problems, and they just feel like nobody else cares. And so they're out the door. I wonder, I wonder how much our churches would really grow if we were encouragers. Say, what do you mean? Listen, all of us have done it, did it business. You walk out the door, you walk out the door, and one of the first things we say, boy, wasn't that a friendly church? Huh? Or what? Well, I'm glad that's over. I ain't never going back here again. Man, I tell you what, this seems like there was a big iceberg. Am I right? Where if you're friendly, lumbo with them a little bit. And if they're looking for a church, what are they going to do? They're going to come back. You know, it just seems to me that if we're not careful in our lives, it can become all about me, me, me. Somebody one time said this: the test of your character is how you treat other people you don't need. Can you answer that tonight? How do you treat others that you really don't need? People that come into the church, people that God brings into your life. Maybe somebody even that you know that has needs that doesn't really affect you, but they how do you treat them? Are you an encourager or are you a discourager? What a ministry this could be for everybody. You ever think about that? Oh my! I think of David over in Psalm 142. 4. David cries out in a moment of loneliness and despair. No man cared for my soul. You know, I think we can hear that cry almost in every church. John chapter 5, Jesus at the pool of Bethesda. The Bible says there was a man there that had an infirmity, I think it was for 38 years. Jesus says this, Wilt thou be made whole? And in verse 7, we hear five of the most sad, piercing words in the entire Bible. Sir. I have no man. Everybody ought to have somebody that encourages them, that loves on them. First of all, it is the urgent need of the day. Secondly, it is the unique priority of God Folks, we say we believe the Bible is the Word of God. We say that we want to see revival. We want God to use us. We want God to bless us. You want your life to amount to something. If you believe all that and you want God to use your life, you will work at being an encourager. I believe this is as important an area as every other area of our spiritual life. But you don't hear much preaching on it. Proverbs 1011. The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life Proverbs 25, 11, a word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver. What's that mean? One word, one word out of our mouth, is enough to raise up a saddened, discouraged, wounded soul. Galatians 6. 2. Bear ye one another's burdens. What's God saying? You need to be an encourager. Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill ye the law of Christ. Ephesians 4 29. Are you ready? Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. What's God say? If you don't have anything good to say, shut up. Quit being negative. Quit gossiping. Quit ripping. That's what he's saying. But that which is good to the use of edifying, encouraging that it may minister grace unto the hearers. Romans 15:1. We then that are strong. Are you a strong Christian? Are you a mature Christian? God's speaking to you here. We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, not to please ourselves. 1 Thessalonians 4. 18. Wherefore comfort? That's the same word that we use for encouragement. Exact same word. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. 1 Thessalonians 5:11, wherefore comfort yourselves together and edify, lift up one another, even as also ye do. 2 Timothy 4:2. Preach the word, be instant, uh uh uh in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort, lift up, encourage. Do I need to keep reading verses? I could i i in the mark chapter ten and verse forty nine We have the story of blind Barnamae sitting by the highway begging. The Bible says this: that when Jesus heard him, notice this, he stood still. Are you with me? What did he do? He stood still. Now stay with me. I'm thinking somewhere on this. Then over in Luke chapter 10, we have the story of the Good Samaritan. The Bible says that there was a man, he was robbed, he was stripped of his clothes, he was half dead And coming down that road was a priest and a Levi. They saw him, and when they saw him, they stepped over onto the other side. They didn't want anything to do with him. They stepped over on the other side of the road and they passed him by. Then in verse 33, I think it is, the Bible says, along came the Samaritan, saw him, stopped, and had compassion on him. Went to the man, bound up his wounds, took them to an end, took care of them, gave money to the innkeeper to take care of them, and then he told the innkeeper, if you run out of this money Keep on taking care of them, and when I come back the next time, I'll pay you what I owe you. Wow But wait a minute. Now Jesus asked the all-important question. Verse thirty-six. Which now of these three thinkest thou was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? Verse thirty-seven And he said, He that showed mercy on him. Then Jesus said unto him, Go and do thou likewise. You know what some of us need to do tonight? We just need to quit thinking about ourselves. Stop, stand still, look, listen around. You know what you're going to hear? Everywhere you look, everywhere you listen, you're going to hear the sounds of people that need to be encouraged. If only we would heed the words of Jesus. Go and do thou likewise. That's what God expects you to do. God expects every person in here to have the ministry of encouragement. You're going to answer for that someday at the judgment seat. First of all, it is the urgent need of the day. Secondly, it is the unique priority of God. Thirdly and lastly Get this. It is the uncommon opportunity to begin a never-ending process. Let me say that again. That's kind of long for those of you from West Virginia. Amen. I'm only a kid, come on. It is the uncommon opportunity to begin a never ending process You say, preacher, what do you mean? Here's what I mean by that. Folks, you better get a hold of this many, many, many a time. You only have one chance in a person's life to encourage. And you'll never know the difference that it might make. You see, encouragement, think about this: encouragement is like a rock. That is thrown into a pond. When you throw that small rock into the pond and it hits the water, what do you get? A splash. An immediate impact. Am I not right? But now wait a minute, after the splash, what do you get? The ripples that go on and on and on. That's a good picture of encouragement You know, the world may never have heard of the Apostle Paul if not for Barnabas. While everybody else was negative, down, and skeptical, Barnabas was willing to be an encourager to Paul. Now, watch this Then, if you go over Acts chapter 15, Paul decides that he wants to take Barnabas on a trip to visit some cities. Barnabas wants to take a man by the name of John Mark. Remember the story? But Paul said, What? He ain't gonna do it. He's not going with us. The Bible says this: that the contention was so sharp between Paul and Barnabas that they parted asunder one from the other. Barnabas took Mark, sailed to Cyprus. Paul took Silas. Now, here's the question: What would have happened to John Mark if Barnabas would have gone along with Paul and didn't take him? It was Barnabas's encouragement that I believe changed the life of John. In fact, we may well never have had the Gospel of Mark. If not for Barnabas. But wait, we're not done. But then you keep on reading, you get down to 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 11. This is Paul, think about this. This is the guy that didn't want anything to do with John Mark. Now we get to verse 11. Here's Paul. Here's what he says. Only Luke is with me. Take who? Mark! Take Mark and bring him with thee, for he is profitable to me for the ministry. Paul would have never been able to make this statement or write this down if not for who? Barnabas. Somebody one time said this, and I think it's pretty close to being true. Somebody one time said that nine-tenths of education is encouragement. What could be accomplished, but for a little bit of encouragement? Going through school, I was never, and well, I I'm not even gonna say I was horrible in math. Anybody with me on that? I mean I was I was hard. Me and math are like oil and water. To this day I still count on my finger. Now my wife, she's a math whiz. I mean she majored in math and English going through school. I I I I ran for math. I still count on my fingers. That's it. And uh um I uh I To graduate from high school, I graduated from public high school. When I graduated from high school, to graduate, you you had to take, I think it was three three math courses. So I took uh I took uh general math You had to have algebra one. I took uh general math, I took business math, I tried to take math for dummies, but they didn't have that. You know and uh but I knew listen, I knew I had to I I d man I I never even understood what the I know uh those symbols and I mean th I mean that stuff's for weirdos, you know. Y I want to know just enough to balance a checkbook, count money, you know what I mean? Just you know. You know, and uh man uh finally my dad, my dad I mean he knew I struggled. Oh did I struggle a minute. My dad finally said, Going into my uh my junior year, my dad says, You're taking algebra this year. I plan on taking it myself senior year and flunking it, you know, and and uh I'm not kidding. So he says, you're gonna take it. I said, well, nah, I don't want to take it. No, he said, you're gonna take it your I said, why? He says, because you're gonna flunk it, you're gonna have to go to summer school, and you're not gonna go to summer school after your senior year. So I took it my junior year and I plunked it. So here I am going into 12th grade. I'm in summer school I mean a normal kid in summer, he ought to be out fishing. Amen? I'm in summer school with two other dummies Three of us. Three of us. We didn't have a good attitude either. We're sitting there This uh the summer school, I've never met him before. They must have they must have brought him in. Because he wasn't in our school system But he walks in and we everybody introduces themselves and he says this. Now stay with me. He says stay he says uh here's what I want to he says I gotta see where you guys are in math. He said I'm gonna give you a test. And I thought well So he gives us these papers. I'm going to tell you something. A first grader could have passed it. It was like two plus two Eight minus three. I mean, just anybody could have. We're looking at this isn't algebra. I mean, we're in summer school friends, and we wrote it down everything, and He collects the papers and he's up there and he's he's graded it and everything's going. He looks at us and we're And then he gets done. And he says, let me ask you guys something. Who is your teacher this year? We all said, Mr. McGermott, he says, I knew it. I knew it. He doesn't know a thing about algebra. Now understand none of us are saved, under you know. And we're we're the yeah. He said, I he says, I don't know why you guys are even in here. I'm thinking the same thing, you know He said, you guys are smart. Listen to me, get this. In all the years that I'd ever been in school No, I've been called a lot of names, but never smart. Now I'm gonna say some When he said that, come on. When he said that, it hit me like a ton of bread. Come on, are you with me? I thought, he thinks I'm smart. He said, you know what? He said, you guys shouldn't even now he's unsaved. Understand that. You know, he's lying through his teeth too, you know, but he said, he says, this This court this is going to be a whiz for you guys are not going to have any problem at all. I went home that day after that first class. I almost gave my mother and my father a heart attack. I went up in my room for the next two hours. I had never done this in all the years I've been to school. You know when I get up in my room for two hours? Worked on algebra. My dad thought there was something wrong with me. The next day, I mean, I tell you what, I I hit those hour after hour after hour. You know what I made in algebra? An A. Now wait a minute. I'll tell you why Because I, the last thing in the world that I wanted to do was disappoint his expectations in me. It wasn't, it wasn't until years later, when I grew up a little bit. That all of a sudden I realized one day this guy conned us. He tricked me Wait a minute! Hell! Hell! One word! Come on! Encouragement! You listen, you see how powerful that is? Now, that might not be a big thing, but I'm going to tell you something. It changed my life that year. For the first time, I mean, literally, for the I've never forgotten that. For the first time in my life, I realized, you know what If I put my mind, I can do it. Hell! A guy that I don't even remember who he is said a kind word Called me smart and encouraged me. Do you understand as you sit here tonight, you have that power too? You do. Encouragers by nature are others focused Discouragers are self focused. Encouragers They're nice. They're pleasant to be around. You know why? Because they help others Discouragers, on the other hand, listen to me, they play a destructive role in the lives of others. Can I ask you something tonight? We're just about done. Can I ask you this though? Listen. When you walk into a room, when you walk into a when you walk into the auditorium, do you bring sunshine or do you bring gloom? When you walk out, are people glad to see you walk out? Well, are they kind of sorry to see you go? Let me ask you, hey, right here, and we're up participation time. Are you all ready? Now, if you don't participate, we're gonna go right into another sermon. Are you ready? Are you ready? Here it is. Listen. How many of you here, if you really work at it? Come on now. How many of you here if you really work at it? How many can smile? I'm not kidding, I'm serious. What about you guys? Can you smile? They're already smiling. Come on, I'm serious. Can you smile? Yeah. They're going, yeah, like just raise your hand. Amen. Yeah. Listen, how many of you here can shake hands? How many how many can can uh get your body out of the pew, walk, how many can shake hands? Okay? Oh, here's a hard one. You want a hard one? How many here, how many here, if it was life and death, could get here to church 15 minutes early? Oh, they're nervous laughter, huh? Huh? Remember Paul Henry? Come on. How many of you here, I mean if you're really so maybe you'd have to write it down the note the night before, the Saturday night. How many of you here, if you wrote it down and you memorized it, you could actually speak an encouraging word? Come on. Men don't raise your hand on this one. Some of you, some of them you won't raise your hand, some of you will. How many of you here could uh Take a pie, cake, cookie, make a meal, cook a meal for somebody. Thank you, ladies. How many of you men could do handyman chores? Can you write in this part of the country? Can you write? Some of them are going, what? What do you what's what you got? Come on. I know we're near West for you. Come on, help me out. Can you write? Yeah. So listen, if you want to, you could, if you thought about it, you could write a note You could. Hey, could you make a phone call? Some of you live off them phones. Hey, could you visit a shut-in? Can you drive a car? Listen to me. We're laughing. But if you could answer yes to any of those questions, then why don't you have the ministry of encouragement? Why? Tell me why. One of the greatest powers known to man is the ministry of encouragement. Celeste Folham said this. We live by encouragement, and we die without it. Slowly, sadly, and angrily. Augustine said this: What does love look like? It has hands to help others. It's almost scary. Think about this. It is almost scary to think about what could happen at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. If everybody sitting here tonight said, you know what? By the grace of God, I'm going to make this important. I am going to work at taking on the ministry. I've encouraged Wouldn't it be wonderful? Wouldn't it be wonderful someday if somebody came up to you in heaven and said, You know, I know you don't know me, or I know you never knew this, but I never would have made it but for you. You. Wouldn't that be great? I'll go back to what I said last night. The Bible says this that someday God's going to wipe away all the tears. But until that day happens, God needs encouragers. Let's be encouragers, amen. Let's bow our heads, close our eyes. Every head bowed, every eye closed. Folks listen. I can preach messages on on probably twenty-five different subjects and there'll be people here that would say, I I preacher, I can't do it. I can't do it. I don't have the talent. I don't have the ability. I don't have the uh academic ability. I don't have the glib tongue But you know what you can do? Listen to me. If you quit thinking about yourself, everybody in here tonight, you could be an encourager. You really could. Listen, just like it, you gotta work at it. You gotta work at it. I'm wondering tonight, simple question, just a real simple, basic question, but I'm wondering here tonight how he would say, Preacher, you know what? What you preach, what you preach basically. Deep down inside my heart, I already knew this. I've seen other people that are encouragers. I've seen other people that have that ministry. Deep down, I've already known everything you I can I kind of already know this, but you know what? I'm not what I ought to be in this area. I'm not what I could be in this area. And tonight it was a reminder, it was a reminder that everybody in here tonight, if they really made it important, important They could be an encourager at home, in their everyday life, but especially in their church. The people that would keep on coming back, the people that would get saved, the people that would stick it out. If we just showed them a little bit of love. Just showed them that we cared about them, that we encouraged them. I'm wondering tonight how many might say, Preacher, you're right. I I really do want to work more at having this ministry of encouragement. Encouragement. Would you pray for me tonight that I would make this important in my life? Would you slip your hand up tonight? Just slip it up. Hold up high. Thank you. Just again, many, many, many. Thank I'm not even gonna try and count. Just a ton of hands tonight. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. And I really hope, listen, there's gonna, hey, there's gonna come a day, there's gonna come a day when you need encouragement. Amen. There is. There's gonna come a day when maybe things happen in your life. You're gonna want encouraged. Are you gonna get it? Are you gonna get it? You'll get it. If we make this important in our lives to others, anybody else, real quick? Just slip it up, put it back down, and I'll pray for you. Anyone else? Let me ask one other question here. Can I be an encouragement to you? You're here tonight and you're not saved. What's the encouragement? You don't have to go to hell. You can go to heaven. Great encouragement. You don't have to go to you. You can go to heaven. How, preacher? Trust Christ as your Savior. Get saved. Jesus died on the cross of Calvary, shed his blood for your sins, paid the price so that you can get saved and go to heaven I'm wondering if we have anybody here tonight that would say, preacher, you know what? If I walked out of here tonight, got in my car, got in my truck, and on my way home, I died in a wreck. I don't know if I go to heaven or hell, but I know this. I don't want to go to that place called hell. I want to go to heaven and I worry about that. Would you also tonight remember me in prayer too? Would you just slip up your hand and put it back down? Just slip it. I won't embarrass you I won't embarrass you, but I'll pray for you. Anybody at all? Just flip it up, put it back down, and I'll pray for you. Father, tonight, Lord, I pray that you'd really, really deal with our hearts. Lord, as we sit here tonight and our heads are bowed, Lord, help us to remember this is something that every one of us could do if we just quit thinking about ourselves. If we just uh rem just think about the blessing and the encouragement We could be like a Paul Henry just by getting out of bed a little bit early on Sunday morning. We could be like an old Effie Horn. We could be like a Jim Rhodes. Lord, help us to take on that ministry. And the impact that we could have on the lives of others would be like a stone hitting upon. Oh, we have the initial impact. But the ripples would go on and on and on, even many times beyond our lifetime. The influence that we could have, which in Jesus' name we pray, with heads bowed.