Good song, good singing. If you would turn back to Hebrews chapter eleven. Hebrews chapter eleven. We're going to look at verse number six, our memory verse for the month. First part of the verse is what we're going to zero in on Appreciate everyone's prayers for us while we were down on our mission trip in the Dominican Republic. It was a very trying trip. It was 85 degrees every day, sunshine. And um uh right down in the Caribbean, right on the Caribbean. And so we were praying for you all back here. Appreciate your prayers for us. And um There's dagger eyes looking at me right now. I actually uh somebody told me the other Sunday when I left I was kind of teasing about being down there and uh somebody said I'm gonna pray that you get sunburned And whoever it was, God hears your prayers. And uh my head, well Friday morning it was a very busy schedule teaching and preaching, but Friday morning I had a few hours free, so I sat out in their front yard and they had a palm tree And so I sat under the shade of the palm tree reading and I got cooked. I mean it just burned my head. And so if you see this stuff falling off of my head, it's not dandruff I don't have enough hair to have dandruff. It is my head is peeling. And so, you know, just serving the Lord sometimes is very great trials and difficulties. But no, we're going to show tonight, I'll give you a report. It was an amazing trip and um just what God is doing down there and what we were able to experience is amazing thing. I wish so badly I could have taken the whole church down with us So tonight uh I'll say a little more about it later, but tonight we have a great, great service plan. I think you'll really enjoy it. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 6. Also, one thing I got a little comment, a little cartoon up here. It's a guy standing on a scale. His buddy's standing beside him on a weight scale. His buddy State of Assam he says this that body you cons you consider a temple has become a megachurch. And um I thought that was very interesting. Verse 6, Hebrews chapter 11. But without faith, it is impossible to please him. I want to talk this morning a little bit about the necessity of faith. The necessity of faith. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, thank you for the Word of God. Lord, I thank you for the privilege it is to assemble together with your people uh as part of your body here this morning. What a blessing it is to be back home and and uh part of the church that you've put me in and made me a part of. So Lord it's so grateful to see everyone again and the singing has been a blessing. I just Give you the glory for that. And the fellowship has been so encouraging. Lord, I'm grateful for the visitors that have come out to be with us. Help us be a blessing to them. And Lord, I pray most of all now with our Bibles open that you would speak our hearts and challenge us God, I pray that regardless of where we're at spiritually, this morning we could take a step forward in our faith and in our walk with you. I pray that our confidence in your word and your love for us and your will for our lives, our confidence in that would grow. And uh Lord, you have to do that. So I yield myself to you. My will, I present my body anew, I plead with you with all my heart. You'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. Speak through me To our hearts and minds, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Throughout history and throughout Scripture, you find that God always had uh men and women Who, in all walks of life that pleased him, their life pleased God Their attitude uh towards others pleased God. Um their lifestyle was a delight to God um their demeanor in life, just everything about them brought pleasure to their Creator. In fact, if you'll notice in the last part of verse number five as brother uh Sam read down through there, by the way, didn't Sam do a great job this morning? filled in for Pat. Pat's out of town and uh Sam I asked him I guess it was yesterday uh if he could step in and um I I think he's better looking than Pat and uh also And so I appreciate Sam, his willingness did a good job. But notice in verse number five, look at the last part of verse number five. It says, uh speaking of Enoch, and of course he was translated, he should not see death was not because God translated him. But look at the last part. For before his translation he had this testimony that he what pleased God. And you go through scripture and you find men and women As I said a moment ago, in all classes of life, rich and poor, leaders and followers, all classes whose lives were a pleasure. to their creator. They please God. I want to suggest to you that it should be the intense desire of every Christian that my life pleases God. That my lifestyle, how I live my life, uh uh makes my God happy. How many folks here you're saved, you know it. Say amen. If that's the case, every one of us should every day of our life seek to live in such a way To conduct ourselves in such a way that uh that God is pleased with us. And uh every time my wife is walking towards me, I get nervous. I thought, what did I do now? No, not really. Mrs. Leatherman. And uh but anyway, what were we talking about? Pleasing God in spite of our shortcomings, in spite of our sinful nature It is possible to please God. Doesn't matter how much money you have or don't have, you can please God with your life. Regardless of how great a personality or how lacking your personality may be, you can please God with your life. And God tells us here in this portion of Scripture how we can please Him. I think God expects, I don't think, I know, God expects His people to please Him with their lives. God expects that. In fact, as I study scripture, I come to the conclusion, uh, individual, whether it's a teenager or uh a senior citizen or all points in between, uh That is the normal as far as God's concerned that's the norm living my life on the job in the family. Uh is it just me or is there a lot of distractions this morning? Now where were we? Um regardless of where we're at, God wants us here's the point I'm trying to make. Have you picked this up? God wants us to please him God wants us to please him. Us men, amen. God wants us to please him with our lives. Ladies, God wants you to please him with your life. Young people, adults, to please him. Now, here's something to keep in mind before we get into the meat here. Our God is perfectly good. Perfectly good. Um did you ever notice God never does anything half-heartedly. God never does anything halfway. I mean he's all out. When God does something, what's the phrase repeated in Genesis? God saw all that he made, and behold it was very good, says several times. God is perfectly good. Our God, and I like this term to describe it, our God is blindingly holy. He is so holy, so separated from anything that is impure and inclean in any way. He's blindingly holy. You go through particularly Old Testament, whenever God's presence was manifest, it was always in a blinding light that would people would fall to their faces. So God is perfectly good. He's blindingly holy. I put this down. He's infinitely supreme. Everything he does, uh let me put it this way, nobody in existence can do anything better than God can. He is supreme. In fact, God cannot do anything better than the way He does it. He cannot improve in any way. He is already perfect. Perfection cannot be improved upon. And so here we have this God who's perfectly good, blindingly holy, infinitely supreme in everything he does And here you have little old sinful me. I'm anything but perfectly good. I'm certainly not holy in any sense of the word in and of myself. I'm certainly not perfect in any way, shape, or form. And so here you have a sinful man. God expects sinful man to live and conduct himself in such a way that this incomprehensibly good, perfect, holy God is pleased. Wow. You talk about overwhelming. Now, God can please us very easily. There's no failure on that part. The shortcoming is on our end. So, if I'm going to please God with my life and my how I live and what I am, is going to bring pleasure to the God that saved me from sin and hell. I'm going to have to give it the best I got. Amen. I'm of the opinion that our service for the Lord should not be half-hearted or slips-shod. We ought to give God our very, very best. Do you agree with me on that? I mean, we ought to give it all. Um now Don't misunderstand. I would far rather have somebody maybe sing a special that maybe they're a little off-key or whatever, but they love God and they're singing from their heart to the glory of God. I'd rather have that than the most perfect song that's just a show. But on the other hand, I think every one of us, regardless of our ability, we ought to give it our very best. We're not ought to be negligent or half-hearted about it. And whether it's singing or preaching or living our lives or teaching a Sunday school or running a bus, whatever it may be, we're seeking to please this amazing God. Who always gives his very best and we ought to in return. Our service and our life ought to be noble It ought to be virtuous. I tell folks often, I say, boy, if you're a believer, if you're a believer, you ought to have some convictions in your life. Some standards of right and wrong ought to be established in your life. Why? Because we're seeking to live to please God. And just anything doesn't go. We ought to be our very best. Dr. Lee Robertson used to tell us when I said under him years ago, uh he used to tell a student body there in the church, he said you ought to establish convictions. If you just got saved. You ought to establish some Bible convictions. He says if you don't have any convictions of your own, borrow mine until you get some. I thought that was good advice. Our life, if we're going to please God, should be the give Him the best we have to offer. It ought to be noble and virtuous. It ought to be a life of utmost integrity. Now If I'm going to live to please God, it does not mean I'm going to have a trial-free life. You say, Well, preacher, I just got saved. I'm glad God forgave my sin. I was not going to hell, I'm going to heaven. Praise the Lord for that I want to live for God. I want my life to please God. So that means I'm not going to have difficulties. God's going to protect me from any trials, heartaches, no difficulties because I'm going to live for God. Listen, you are sadly mistaken if that's what you're thinking. And anybody any preacher that tells you that if you have enough faith or live a certain way, you're not going to have any trials, that preacher is either incredibly ignorant or he's lying. Because some of the greatest pe greatest Christians throughout history, some of the greatest men and women of God, whom God was extremely pleased with, went through very difficult trials. Very deep valleys. I'm thinking of the man Job. Familiar with Job? The Bible begins by saying he was a perfect man and upright and just in all his ways. God was pleased with Job. But yet God allowed him to go through tremendous trials. And those trials, Job proved his faith in God and proved Satan wrong. And God multiplied his blessings on them. So pleasing God does not mean that I'm going to have a trial-free life, but it does mean this. I would like to think that there'd be some Christians this morning that because of the truth in this passage, you would say, you know, I want to please God with my life. This coming week, the rest of my life, I want to live to bring pleasure to my God. I want to live in such a way that God is happy with that. If that's the case and you carry through with that, I can tell you this. God may not make you rich. He may not keep you from all the trials and heartaches. But he will give you some peace and joy in your heart and life. And I tell you what, having peace in your heart is far greater than not having any trials in your life. It's better to go through life with trials and the peace of God in your heart than to go through life without any trials and emptiness and turmoil and frustration in your heart. Pleasing God does mean I'll have God's blessings all my life. Now it's important to understand God's definition of blessing and the world's definition of blessing are two different things. And so we will have God's blessing. By the way, when I start living my life to please God, my influence on the unsaved is going to be far greater. People get saved by believing the gospel. Amen And anyone can give out the gospel. In fact, a little piece of paper can give the gospel. People get saved from reading gospel tracts. I'm just curious. Is anyone in the service this morning you got saved as a result of a gospel tract? Is there anybody in the service this morning as a result of a gospel track? All right, looks like people were directly involved in your salvation. I was just in the Dominican Republic. Did I tell you it was 80 degrees down there all week long? Sunshine and um no snow. Didn't snow one time I forget what I was talking about now. Um just down there with uh Brother Josh Wesson. Brother Josh Wesson was schoolmates with Sean Lundy. Sean Lundy's our missionary to Brazil. Sean Lundy got saved. Somebody stuck a gospel track on his windshield wiper. Took it home, stuck in his drawer. A couple weeks later, got it out, read it, got saved. Now he's a missionary in Brazil So a piece of paper can share the gospel. A backslidden Christian, a Christian who's not living to please God, you can tell someone how to get saved. They might get saved. But I tell you what, when I'm living my life in such a way that it's bringing pleasure to God, my life pleases God. When I give out a witness, boy, it's much more effective. There's much more influence behind it. People say, wow, what that guy is saying matches the way he lives. Bring pleasure to God. So, Hebrews chapter 11. Look at this phrase with me here, the first part of verse 6. But without faith, it is impossible to please Him. There's one thing the Bible tells us that we absolutely must have in place. If we are going to please God, there is one thing that is absolutely necessary if my life is going to bring any pleasure to God. Whether we like it or not, whether we like to give it any thought or not, someday in the future, every one of us are going to stand before Jesus Christ. You say, I thought when I got saved I didn't I wasn't any more judgment. No, there's no more judgment for sin, but there will be judgment for how I live my life. Judgment seat of Christ. And as a believer, I individually, literally, physically will stand before Jesus Christ, and I will give account for the deeds done in my body, for how I live my life. And I don't know how you feel, but I desperately want to hear Jesus Christ say to me, Well done, Dennis, you've been faithful. You pleased me with your life. Boy, wouldn't that be a great thing to hear Jesus say? Well done. I'm pleased with how you lived your life, how you invested your time, what you lived for, your motives, your attitudes in life. Boy, you pleased me well. Wow. I desperately want to hear that. Now Hebrews 6 tells us that if we are going to hear that, there's something that must be in place. And that is what? Faith. Without faith, it is impossible to please him. Now I got I got uh caught up in that word impossible Boy, that's a pretty emphatic word. Uh when when something is impossible, uh there's really not Uh he's not giving uh uh uh we need somebody there. Helen, uh Pat's on the floor here. We got EMT or someone around. Let's have a word of prayer together. Father in heaven, we pray now for Pat that um that she would be well and God help those that are uh working with her, give them wisdom there and We just ask, dear Lord, that uh she'd be okay. Please step in here, we ask. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Let's keep her in our prayers. I got working on this word I got looking at this word impossible. And uh You know, as I was saying, there's not a lot of wiggle room on that word. If something, if God says something is impossible, we can be sure it's not going to happen. It's not going to be done. The word itself means this, and it's pretty obvious the meaning, but the word itself means this: unable to be done. It cannot happen. Completely disabled. There's no exceptions here. It's interesting to notice God doesn't say without faith it is difficult to please him. Doesn't say that. Doesn't say without faith it's unlikely to please him. The Bible says without faith it is impossible to please him. It is absolutely not going to happen. So if that's the case, If I'm going to stand as a believer, I'm going to stand before Jesus Christ someday. He's going to judge my life, how I live my life, whether I pleased him or not. If I'm going to hear him say to me, Dennis, you did well. You pleased me. You've been faithful. One thing I've got to do is I've got to make sure that I've got my faith lined up. Now let me give you three thoughts here about this matter of having faith to please God. Number one, without faith I have no connection with God. Without faith, I have no connection with God. Ephesians 2, 8, and 9 tell us this: For by grace are ye saved through Faith. That not of yourselves, it's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Nobody gets saved any way other than faith in Jesus Christ. There's no other way to have connection with God. The Bible tells us that we are our sins have separated us from God. An unsaved person. If you're here this morning, you've never accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior I'm here to tell you, you may be very religious, you can sing all these songs, you can say prayers, but if you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you are separated from God. You have no connection with God Ephesians chapter 2 tells us later on that folks without God, the folks that are unsaved are without God and without hope in the world. Isaiah tells us your sins have separated between you and your God. And so until I learn to exercise faith in Jesus Christ for my salvation, to forgive me my sin and take me to heaven, there's no connection. I'm separated from God. And if I die in that condition, I'm separated from God for all eternity. in a horrible place called hell. You're here this morning, you've never been saved. It is my plea. It is my prayer. I'm begging you, make sure you trust Jesus Christ as Savior before you leave here today. Very real possibility. I'm not trying to be sensational. I'm not trying to spook anybody or anything like that, but I'm saying it's a very real possibility. You may never see your home again. You could very well go out into eternity before you walk through your front door today. It's imperative that we've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. It's our only connection with God. And so, for the unsaved. You can't ever hope of pleasing God until you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, accept Him as your personal Savior, so you can be put in connection with God. You can become His child. Um, by the way, you say, well, I've never accepted Jesus, but um uh you know I I'm trying to live a good life and do a good thing. We've been doing surveys on our Great Commission days We've been going out in the community. We've got a series about twelve questions we go down about their about God and heaven and hell, the Ten Commandments. You know what I noticed yesterday? Of the scores of folks we've surveyed Uh just about everybody believes in hell. I haven't had one person yet tell me they don't believe in hell. That's interesting. I found out that nobody yet has been able to name all Ten Commandments. In fact, I've only had one that got more than five of the Ten Commandments listed. Out of scores we've done. People don't know the Ten Commandments. And here's what I thought was interesting. One of the questions was, do you consider yourself to be a good person? Overwhelming majority look at me and smile and say, Yeah, I'm a good person. Fact of the matter is, with people, when we compare ourselves to other people, we may be good, we may be morally better than someone else, but when we compare ourselves to God, we fall way short. The Bible says we've sinned, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. In fact, Romans chapter 3 says, there is none good. No, not one. You say, well, what do you mean, preacher? I do nice things and I help neighbors and I do this. You know Isaiah chapter 64 and verse 6 says that for the unsaved, even the good things we do are simply filthy rags as far as God's concerned? You say, are you saying I shouldn't do good things? No, everybody ought to do good things. But if you're counting on those good things to make you acceptable to God, it doesn't work. It's only faith in Jesus Christ. And that simply means this: that I acknowledge to God that I'm a sinner. I understand that the result of my sin is separation from God, and under the judgment of God I spend eternity in hell, the lake of fire. But Jesus Christ suffered hell for me on that cross. He took responsibility for all my sins. He was judged in my place, was buried, rose again And if I will put my faith, trust, depend upon him to forgive me and save me from hell and take me to heaven, I can know I'm going to heaven. Don't have to hope so, don't have to think so. It's simply my faith in Jesus Christ for Him to save me, forgive me, and take me to heaven So without faith, I have no connection with God. I have no contact. I'm separated from my sins. Second of all, without faith, I can have no confidence in God. Suppose I was picking on my wife. Let me pick on my sons for a change. They're not here. Suppose my son comes to me and says, Dad, I don't trust you. Suppose he says, I doubt what you say to me is true, I don't believe it. I doubt what you say is true. Um dad, the promises you've made to me, I don't think they're credible. I'm not going to act on them. Um, Dad, I'm going to completely disregard your will for me as your son. Let me ask you a question. Does that sound like my son has much confidence in me? No. In fact, it sounds to me like he has zero confidence in me at all. Now, isn't that exactly what we do to God when we don't take Him at His Word? God gives us promises. And we don't act on those promises. We don't claim those promises. We live as if they're lies. What are we saying to God? God says, trust me in this matter. If you'll do this, this, and this, I'll do this. You just trust me. You have faith in me. And we say, well, I don't believe that's so. We go off and do our thing. What are we communicating to God? God, I don't have any confidence in you. I don't trust you. I doubt that what you're saying is so. And I can tell you, as a father, if my son had that attitude towards me, had no confidence in me, it would be very difficult to be pleased with my son's condition. Right? That won't bring pleasure to me. What pleases me is when my son says, Dad, I trust you completely. I believe your word. That I I I I'm concerned about what you think is well. And boy, that pleased me. How many of you parents your Kids are grown. And uh and and maybe sometimes your child calls you and says, Dad or mom, I just want your opinion about something. What would you think is the best thing to do? How many of you how many of you like that Sure. And I love it. I talked to my son last night for an hour about different things. The boy hung up. I told Kathy. I woke her up. Kathy, wake up. She likes when I do that. It's like midnight and um and uh I said boy what a blessing it was talk to our son And that's what God wants from us. That's what pleases him when we trust him. We have faith in him. God's, you know, that's not always easy. God sees things a little bit clearer than we do. Do you agree with that? God already knows the end from the beginning. And so when God says, this is what you need to do, this is don't do this, do this, trust me on this, just have faith in me on this matter, and we say, Well, I don't see it that way. For saying, God, I don't have confidence in you. And that doesn't bring any pleasure to God. That doesn't please God. In fact, I'm sure it displeases him very much. When the creation, the created being, does not trust the creator. There's no pleasure in that. But when you and I as a Christian says, boy, you know God said that, I don't see it all I don't know how that all works out. But brother, if God said it, I'm going to trust him and I'm just going to follow his instructions. I'm just going to do what he says. And I have full confidence that God is going to work it out exactly the way he says he will. Brother, that pleases God I don't know what situation you may be facing right now, and I don't know maybe what's going through your mind and how God is applying this to your life, but I do know this. You can trust God. God is faithful. And it may not look like it, it may look like chaos, but if God says trust him and and he and we follow his instructions in his word, I assure you, when it's all said and done He will work it out the way it needs to be worked out. And by trusting him, you will bring pleasure to God. Without faith, it's impossible to please him. We want to take things in our own hands. We want to work things out. We've got churches, we've got whole denominations, rather than simply taking uh God at his word as to how the ministry is to be run, they'll take it into their hands' hands. They say, well we think this is better and we think that we ought to do it this way. And they convince themselves they're pleasing God. But if it's not according to his word, it's not by faith. And it doesn't please God. Am I right or wrong? Amen? I'm right whether you agree with me or not, I think. So without faith, one, I have no connection with God. Hey, there's no other way to be saved Say, well, I think if I get baptized, I'll get saved. Listen, if you're saved, you ought to get baptized, but getting baptized doesn't save you. Well, I think I'll give some money to the church. Hey, it's great. God bless you for that. It's not going to save you Well, I think this is how you get saved, and I think this is how you get saved, and I think this is how you get saved. Doesn't matter what we think, we got to come by faith to God and get saved the way God says. That's by trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. Without faith, there's no connection to God. Without faith, there's no confidence in God. My grandmother, when um we were young, for she's with the Lord now, but uh my dad's mother, she was a big in quilting. She was uh old order Mennonite, and they would quilt and quilt and quilt and quilt And some of you ladies quilt and quilt, but they quilted and quilted and quilted. And um I I was little, you know, you look at that thing, and y you know how they do it, they all sit around, each lady has their spot and their little is it cross stitch? Is it knitting? It's quilting, oh. That makes sense. And they're they're quilting away, and they're all around there, and butterflies and squares and triangles, and they're doing all that. And um uh and gossiping and uh going around there. And I was a little kid, uh I I couldn't see the top of the quilt. And I was told it was beautiful. But all I could see, I'd be crowing around underneath. I'd look up at the bottom of that quilt, and it was chaos. And there's ri green and red and blue and orange and yellow going over here and then black ones all over and there's threads here and there. And I look up as a little kid and think, grandma has no clue what she's doing. This is a mess. But grandma knew exactly what she was doing. And from the top side you could look down and it was a beautiful pattern. And there was a plan and purpose for every thread, every color, the way it went. And that's the way life is down here. We look at our lives from under the sun, from our perspective, and we look and say, What in the world is God doing to me? Yeah, this, that, and the other. But we've got to exercise what? Faith. God knows what he's doing. He has a plan and purpose. Someday we'll see it from heaven's perspective, and it'll make perfect sense. And it'll be beautiful and it'll bring glory to God. And what he wants us to do is have faith in him. Trust him, exercise confidence. I don't have faith, then I don't have much confidence in God, and that doesn't please him. Let me give you a third one real quick We said, without faith, I have no connection to God. Without faith, I have no confidence in God. Number three, without faith, I can have no loving commitment to God. No loving commitment to God. How many people recognize the name Delilah? Delilah and Delilah Samson. Actually, it's Samson and Delilah. Question, Delilah, good gal or bad gal? Eh, she wasn't so hot. And Samson fell in love with her And she schemed with the Philistines, Samson's enemies, to figure out where his strength lay. Of course, it was in his hair. So she began asking him, wherein does that great strength lieth? And he told her, he gave a series of things, if you tie me with new ropes and if you weave my hair, there was another one. What was the other one? He gave several of them. And finally in Judges chapter 16, verse 15, she says this to Samson. She said, I mean, he's been tricking her. In other words, he did not trust her. Right? He told her these lies. He didn't trust her. He didn't have faith in her. And listen to Delilah's response when Samson lied to her over and over. She says this. How canst thou say I love thee when thine heart is not with me? Now Delilah wasn't a great person. But she had a point there. And how can I say to God, God, I love you But when I don't have faith in him, I won't trust him. I won't I won't follow his leadership in my life and when he says here's what you should do and I I say, well, no God, I don't I don't trust you in that matter. I don't I don't have faith in you in that matter. Now we don't say it that way, but that's the way it plays out, right? I'm not gonna. But Lord, I love you with all my heart. I don't trust you, but I love you. That's impossible. That's impossible. She had a good point. He could not say he loved her if he didn't trust her. And then we cannot tell God we love him honestly if we're not exercising faith in him. We've got to trust him. God speaks to the heart of a maybe a young person, maybe an adult. Says, I My will for your life, I've created you, I've saved you. The purpose is for you to be a missionary on the foreign mission field, uh, wherever. And that is the purpose for your life. And I want you to surrender to that, submit to that, trust me in this matter, have faith in me in this matter. It's going to be fine. You're going to be happy in it. I'll give you bless you in that. And the person says, you know, uh, Lord, I love you, but I'm not going to trust you in this matter. Having faith in God and loving God are necess the two are necessary. If I don't have faith in them, I can't say I love them if I don't trust them. So, having faith in God, what I'm trying to say is having faith in God implies I'm submitting to God. That I trust God's plan for my life. I have faith that what He's leading me and directing me and instructing me to do is the best thing. And I trust him with that. I obey him when it doesn't make sense. That's what having faith in God means. I trust him and submit to him, even when sometimes it might hurt. Fact of the matter is, having faith in God is more than simply believing in God, it's believing God. You follow what I'm saying? There's people, we say this often, there's people who die and go to hell that believed in God. James tells us the devils themselves believe in God. So simply believing God exists is not having faith in God. Having faith in God is trusting what God says, submitting to it, letting Him lead me and direct me. And so it's impossible. It's impossible to please God if I don't exercise faith in him, if I'm not trusting him. One for salvation And then two, surrendering my life to him, what he instructs me to do, and three, in my service for him, where where he leads me and directs me to serve him. All through Scripture we're taught: have faith in God, have faith in God, have faith in God. Several times the Bible says, the just shall live by faith. I was reading about a pastor uh told a story that um when his oldest daughter was about five years old, they had gone out on a picnic uh by a river. And there was a little island out in the middle of the river, and some of the folks decided they were going to walk out. The river wasn't too deep. They were going to walk out to this little island. He said, My five-year-old daughter wanted to come out with me, so I returned back to shore and took her by the hand. She stepped into the water but held on tightly to the branch on the shore. She was afraid of the river, but wanted to go where I was going. I told her, sweetheart, you must let go of the branch if you want to come to where I am going. She said that she was afraid and that she would sink. I told her, I have your hand, sweetie, you won't sink. And if you start to, I will lift you up. Fearfully, trembling, she let go of the branch. Now I knew the water was just over waist deep And I guided her feet to each rock as she went across. When we began, she had no confidence But she stepped on the rocks I guided her to, and with each step she gained more confidence until by the time we reached the island, she was eagerly reaching for the next stone And soon we were on dry land again. That is a beautiful, beautiful picture of the Christian life. God says, let go of the world, let go of your plans, let go of your reasoning and your understanding. And we say, but God, I'm scared. I don't know how I'd be able to do what you're leading me to do, what you're asking me to do. I don't know how I'm going to be accomplished. And God says, well, you would just trust me. I'll lead you step by step by step by step, exactly what you need to do, where you need to do it, how you need to do it, and if you'll trust me, you'll see. That I can be trusted. I've felt like that little girl on a number of occasions. I said, boy, I don't know. God calling me to preach, to go into the ministry. So God, I can't do that. Good night. God said, trust me. Trust me. Gotta let go. God, I don't know about this soul winning and sharing the gospel. I'm scared to death. God says, listen, just trust me. God, I don't know about this tithing business. Trust me. God, I don't know about these standards and convictions and all. Trust me. Well, God leads you. He'll direct you. I'm so excited about tonight. And sharing with you, this mission trip was different than any other mission trip I've been on, in that I stayed in the home with the missionaries this time. And I learned some things about what it means to live by faith and the blessing there is by trusting God. Without faith, it's impossible to please him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for this little statement here in the book of Hebrews. Boy, there's a lot of information here that's important for us. Have faith in you and to trust you. God speaking to a lot of folks, I've no doubt in my mind that have situations and scenarios and issues. That are a little bit scary, just not sure how it works out. Help us, Lord, to have faith. Help us to trust you. Step by step that you lead us and guide us. Help us to let go of this old world and this old sinful habits and our own understanding and trust in you with all our heart. Lord, maybe there's someone here this morning that doesn't know for sure that their sins are forgiven and when they die, they go to heaven. Help them to have that settled, I pray. In Jesus' name. With our heads bow and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved? No doubt about it. God