I'm going to read verse number four again of Hosea chapter uh fourteen. Uh then then I'll pray and then the message this morning. Verse 4: I will heal their backsliding. I will love them freely, for my anger is turned away from sin. I will love them freely, for my anger is turned away from sin. It's 11. 09 auditorium time. So we started a little early and we'll probably finish a little early. I don't want to I'll just talk to you for a few minutes this morning on the subject of unconditional love Let's pray and then the message this morning. Heavenly Father, Lord, we love you. We thank you for loving us. Lord, I ask that you would uh bless the service here this morning. Lord, if there's anything that I'm about to say that would go against uh your word, I ask that you would, Lord, uh, stop me from saying it, keep me from saying it. Um Lord, uh the best way I know how, I just want to completely uh surrender uh my will to yours. I want you to uh take control of me, Lord, and that uh you would be the preacher this morning. Um Lord, and I pray that um You would be glorified in what's said this morning. Lord, we thank you for loving us, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen. The book of Hosea is again, like I said, it's a pretty short book. In Bible Institute on Monday nights we're going through the major prophets right now. Next semester we're going to be going through the minor prophets. Hosea is one of those. That's important to remember that's not talking about the importance. You know, everything in the Bible is important. Um and so it's talking about the length of it. Hosea is a shorter book, so it got uh lumped in there with the minor prophets. Just a little bit about this. He really is. I really like him. Another one of the prophets I really like is Amos. Uh he's he's actually might be my favorite of the prophets. I like Amos. But either way, if it Hosea here, uh if you go to chapter one, and like I said, we'll be all over the book this morning. So keep your Bibles out. We'll pretty much be in Hosea Um but uh be ready to to turn from chapter to chapter. In chapter one, verse one, the word of the Lord that came into Hosea, the son of uh bur Beri in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah kings of Judah, in the days of Jeroboam the son of Josiah king of uh uh uh of Joash excuse me king of Israel. So it kind of gives us a time frame. Um if if if you're familiar uh with the the history of Israel, it's kind of towards the end there um uh of Israel, those kings there kind of towards the towards the end. Um and uh there's a reason that God had these prophets uh show up And when we look at what he had Hosea doing here, if you look at chapters 4 through 7, Hosea points out the sin and the wickedness of Israel. If you look at chapter 4, verse 1, it pretty much sums up everything that he's about to call out, all the sins he's about to call out here. Hear the word of the Lord, ye children of Israel, for the Lord has a controversy with the inhabitants of land. Man, I'd hate for God to have a controversy with me. Because there is no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land And this isn't the message, this is just kind of a by the way. If a country gets to, or a nation gets to, where there's no truth, no mercy, or no knowledge of God Um that nation better look out. Better watch out. And so that's why God uh has Hosea here. It's one of the reasons. He's he's he's warning them of the sins in the land. He calls them out And you could go through this whole section. I'll just highlight a few. In chapter 4, verse 17, Ephraim is joined to idols. Um idolatry is a sin, obviously. Worshiping something other than God, that is that's a sin. And so he's calling that out. You jump over to chapter five, verse seven. They have dealt treacherously against the Lord. It's not a good idea to deal treacherously against the Lord. And if you look at this section again, it's just a long list. I'm just trying to highlight some of them. Chapter six, look at verse nine and ten. As troops and robbers wait for a man, so the company of priests murder in the way by consent. They commit lewdness and have horrible things in the house of Israel. There is the whoredom of E Ephraim. Israel is defiled. Pretty strong sub here. If you look at chapter 7, verse 1 Um middle verse, they commit falsehood. Um and the thief cometh in, and the troop of robbers spoilet without. Um Verse two, then they consider not in their hearts. Um the heart of it uh of Israel right here it was was totally against God. And and chapter 4, verse 1 really summed it up. There's no truth, no mercy, and not even a knowledge of God. They were God's people without a knowledge of Him. And uh we can see some similarities uh with where we're at, Christian nation, and we started out that way, and um so even in in Christian America it's amazing how many people don't even have a knowledge um of God. But again, he's just keeping on uh going and listing off sins. Uh chapter seven, verse eight, Ephraim hath mixed itself among the people. Um Ephraim is a cake not turned If you look at verse 10, the pride of Israel, they got very, very proudful. It's bad enough to sin, but it's really bad when you're prideful about it. So anyway. If you go through and I would encourage you to go home and and read through the the the whole book, but chapters four through seven, he's just listing off Um all of the the wickedness that Israel is in, the idolatry, the uh the the the the the treacherous acts, the lying, the deceit and murdering uh was going on, adultery was going on, all this stuff, and there is a a a proudness about it. Uh and it was just not a good thing. Again, chapter four, verse one The second half of the verse really sums up this section well because there is no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God So that is uh chapters four through seven. If in chapters eight through thirteen, um Hosea is prophesying. Of the coming uh Assyrian army and the captivity of Israel, he's saying this is what's going to happen. So chapters four through seven. He's saying this is the problem, and then the chapters eight through thirteen He says this is what's going to happen because of it. And again, there is a warning to the people. God is not okay with your sin. And this is what's going to happen. If you look at chapter 8, verse 2, I believe it is. Israel shall cry unto me, uh, my God, we know thee. Um again, this section is saying he's saying what's going to happen. And uh verse nine of chapter eight, for they are gone up to Assyria. He he mentions them sp that nation specifically. Chapter nine, verse three, if you look at the second half of the verse, and they shall eat unclean things in Assyria You're going to be taken captive, you're going to go to Assyria, and you're going to have to do things you don't even want to do. Verse 6, they are gone because of destruction. Lo they are gone because of destruction. Verse eleven says, as Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird, but all the glory is just going to be gone. Um pretty gruesome scene here. And again, I encourage you to go home and read all of this. It won't take you very long. Chapter 10, verse 6. It shall also be carried unto Assyria. So we uh we see Hosea isn't just saying that something bad's gonna happen, but he's telling specifically what's gonna happen uh because of of their sin. Uh chapter ten verse fourteen Therefore shall uh tumult arise, I believe is the right uh verse there Yeah, verse 14 of chapter ten, therefore shall a tumult arise among thy people. It's just it's just gonna be bad. So verse uh chapters four through seventeen, he's he's pointing out all of the problems. And there's just a long list of them. And then chapters 8 through 13, um he says this is what's going to happen. If you don't straighten out, this is what's going to happen. And it's not a very generic thing like saying, oh, something bad is going to happen if you don't behave. No, he's saying specifically Assyria is gonna it's gonna take you and you're gonna be there and you're gonna have to do things in Assyria that you don't want to do and it's gonna be bad. And then chapter 14, the last chapter. Um It's kind of encouraging. It's kind of a strange turn. And that's the chapter that we have already read. God says he's going to love Israel anyway. Now that's awesome. That's encouraging. Even though you're in sin and there's going to be consequences for that. I'm gonna call you back out. I'm gonna love you freely. I'm gonna I I'm gonna there's gonna be restoration. And so even though there's this there's this you know there's uh this prophecy and the sin and then there's gonna be judgment. There's still there's still good news in the end. And so that that's kind of the the the the gist of what Hosea was doing, what God had Hosea doing, saying, hey look, there's sin You gotta get it right. This is what's gonna happen if you don't. But even though you won't get it right, God's still gonna love you freely. God's still gonna there's still gonna be a restoration there. To me, that's encouraging. To me, that's very encouraging. Now, if you notice, I left out the first three chapters. Did anyone notice that? I jumped right into chapter four and explained the rest. So this is what's really interesting in chapters one through three. It's a very, very strange story, and this is really a story of unconditional love. It really is In chapter one, God tells Hosea to marry an unfaithful woman by the name of Gomer. Look at verse two of chapter one. The beginning of the word of the Lord by Hosea, and the Lord said to Hosea, Go take unto thee a wife of whoredoms and children of whoredoms, for the land hath committed great whoredom departing from the Lord. That's pretty strong, isn't it? How many of you agree that's kind of intense? Like that's strong. So he tells Hosea to marry someone that he knows is going to be unfaithful to him Why? He gives the reason. For if you look at verse 2, for the land hath committed great whoredom departing from the Lord. You see, when Israel Was unfaithful to God, now Hosea understood what that was like. So his whole marriage was to be a representation Of the way God loved Israel. Israel was unfaithful. Israel was the unfaithful spouse. God loved Israel unconditionally But Israel went chasing after other gods. And Hosea now understood once he married married this unfaithful woman, he understood. Um and it gets even stranger. Knowing that she would be unfaithful to him. Um now it was unclear whether she was um unfaithful to start with or um later on. Um There's people that will debate both ways, but the bottom line is Hosea knew what would happen. Now if you look at verses 3 down through 9, it gets really sad. They have three children. Hosea and Gomer, his unfaithful wife. They have three children. The first we see in verse 4. And the Lord said unto him, Call his name Jezreel for yet a little while, and I will avenge the blood of Jezeel upon the house, Jehu, and will cause the k the and cause to cease the kingdom of the house of Israel. The first child's name was Jezreel, and the meaning of the name meant God will judge Israel God will judge Israel. Then they have a second child. It came to pass, uh excuse me, verse verse six. And she conceived again and bare a daughter. God said unto him, Call her name Lorama, for I will no more have mercy upon the house of Israel, but I will utterly take them away. So they had a second child and the name of that child meant God will no longer have mercy. That'd be a can you imagine what Hosea's going through right now? I mean, h the emotional roller coaster that he must be on. I know I can't trust my wife. God's telling me to name my children, God's bringing judgment, and God's not going to have mercy. This is where it gets like really sad, but really serious. If you look at verse number Uh nine, eight, eight. Uh now when she had uh weaned Lorama, she conceived and bare son Then said God, Call his name Loami, for ye are not my people, and I will not be your God. The name of his third child meant not mine. Can you imagine the heartbreak that he was going through? I can't imagine. I don't want to begin to imagine. But God knew. And that's what he that's what Hosea was going through. Hosea's relationship with his unfaithful wife looked like God's relationship with unfaithful Israel. And I don't want to get too far ahead of myself, but we always look at people that aren't God's people. We always look at the world lost people and say how how horrible and wicked and sinners and all and true people that are not saved. Yeah. But how much worse is it when God's own people Are unfaithful to him. You know what I mean? It's pretty heavy stuff. And Hosea, if anyone knew, Hosea might have come close to knowing how God felt. And then in chapter two, we actually get a detailed description of the woman's adultery and and how Hosea tried to stop her Look at verse six therefore be of chapter two, therefore behold, I will hedge up the way with thorns and make a wall that she shall not find her paths. Here his wife was running out on him and he was trying real hard to make the pathway difficult for her to leave, with thorns and walls, and verse seven, and she shall follow after uh her lovers, but she shall not overtake them, and she shall seek them, but shall not find them. Then shall she say, I will go and return to my first husband For then it was better with me than now. He's just hoping if I make this difficult enough, maybe she'll come back to me. Verse 8, for she did not know that I gave her corn and wine and oil and multiplied her silver and gold. Hear here I'm hearing something flying around. Did anyone else hear that? I guess it's just me up here. So many right by my head. Anyway. Um I forgot what I was saying. You ever get distracted, Evan? Yes. No. But anyway, he makes it real hard for her to to leave and he's thinking maybe she'll come back and then in verse eight for she He he he explains how he's provided for her, how he's loved her, he's gave her things, he's bought her things and tried to take care of her, and she doesn't even realize it. Not even grateful for him You can see how the similarities though, can't you? If it this is supposed to be a picture of God's relationship with Israel, you can see it. The things that God did for Israel, He blessed them, gave them lands that they didn't that that weren't theirs, gave them cities they didn't build, vineyards, they didn't plant, gave them all this stuff, and and they just walked out on him. And it's a very, very heartbreaking story. And he he tries to make it difficult, put thorns in the way, and builds walls up. Then in chapter three Hosea goes and buys his wife back out of the slave market. She ran off, ended up in the slave market, and he goes and buys her back at a very expensive price at that. Chapter 3, verse 1, then said the Lord unto me, Go yet love a woman behoved of her friend, yet an adulteress, according to the love of the Lord toward the children of Israel. Who looked to other gods, low flagons of wine, so I bought her to me for fifteen pieces of silver, for an homer of barley and a half homer of barley. And I said unto her, Thou shalt abide for me many days Thou shalt not play the harlot, and thou shalt not be another man, be for another man, so will I also be for thee. So the story of Hosea and his family in chapters 1 through 3 mirrors the story of God and Israel in chapters 4 through 14. Do you s do do you see that? Do you see the picture? Here Israel was doing horrible things And God put would put up thorns, God would put up balls, he still loved them, he took care of them, gave them things, and they went out. So, because of that, they ended up being enslaved, being in bondage in Assyria. But God brought them back out. God bought them out. And loved them unconditionally. But doesn't that also mirror us? Even though we've been unfaithful. I'm talking God's people. I'm talking those of us that are saved. God we're God's people. He's given us spiritual gifts. He's blessed us with families, with with stuff. with with all kinds of stuff. W great church, great family, and I can go on down the list. We've got it made God's given us stuff, and just like Hosea's wife didn't even recognize it was Hosea that was giving it to him, do we even recognize it's God that gives us what we have? And then after God has blessed us, we are unfaithful to Him. So He allows trials to come into our life. And it just looks like an annoyance to us, and we try to get around and go on with our business, not even aware that the reason that's in our pathway, the reason the trials are in our life, the reason for the thorns and the walls. It's because he loves us. God loves us so much, and then we end up getting ourselves in a predicament, and God takes care of us and loves us through it. I don't know about you, but I I I there there's no way I can love that much. But God can God loves us so much that even though we are unfaithful to Him, He loves us through it. And then when He brings thorns, In our path, then he brings walls in our path. We get irritated at the one who loves us. Maybe next time we hit a thorn, maybe next time we hit a little trial, it could just be because God loves us. And he's trying to bring us back to him. Could be. So that's the story of Hosea. That's um go again, please go home and read it. Read the book. But there's um five things that I think I can get out of this. There's five applications, I guess you could say. The first application from the story of unconditional love is this Sin is serious. Sin is serious, like really serious. No doubt Gomer, when she would be going off to to do the things she was doing and being unfaithful to him and Did she understand the seriousness of it and the heartbreak that Hosea was going through? Or maybe she just didn't care. I don't know. But you know how serious my sin is? It brings heartbreak. It hurts. When a child sins, the parents hurt When a spouse gets involved with something, the other spouse hurts. Sin is heartbreaking. Sin is serious. It's And just like I can hurt someone I love, or you could hurt someone you love, or someone you love has hurt you uh by the sin that they've committed, how much more so How much more heartbreak is God going through when I forsake Him to chase after other things? When I chase my hobbies more than I chase God. When I spend more time with other things than I do God, when I completely disregard him, even though he puts up thorns, even though he puts up walls, and he's trying, hoping that I'll just come back to him, and I ignore him. I'll bet you that hurts. I'll bet you that hurts God. If there's one thing I can learn from this, again, there's five points, but the first one is sin is serious. I I imagine I mean I can't imagine, but he must have been hurt. The name of the third child meant not mine. You think that he hurt a little bit? Sure he did But that did not shake his love for his wife. And this is just a by the way. Again, this isn't the message, but We we need more of that unconditional love towards our spouses. What bothers me is when people look for a reason to leave their spouse, oh well he's just not the same anymore. I wonder if Jose would have had that. I wonder if God had that perspective. Well, Pastor Matt's just not quite the same anymore. I don't love him anymore. I guess I'll leave him. No, we're supposed to love like Christ loves. Quit looking for an excuse to not be faithful to your spouse. Alright, back to the message. Alright. So number two, God is faithful. Number one, sin is serious. Number two, God is faithful. God remained Israel's God Even through their rebellion and unfaithfulness to him. At no point, and this kind of does go with what I was just saying, but at no point did God ever say, Oh, I'm not yours anymore. I decided I don't, you know, this isn't working out. You can just go, I'm done. I'll pick up with the Canaanites. No. That never happened. And I I think uh again, I think we always look for excuses to not love someone. There isn't one. Because if I'm supposed to have the unconditional love that God has, if I sin against him, he's not going to say, oh, there's an excuse. So I shouldn't either. Towards my spouse, towards my family, towards the church, towards toward towards any of that. At no point Was God unfaithful? Was he unfaithful to them when he brought trials in their life? No, that was him trying to love that love them back. Was Hosea unfaithful to Gomer when she left and got her own self in the slave market? Did I say that right? Did I say that backwards? Hosea. Gomer left Hosea. I said Hosea left Gomer, I think. You know what I'm saying? When Gomer left Hosea and got herself in the slave market, was that his fault? No But did he love her through it? Yeah, and he went and bought her back at a good price. Which again this is a by the way. I have a few of those today, as you notice. By the way, we are valuable to God. He does love us and he did buy us with a good price. Very heavy price. Um So Israel was the unfaithful one. Gomer was the unfaithful one. And we are too. We are too. God's love is unconditional. Number three, back up for just a moment. This is another by the way. A lot of people can feel like they're unloved. We've all felt like that before, like nobody nobody loves me. Don't ever say that God loves you that much, that intensely, that He's willing to pay a good price to get you, even when you're in the slave market, even when there's thorns and walls, and God loves you. Unconditionally. That means if I mess up, sure there's going to be thorns. Sure, I might get myself involved in something I shouldn't. But he loves me unconditionally. Don't ever think that no one loves you. You're loved very much. Number three. Love points out sin and corrects it. Love points out sin and corrects it. There's a misconception that love excuses things. And love is okay with sin. It's not. If that was the case, I never would have got a spanking ever. But I did. Love points out sin and corrects it And it's not like uh Gomer was loved by her husband, Hosea. He loved her unconditionally, and when he put thorns in the way It wasn't because, oh, I I hate her guts, I hope she gets hurt. No, he wanted her to come back. Love is what did that. Love is what points out sin and corrects it. And I think sometimes we get this misconception of, oh well if you love me, you'll let me do what I want to do. That's not love. My goodness That is not love one bit. Um I mean a little kid's not gonna say, Daddy, if you love me, let me do what I want to do. I want to go play out on the highway The loving dad's not going to say, oh, okay, well I love you, so I'll let you go die. No, a lot love is gonna point out problems. Love is gonna point out sin and correct it. Absolutely. Love does not turn a blind eye to sin. Love doesn't give you everything you want. Alright, so that was number three. Number four, this kind of goes along with number two, but God's love for us is unconditional. From the world's point of view, from the world's point of view, wouldn't Hosea have had every single right to lever Yeah. I mean we'd be uh i we'd be like why not from the world's point of view. I mean she was unfaithful clearly But he didn't. Even though she left him, he didn't leave her. You follow me? God's love is unconditional. In our eyes, Hosea had every right to leave Gomer, but he was faithful. To his vows, even though his wife wasn't. And in our human concept, from a worldly perspective If we use that same standard, then God would have every right to leave us. Why is it that we call ourselves Christians and we want to live like Christ and we want to uh follow his example except for When it comes to love. God will never leave us, God will never forsake us He'll never give up on us. I mentioned this earlier, but but it seems like in our in our society people will get a divorce for any reason. We just don't get along anymore. You kidding me? Oh, we just don't get along anymore. We just, you know. Can you imagine if God had that relationship towards us? God's love for us is unconditional. And I and that doesn't just go for your spouse, by the way. I mean it does. But are you really just gonna give up on your family like that? Kids give up on parents, parents give up on kids, siblings give up on each other You just gonna quit loving them? You just gonna quit praying for them? You're just gonna give up? Well, they they did something to me. They held they they they did something to me or they upset me and So I'm not obligated to love them anymore. Sure glad God doesn't treat us that way. Number five, God loves us despite our failures. We all have this really big failure. All of us have it. We all have different weaknesses, right? Like everyone's got a different weak point. But we all have this one really big uh failure. It's called we're sinners. If you've ever sinned, raise your hand. Yep. We got a big problem. Sin Does God love us because we're not sinners? Well, no, because we're all sinners. He loves us in spite of our sin. God commendeth his love toward us, and then while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. I mean, we we look we we think about this. God loves us despite our failures, and again, we'll try to nitpick at each other. We'll try to look at our spouse and say, well, look at all the problems she has. Look at all the problems he has. Well, they're people. I mean, they're sinners. God doesn't do that to us. We look at uh someone else in the church and oh well the I don't I don't like them because or I don't like her because or him because of she has this problem or she's this or he's that Where's the unconditional love there? If God loved me despite my faults, Then shouldn't I love others despite their faults? My wife probably has a fault. I don't know what it is, but she probably has one. She doesn't know what mine is, but I'm I might have no I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. But do we love each other? Yeah. A whole lot, Dave. Love you. Despite faults. Is there faults? Yeah. But how can I say I'm going to quit loving her because of her faults when God doesn't quit loving me because of mine? How can I break fellowship with someone in the church, with someone in my family, because of their faults? You know that's being a hypocrite. Accepting God's unconditional love but not giving it out in return. That's being a hypocrite Hosea fourteen four, that's the verse we looked at at the very beginning. Describes uh God's love here. It says, I will he heal their backsliding. I will love them freely. It means there's no limits to it. No limits to it. The love that I want to have for everyone here, and the love that God wants all of us to have for each other, say, hey, freely. I'll love you. Unconditionally. Freely. Just like Hosea's unconditional love for his wife Freely. You were unfaithful to me, still love you. You got sold, I'll buy you. And if you go to chapter three, go back there real quick. Listen to this. After all that she put him through. Verse 3, and I said unto him, or said unto her, Thou shalt abide for me many days, and thou shalt not play the harlot. Thou shalt not be for another man, so will I also be for thee. I'm yours I don't want anyone else. I want you. You're mine. I I uh the love there was genuine. Do you see that? It was uh even though he knew what she had done, even after she had uh was unfaithful to him, even after she went through the the past with the thorns and the walls and she had persisted And he and he gave her all that stuff, took care of her, provided for. She didn't even know it was from him, was unfaithful to him. And he said, I still want you. You're still worth it to me. I don't know if there's anyone here that has ever felt unloved Or ever felt like God couldn't love you? He does. You don't understand what I've done, Pastor Matt. You don't understand the sin that I've gotten involved in I don't, but God does, and he died for you. Well, you don't understand my past. I don't, but God does, and he sent Jesus to die for you, paid that expensive price so he can have a relationship with you. I'm looking around and I'm not sure if there's anyone here that does not know Christ is your Savior. But he loves you a whole lot, and I do know that. And don't ever let anyone tell you that they're not loved. Don't ever let anyone tell you that you're not loved. God loves you. Even though you're a sinner. And for those of us who are saved, we're God's people. We belong to Him. We're the bride of Christ. Even when I'm unfaithful to him, he still loves me. And when I confess my sins, 1 John 1. 9, if I confess my sins, he is faithful. And just to forgive us. You know what faithful means? It means every time. It means consistent. It means when I sin against him, if I confess my sin, and I'm not saying, oh, I'm sorry for all my sins, I'm saying, see my sin the way God sees it. God, I am sorry. I have wronged you He is faithful. If I was faithful to my wife, ninety-nine point nine percent of the time, would I be a faithful or unfaithful husband? Unfaithful. God is faithful. That's 100% of the time. And if I confess my sins, he says, I forgive you. And that relationship with the one who loves me is restored. You know why saved people don't have a relationship with him? It's not because he doesn't love him. Because they're still going down that path with the thorns and walls, chasing after their idols. And he's putting up obstacles saying, I love you, please come back. I've given you things, we ignore it. I love you, please come back. We get ourselves in a mess, and finally we cry out to God, and he says, Okay I'm here. If you're here and you don't know Christ as your Savior, I don't know what you're waiting for. There's no one that's going to ever love you more. I'm a human. I can't love like that. Hosea, even a human, could not love as much as God There's no one that will ever love you more. And if you're here and you're you are saved and you're not in relationship with him, that's just like being an unfaithful spouse. Quit breaking God's heart. Get that right. So anyway, looking at my notes here. Um number one, sin is serious. Number two, God is faithful. Number three Love points out sin and corrects it. Four, God loves us unconditionally. Five, God loves us despite our failures. To wrap things up now, and I'll be done here in just a couple minutes. Are you are you taking sin seriously? I'm talking that little sin that you think no one knows about, you know what I'm talking about? God knows about it. It's breaking his heart. He's putting up things in your life. Maybe some trials, maybe some heartaches, and instead of blaming him for it Why not just say, oh, maybe he's trying to get my attention and he wants me back? Are you taking your sin seriously? You know how serious sin is to God? It's how serious Gomer's adultery was to Hosea. Are you taking your sins seriously? Number two, are you feeling worthless or unloved? I've already mentioned this, but you're not unloved. You're not worthless. You're not worthless at all. God loves you. And if you don't have a relationship with God, you can have one. We'll go ahead and if you could stand to your feet. We're going to have an invitation now in just a moment. I have a few questions to ask. And then the altar will be open in just a moment. But is there anyone here and you say, you know what, Pastor Matt, I I don't know that I have that relationship with God. I don't know that I am saved. I don't know if I'm a Christian, but I'm really concerned about that. Would you raise your hand? I'm not sure that I'm saved. Just lift it up high where I can see it. Everyone's standing, so I might need you to lift your hand up higher. I'm not sure I'm saved. Could you raise your hand? Next question is this. Are you taking your sin seriously? Say, pray for me, Pastor Matt. I have not been viewing my sin. As serious as it is, like a like adultery towards God. Pray for me, Pastor Matt. God speak in my heart this morning. Would you raise your hand? My hand's up. Amen. Now I don't know how God spoke to you this morning. I don't know a message like this, it could be a number of things, but understand God loves you. He wants a relationship with you, and if you're saved, you're his, you're his bride. And if you've been unfaithful to him in any way, unfaithful in Bible reading, maybe there's a sin going on. I don't know what it is. Why don't you get back right with God and have that relationship restored with the one who loves you unconditionally? As she plays, the altars open.