Matthew chapter 11, and I know we just read this, but if you would notice verse 28, 29, and 30, and that's where I'm going to take my message from. Jesus said, this of course is Jesus speaking to his disciples, and he says, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Would you agree? That's a great invitation. Now notice what he says in verse 29. He says, take my yoke upon you. And learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart. So we get a little glimpse, and this isn't the message, but we get a little glimpse in there as to the personality of Jesus Christ. Did you ever wonder about Jesus, just what his personality was like, a little bit just personal? He says, I'm meek, I'm lowly And he says, ye shall find rest for your souls. And then he references this yoke again. Verse 29, he says, take my yoke upon you. Then he comes back. And he says, my yoke, this yoke I'm talking about, my yoke, it's easy. And my burden is light. Of course, the burden they're referring to that yoke. And so I want to talk about, preach on the yoke of Jesus Christ, the yoke of Jesus. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, we do ask this morning that you would use your word to help us Help our faith in you to be stronger. I pray, Lord, that those of us that know you as Savior, our commitment to you. Our confidence in you would be stronger as a result of these truths given here. I ask you to challenge all of us to, I pray your Holy Spirit would challenge us to take a step forward in our relationship with you, our commitment to you. And Lord, any that maybe are with us here in the service or tuned in By way of internet or on the radio, I pray that you would speak to those that do not know you as Savior and help them see the urgency of trusting Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. And so I yield myself to you, Lord. I yield my will and my mind. And I pray with all my heart, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit would guide my thinking and the words as I preach. God help me only say that which you would have me to say. I present my body anew for this message and ask that your spirit would fill me and that you would take your word and speak through my lips to our hearts, and then give us open hearts and minds and be receptive to what you have for us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen The book of Matthew, of course, the first book in the New Testament, the fellow Matthew, um uh is not named as the penman of this gospel. If you'll read all 20 uh eight chapters, I think. If you'll read all the chapters in the book of Matthew, you won't find anywhere where it says that Matthew is the penman. Of course we know who the author is. The author is who? God himself, the Holy Spirit of God, moved upon the penmen to write down the very words he has for us. So there's no doubt, there's no question in our mind who the author is. We know this is given to us by God But Matthew is the book is identified as the gospel of Matthew, though we're not told that in Scripture anywhere, that he penned it. However, the early church, right from the get-go, when it came off the press, they didn't have press then, but when this book was first penned. All the church, the New Testament church, every one of those local churches, recognized that Matthew was the penman, that God had used Matthew to pen this book down. There never was a serious question. about Matthew, whether he was the penman or not. Then of course liberals come along, they question everything. But um his name itself, the name Matthew, means a gift from God Matthew was a Jewish man. If you'll read through the book, the Gospel of Mark and the Gospel of Luke, Matthew is referred to by a different name. He's referred to as Levi sometimes. Same person, but they use two different names to identify him, Matthew or Levi. Now what do we know about Matthew? And I like to give a little background on the book and The context of our text. So what do we know about Matthew himself? Well, we know that he was a tax collector for the government of Rome. A tax collector. Now, if you know anything about the tax collectors in this time and in the in the n uh the is in the culture of the Israel, Israel hated the tax collectors. They hated them. They considered tax collectors as traitors to the nation of Israel. Israel hated Rome. They viewed themselves as an independent nation. They were God's people. They were God's nation. And Rome had come in and conquered, and now they were under this Roman rule, and Israel bristled at that. And you would have some Jews, Matthew being one of them, who made a contract with the Roman government and they would collect taxes from God's people, the Jews, and present it to the uh to the government. They would collect the taxes from the Jews. The Jews hated that In fact, they considered tax collectors, as I said, as traitors. They were outcasts. They were treated like outcasts, much similar to the way they treat lepers. Not maybe that extent, but they were moral lepers in the minds of the Jews. They hated them. In fact, they had a term For the tax collectors, what l Matthew was, it called them publicans. Anybody familiar with that term You find that through the Gospels. And every time a publican is referred to, it's in a derogatory term. They disliked him. Now, this isn't my message. In fact, I didn't even have this in my notes, but the interesting thing is, and I think I mentioned this in a recent message, but among the disciples, you had Matthew, who was a publican hated of the Jews among Jesus' disciples. Then you had Simon the Zealo the Zealot. And that was like the the that was like the Israeli um uh militia. They hated, they were zealous for uh Israel's independence. They were zealous against Rome. In fact, many of them would rise up in arms against the the Roman government. And so you have this publican, Matthew, and you have Simon the zealot, and they're both disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Isn't that something So you have Matthew, this publican that's hated, despised, and by the way, they earned that title to an extent Many of the publicans, the majority of them, were traitors. They would steal. For instance, say the Roman government required $1,000 taxes for that quarter. You're going to pay $1,000 this quarter to the Roman government. And the Rome was okay with this. The tax collectors, the Republicans, they would charge $1,200 $1,500. Sometimes they charge double. They charge $2,000. You owe $2,000. And they would skim that extra off the top, keep it in their pocket, then turn in what Rome required. And Rome turned a blind eye to that. They were fine with that. Of course, the Jews, what in the world? You're ripping your own people off. And so a lot of them were extortioners. They were thieves, really, what it boils down to. And very dishonest. Nevertheless. Matthew heard about Jesus Christ. He heard of this man who was declared to be the Messiah. Now we're not given a lot of details of how Matthew was introduced to Jesus Christ as far as who he was and who he claimed to be. But apparently Matthew, as a Jew, became convinced that Jesus Christ met the qualifications To be the Messiah of Israel. He was fulfilling the prophecies. In other words, he believed that Jesus was exactly who the Old Testament prophesied the Messiah would be. And he believed in the Lord Jesus Christ. The old boy got saved. God can even save tax collectors. If you work for the IRS, God can save you even. Believe it or not. Not only did Matthew, this tax, this publican, not only did he get saved But Jesus comes by where he's doing his tax collecting and he says, Matthew, follow me. Leave what you're doing, drop your occupation, and follow me. Forsake it all, give all that up and follow me. And Matthew says, I will. How about that? A moral, in the eyes of the Jews, a moral leper. Despised, hated, he's the lowest of the low, an outcast in a lot of ways. Jesus loved him. Jesus, I'll forgive your sin. I'll pay for your sin. Just believe on me. And hey Matthew, come on, you follow me. I want you to be my disciple. Isn't that something? I got thinking about that. You know, if Jesus could save a man like Matthew, Jesus can save me. Jesus can change the life of a man in a business that is so dishonest and so corrupt, and a man that is so hated by his own people. Yet he was loved by God, and yet he can be a disciple of Jesus Christ. I'm here to tell you, what I'm trying to say is this: it doesn't matter what your background is, it doesn't matter the depth of your failure. Jesus can still, he loves you, he can save you, and God, and you can be a disciple of Jesus Christ. Matthew. And so he forsakes all, takes up his cross, follows Christ. He meets the qualification of discipleship. And he actually becomes an apostle of Jesus Christ. Now church history tells us church um uh legends of him and church history Matthew actually after the Christ ascended and the gospel the Holy Spirit came and the and uh the gospel was spreading across Central Asia there and Middle East and Asia Minor, up into Europe, down into North Africa, over east into Persia and India, as that gospel is spread. And Matthew is one of the apostles He's heading to, and the history tells us that he ended up in Ethiopia, and then later over into Persia, and we are told that he actually was martyred as a believer in Jesus Christ. This Matthew is quite a fellow, a man of God in every sense of the word. And think about where he came from. And what Christ did in his life and how Christ transformed him and empowered him and used him to make a profound impact upon the world. What I'm trying to say is this, don't give up hope on anybody. Say, preacher, I know somebody, there I I don't know how they could ever be saved. You remember Matthew and you understand they can be saved God can change their life. Yes, he can. And so this man, Matthew, is an amazing man. Now the book itself that God used him to pen is Jewish-centered. In other words The book of Matthew, the Gospel of Matthew, is targeting the Jews. When it was first penned, Matthew's whole purpose was for his own people. Of course, this is under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, but he's targeting his own people. And over and over and over through the book of Matthew, he's referencing Old Testament prophecies As they apply to the Messiah, and he's presenting Jesus Christ, he reaches back in the Old Testament, takes these prophecies, and he says, here Jesus Christ meets us. More than any other gospel, he references Old Testament prophecies. He references Jewish customs through here He's burdened for his people. He's trying to reach his people. He's emphasizing the fact that Jesus is the promised Messiah. He's exactly who God said would come. And by the way, just a little trivia, Matthew is the only gospel that references the church directly. Two times in chapter 16, verse 18, he mentions a church. I will build my church. Jesus said that. Luke, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, they don't mention the church directly at all. Matthew does In chapter 18, verse 7, he references, he mentions directly the church. Now the other gospels reference the church, but they don't mention it directly. Matthew does. Now we come to chapter 11. Let's get the context here of this statement about the yoke. Verses 1 through 6 We have John the Baptist, and that's a fascinating study. John is in prison. He was preaching against the governor. He's preaching against Herod. Herod had taken a woman out of wedlock, and he's preaching against them. He said, It's wrong for you to have them. And Herod and his and his wife Herodias, uh, they hated John the Baptist. He throws him in prison. So in prison, John, like any human being, he's just a man, he begins wondering, doubting, is Christ really the Messiah? It may not have planned out the way he thought. I'm in jail. I've been preaching, the Lamb of God has come to take away the sin of the world. I end up in jail. Is he really the Lamb of God? And so you have these doubts in the first six verses, and Jesus responds to his doubts, and he makes these declarations in verse 7 through 15 about John the Baptist and that he was a man of God. He was correct. Jesus is the Messiah. Verse 16 through 19, Jesus makes a defense against his critics. They were criticizing him. Verse 20 through 24, he references these various degrees of judgment. And by the way, lest we forget, there still is a very real place called hell. It's just as real now, just as literal now as it ever has been. And Jesus is referencing about various degrees, the opportunities people had and rejected. And there'll be degrees of judgment in this place called hell. And then he makes these statements here in our text. And he gives this invitation to take the yoke upon him, and he describes this yoke. Now look there. He says, verse 29, take my yoke upon you. Verse 30, my yoke is easy. Now, what is a yoke? Some of us are familiar with it, no doubt. A physical yoke, a physical one, was a wooden cross piece. uh that was designed to fit. Primarily it was designed to fit across the necks of two oxen. It would be a wood one wood piece that would go across over the shoulders, necks and shoulders of two oxen, then it usually had a small uh wooden uh uh detachable tight uh loop around that would go underneath the neck. How many people are familiar? You've seen a picture of oxen. Caleb is excited about the oxen back there. And so Jesus, uh a wood a a physical oxen would be this cross piece that is used uh on oxen. Um and that. However, a yoke sometimes was used by humans, by individuals. Um sometimes they would have this wooden cross piece that would go across a person's back of their neck and across their shoulders. You've probably seen pictures. They still do this a lot of places in Asia and Africa. And they'll have this wooden cross piece and they'll hang two buckets of water on there, and they'll carry the water. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And so Jesus references this yoke. He says, take my yoke upon you. Everybody that was in the sound of Jesus' voice knew immediately what he was talking about. He did not explain what a yoke he did not need to explain what a yoke was. It was a very common instrument used all the time all around them. Some of them had their own yokes at home that they would use to go back and forth to the well to get water. So everybody knew what he was talking about. However, he's using this term yoke not as an actual literal physical yoke. He's using it as a figure of speech. In fact, the Bible uses a yoke as a phys uh figure of speech numerous times. Back in In Galatians, you go back a little later in the New Testament, Paul references the yoke of the law The Old Testament law was a burden that yoked upon the Jews, and Christ set them free from that yoke of the law that condemned them. In Lamentations chapter 3, verse 27, Jeremiah references a yoke as the yoke of hardship in life. We have hardships in life. Anybody here ever been in a situation or circumstances and it felt like you had this yoke, this burden on you? Anyone know what I'm talking about? That's what Jeremiah is referencing. And so they're using this term yoke as a figure of speech. The law in the Old Testament was a difficult thing for the Jews. Hardships of life are like a yoke on us. Again, Jeremiah in chapter 27 of the book of Jeremiah, he referred to the nation of Babylon, that they would be an iron yoke On the necks of Israel, when they would take them into captivity, and they would put this yoke, use it as a figure of speech, upon Israel and haul them off into captivity. And so this isn't the first time that term is used, is what I'm trying to say. It's not the first time this term yoke is used as a figure of speech Now here, Jesus says, take my yoke upon you. Now we know that we see in Scripture there's various yokes. He says, take my yoke on you. The yoke of the law, the yoke of hardships in life, consequences of sinful decisions we make. The yoke of the world's persecution and abuse. He said, I want you to take my yoke on you. Now I got looking at that. Take my yoke. I want us to consider a few things very quickly about Jesus' yoke. What is this yoke? What does he need? Well, I put this down. Number one, Jesus' yoke is a yoke of submission A yoke of submission. When the farmer would take a yoke and place it on the necks of those oxen, those oxen were submitting themselves To the leadership and direction of their owner, of that farmer. It was submission when that yoke was placed upon them. When that oxen had that yoke. They no longer uh uh made were making decisions as about where they were going to go and what they were gonna do. Now Their direction, their behavior, what they're going to do is determined by the one that controls that yoke over them. Jesus says, take my yoke upon you. What's he saying? He's saying, submit yourself to me. Submit yourself to my leadership in your life. Submit yourself to my direction in your life. Take my yoke upon you. It is giving the control over to the hands of the one who has the yoke, who controls the yoke. Taking Jesus' yoke upon me is submitting my will to the will of God. In other words, it's submitting my plans to God's plans. It's submitting the authority that I have over my life and saying, I'll take that yoke, Lord. It's no longer my authority over my life now. You Have authority over my life. It's a yoke of submission. A yoke of submission. Now I think, I believe everybody has a yoke of some sort I'm looking at a crowd out here today, some folks listening in. Every one of us has some sort of yoke that controls us. Every one of us has a yoke. It may be the yoke of money. Sometimes people have a yoke of money. In other words Everything is submitted to the goal of getting more money. It controls their actions, it controls their behavior Everything they do is motivated by getting more money. More money. More money. More money. I want to be rich. And so the yoke of finances, some people have the yoke of finances. Sometimes it may be a yoke of popularity. And whatever it takes to be popular. Whatever I have to do to get people to like me and think highly of me and think I'm a wonderful God. I tell you, there's been a lot of Christians have sacrificed their convictions, have sacrificed their standards so that I can be popular. We think about young people sometimes, and sometimes they'll do things they know is wrong. They know it is not pleasing to God. I know this is not God's will, but I want people to like me And they have that yoke of popularity, and it'll drive them to do things that they know is not right. You with me? Everybody with me this morning? We all have yokes. Yoke of popularity. Some folks will sacrifice their purity. Something they can never get back again. So that I can be liked, so that I can be popular. The yoke of popularity, the yoke of possessions The yoke of finances. That maybe sometimes it's a yoke of another person. The whole world revolves around that person. My whole everything I do and say is controlled by my person, that person. And Jesus is looking at a crowd of people that have all various types of yokes, reasons they're living, things that are driving them, things that control them. And he says, Take my yoke on you. Take my yoke. Submit to me. Um uh uh This yoke it's controlling you. Take my yoke. Let my yoke control you. Now this is Jesus' yoke. This is his yoke. He sets my direction, not money. Not popularity, not possessions. No other person determines the direction of my life. I take Jesus' yoke on me. He determines. He leads me. He directs me. Paul, Jesus put it this way in the Garden of Gethsemane. He prayed that great prayer, I think the most powerful prayer in all scripture. He said, Lord, and I think it's Mark. He says, Abba Father, Abba Father, all things are possible for you. If it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Then he prayed this great prayer. Nevertheless. Say it with me. Not my will, but thy will be done. You know what Jesus was doing? He was saying, Lord, I'll take your yoke. Not my will. Not my yoke. Your yoke. Your will be done. It's submission. It's a yoke of submission to the Lord, the will of God. Not somebody else, not some possession, not even my own self. Lord, your will be done. Your yoke be upon me. The Apostle Paul put it this way. He says, I die daily. Lester Roloff said the most difficult funeral he ever does is he has to do it every single morning when he gets up. He has to do his own funeral. I died of my will. I died of my plans. What does he say? He's saying, Paul's saying, every morning, every day, I take that yoke of Christ upon me I put off my and I submit to Christ. Jesus says, Come unto me. You labor You got that yoke you're carrying you, it's driving you money and possessions and popularity. You're doing stuff you know is wrong. He says, take my yoke on. Submit to me. My yoke is easy. My burden's light. And so it's a yoke of submission. It's a yoke of submission. If there are any conditions, now get this. If there are any conditions upon my obedience to Christ If there's any condition, if I put any conditions upon my submission to Christ Then I'm not taking the yoke of Christ. In other words, if I say, all right, Lord, I'll do your will, if I can get this out of it, and I can get that out of it, and I don't have to give this up. That's not the yoke of Christ. You follow me? Lord, I'll go anywhere you want me to go except outside the United States. Lord, I'll talk to anybody about Christ except that person. I'm not talking to them. Lord, I'll give financially to help the cause of Christ, but I ain't giving that much. You follow? If there are conditions, listen, if there are conditions upon my obedience to Christ, if I put conditions upon my submission to Christ, then I'm really not submitted. I'm really not submitted. He says, take my yoke upon you. It's a yoke of submission. Number two, it is a yoke of service. The whole purpose of a yoke was to plow fields. Get that oxen in a position where they're working together and where I can where the farmer can control them, and we're going to plow a field. We're going to haul this cart full of stuff. We're going to go to market And we're gonna haul this car. We've got a bunch of goats and sheep and stuff, and we're gonna put the yoke on the oxen. When that farmer came out to the oxen wherever they were being kept, and he puts a yoke on them, that meant one thing. There's work to be done. There's service that's going to take place. Those oxen are going to serve their master in one way or another. They're going to serve the farmer. And when we take the yoke of Christ, it's a yoke of service. I submit to the Lord, and God wants me to serve Him. God wants me to work for Him. How many people here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. Isn't a wonderful thing to be saved? How many people are glad you're saved? Woo! Thank you, Jesus, for saving my soul. When I got saved, laid back, did I ever tell you about them? See me, I'll tell you about it. May 7, 1979. I tell you, that night when I knelt by that bed and I called out Jesus Christ to be my personal Savior. I'll be honest with you, and you've heard me say this many times. I wasn't thinking about heaven and hell. That was the last thing in my mind. I wanted Jesus to save me from my sins. I wanted to take these sins away. They were destroying me. I was so wicked in my mind I saw myself as so corrupt. God, I need you to forgive me for my sin. And later on, I thought it wasn't long, I learned, wow, not only God forgive my sin, but I'm going to heaven, I'm not going to hell. Woo! Yeah, it was great And for all of us here, we're all saved the same way, right or wrong. All saved by grace. We all trust Jesus Christ. He forgives us. Circumstances may be a little different, our backgrounds are different, whatever. But we all come to Christ the same way, trusting what he did for us on that cross, buried, rose again, putting our confidence, faith, reliance upon what he did for us to forgive our sin, get us to heaven, escape hell. Praise the Lord. The point I'm going to get at is this: God doesn't just save us to keep us out of hell. Salvation is more than just a get into heaven free ticket Now it is that, but it's more than that. Salvation is more than just hell insurance. Right? Oh, and by the way, if you're saved, you ain't going to hell. And no under no circumstances, whatsoever. That's a whole nother message. And by the way, see me about that. I would love to talk to you about that. Cannot lose it. We're secure. However, he doesn't just save us to keep us out of hell. It's not just hell insurance. I was down at Sheets years ago. And um we used to put ads in the newspaper and for whatever reason I always put my mug on all the ads. Not like Independent Baptist Church passing and it would be my pitcher there So we put them in a lot in the paper. Some of you all remember that. And I was waiting in line at Sheets uh to get something. And uh this guy behind me in front of me kept looking back at me, kept looking back at me. And he looked back at me You look back? I mean he just kept doing this. He goes, I know you from somewhere He says, uh, you your picture's in the paper. He goes, I know you're an insurance salesman. And for whatever reason I responded, well, sort of He goes, what do you say? I said, Hell insurance. What? So I gave him a track and talked to him. It was Marvin from Marvin's Menware, or what was the store downtown? It was w what was this? Ruudies, yeah. One of those guys, I forget. But anyway God doesn't save us just to keep us out of hell. God saves us so that we'll live for him and serve him and work for him. That's part of it. Ephesians, again, we don't have time to turn to all this, but Ephesians chapter 2 verse 10, he says, ye are my workmanship, saved unto good works. God saves us, expects us to serve Him once He's saved us, to live for Him. And so he says, take my yoke upon you. It's a yoke of submission to the will of God, the direction of God for my life, but it's a yoke of service. I'm submitting to the Lord, taking that yoke to live for him and serve him, get involved. Have an impact upon this world for the gospel of Jesus Christ. Doing something for Christ. Let me ask you a question. What's your relationship with Jesus Christ? Those of us that are saved? What's the nature of that relationship? This is what I'm getting at. Are you in this relationship with Jesus Christ for what Christ can do for you? For Christ to serve you? Or are we in it for us to serve Christ? Much of modern Christianity is, oh Jesus will do this for you and he'll do this for you and he'll give you that and he'll take care of this and he'll do this and he'll give you that. And if we're not careful, we get this mentality that God exists to serve me Huh? We get this idea that God's this tremendous, amazing vending machine. And when I need something, I'll run over there and match this verse and quote that verse and push this button and, oh, ching-ching! And God does all this stuff for me. I think we misunderstand what this the nature of this relationship is. God isn't here to serve me, he saves us to serve him. To live for him, to honor him, to do his work for him. Now, does God take care of us? Yes. Does God do stuff for us? Yes, He does. Anybody here? God been good to you? Anybody here? God give you anything? I'm here to tell you, God gave you everything. And he says, take my yoke on you. Now you serve me. After all he's done for me. How can I do less than give him my best and live for him completely after all he's done for me? And that's all Jesus is saying. He says, you take my yoke upon you, you submit to me, and I want you to serve me. And I've got a place for you. I've got a purpose. I've got a ministry. Take my yoke on and you serve me. It's a yoke of service. It's a yoke of service. We used to sing a song when we were in college, and I haven't heard it in years. It came to mind as I was working on this. It went like this. He says, I will serve thee because I love thee. You have given life to me. I was nothing before you found me. You have given life to me. Heartaches, broken pieces, ruined lives are why you died on Calvary. Your touch was what I longed for. You've given life to me. I'll serve you because I love you. That's the yoke of Jesus. I like somebody put it this way: we're not saved to sit, we're saved to serve. Serve God, serve others. So it's a yoke of submission. It's a yoke of service. Let me quickly add this. It's a yoke of restriction. In other words, when that oxen took that yoke on, when that yoke was placed upon those oxen by the farmer That oxen no longer could just wander off wherever he wanted. The yoke is placed on him, he's looking there, he looks out across the meadow, and lo and behold, there's a bunch of his oxen friends. And there's some pretty girl oxens over there. I think I'll go over there with it. Nope. When you got that yoke on, he don't go nowhere except exactly where that farmer leads. You follow what I'm saying? It's a yoke of restriction. Well, I think I'll take a nap now. Nope, not when that yoke's on. In other words, when that yoke was on the oxen, there were some things that oxen could not do When we take the yoke of Christ on us, I submit to the Lord, I want to serve Him. There's some things I can't do. When I take that yoke of ox that yoke of Christ on me, I'm no longer my own. I've been bought with a price. 1 Corinthians 6. 19, know ye not that ye are not your own, your body is not your own, you've been bought with a price, your Christ. There's restrictions come when I say, yes, Lord, I'll submit to you. I'll serve you. I'll take that yoke on me of Christ. There's some things I just can't do. I just others can. Other Christians can do stuff The yoke of Christ says on me, I can't do that. I just can't. Others may enjoy the pleasures of sin. But I can't, and even if I try, it's I feel so guilty, I feel so terrible. I can't do that. I have the yoke of Christ on me. I can't go to questionable places. Others can If I try and go there and I just feel so dirty, I feel so terrible, well, I can't do this. The yoke of Christ is on me. Others can manipulate and scheme and try and manipulate things to get their own way. Even within the ministry, you see that. And promote themselves and try and get a big name, and everybody knows me. Others can do that. With the yoke of Christ, I can't do that. It's God's will, what God's plan is. Not promoting myself, not manipulating, get my way and do it to what I want. Others can. Brag and promote myself, seek fame and prosperity. The yoke of Christ restricts me to the will of God. The yoke of Christ restricts me to humility, not pride It restricts me to compassion, not hardness and bitterness and anger. I can't do that. And if I c if it comes in and pride creeps and I I feel so convicted I c I can't do that And somebody does something, I get angry, and immediately I'm struck down by the Spirit of God. Why? Because I have the yoke of Christ upon me. I can't allow that. It's a yoke of restriction. It's emptying of self. Times I have the yoke of Christ on me and I get proud and I start boasting of myself and immediately the Spirit of God convicts me. Because the yoke of Christ restricts us. There's things we cannot do. The straight and narrow way has restrictions. The Broadway. There's all kinds of freedom. Psalm chapter 1, the psalmist put it this way: Blessed is the man that walketh not. And the counsel of the ungodly. Other people may listen to that garbage. Other Christians. But can't Walketh not in the way of the he walketh not in the counsel of the eye, he standeth not in the way of sinners. Other Christians can go to those types of places and they can justify it and excuse it, but if I try, I can't. A miserable. Why? Because there's restrictions. Blessed is the man who walketh not in the counsel of God, nor standeth in the ways of the man, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. Other people can talk that way and do those things. And if I try, I get so convicted of I can't. Why? Because the yoke of Christ has restrictions And the last of all, it's a yoke of consequences. A yoke of consequences. Look what he says. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly. Look at this. And ye shall find what? Rest for your souls. For my yoke is what? Easy. My burden is what? Light. You know what I found? I take that yoke upon me. You think, man, submitted to Christ, serving Christ, restrictions, you must be miserable. You know what I found? Happiest Christians in the world are those that had the yoke of Christ on them There's a peace there. There's a rest. Somebody has the yoke of popularity and they have the yoke of finances and they're never happy. Because it's never popular enough. It's never rich enough. It's never enough pleasure. I need more pleasure. I need more. And they have that yoke. And it's heavy. And there's no rest. There's turmoil and emptiness and misery. But I submit myself to Christ. There's rest and there's peace there. Why? Because we are designed to carry the yoke of Christ, and every other yoke does not fit. And it makes us miserable. Are you with me? Restrictions. I read about a fellow who's on the train. And they were traveling across country and they were sitting in this car and there was a table and a bunch of guys sitting around and somebody brought out a pack of cards and they're gonna play poker, we're gonna make some money, but gamble here while we're traveling. And one fellow just sat there. And they just piled the cars up and he wouldn't pick 'em up. He wouldn't do anything. He said, come on man, let's play. He said, I can't. I said, why not? He says, I don't have any hands I said, what? I don't have any hands. Let's see. So he put his hands up. He said, you got hands right there He said, they're not my hands. They're Jesus hands. I can't do that when these are Jesus' hands. They aren't my hand. I can't look at that. These aren't my eyes. These are Jesus' eyes. I can't go to that place. What? These aren't my feet. These are Jesus' feet. I can't I can't do that. Why not? These are Jesus hands. You know what that is? That's the yoke of Christ. And it brings great peace and great blessing. Um I I gotta end. Esau's fables. Anybody familiar? Esau's fables. They're great. One of his fables, just a little short one, was an argument that the wind had with the sun Which one was greater? Which one could have more influence, the wind or the sun? And lo and behold, there's this guy walking down the pathway there, and he's got this jacket on So they got in a debate. Which of them can get that guy to take his jacket off The wind or the sun? Wind said, I'll go first. I'll get them and get that jacket off, I'll tell you. And the wind blew and blew and blew and used great force You know what that guy did with the jacket? He pulled it up tighter against them. The son said, all right, let me try. And the sun just shone. And the man got warm. Lo and behold. Took the jacket off. And the point was this. God doesn't force anybody to take the yoke upon him. He just shows us how much he loves us and how good he is. We say, yes, Lord, I want your will to be done. I'll take that yoke on me. It's an invitation. It's voluntary. My message is this: this is what I'm urging us to do, myself included all of us. Let's take our relationship with Jesus Christ very seriously. Alright? Not just something out there, yeah, yeah, I got saved. I go out soul winning and people say, you know for sure you go, yes, I'm saved. Praise the Lord How about we take it seriously? And then how about this? How about we take our will? Set it aside and say, Lord, not my will, your will be done. I want your yoke on me. Let's pray. Father, I ask dear Lord that you would help us hear your call here. Help us to Hear this invitation. And those of us that know you as Savior, Holy Spirit, you need to do what I can. Holy Spirit, you need to convict us. You need to draw us. You need to move and help us see the burden of our own yokes. And take on the lightness of your will, serving you, loving you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I got my own yoke. Maybe you got a couple of them. It really controls me in a lot of ways. I need to put that yoke off, and I need to take the yoke of Christ. And no longer my will, but his will be done. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher prayed for me. I see these yokes. I've got some. God bless you. Hands all around. We all have yokes of some sort Jesus says, come take my yoke. It's light. It's easy. I'll use you. It's fulfilling. How many would say, preacher, I need the yoke of Christ this morning by his grace? I take the yoke of Christ, his will, not mine. Any like that uplift a hand this morning. I tell you, an old altar's a good place just to bow our neck. Say, here it is, Lord, put your yoke on me. I accept it. If you've never trusted Christ as Savior, you don't know for sure your sins forgiven on your way to heaven. Today's the day to get that settled. I invite you to come. Is there any say preacher? I don't know for sure. I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me and saved me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. Any at all Father, I pray you'd help us to come in faith in Jesus' name.