Twelve twenty four through twenty six Bible says, Verily, verily I say unto you Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. If any man serve me, let him follow me, and where I am, there shall also my servant be. If any man serve me, him will my father honor. Heavenly Father, Lord, uh again we thank you for this day you've given us in the uh freedom and privilege we have to hear your word preach to us, Lord, and uh that we have a Bible uh that we can read Lord, we just uh ask that you speak to our hearts through the message this morning, bless pastor as he speaks. And uh Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Everybody has one, and I hope you're thinking along these lines. Let's take our Bibles again, if you would, and turn to the Gospel of John and chapter twelve. John chapter twelve Missionary was introducing himself to a Native American Indian chief many years ago and the chief said, This is my wife Four Horses. He said, What's her name? Her name's Four Horses He said, you're that's her name? What a beautiful name. She goes, how did she ever come up with a name for horses? He said, very simple. She nag, nag, nag, nag. And so Four horses. John chapter twelve. Let's read verse twenty-six together in unison, if you would read it with me. Let's read together. If any man serve me, let him follow me. And where I am, there shall also my servant be. If any man serve me, him will my Father honor. I've entitled the message, The Honor of Serving Jesus. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for good service we've had this morning so far. The Sunday school hour was a blessing. Lord, the fellowship's been sweet to my heart and encouraged me. The music's been beautiful Now, Lord, as we look into your word, we're coming in the most important time of the service. And I ask that you would help all of us to put aside the cares of the weak. Lord, help us to put up the um little distractions that are so easily available to us and help us to focus our heart and mind on the Word of God. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew to you. I yield my will to yours And Lord, I pray that your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak through me, and that you would open our hearts and minds. And that when the message is done, that we'd make the right decisions That our wills would be yielded to yours, and that you would lead and direct us in the coming days. Bless us now, I ask, in Jesus' name. Amen. A 30-year-old woman, a single mother, was asked by a church member, why do you not attend church? And her answer was this. She goes, I do not attend church because I was raised to believe that you had to go to church every Sunday. You had to confess all your sins every Sunday. You had to recite memorized prayers, and you had to be faithful to all the church's instructions to be a Christian. And her conclusion of that was this: I could not see how a loving God could make such demands of his people. Now I thought that was an interesting answer. She thought this through and she had a reason. Now the fact is, our God is a loving God. Amen? But he's not just a loving God. Our God is a holy God. And as a holy God, his demands are even greater than the demands that this woman And uh perceived from her church, attending church, confessing sins, saying prayers, all that. As a holy God God's demands to be acceptable to Him are given to us in condensed form in the Ten Commandments. We're memorizing the Ten Commandments this year. We're on Commandment No. One. God's demands of mankind. Are far greater than man's demands of mankind God commands us to have no other gods before Him. Jesus put it this way in the New Testament that we are to love the Lord thy God our God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, with all our strength I know there's not a person on this earth that has loved God with every ounce of their being and all their strength, every moment of their life. God's command that we do not lie, thou shalt not bear false witness. Well, if there's any command that disqualifies everybody, it's that one. Not to covet and go down through the Ten Commandments. So This woman was correct in that God is a loving God, but she was incorrect in thinking that God demands She was misunderstood in what God's demands are. She had a fundamental misunderstanding of what it means to be a Christian. Folks are here in church this morning. I'm glad. I like it better when folks are here than when they're not here, personally. But we must not think that we go to church in order to be a Christian. If we think that we go to church and we say our prayers and we do these various things we do If we think that's what makes us a Christian, then we have a fundamental misunderstanding of what it means to be a Christian. Being a Christian is not fulfilling a list of obligations, but being a Christian is having a genuine relationship with a true and living God. That's what it means to be a Christian. I certainly hope that everyone that here is in this service this morning that you are a genuine biblical Christian. That you have a very real, living, vital relationship with the risen Savior. Now, that begins at salvation, the moment of salvation. I made reference earlier that God is a holy God and His holiness is expressed in His commandments. And that those commandments are greater, those demands are greater than any demands man can come up with. Nobody can live up those demands. So God did not give us a law. As we pointed out a couple weeks ago, God did not give us the law, his demands, his standards of righteousness, so that we could attain that But he gave us those commands to show us how sinful we really are, and that we need a Savior And salvation begins the moment I accept Jesus Christ, God's Savior, Jesus Christ, I accept him as my personal Savior. But my faith and trust in what he did for us on the cross, shed his blood, was buried, rose again. The moment I do that, God forgives my sin. And I begin a living relationship with Jesus Christ. We communicate, we have fellowship one with another, and he's alive and real. So, this woman, though no doubt very sincere, misunderstood what it meant to be a Christian. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot make one person a Christian. We can't do it. And by the way, no other church in the world can and by the way, the Pope can't do it either. Jesus Christ is our Savior. He forgives our sin. He gives us new life. He establishes a relationship with us. He saves us from going to hell. Of course, by the price he paid on the cross, he fulfilled God's demands for us. He paid the price for our failure to fulfill themands, and we have a relationship with him. Now, how many folks here, you're saved, you know it. Say amen. That's good. Once we're saved, once we trust Christ as Savior, then that relationship I have with the Lord, I am to work at developing it. And enhancing it and getting to know the Lord better and him having more of me and me walking close to him, having more of his blessings. And a key aspect of developing that relationship I have with the Lord Jesus Christ, a key aspect of that involves my service to the Lord. And that's what brings us to our message this morning: the honor of serving the Lord. Now, I took a good bit of time, and I said what I've said up to this point for this reason. I do not want anyone to think that we serve the Lord so that we can be saved. Follow what I'm saying? We don't serve God in order to attain salvation or to earn salvation. Salvation, the Bible says, is a free gift, we simply receive it by trusting Jesus Christ, our personal Savior. Then once we've trusted Christ And that relationship with the Lord is established, a key aspect in my spiritual growth is me serving the Lord. Look at our text here with me, if you would. And notice verse 26 and verse and three times. In this one verse the word serve or a form thereof is used. Look what it says. If any man serve me, let him follow me. And where I am, there shall also my what? Servant be. What does a servant do? Serves So serve, servant, there shall my servant be. If any man serve me, him will my father honor. Our Lord clearly, and we could go to any number of other passages of scripture, but our Lord clearly expects his people to serve him. Not to be saved, but as a part of my growth, my development as a saved person. In developing my relationship with him. Part of my fellowship with the Lord involves me serving him. So God expects all of his people, people who trusted Christ, he expects us all to serve him. Now, does that mean he expects all saved people to be pastors? Absolutely not. There's nowhere in the Bible that even remotely suggests that God calls certain men to be pastors. God calls certain men to be pastors. You have to point that out these days. Um God calls certain people to be missionaries. God calls folks into maybe Sunday school teachers and any number in the uh bus ministries, any number of things So we're not talking about at this point what my service consists of. As a Christian. But what we are pointing out, and the burden of this message, is that God does expect all Christians to serve Him. To serve Him. We do not serve the Lord to be saved In fact, we cannot serve the Lord to be saved. It's not going to work. Remember in Matthew 7, the Lord said that He said, at the judgment, many are going to come to Him in that day. And said, Lord, I've done many things, cast out devils and healed the sick, and did all this. And he says, I'm going to save you. I what? Never knew you. You know why? Because they were depending on all this service they were doing to make them acceptable to God. And Isaiah chapter 64, verse 6 tells us that our righteousness, our service that we give in order to be saved, as far as God's concerned, is just filthy rags. Now it doesn't mean the things we do are are not of value. They're not good to do. Of course they're good to do. But as far as making us acceptable to God, they don't make us any more acceptable to God than some filthy rags would make me acceptable to God And so I'm hounding that and I'm drilling that in because we live in a day and age where so many churches you're taught that you have to do things either to be saved or to stay saved, and that is not scriptural. Our service to the Lord is part of our development. Let me put it this way: we do serve the Lord because we are saved. Alright? Are we or are we all on board here? What we do for the Lord, we're not doing to make us acceptable to God. We're doing it because we are already accepted in the beloved, in the Lord Jesus Christ. We're already accepted to the Lord. Now, let's look at our text and let's consider the context here. Come back to verse number 20 of John 12. And something interesting happens It says there were certain Greeks among them, among the crowd, that came up to worship at the feast. The same, these Greeks, came therefore to Philip, which was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Now these are Greeks. They said, Sir, we would see Jesus. Well, Philip cometh and telleth Andrew, and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus. Now, this is interesting. These Greeks come and approach the Lord Jesus to see them. They're desiring to see him. Now, what do we know about the Greeks? Well, we know the Greeks here were not Jews. I don't know how they ended up at the feast or why they were there. I don't know what their motives were for inquiring of the Lord Jesus, but they were not Jews. And one thing, if you study your Bible carefully, particularly the Gospels, we understand that when Jesus initially came. He came unto his own. Jesus came to offer himself to the Jews as their Messiah. And as we know, his own received him not. The Jews said, no, we don't recognize you as the Messiah. We don't recognize you as the Christ. We don't accept your claims to be the Son of God. We reject you and they crucified him And in so doing, they opened the doors of salvation to the Gentiles. Now, God knew all this all along. God wasn't taken by surprise. He knew that's how it would play out, but that's the way it worked. But the Greeks at this point are coming to the Lord Jesus, and if you'll remember, a little earlier Jesus had sent the disciples out, and he says, Don't go to the Greeks, go only to the tribes of Israel. So these Greeks are showing up. They're a little, they didn't know that, but they're a little ahead of the game, so to speak. I don't know what their motives were in desiring to see Jesus. I've studied this and people have suggested any number of things and I've come to the conclusion we don't know. Maybe they were coming simply out of curiosity. They just heard about miracles and this guy Jesus causing a stir, and um that caught their attention, maybe their curiosity, hey let's go talk to the guy, let's see what he's about That could be all there was to it. Maybe they just wanted some more information. They were still up in the air as to who he claimed to be, and they just had some questions. I don't know Maybe they were coming to be saved. Maybe they had heard enough of what he taught. Maybe they were familiar enough with the Old Testament scriptures. Perhaps they were convinced at this point that he was who he claimed to be, and they wanted to come and trust him and accept him as their savior. I don't know. And nobody else knows definitely either In either case, whatever their motives were, the fact that they came to the Lord Jesus inquiring of him seems to have stirred the Lord up. It seems to have prompted him to make some powerful statements here about Christian service. Notice, uh it's verse 22, Philip cometh and tell Andrew, and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus, and Jesus answered them, saying, Now Jesus is answering Philip and Andrew. Who came to him telling him that there's some Greeks out here that want to see you. And whatever their motive was, was known to the Lord, something about it stirred our Lord. And he makes this powerful statement. The hours come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Now he's probably making reference to the fact when Jews will have Gentiles will have an opportunity to be saved, when they'll the gospel be open to them. But look. Verily, verily, I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. He that loveth his life shall lose it. And he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal. If any man serve me, let him follow me. Where I am, there shall also my servant be. And if any man serve me, him will my Father honor. He's talking about service. I want to point out three things, particularly from verse 26. The first thing I want us to notice is the principle of service. The principle of service. The word serve here in verse 26, the word servant, then again serve All comes from the same Greek word, and it means it comes from the same word we get the word deacon from. If any man want a deacon mean. Let him follow me. Where I am, there shall also my deacons be. If any man deacon me, him will my father honor. Now, he's obviously not talking about the office of deacon. He's talking about the ministry of service, which the office of deacon fulfills, to serve the church, serve the pastor. But the idea here has the idea the word servant here has the idea to minister or to act as a servant to someone. I like this definition. It has the idea of waiting on someone. Now it's not like waiting on them and stand around waiting for them. It's not like the guy yelled up the steps to his wife. Come on, honey, we're gonna be late. And she yelled back down, sweetheart, I've been telling you for the last half hour. I'll be ready in a minute. Can I get a witness? You men are afraid to say amen to that because your wife sits beside you. When it says here to serve me has the idea of waiting on someone, it's not waiting for them. It's the idea of a when you go into a restaurant and you have the waitress or the waiter and they are waiting on you What would you like to drink? You want some iced tea? Okay. Is iced tea cold enough? Is it sweet enough? Um what would you like would you like um State, okay. Medium, well, ri they're waiting on you. They want to make sure that your needs are met and your desires are fulfilled. Right? So with that definition in mind, let's read it again. If any man serve me, this is Jesus speaking, let him follow me. If you want to meet my needs, if you want to fulfill my desires, if you want to be a blessing and minister to me Then follow me. That is the principle of service. I think I've got it in my head That every genuinely saved person and you know everybody claims to be a Christian ain't necessarily Christian, right? We understand that But a person who has genuinely trust in Christ, been born again by the Spirit of God through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, I've got it in my head that somewhere down in the heart of that person Where the Spirit of God dwells, there is a desire to serve the Lord. Now, whether that desire is ever Manifest in the life may be up to debate, but somewhere when a person gets saved, somewhere in their heart, there is a desire to serve God There's a diary to z do something for God. What's 2 Corinthians 5. 17 say? If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. You know what that new part is? It's part of me living for the Lord, ministering to the Lord, trying to please God with my life, to serve Him. So down inside There's a genuine desire to for a believer to serve God. Here's where the problem comes in. If a person's saved, somewhere there's that desire. If a person has no desire whatsoever to serve God, if there's absolutely could care less about the things of God, about uh the the glory of Christ about pleasing Lord, absolutely no concern about it, then I would question that person's salvation. Are you with me? I'd say, well, something fishy here. But here's the problem. That desire's there. But a lot of people, though they may want to serve the Lord, they don't necessarily want to follow him. Huh? Oh yeah, I want to serve the Lord, but I want to do it my way. I'm going to do for the Lord what I think the Lord would have me to do. I want to serve the Lord, but I'm not going to follow His methods. I'm gonna do it my way. Oh yeah, uh uh yeah, I wanna I wanna preach and pastor a church. But I'm not going to lead it the way the Lord tells me to. I got a lot of that. I get it in the mail all the time. Yeah, I want to teach Sunday school, but I'm not going to do it the way the Lord would have me do it. I want to serve God, but I'll do it on my terms. The Lord says, if any man serve me, let him follow me. The Lord, I believe, is establishing a principle here, and it is this. There can be no acceptable service to the Lord without submission to the Lord, first of all. I must submit my will to the Lord's will. I must follow him. Submit my will to the Lord's will. And then I can serve him acceptably. Because as long as I'm trying to serve God without submitting my will to his will I'm going to have my hands on it. It's going to be motivated by my thinking and my understanding. And it's not going to be following the Lord and it's going to be unacceptable Is everybody with me? Everybody following me? How many folks are glad you came to church today? Say amen. How many people aren't glad? Say, oh me. Alright, that's the majority. Praise the Lord Principle of service is we must submit to him. Now, what does it mean to follow the Lord, this principle? I think it involves two things. One, it means obedience. Is necessary for acceptable service. You and I cannot sit back on judgment and decide and make judgment on the Lord's commands. And determine whether we're going to serve him or not, or whether we're going to serve him the way he says we should. We can't do that. We are to follow him. We are to obey him. The Bible's clear. Jesus Christ is the head of the church. The past the Pope is not the head. Have you been reading the news? Man, these people are sick. Excuse me. Has any anybody been following the news with the Pope and all that? Somebody does anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah, it's disgusting. Read the news. He's not the head of the church, thank God. I'm not trying to be unkind to Catholic folk. God bless you. There's some good people, humanly speaking, in the Catholic Church, but that institution is nasty. I'll just be very frank with you. So anyway, don't get me going on that. He's not the head of the church. And by the way, the pastor is not the head of the church. Jesus Christ is the head of the church. The pastor is the under-shepherd. God, the head, Jesus Christ, gives the pastor the responsibility of overseeing. That's what the word bishop means. to oversee it, to make sure it's in line with the Word of God, to give it direction, keep the things in in in line with the will of the head But he's the head. And if a body is going to function properly, it must obey the head. Right? Did you ever wake up in the morning and you slept on your arm wrong all night? And get up and it's like a limp. Uh Dead fish. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's just hanging there. It's not in submission to the head. It's just kind of hanging there. The head saying Get up. And it doesn't do it. You follow what I'm saying? Something is wrong. Um so Christ is the head And if we want to serve him, we must obey what the head says. We've got to follow him. We've got to submit to him. Our methods, as well as our message, must be in line with the Lord. There's an idea today in a lot of churches As long as we're preaching the gospel, it doesn't matter what means we use to get the gospel out. Listen, the method we use is just as important in being obedient to the Lord as the message itself. And so, obedience is necessary for acceptable service. God expects us all to serve. In one capacity or another, He expects us all to be involved in serving the Lord. Now there's a principle, and that principle is if we're going to serve him, we have to follow him. We have to be obedient to him. And again, there are so many folks that want to serve the Lord, but do not want to submit to his commands So, this principle of service, obedience is necessary, and I have another aspect of this principle I think is found in the idea of following the Lord, and that is humility. Is necessary for acceptable service. If I want to follow Christ, if you're following someone, you're putting aside your own plans. You're putting aside your own agenda, and I'm going to follow ahead. We're going to go from point A to point B. Alright, I got my idea how I can get there Well, I don't have to do this, I can do that, and I'll I got my own idea how to get there. Lord says, oh no, no. You need to follow me. That means I put away my ideas of how I need to get there, and I go the way the Lord leads us to get there. You follow what I'm saying? That is humility. That is dying to self. To follow someone is to walk behind them, not in front of them. I don't tell Christ how the church should run. I follow him telling me how the church should run. I don't tell Christ what the standards should be of a person holding position in the church. I don't tell Christ what the requirements should be to Hold an office or uh fulfill a office um a ministry in the church, he tells us We follow him. We don't sit in judgment and say, well, I want to serve the Lord, but I don't think I need to do that, and I think I should be allowed to do this. That's not our options. If we want acceptable service, we die to self, we obey his commands, and we walk behind him. To follow someone means to allow that one to choose the path. We do not tell God what we will and will not do for Him. We follow Him. Now, how do you apply this? In what ways do I follow the Lord? Well, the Bible says we are to follow the Lord in believers' baptism. So if a person trusts Christ as Savior and they want to serve the Lord acceptably, one thing they need to do is they need to follow Him in baptism. Amen? Every saved person ought to be baptized. Come on now, we're Baptists, right? It's like the preacher uh came in and preached he was candidating for church and he preached the first Sunday on baptism. And the next Sunday he preached on baptism. The next Sunday he preached on baptism. Six Sundays in a row he preached on baptism. One deacons came and says, I want you to preach on something else beside baptism. He goes, all right. He goes next Sunday got up and said, I'm gonna preach on the Elisha where the iron flew off the axe head and landed in the water and the iron did swim. He says, what were they doing down there by the water anyway? He says, I think they were having a baptism service down there We're Baptists. Why are we Baptists? Because the Bible teaches that once I trust Christ If I want my relationship with the Lord to develop, if I want to serve him effectively, if I want to live for him, I need to follow him in baptism. That identifies me As a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, He identifies me as being a part of the body of Christ, and that's what the Lord would have us to do. So what does it mean to follow the Lord? It means one aspect of many is a follow-up baptism. Another one, the Lord said in the Gospels, he says, where two or three are gathered together in my name. There am I in the midst of them. Now let me ask you, what is he talking about when he says we're two or three are gathered together in my name? He's talking about what? A church service. It's talking about what Hebrews talks about. Forsake not the assembling of yourselves together. And so if I'm following the Lord. Are you with me? If I'm following the Lord, and the Lord says, where the church assembles together, that's where I am. And if I'm following the Lord, then I will beware. It's not rocket science. I'm going to be faithful to church. So what's he saying? He's saying if I want to serve the Lord effectively, if any man will serve me Let them follow me. He needs to follow Lord and Baptist. Need to be faithful to church. Well, you know, I you don't have to do all that to serve God. Uh according to the Lord, you do. Follow me. Follow him in my daily devotions. Follow him in my witnessing. He says He says, go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptize them in the name of Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, teach them to serve all things whatsoever. And lo, I am what? With you always. That means I follow the Lord and my soul winning. In being a witness, sharing the gospel with others, leading others to Christ. And so the principle of service is this. I hope you got this. The principle of service Is that I follow the Lord. I die to self, and I follow. Look at verse chapter 12. Look at verse 24. What a classic passage of scripture. 1224. Except a corn of wheat, fall into the ground, and what? Die. What's he talking about? If a corn of wheat, if a grain of wheat is going to become fruitful and produce more wheat, it has to what? Has to die. It's put in the ground. It has to die. Except the corn of the wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. You know what I think of when I read that? The loneliness of self-centeredness. Oh it's gonna be my way or no way, I'm telling you that right now. That person is a very lonely person. Except the corn of wheat, falling to the ground and die, it abideth alone. Empty. Fruitless. God has been good to America. You agree with me? Undeservedly good to America. Let me put it this way, dangerously good to America. And we have grown up, and I'm not saying we're raising a generation, I'm saying we've probably had several generations Of Christians who are so accustomed to getting everything we want when we want it, the way we want it, or we raise a stink. Am I right or wrong? Just go to the store. And God says, You want to serve me? You've got to get rid of that way of thinking. You've got to die to self. You've got to humble yourself and say, no, it's not my way. It doesn't have to be what I want, the way I want. It's what Christ wants. And the way He wants. And if I don't come to that point, if I don't get to the point in my life where it's no longer my will, where it's no longer myself, But I die, and I just plant my own self-will in the ground and die. Until I get to that point, there's not going to be effective service. Oh, I might stand in front of a class and read a little story, or I can stand behind a pulpit and scream and holler. I can sing a choir and sing a song. But it's not acceptable service to Christ. Until I die and I follow him, his will is done, his desires are fulfilled, and not mine So the principle of service is following the Lord. Second of all, there's a partnership in service. Look at verse 26 again with me. If any man serve me, let him follow me. And where I am, there shall also my servant be. Now it's pretty obvious. If I'm following the Lord, wherever the Lord is, I'm going to be there, right? If somebody's going wherever Christ goes, then wherever Christ is, that's where that person will be. Now, there's a lot that could be said about this But let me just say this. Following Christ, dying to self and saying, Christ, I'm going to do it your way. I'm going to serve you the way you instruct me serving. That may lead us through some dark valleys. That may be difficult sometimes. We've had folks in this church over the years gone on fire for God, died to self, committed themselves, dedicated themselves to the Lord. You know what family turned on them? And it was hard. And I've shed many tears with folks because family turned on. Following Christ, dying to self and following Christ may mean I have to make some difficult decisions. It might not be convenience anymore. I might miss my favorite show on Sunday night. God forbid. Might have to change my schedule. It may lead through some dark valleys. It may mean some difficult decisions. Hey, it may mean having to give up. A promotion on the job because I will not compromise the convictions that God has given me in his word, and I want to follow the Lord. And I think you're going to find that more and more. May me not being the most popular kid in school. Dying to sell. But I will say this: wherever the Lord is. If the servant's following him, the servant's going to be right there. And this is what I'm trying to say. One thing we are sure of, Christ will never abandon us when we're following him. It may be a dark valley, may be a difficult circumstances, it may be very unpopular, but Christ will be with me through all of it. I come to the point in my life Christ has saved me from sin and hell. He's given me a new life. I want to serve him. I want to live for him. I'll die to self. I'll follow him And in the dark times, in the difficult times, in the times when your heart is broken and it seems like everybody has forsaken you, Christ says, I'm still with you I'll be honest with you, I'd rather have Christ with me by myself than be without Christ in the midst of a thousand. The partnership of service. It is impossible to follow Christ and not be where Christ is. Again, he said, two or three gathered together, there am I in the midst. The soul winner, the missionary. I was reading one of our missionaries this week. Brother James Huckabee moved to Uganda this past week. They're on the field. And uh they're gets setting up, they are a long, long way from friends and family. They're in a strange land. Remember the little kids helped us give out tracts a couple years ago? Those little kids are over there in Uganda. No car. He's writing on the computer. You know what he's saying? We're having a hoot. What a time. God is being good to us. We're walking everywhere and getting lots of exercise. You know what? I have the distinct impression that He's living in the presence of Christ. Christ didn't abandon them. He said, boy, if if I if I do what God says, then man, I'll just it's going to be miserable and I'm going to be all alone and nobody's hold it. Christ isn't going to abandon you That's funny, some of the most popular people in the world are some of the unhappiest people in the world. Look in the eyes of the movie stars When they're on the news. Look in their eyes. You know what you see? Emptiness. Sadness. Loneliness. But you get some young person, you get some lady or man that's on fire for God, and there is the joy of the presence of Christ. Because they die to self. And Christ will not abandon them. Last of all, we have the principle of service, the promotion of the partnership of service, and last of all, this is the message, the promotion of service. Look at the last part of verse 26. If any man serve me, alright, you die to self, you submit yourself to my leadership, you'll follow me, you'll do what I say, you'll serve me If you do that, I'm not going to abandon you. And look at this. If any man serve me, him will my Father honor. Wow. God Almighty will honor the young man, the young lady, the mother, the father, the grandmother, the grandfather. That says, I'm gonna live for God, I'm gonna die to self, I'm gonna fall like a corn of wheat, uh fall on the ground and die. I want to bear fruit for the Christ, I just want to live for him, do what he says, no matter what God says, God Almighty will honor you. Will honor that one. What's it mean to honor someone? It simply means to place high value upon, to exalt. Now listen, I'll be very honest with you. I wish I c I wish you I could tell you differently than what I'm about to tell you, but When we sell out to Christ, if a person sells out to serve the Lord fully, to do it the way God says, when God says to do it, you're not going to get much honor from the world. You might as well forget it. Most likely you get on fire for God's soul winning and standing against for unrighteousness and and uh loving people and being honest and and uh mandatory, you're probably not gonna be citizen of the year for Garrett County. Alright? Most likely not. In fact, when you go to town meetings and stuff, they're probably going to rebuke you for giving out tracks and violating people's personal rights and all that But to be very honest with you, as a child of God, we ought not to be concerned about what the world thinks. We ought to be more concerned about what our Heavenly Father thinks. If we serve and we die to self and just say, Lord, I'm going to follow you, I'm going to trust you, I'm going to live for you. Not to be saved, but because you've saved me. God says, I'll honor you. To place high value upon, to exalt. We stand for Christ. One of the things following Christ involves is standing against falsehood. Standing for truth. A number of years ago, we put an ad in the paper. Some of you remember it, and we said, which church saves? How many people remember that advertisement? Cause a little stir. And we took quotes from various cults and different churches and saying that their church was necessary for salvation. And the the text of the ad was: no, their church can't save you, and our church can't save you. Only Christ can save you. And I thought it was a pretty straightforward, clear thing. Brother That stirred things up. My son Samuel and I were over by the golf course knocking on doors and the lady came to the door and I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman. As soon as I said that Woo! Nuclear explosion. You're the hateful ones putting that ad in the paper and condemning. Why do you guys think they're so much better than us? And I said, ma'am, I was trying to say, ma'am, did you read it? And by I said, ma'am, did you where That's all the father I got. So sometimes we follow Christ. We stand up for what's right, we take a stand against what's wrong and by the way that also includes preaching against sin. You know what we like, Brother Bum? We like when the preacher preaches against other people's sins. Those sodomites, amen. And amen. We should preach against sodomites, right? Those abortionates, preach against them. Those liberals, preach against them. But what about when the preacher preaches against what you're doing wrong? Then all of a sudden, who does he think he is? Am I right or wrong? I'm not going to get many compliments on this message this morning. But the fact of the matter is, this is what I'm trying to say. When we do right, when we follow Christ, when we obey and do what he says, and by the way, the Bible does say the preacher is supposed to preach against sin I wouldn't go to a church where he didn't preach against sin. And you think it's rough sitting there when God's dealing with your sin, you ought to be back here preaching and God convicts you about something. That's even harder. But anyway, we ought not to expect the world to honor us, but we can expect God to honor us. And I'll be honest with you, we're gonna live down this world what, 70, 80, 90 years? A couple may live a hundred something For the rest of eternity, we'll be in the presence of God, those of us who are saved. So the issue isn't who cares what they think down here? Amen? What about what Christ thinks? Anybody recognise recognize the name Paganini? Anyone recognize that name? Any classical musician? Haganini was a very famous violinist. You know, Fiddle, West Virginia folks. And he had an incredible violin. And he donated to a city in Europe under one condition that it never be played. The wood was some type of exotic wood, very special, and that wood While it's being used and handled, would not wear hardly at all, just slightly. But if that wood is set aside, it deteriorates very rapidly. And that famous, famous violin at the time of the writing of this story I have here was kept In a special room in this European city. And as of today, whenever this writing was, it was worm-eaten And corroded and was really nothing more than just a very old relic. And what a tragedy And now people come and look at that old worn-out violin and they think, man, what this thing was. What this thing could have continued to be if it was in service. Let's not become like that violin. Accept Christ as Savior and then just sit there and not do anything for the Lord. Do you know what happens? We deteriorate, we get self-centered, our testimony corrodes. And we just become ugly. And we become unpleasant. Christ says, listen, serve me. I expect you to serve me. Now, if you're going to serve me, you've got to follow me. You've got to do it the way I say Um, I'll be with you in your service. And one day, God, my Father in heaven, will honor you in a great way. When I graduated, I told the story, I got all kinds of honors. And boy, if you want to hear how great I am, I'll talk to you for hours about it I did. But I'll tell you the greatest honor I had, and I've told this before. We had them all lined up, several thousand dollars worth of awards, and I had plaques We lined him up on the front pew of Highland Park Baptist Church after the graduation, sir. My family was there. They're taking pictures. And I'll tell you what, my daddy came up to me. It's all said and done. My daddy hugged me. He said, Denny, I let him call me Denny. He said, Denny, I'm so Proud of you, my son. At that point in time, all those awards were meaningless. They meant nothing to me. That was the greatest thing I could have heard Who cares what this world thinks of us? Someday we get to heaven and hear the Lord say, You did good. I'm going to honor you. You served me. Isn't that good? Father, bless us. Help us. We get into track month, Lord, help us all to get involved. To serve the Lord. Say, people think bad of us. Lord, help us not to worry about that. Let's think of what the Lord thinks of us Let's be obedient. Let's be sweet. Father, help us. I pray.