Second Kings chapter nine. Glad to have Uncle David and Aunt Bev in the service today. And uh we got in late or not late last evening, but last evening and uh a little hectic yesterday and had bit meetings about all day today and so I didn't get to spend much time with them but uh we're glad they could be in the services today and uh appreciate that. Second Kings chapter Chapter nine and uh going to begin reading in verse twenty-four. I'm just gonna read a few verses here. We're gonna look at a large portion of scripture and uh try and get through this message here tonight that we began some time ago. How many people recognize the name Barbara Waters? Anybody recognize that name News Lady What did I say? Barbara Walters. She did a story. Apparently this is She did a story on the gender roles in Kabul, Afghanistan, and this was before the Afghan war. And she noted that women customarily walked five paces between the water. behind their husbands. Since the war started and the Taliban and all that have been run out, she came back to the country And tried to see how things had improved for women and if you know how what their standing was in society. But she noted that the women were still walking behind their husbands Despite the overthrow of the oppressive Taliban regime, the women are happy to maintain this old custom, walking five steps behind the husbands. Mrs. Waters approached one of the Afghani women and asked, why do you now seem happy with an old custom you once desperately tried to change? And the woman looked at Mrs. Waters straight in the eyes and said without hesitation, landmines. So maybe they're not as dumb as we think. Landmines. First Kings chapter nine I want to read verse 20. And the watchman told, saying, He came even unto them, and cometh not again. And the driving is like the driving of Jehu, the son of Nimshi, for he driveth furiously. Then come down to verse 24. Jehu drew a bow with his full strength, and smote Jehoram between his arms, and the arrow went out at his heart, and he sunk down in his chair. We're looking at Jehu driving furiously. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless the message. Father in heaven, Lord, I ask that you would bless the message. Lord, we began last week and we didn't get through. And so help me tonight to uh pick up where we left off and that I pray, God, that your Holy Spirit would make application to our lives from this unusual story here. Help me Lord to be clear in my thinking and that my mind and uh would be open to your spirit's leading. I present my body to you. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit and uh use this message tonight to help us grow. And I ask these things. In Jesus' name, amen. Well, lest you forget, we are actually studying the life of Elisha. The life and times of Elisha. And in our study of Elisha, we have been introduced to some unusual people, some kings, some godly people, some ungot uh some ungodly people And a few messages ago, a few passages earlier, we met this fellow by the name of Jehu. Jehu is an interesting man. I don't want to get too far from Elisha's ministry in looking at Jehu, but he's closely related, and what happens here is. is entwined with Elisha, so that's why I want to spend a little time. If you remember, we said about Jehu that he is not, he was not a godly man. In fact, in many ways, he was a very ungodly man. We can find no indication in scripture that he had any type of relationship with God at all, with Jehovah. But, though he was not a godly man, he was a great soldier. He was a no-nonsense, appears to be a no-nonsense kind of guy, very intense, a man of war. And though he was not a godly man, he was a great soldier, and God, in this situation, needed a great soldier. And so God anointed, had uh Jehu anointed to be the king. Now let's get our little um uh uh genealogical tree back in our mind again. If you remember, a y you're never going to forget Ahab and his kids after ten weeks of this in a row, but uh Ahab was king of the northern kingdom of Israel, right? His wife Jezebel is the queen. They had a son. They also had they had a number of sons. They had a number of daughters. When Ahab, question, Ahab, good or bad? Wicked. And um so Ahab dies as God prophesied he would because of an incident we're going to look at here in a little bit. His son Jehoram reigns in his stead. Well down here in the southern kingdom, Judah, there's a fella, Jehoram, same name. Sometimes they're called Jehoram, sometimes Joram. He marries Ahab's daughter, and she, when he becomes king, she becomes the queen, obviously. So Ahab has his son reigning in the northern kingdom, and his daughter and son-in-law are reigning in the southern kingdom. Both wicked people, ungodly people. Jehoram in the southern kingdom, the son-in-law of Ahab, who is dead, Jehoram dies. His son, from between him and Ahab's daughter, he becomes king, Ahaziah. He is the Grandson of Ahab. So his family continues to go on. And I've said this a number of times. None of these guys were good gods. In fact, every one of them, as far as I can ascertain and studying them in Scripture, every one of them were pitiful leaders They were self-centered, they were indecisive, they uh uh were very much influenced by the wrong people, and uh just what I would consider They were fools in many sense in the scriptural sense of the word in their leadership. So that's what we have, the situation. God anoints Jehu, who is the captain of Jehoram of the northern kingdom, his army. God sends a son of a prophet's child and he anoints Jehu and says, you're going to be the king of Israel in Jehoram's place. Jehu says, uh, I don't know what he said, doesn't say what he says, but he came out and he says, great. And he Heads down to where Jehoram is, recovering from some wounds he got with his mama in Jezreel. So he comes riding down. That's where we saw him riding furiously. Alright? Everybody happy? Good. Just trying to set the stage here. We noted last week that Jehoram and Ahaziah, who happened to both be together in Jezreel because of the wounds, that Jehu that Jehoram got from a battle they were in with Haziel, the king of Syria. Everybody with me still And uh so then he comes back there and he's trying to get wounded. Uh I mean get healed up from the wounds. Uh I don't think Jehu was really hurt that bad. There was a football quarterback in Indianapolis years ago. He only played a few years, but every time he'd get a little bruise on his finger, oh I can't play, and he'd come out, George, what was Do you remember that guy? Something George was his name. Do you know who I'm talking about? Alright, just disregard that. But anyway It reminds me, this guy reminds me of him. He gets a little wounded. Uh-huh. I gotta come out of the army and uh out of the battlefield. So he comes running back, he goes to mama King of Ahaziah for now, oh I gotta go visit Jehoram, he's hurt, poor guy. So they're up there sucking their thumbs Jehu comes riding down furiously. Now remember we said last week we noted the perils, the perils of disregarding obvious dangers. Remember that? The watch uh they're here in uh Jezreel. Uh watchman says, hey, there's somebody coming, uh messenger. Uh Jeudu, uh send out somebody to see what they want. They ride out, and uh he confronts Jehu. What's Jehu coming to do? Kill Jehoram! Kill them both, actually. So the guy runs out, are you coming in peace? Oh, who has any time for peace? Get behind me So the messenger doesn't come back. He stays out there. Well the man on the watch, everybody remember this story? I like this story. That's why I'm telling it again. Uh the man on the watch and he says, uh he went out but he's not coming back. Well that looks like it would be the first indication that things aren't good. You send a guy out for peace, he he doesn't come back. Doesn't sound very peaceful. Well Johoram, being the knucklehead he is, just says, send someone else out. I can see the watch guy. Well, all right, if you say so Rise out, is it peace? What do you have to do with peace? Get behind me. The second guy didn't come back. Looks like another warning. This isn't good. So Zomorah, he's the king. He gets his credit. I know, I'll go out and visit him myself. Ahaziah says, I'll go with you. It'll be fun. Watch it. He's looking, he says, man, that guy's driving furiously. It is Jehu. Now they knew Jehu. He doesn't mess around. This guy's intense. And if he's driving furiously, he's on a mission. Jehoram, Ahaziah, miss it completely. All right, we'll go out with them. And they get out there, are you coming in peace, Jehu? What do you mean, peace? And he gets his bow out And Jehoram, it finally sinks in his thick skull. Aneziah, treachery, Ron, treachery. Now let's come back. I can see the watchman up there. What an idiot My king is an idiot. Well we laugh at that, but the fact is so many people do the exact same thing. God warns us and warns us and warns us So, we have the peril of ignoring obvious dangers. Second of all, that's where we ended last week Second thing I notice in the story, the principle of sowing and reaping. Now let's look back at our scripture. And Jehu drew a bow with his full strength and smote Jehoram between his arms And the arrow went out at his heart, and he sunk down in his chariot. Well, that's pretty graphic. Then said Jehu to Bidkar, his captain, Take up and cast him. Look at this. Cast him in the portion of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite. For remember how that when I and thou rode together after Ahab, His father, the Lord, laid this burden upon him. Surely I have seen yesterday the blood of Naboth And the blood of his sons, saith the Lord, and I will requite thee in this plot, saith the Lord. Now therefore take and cast him into the plat of ground according to the word of the Lord. Lord. Look at verse 32. And we'll we'll pick up this part of the story here in a bit, but let's read it. And he lifted up his face to the window and said, This is Jehu speaks. Who's on my side? Who? And there looked out to him two or three eunuchs. And he said, throw her down. So they threw her down. And some of her blood was sprinkled on the wall and on the horses. And he trowed her underfoot. And when he was come in, he did eat and drink, and said, Go see now this cursed woman And bury her, for she is a king's daughter. And they went to bury her, but they found no more of her than the skull and the feet and the palms of her hands. Wherefore they came again and told him, and he said, This is the word of the Lord, which he spake by his servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying In the portion of Jezreel shall dogs eat the flesh of Jezebel. And the carcass of Jezebel shall be as dung upon the face of the field. in the portion of Jezreel, so that they shall not say, This is Jezebel. Sowing and reaping Do you remember the story of Naboth? To get the story of Naboth, we have to go back to 1 Kings chapter 21. And we'll pick that up in a moment. But there's a principle given here. I want to get back there in a moment. First Kings, you can turn there if you like. But there's a principle given here. And we cannot disregard the principles of Scripture. Now that's important to understand. We live in a day and age where man has convinced himself that he can live independently of God. Man has convinced himself, man he can invite all ki he can invent all kinds of things. We've got every kind of electronic, we've got things that a hundred years ago that we do on an everyday basis, so common a hundred years ago, people would have thought it was magic. Huh? Things we can do. Man never dreamed in his wildest dreams would happen And because of the ability God has put into the mind of man, and it is amazing, man has convinced himself that I can live outside the principles of Scripture. I can disregard God. And get along just fine. And that is absolutely false. And man is running himself into the ground with all his gadgets and all his gizmos and absolutely destroying ourselves. We cannot disregard the principles of Scripture. Ahab, Jehoram, Jehoram, and Ahaziah, all four of those guys, were convinced They could live independent of God. They were convinced that they could disregard God's clear commands. And they paid a heavy price. I cannot disregard the principles of Scripture and not escape paying a heavy price. A heavy price. Let me see if you agree with me. God has said that there are certain sins that if you engage in them, the results are going to be devastating Yet God, yet man disregards them. And man is being devastated. Well, I'll stick to the notes, right? Adam and Eve. God said you can eat any fruit in the garden you want. You can eat anything you want. It's all yours. Help yourself. It's just one Tree. Don't touch it. Don't eat of that tree. Fair enough, huh? Adam and Eve disregarded God's instructions, and they paid a heavy price. Right? Question, were Adam and Eve forgiven Come on, were they forgiven? Sure they were. Uh animal died so that they could be clothed and find forgiveness But they were forgiven. Their relationship with the Lord was restored. But here's what I'm trying to say. They never got back into paradise. There was a heavy price to pay There was something lost that could not be regained. Um, David and Bathsheba. Question: Was David forgiven? Absolutely. Read Psalm 51. And you read the end of David's life. God sent some said some tremendous things about David. At the end of the end of his life. But here we are, 3,000 years later, we're still talking about David's sin. His life, his testimony was scarred. There was a consequence that David experienced and the following generations. Ahab disregarded some principles of God, principles of Scripture. Not only did he pay a heavy price, but his following generations paid a heavy price. There is a principle in Scripture that whatsoever a man sows, that will he what? Also rape. But here's the thing. So often, not only does the individual that sowed that sin reap, but their following generations reap also. Pay a heavy price. You see, it's more than just you and I. My decision to disobey God Is going to affect more than just you and I. It will affect my children and my children's children. Now that's true in Scripture For instance, suppose you have, suppose you have a young person. We got young people up here. Suppose you have a young person. Question: Does God have a plan for every person's life? Absolutely. God has a plan. I was born for a reason. God has plan for my life. God has a plan for your life. Every one of us. Regardless of where we're at in life, God has a plan for us So you have a young person. They make the decision to disregard the principles of Scripture. And they say, all right, I'm going to marry someone that is outside the perimeters God has given for a Christian to marry. In other words, I'm going to marry someone that God does not want me to marry. They make that decision They disobey, they disregard the principles of Scripture, they disregard the guidelines God has given, say, Nope, I'm going to do it my way. And they do They get married and they realize they made a mistake. Can God forgive them Sure. Now here's my question. Plan for that person's life. God had children that he intended for them to have with the person he intended for them to marry. They went outside that. They married someone other than what God obviously had, and now here they are. You follow what I'm saying? Now they're children born and those children have a Christian one parent is Christian, the other isn't. They pay a price for that. You follow what I'm saying? My decisions, and I use that for an illustration, and it applies across the board. My decisions to obey or disobey God are going to affect my children are going to reap some of the consequences of the decisions I make I'm not saying God punishes them because of the sins I commit, but my decisions will affect my children and my offspring. Let's go to 1 Kings 21 with me First Kings twenty one and verse one It came to pass after these things that Naboth, the Jezreelite, had a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, hard by the palace of Ahab, king of Samaria. And Ahab spake unto Naboth, saying, Give me thy vineyard that I may have it for a garden of herbs, because it's near my house, and I will give thee for it a better vineyard than it, if it seemed good to thee, I will give thee the worth of it in money. Ah says, I want your vineyard. Close to my house. I can put herbs there. It would just look lovely. And you can have that vineyard over there on the other side. Naboth said to Ahab, verse 3: The Lord forbid it me that I should give thee the inheritance of my fathers unto thee. In other words, God has set up that private property was to stay within the family. He had inherited this from his parents, and he wasn't going to give it away. He was supposed to give it to his children. Look at this. This just grates me. And Ahab came into his house heavy and displeased because of the word which Nabed, Naboth the Jezrelite, had spoken to him. For he said, I will not give thee the inheritance of my father. And Ahab laid down upon his bed and turned away his face and would eat no bread and sucked his thumb It's in the Hebrew. Hey, I can see him doing that, right? It fits. Look at this. But Jezebel, his wife, came to him and said to him Why is thy spirit so sad, Ahabi, that thou eatest no bread? And he said to her, Because I spake unto neighbor, the Jezreelite, and said to him, Give me thy vineyard for money Or else, if it please thee, I'll give thee the other venue for it. And he answered, I would not give it thee for my bear. Fits, doesn't it? And Jezebel's wife said to him, Dost thou now govern the kingdom of Israel? Arise, eat bread, let thine heart be merry. I will give thee the vineyard. So she wrote letters in Ahab's name and sealed them with his seal and sent letters to the elders, to the nobles that were in the the city dwelling in Naboth, and she wrote in the letter saying, Proclaim a fast, and set Naboth on high among the people. While you're at it, she says, set two men, sons of Belial, guys with no principles. before him to bear witness against them, saying, Thou didst blaspheme God and the king. Then carry him out and stone him that he may die. The men of the city did, even the elders and the nobles who were with the habit city did as Jezebel had sent unto them. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, cowards They were afraid of her, afraid to do right because of her. As is written the letters that she sent to them, and they proclaimed a fast, set Naboth on high among the people, and their There came in two men, children of Belial sat before him. The men of Belial witnessed against him, even against Naboth in the presence of the people, saying, Naboth, they blaspheme God and the king. Then they carried him forth out of the city and stoned him with stones that he died. Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, Naboth is stoned and is dead. It came to pass when Jezebel heard that Naboth was stoned and was dead. That Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take thy possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which refuses to give thee thy money. See, it's Naboth's fault That's what she's saying. He refused to give you the money. He brought it on himself. For Naboth is not alive, but dead. It came to pass when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, that Ahab rose up to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite to take possession of it. What a pitiful, pitiful man. Come over to verse 25. No, actually I want to get up to verse twenty. I'm sorry. Elijah and Ahab did not get along very good, which is understandable. And Ahab said to Elijah, Hast thou found me, O mine enemy? And he a- by the way, God's people ought to be the enemy of some people. Hast thou found me, O mine enemy? And he answered, I've found thee, because thou hast sold thyself to work evil in the sight of the Lord. Behold, I will bring evil upon thee, and I will take away thy prosperity, and will cut off from Ahab him that pisseth against the wall, and him that is shut up and left in the wall Israel, and will make thine house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, and like the house of Basha the son of Ahijah, for the The provocation wherewith thou hast provoked me to anger and made Israel to sin. And of Jezebel also spake the Lord, saying, The dogs shall eat Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel. And him that dieth of Ahab in the city, the dog shall eat, and him that dieth in the field, the fowls of the air shall eat. Wow. Naboth refused to give up his inheritance. He did what God said. Ahab got out of Ben out of shape. Jezebel has him killed, and he steals his vineyard. And God brings a heavy judgment on him. And God says, not only will you, but your prosperity, your children, your children's children, are going to pay a heavy price. Our actions and our decisions have lasting consequences. Our obedience or our disobedience has lasting consequences even unto following generations. Now, I don't want to go to seed on this, but I see in Scripture the suggestion that there is such a thing as what some people call a family curse. In other words, let's pick on the father. The father, such as Ahab, makes a decision to disobey God That sin, because of its blatant disobedience to that sin, somehow that sin becomes a curse to that family. And you find in the child sometimes ends up doing the exact same sin the father did. Even though the child may not have ever known that daddy did that. And you can actually see where it comes to the third generation. I know of a situation where years ago a grandma committed adultery. The daughter did not know that grandma committed adultery The daughter committed adultery, not knowing that grandma did. The granddaughter grows up Commits adultery, not knowing at the time that mother and grandmother also had committed adultery. I believe that is a family curse. There was a decision made on the part of someone to blatantly flat out disobey God. That decision has consequences, and even though the child is not even aware of what the parent did, the child ends up doing the same thing And the next generation. I believe that's what we find with Ahab. You study Ahab, you study his son, you study his grandson, every one of them ended up the same mentality. You say, well then I'm not responsible for my sin. I'm simply the victim of a curse that's on my family. Oh no no The blood of Jesus Christ is able to bake any curse. The power of God, listen, what I need to do is I need to obey God. Now what I think, now again, I don't want to go to C with this. I think you have to be very careful about this, but I see this suggested in Scripture. That some people, because of decisions parents made, become more vulnerable to certain sins because of that Family curse. Everybody understand what I'm saying? I'm not saying you have to agree with me, but I want I wonder, do you understand what I'm saying? And this is the point I'm trying to make in this thought here now Is when we decide to obey God or disobey God, there are far more consequences than simply what I experience myself. It is often carried on to the next generation and sometimes the next generation. feels the res effects of the decisions I make. Our actions, our decisions have lasting consequences. Let me end with this. Now this is where I'm going to throw this suggestion out. Come back to 2 Kings. And notice verse number 30. And when Jehu has come to Jezreel, now look at this. Jezebel heard of it Now she's up in a tower. What did she hear about? Now we didn't read all this. Jehu had just drew his bow back at full draw And he shot an arrow through the back of Jehoram, the king of Israel, and an arrow comes out his chest, and he slumps down in his chariot. Ahaziah is fleeing for his life. They draw back and they kill Ahaziah. Jezebel is up in the tower. Jezebel, of all whatever you want to say about Jezebel, one thing you cannot say about her is you cannot say she's dumb Jezebel was a smart woman. I mean, worldly wise. There is no way in the world her son and her grandson are being killed and she's not aware of it In fact, I suggest to you, there is nothing her son and grandson did that Jezebel was not aware of. She was a cold, manipulative, powerful, domineering, wicked woman. She knew exactly what was happening out there. She had heard the judgment of God on her husband. She saw what happened. She knew exactly what was coming down. Now that's where we're at. Jezebel heard of it. She knew Jehu all too well. And she painted her face and tired her head. That word tired is just another word for attired it, dressed it up. Attired her hair. She got what's what do you put in your hair. Curls and little trinkets and stuff. So sh she's fixing herself up Now you say, bless God, she ought not to paint her face. I agree with you, but I like what Dr. Lee Robertson said. An old barn could use a cone of paint every now and then So that in and of itself wasn't necessarily wrong. She painted her face now and she looked out the window. Now what's happening here? I looked at this and I studied this. I thought, what in the world is happening here? She painted her face, she put makeup on, fixed her hair up, and she looks out the window. Let me throw this suggestion out This is my point. Did I already give the point? The potential for good in Queen Jezebel The potential for good. She's fixed up. She saw all that took place. She heard all that happened. She knows what's coming down. She knows she's next. She's the last one living that's going to face this judgment. She knows that Elijah told her husband that she would be eaten by the dogs. By the tower of Jezreel. She knew exactly. So she fixes her face up, fixes her hair up, she steps out to the window, and I don't think it's a little window, she's peeking out. I think she's standing right there on the edge of the window, a large window. She's looking out. And she's ready She knows her time has come. I think this is what's happening. I think she saw all that took place. She goes, all right, I'm next. I'm dead. But if I die, I'm going to die looking like a queen. I am the queen of Israel, and I'm going to look like it. I'm gonna, my face, my hair, my dress, I'm gonna be. Jehu says, who's on my side? A couple eunuchs look out, we are Throw it out. They go out. They push her down. Don't tell me, Jezebel, if she Don't tell me Jezebel, if she didn't want to, she wouldn't have put up a fight. This woman, you read what she's like. She's a domineering, powerful woman And I think she accepted the fact, this is the end, and they threw her down. You say, where in the world do you get anything good out of Jezebel. I didn't say she was good. I said she had potential for good. Can you imagine if a woman of that strength Of that mind would have given herself to God and said, I'm going to be a godly woman, I'm going to be a Proverbs 31 woman. And I'm going to use the abilities and the gifts and the personality that God has given me to be a force for God's glory. Can you imagine what Jezebel could have accomplished? But rather than using who and what she was for the glory of God, and this is my closing statement, she wasted her life on herself. I'll be honest with you, I like that statement. She wasted her life on herself. Her whole life revolved around Jezebel What she wanted, her power, her glory, her everything, and her life was wasted. Let's listen, every one of us here, every one of us, we have potential either for God's glory or to destroy ourselves. We have that option. Let's not waste our lives on ourselves Let's not use the abilities and the gifts and the personalities God has given us to exalt ourselves and to pat our own wallets and to do our thing. Let's use what God has given us for His glory. And for his good, the potential for good that is in every one of us. Does that make sense? Let's pray. Father in heaven, please help us. Lord, we've tried to glean some truths out of this portion of Scripture that we can apply to our lives. It's an ugly passage. Lord, it's nothing pleasant about these people being murdered. But Lord, you have tremendous lessons for us. I pray you'd help us to heed your warnings, pay attention to what's happening. God, I pray you would help us to understand the principle of sowing and reaping. The decisions we make have far more effects and consequences than just ourselves. And Lord, help us to understand the potential we have for good if we'll just give ourselves to you and yield our will to your will and present to you our bodies that you can use us for your glory.