Psalms 107, verse 6, and verse number 8. Now what I'd like for you to do is uh there in your homes, wherever you're at, I'd like for you to read these two verses along with me. Psalms 107 And verse number six, ready, here we go, all together. Here we go. And they then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distress. Now again, verse number eight. Read along with me, would you? Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men. I want to speak this morning on the cry of the redeemed. Let's pray together, ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, Lord, we're grateful that we are able to have these services and make them available to folks in their homes there. Lord, this isn't ideal we would far rather, of course, gather together. But Lord, you are sovereign and we trust you and and uh we submit ourselves, Lord, to what you allow into our lives, and I pray you would help us. In this time, in these unusual times, these unusual circumstances, help us to grow in our faith, Lord. Help us to get close to you. Lord, I pray with all my heart That you not allow any of us to be get cool in our spiritual temperature, so to speak. I pray that uh you not let us wander or uh become indifferent to our spiritual well-being. But rather stir us and provoke us to walk closer to you and and uh to trust you and to love you and and to be more uh uh committed to you. So I pray, Lord, you use the message this morning. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And I ask dear Lord with all my heart That you fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, that you speak the truth from this passage through me and then out through the uh uh airwaves into our homes and into our hearts. Bless again, I ask now. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So I was studying Psalms 107, I thought of the most famous, most well-known verse in all the Bible. No matter where you go in the world, folks are going to know John chapter 3 and verse 16. Of course it says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life That verse makes it perfectly clear that God loves all of mankind. That God is concerned for every single individual person. Again, Romans ten and verse thirteen. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. God is concerned for all of mankind. Now if we're not careful Sometimes we get the idea, now we probably would never say this, but sometimes folks get the idea, well, God loves the Christians But those wicked sinners out there, uh, he doesn't love them. He loves the Christians. He loves the believers. Listen, God does love the believers. I'm glad God loves Christians. But I'm telling you, God loves the unsaved just as much as he loves the saved. God is concerned for the loss just as much as He is concerned for the Christians, for the believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me put it this way God loves and is concerned for that atheistic professor in the state universities teaching evolution, anti-God teaching. God loves him just as much as the preacher that stands behind the pulpit. God is just his concern for his well being. Uh God loves the drug addict down in the prison just as much as he loves the dear Sunday school teacher that stands in the classroom and teaches the children. God is concerned. What I'm trying to say is this: God loves all men. God loves all women, all children, little boys and girls Uh from Christian homes, from uh uh wicked, uh sinful homes. God loves everybody. God loves everybody. I've had people say to me over the years, I'm thinking of one fellow in particular I was witnessing to him out visiting and and uh he said to me, Oh, God wouldn't care much about somebody like me. I said, You're wrong, sir. God loves you very much. Jesus cares very much for you Sometimes folks will say this to me, Oh, God would never forgive me for what I've done. Oh, yes, God wants to forgive you. God wants to cleanse your sin and give you a new life. He sure does Uh there's nobody that is outside the love of God. There is nobody that is outside the concern of God. I've had people tell me uh uh on numerous occasions they said something like this, Preacher, if I went to that church the roof would cave in on me, that place would fall down Uh no, it won't. God loves you. He wants you to come. He wants you to come on. And uh God cares about everybody. God is not out to destroy anybody, but he wants to save people. He wants to change your life. He wants to bless you. One of the great verses in the Bible, and for whatever reason, this verse has been on my heart and mind the last several weeks. Very familiar verse for many of us, but Romans chapter 5 and verse 8. But God commendeth his what? Love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And so what I'm saying here again is this God is concerned for every individual, man, woman, and child It doesn't matter what their frame of mind may be, it doesn't matter how deep in sin they may have gone, it doesn't matter what a mess, how wicked uh of a mind frame and lifestyle they might have. God loves the world. God loves whosoever And he is concerned, and he's concerned for their well-being. Now, say, what are you saying all that for, preacher? Psalms 107, I believe, makes this truth very clear. You go through here and we'll see here in a moment. God points out various different groups or categories of people. And he expresses his concern for him. He expresses his compassion for him. He mentions there, as we read in the little verses we read together. Uh God sends trials. God allows difficulties. God allows distresses to use the term here. And it's important. He doesn't send trials. He doesn't allow us to experience difficulties. To crush us or to destroy us. He sends these trials. He allows these pandemics, if you will. God allows these things not to crush us, but to convert us. I don't know. Maybe there's somebody listening in this morning, and uh you've never trusted Christ as Savior. Maybe in recent months, God's been dealing with your heart There have been things happening in your life that has comp that has prompted you to think about God, about heaven and hell, about Jesus, about the Bible. And maybe God has allowed this situation we're in to try and get your attention and maybe stir you and say, hey, listen, you need me. I love you. And God is calling you. And God uses difficulties. God uses trials. God uses disappointments sometimes to draw us to Himself, to make us wake up and see our spiritual needs. God doesn't send these storms and these trials we'll see here in this passage. He doesn't send them to crush us and destroy us. He's trying to convert us. He's trying to conform us, as believers, conform us to the image of Christ. And God doesn't exclude anybody who will call out to him in sincere faith and trust. He doesn't exclude anybody. And you'll see what I'm s what I'm trying to get at here in a few moments. We'll look at through here. But nobody's excluded from God's concern. Any person, regardless of their background or their circumstances, if they will call out to the Lord In sincere faith, trusting him, God will hear and God will answer and God will help. At the end of the year we usually well the beginning of the new year we usually have a uh uh churchwide uh business meeting and we'll kind of review the year and you know, the finances the previous year, how God blessed and whatever, and projects we did, missionaries we took on. We'll kind of just review the year And one thing I like to do, and we the uh we we uh kind of try to keep a record of professions of faith out on soul winning and just individuals And we'll share sometimes, uh usually in the first year, as I said at this meeting, we'll share uh the number of professions of faith we had the year before. And inevitably, not so much anymore, but years ago, inevitably there would be some folks who would come and say, Preacher, you think all those folks that made a profession, do you think they really got saved My answer to that has always been over the years, it's always been the same. Every single person that sincerely called on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, turning from their sin, trusting Christ, got saved. If they meant business, God meant business. If they were sincere, God keeps his promise. And so the point of it is that God doesn't exclude anybody. Anybody, the most wicked sinner you can imagine. If they'll turn to Christ and call out on him, God will forgive them and save them. If they'll trust what he did for them on the cross rising again. And any Christian that's away from God, backslidden, some prodigal son or daughter, far from God, oh, if they'll sincerely come and call on the Lord. God will take them back. Not that they lost their salvation, but God will bring them back into fellowship and God will bless them. What a wonderful God we had. What a loving God. That whosoever will call on him, if they're unsaved, they'll get saved. Any Christian away from God, if they'll come back, God will bring them back. God will take them back. Now, let's look at our passage here. Let's look at this chapter 107. You can divide the first 32 verses. into four sections. I got it divided into four sections, and I'll just give this to you real quick. This isn't the outline of the message, but just get a the context here. In verses one through nine I call that the cry of the redeemed. The cry of the redeemed. Look at verse 2. It says, Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy. Then you come down to verse 6 and it says, then they cried on the Lord. Who's the they? The they is the redeemed. I circled the word redeemed in verse two and the word day in verse six, and I drew a line between the two. That's the redeemed who is calling on the Lord. In the day of their trouble, and he delivered them out of their sub distress. So verses one through nine you have the call of the the cry of the redeemed That's the saved people, calling out the Lord in time of difficulty. And then verses 10 through 16, you have, I put it this way, the call of those in darkness The call of those in darkness. Look at verse ten. Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron. Because they rebelled against the words of the Lord. Look down verse 13. Then they, who, those in darkness, then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses And then that's the rebellious, the cry of those in darkness, those that rebelled against God and are in spiritual darkness. Then look, if you would, verse number 17 Uh down through verse 22, you have the cry of the fools. Uh look at verse 17. Fools, because of their transgression. And because of their iniquities are afflicted. Their soul abhorreth all manner of meat. They draw near unto the gates of death Then they, who's the they? The fools, people that have brought acted foolishly, and brought trials into their life, and brought distresses into their life, then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble, and he saveth them out of all their distresses. You say God would hear the cry of a fool Yes, if they're sincere and they're coming to Christ, coming to the Lord, God will hear and God will help them. So you have the cry of the redeemed, that saved people. Yet the cry of the rebel of those in darkness, that's folks that have rebelled against God, raised their fist against God, brought all kinds of troubles into their heart and soul. They turned and they called on the Lord. God heard them And God spared them and saved them out of their distress. Then the fools acted so foolishly. Just uh uh I think the Greek is knuckleheads, uh just people that are foolish and mess their life up, and they come and call on the Lord, God will hear that. Then last of all, we have verse 23 through 32, what I call the cry of the troubled. The cry of the troubled. Look at verse 23 They that go down into the sea in ships and do business in great waters, these see the works of the Lord and his wonders in the deep For he commandeth uh commandeth and raiseth the stormy wind which lifteth the waves thereof. They mount up to the heavens, they go down again to the depths, their soul is melted because of what Trouble. And this, I think, is just the troubles of life. Just the normal going about our business, working, and troubles come up. And then look what it says in verse 25. Then they Those that go down to the sea, those that are troubled, then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses. I'm telling you what a gracious God we have. Dear folks, just trying to do right, just trying to work and make ends meet and be a decent person and troubles come in their life and storms and difficulties. And God cares about them. They call on the Lord and God hears that distress. Fools who makes makes foolish, stupid decisions and bring such a trouble into their life And they turn and they call to God, and the Bible says God heard them in their distress. And uh he saved them. And then the rebellious, hard-hearted Uh and they make such a mess and the consequences of their actions and uh and they get find themselves in distress and trouble. God says if they'll call to him He'll forgive them. He can change them. And then even the saved and the s and the and the situations, the trials that saved people face, God will hear and call us. In each of these passages that is repeated. Now we read them for our uh for our text to begin with. Verse 6 And then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distress. Four times that's mentioned here in verse 6 Verse 13, verse 19, and verse 28. They cried unto God, and God was faithful, and he delivered them. Then there's another phrase. Another statement that is repeated. Verse number eight. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men. It's repeated again in verse 15. And then if you notice verse 21, same statement. And then verse 31, oh, God wants people to praise him. God longs for his people to be grateful and praise his name and praise him for the good things he does for us. Verse 8, prayer. I'm sorry, verse 6, prayer. Verse 8, praise. Verse 13, prayer Verse 15, praise. Verse 19, prayer. Verse 21, praise. Verse 28, prayer. Verse 31, praise. Prayer and praise. Prayer and praise. over and over, regardless of the circumstance, regardless of the situation, we find these two two activities. God wants us to call out to him in our trouble, and God wants us to praise him and and uh praise him for his goodness to us. Now this Psalms 107 Is a the whole psalm is a testament to God's faithfulness. What the psalmist is saying under the inspiration of God: God is faithful. I can come to him. I can call on him. I can trust him. God is faithful. God is compassionate. Oh, I'm glad our God is a compassionate God. Oh, what what if God didn't love us? Can you imagine what how what kind of state we would be in? God is faithful. God is compassionate. And let me say this, God is good. Look at verse number one. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is what? Good. Say that with me. He is good. For his mercy endureth forever. This whole psalm is an expression of God's longing for gratitude, of God's longing for us to praise Him and rejoice in Him. Because he hears our prayers and answers us. Now, uh the background of the psalm, we know little about it. If you notice there above verse 1, there's no title to this psalm. There's no penman ascribed to this. So we know that God is the author, but we don't know who the man is that he used to record it. Uh we know nothing of the background. As you know, I like to especially in the Psalms, I like to try and find out what the historical background is and maybe the circumstances. Sometimes that sheds a little insight into what's being said and how to apply it to my life. We're not given any of that. I know a lot of the Bible scholars as I was studying this suggest that this was uh perhaps written during the reign of King David And um and just the way it's worded, it sounds to me, at least to my uh unscholarly Bible ears, it sounds like David to me, a lot of the things David would say And so um uh but uh uh we don't know any of that. Um but I want us to look at uh uh just briefly here, real quick, verses one through nine. I have three thoughts here in verses one through nine. The cry of the redeemed, particularly verse number six, then they Back up to verse 2, the redeemed. Then they cried unto the Lord. Now, the first point here is, I want us to notice the people that is being addressed here. Who is this they? Well, I just said it's the redeemed. Who are the redeemed? Well, the word redeemed means this, to buy back. or to deliver someone or something from something, uh, it means to purchase or to restore something back. And so these are people who were in a circumstance, they were in a situation. where they were purchased out of, they were bought out of, or they were delivered out of that situation Or they were restored into a situation, a condition that is desirable. When I was in Bible college I got down there, uh it was in 1981, moved to Chattanooga, and uh jobs weren't real great. There was the economy was a little rough, just kind of coming out of the late 70s there. There wasn't a lot of jobs And I was just working whatever I could, mowing grass and whatever. And there was a fella in the town there and uh just uh wasn't part of the church or the school, just some guy who was looking for some young man who could help him uh what we would call today flip houses. And what he would do is he'd buy some old dilapidated building, some old uh house that was neglected He would tear the thing up and uh uh and uh tear down all the old stuff and redo it and build it nice and make it a beautiful home and he'd sell it and make some money And so he hired my friend and I, Randy Miller and I, uh he hired us, and we would go in there. Now anybody that knows me knows that I am not much of a handyman In fact, when I try and fix something, it's pretty much ends up being a demolition derby and uh it's pretty rough. Um one time I was trying to change the little uh uh little thing on the door where the look the what's that called? Uh the little hole where the the latch goes in there, but the little frame around, uh whatever it's called. Anyway, I was just trying to Chase that out. It was bent up and was trying to fix it. Ended up pulling the whole frame around the thing down. It was terrible mess. So he hired us to come in there and um tear these places down, knock the walls out. I said, I'm an expert. I can do that perfectly. And he hired us. We'd go in there and we'd have sledgehammers and crowbars and we're pulling stuff. I mean we had a time. He paid us. to absolutely pull these things apart. And uh the funny thing was uh they would use coal uh in the winter there sometimes and um burn coal and so all that soot was up in the attic and stuff and we one house we pulled it down and this coal soot came all over us. It was a mess. It was great And then what he would do when we were done, he would uh we'd tear that whole thing out and haul all the, then he would come in and he would invest a tremendous amount of money And a tremendous amount of time and effort to rebuild that house and make it a whole new house. And then he would and then he would sell it, of course, on the market. What was he doing? He was redeeming that house It was old, it was doomed to destruction, it was falling apart, it was uh unin unlivable, and he would come in and he would redeem it. He would invest time and effort to make that thing usable. And that is exactly what God does for an old sinner when they trust Jesus Christ as Savior He redeems us from an old, ruined, sin-filled life, doomed to judgment, death, and hell, and he invests his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, who died and shed his blood so that we could be redeemed. And made a new person and be usable and acceptable and a blessing. And our lives have meaning and purpose And he says, these are the people who are being addressed here, the redeemed, saved. Let me ask you a question. Have you been redeemed? Have you accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior and found new life? Become a new creature, born again spiritually into the family of God? Oh, if not, I'm telling you, you can believe that Jesus Christ died for your sins, rose again. Call out on him, trusting him to forgive you and cleanse you from sin, and God will give you a new life. Just like that builder made a whole new building God will give you a whole new life and change you and give you peace and purpose and a home in heaven. What a wonderful thing it is to be redeemed. So he says, Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. And in then verse six, then they cried unto the Lord. So the people being addressed in verse six are redeemed people. I hope you've been redeemed. If not, you can be this morning by trusting Christ. Then the second thing I want us to notice very quickly is the problem they faced. These are redeemed people, saved people. But look again at verse 6. Then they cried unto the Lord In their what? Trouble. In their trouble. He cried unto the Lord in their trouble. I got looking at that word trouble. I saw how it's used other places in the Bible and tried to get the meaning of it, where it c the word it comes from. And I found this, the word trouble means pretty much what you might think. It means adversity They cried unto the Lord in their trouble, in their adversity, in their oppression, sometimes it is used In their tribulation. It's translated tribulation a few times. One definition I found has this idea to be between a rock and a hard place Have you ever been there? You ever been between a rock and a hard place? You say, Man, I don't see any way out of this. This is just overwhelming. I turn this way, it's a rock. I turn this way, it's a hard place That's the idea behind this word trouble. Hard places, difficult situations, trials and oppression and adversity. You know, sometimes God's people, redeemed people, face adversity. We face trials. We hear on sometimes on these uh TV preachers and sometimes certain uh uh groups within Christianity try to suggest that if we have enough faith, if you're saved, oh you'll never have trials, you'll never be sick, you'll never have heartaches You'll never have financial setbacks. God will just prosper you physically, materially, s uh and all these ways. I'm telling you, that is not Bible. That is not Bible God's people, redeem people, face adversity, face trials, have setbacks. Sometimes God's people will find themselves between a rock and a hard place Come back up here. Look with you if you would at verse number three. He says, and gathered them, that's the redeemed people, out of the lands from the east and from the west and from the north and from the south. Now look at this They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way. That doesn't sound very pleasant. That doesn't sound like prosperity to me. That sounds like trouble. That sounds like a difficulty. They found no city to dwell in. Wow. Hungry and thirsty, verse 5. They're so fainted in them Now I believe he's referencing here Israel coming out of Egypt. When God delivered them from the bondage of Egypt, he redeemed them Remember uh the Passover? They stayed in, put the blood uh on the doorpost, and the top of the door, and the doorposts, head posts and doorposts, and uh the angel, death angel came when he saw the blood passed over him. He redeemed them. uh with the blood of the Lamb. And he brought them out of Egypt. Now you think, well, he redeemed them, he saved them from bondage in Egypt. He saved them from the Slavery of Egypt. He's given them a new life and a new land. Oh, it'd be wonderful. All their needs would be met, and there'd be no troubles, there'd be no Heartaches, there be no hunger, no thirst. No. Very first thing they face the trial. They're between a rock and a hard place They had the Dead Sea in front of them. They had the Egyptian army behind them. Now, why would God put them in that sort of search situation? Why would God deliver them from Egypt and then put them between a rock and a hard place? Put them in the midst of adversity. You know why? To develop their faith. God allowed them to face difficulties to teach them that they could trust God. Now, of course, their wanderings in the wilderness, much of that was their own doing, their lack of faith, but God allowed it And God used the trials and the distress and the troubles to develop Israel's faith that they could trust God. that they could have faith in him, that he would take care of them, even uh in times of difficulty. And I believe one of the great tools that God uses For believers, for new believers, and those of us that known the Lord for a while, one of the great tools he uses to develop our faith is setbacks and difficulties and troubles and heartaches And he allows them in our life so that we can learn to grow, so that we can get stronger in our faith and we can learn to trust God. As long as I can remember, we had swimming pools growing up. First when we were when we were real little toddlers, we had those little plastic swimming pools. I think we had the blow-up ones. and about six inches of water and we'd climb up on a chair, do belly flops into six inches of water and uh trying to learn to swim. Then we got older, we got bigger uh swimming pools and Uh then we had the outerground ones, four five then four foot out of ground, then a five foot outer ground big deck around it, and we'd swim and then we got in ground pool And uh just swim, swim. Oh, we love to swim. Now when I was small, my mom, she loved to swim also, she wanted us to learn how to swim. And uh and uh she taught us how to swim. And the way she did was she would get us stand on the edge of the pool and she'd be down in the water. And uh we're scared to death. Uh you know, we're just little scared to death. Uh we couldn't swim. And she would stand out just far enough out where you couldn't quite reach her. And she would say, All right, jump And I'm thinking in my little toddler mind, there ain't no way I'm jumping there. I'll drown and die. Should she say, jump, jump! And boy, we would hold off and scared to death to jump. And she would say this. Jump! I will catch you. You will be okay. I will take care of you. And what I had to do, I had to make a decision. I had to decide. I can trust her. I can depend on her. And so we would jump in that water and she'd let us struggle there a little bit and she'd grab us and keep us and then get us up. And then uh we got a little more used to the water. She would take us and She would kind of push us out in the water. And boy, we'd struggle and drown. She was right there. And then if we start to go under, she'd grab us But what was she doing? She was putting us in distressing situations. She was putting us, giving us um uh liquid adversity Why? So that we would learn to swim, that we could trust her, that she would help us. You know what God does? Sometimes, I've seen it so many times. A person gets saved, new believer. And almost immediately God will allow some difficulties, trials, setbacks, testings come to their life. What's he doing? He's saying, listen, you can trust me. Swim by faith. You swim in this newborn faith. You swim in your trust in me. And God uses that to help us grow. God uses that to help us develop. You say, why is God sending this virus? Why in the why is the whole world where uh uh listen, I can't answer the word the re the the question why. Uh it's a hard question to answer why But I know this, God can, and I believe He wants to use these trials, these setbacks, to help us grow in our faith, to help us get stronger. And I hope you're trusting God. I hope your faith is in the Lord. And so, uh God that I've got one of God's best tools. that he has to develop our faith is trouble. To develop our need, our understanding of our need of him and his faithfulness is God allows trouble. Then last of all, real quickly, we notice the people addressed. These are saved people to redeem. Notice the problem they faced. They were in trouble. They were having a tough time. And then notice the prescription that was available. There's a two-fold prescription. Verse 6 Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble. They cried unto the Lord. That phrase, they cried unto the Lord, means this: to cry out loud. Oh, God, help me. I wonder if you've ever been in a situation where there is nothing, you didn't know what to say, there was no words, your heart was so broken, you were just so overwhelmed, and the only thing you could do was cry out, oh God Oh God, that's the idea here. To make a desperate appeal to God. God, help me. Pray out to God. In time of trouble, let me say this: in the time of trouble, in a time of distress, the very first thing we should do is to cry out to God in prayer. Oh God, help me. Do not allow bitterness. Do not allow blame and arguing and fussing. Oh, just cry out to God. Cry out to God in prayer. And then the second prescription, first is prayer, and the second prescription, verse 8, oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness. Two things to do in time of trouble. Number one, pray out to God. Tell God your situation. Ask God for help. Pour your heart out to God. Number two. Praise Him. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for His goodness and His wonderful works to the children of men. Give thanks to God. Acknowledge God's goodness. Praise Him. Praise Him. Two best things to do in trials. The two best things to do in a pandemic, in a crisis, is to pray. And to praise God. You say, what do I praise God for? Listen, if you've been redeemed, you and I have got plenty to praise God for. Every minute I'm spending that I'm not in hell, I have something to rejoice and praise God for Oh, we ought to praise the Lord. I was thinking the song was in my mind yesterday as I was working around some things. Wano pine loss lice billows, you are tempest, toss When you are discouraged, thinking all is lost. Count your many blessings. Name them one by one. It'll surprise you what the Lord hath done. Pray and praise God. It's four weeks ago today, uh, if I if I'm correct, three three or four weeks ago today that my daddy passed away and uh went on into the presence of God. Oh, I miss him. I miss him so much But uh two things I think about my daddy. One was his prayer life. He's a teenage boy. I can't say how many times I come home late at night, drunk, uh messed up, drugs I'd come home and I'd see Daddy. Oh, his heart was broken. And he'd be on his knees beside his bed. I still can remember coming down the hall, I'd see him in his bedroom. He'd be on his knees praying that his son be saved, praying for his family And uh and and how many times he said to me, I just thank God for this past year that I was able to spend a year with my daddy down here, and how many times I can still remember sitting in his kitchen uh downtown Oakland here in his little apartment and he would say son God's been so good to me God's been so good to me prayer and praise prayer and praise I want to challenge you in the midst of all that's going on. Trust God. I know God's taking care of you. I hope you're trusting Him. But let me, here's my invitation this morning. I want to challenge all of our church folk. You know the Lord Jesus, Savior. Let's take some time every day. Would you do this? Take some time every day, mom and dad, kids, whatever makes up your household, uh maybe a single parent, the kids, whatever it may be. But uh let's get the family together on a daily basis, maybe of the morning or at night before you go to bed. Gather the family together. Let's read some scripture together. And let's let me ask you to do this. Would you pray? Maybe it's just mom and dad at the house. Maybe you're by yourself But just get together sometime during a day and just stop and say, God, please turn this thing around. God, please let us get back to church again. God, please help us to grow in our faith and be more like Christ. God, heal our land. God, heal our homes. And just pray and ask God to do a work in your heart. There's issues going on in the home. Pray and ask God to correct that, make that right If there's somebody unsaved, pray. You've got a child that's far from God, pray, pray. But along with those prayers, let me challenge you to do this. Have a time of praise. Have a time of praise. I remember when the boys were small, we'd have our devotions. We had them as a family every evening, and we'd read some scripture and we'd have a hymn book, and we'd always sing a hymn together. Praise and prayer I want to challenge you today and throughout this week, find things to praise God for. Say it out. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. Speak it out. Boy, God's been good to us today Thank you, Lord, for this food. God, I thank you for my family. God, I thank you for the trials you send my way to help me grow. And just praise and prayer. Praise and prayer. The cry of the redeemed. Twofold. Cry of praise. And a cry of prayer. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to stir our hearts and help us, Lord, to pray. All through your word, you tell us over and over, pray, pray without ceasing. Men ought always to pray. Let your requests be made known. You tell us over and over and over. Teach us to do that, Lord, on a daily, regular basis. And then to praise you. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness. God, teach us to praise you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.