We're gonna be going to quite a bit of scripture tonight, all within the a couple books though, uh 1 Samuel and 2nd Samuel. We'll look a little bit in Exodus and Numbers here Um but we're gonna we're just gonna well we'll just just jump into it. How about that? 2 Samuel chapter 6, and I'm gonna read verses um 1 through 7. And then we'll have the the message tonight. 2 Samuel chapter 6 and verse 1. Again David gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand. And David arose and went with all the people that were with him from Balie of Judah to bring up from thence the ark of God. whose name is called by the name of the Lord of hosts that dwelleth between the cherubims. And they set the ark of God upon a new cart and brought it out of the house of Abinadab that was in Gibeah. And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drave the cart. And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was a Gibeah, accompanying the ark of God And Ahio went before the ark, David, all the house of the Israel, played before the Lord on all manner of instruments made with fir wood, even on harps and on psalteries, and on timbrels, and on cornets, and cymbals And when they came to Nakan's threshing floor, Uzzah put forth his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen shook it. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and God smote him there for his error, and there he died by the ark of God. Let's pray in the the message tonight. Lord, I thank you for the day that you gave us again. Lord, it was just good to be here this morning, to be in your house and Lord we're praying you bless the service again tonight. You already have, Lord. It's already been good to be here to hear all the testimonies and hear the singing and Special music, Lord. It's just been good to be here tonight. And now as we look at your word, Lord, I pray that you would use it to speak to us, Lord. I pray you fill me with your spirit and that you would just take over the service tonight. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Uh not one of the most popular Bible stories, I guess you could say. Um a lot of times it can be kind of uh confusing, and I've even heard some people claim that they get not only confused but a little frustrated by it because here uh this man, uh Uzzah, we read the story there of what happened, uh was only trying to do the right thing and he was trying to keep the ark from falling and he touched the ark and God killed him And of course we know that the Ark of God was holy and they no one was supposed to touch it. And uh he did, and of course it was wrong for him to do so. Um that's why he was uh killed. That's why God killed him God put him to death because of his error. But to know what's going on here, we're going to back up a little bit. And uh do look at some some background, the prequel, I guess you would say, to this story to see what's going on. The Ark was a very holy thing, right? It was a very sacred thing. And the Holy of Holies, where the presence of God was Um I mean it i it was i it was a very holy thing. Uh very specific. God was very, very specific, very, very detailed in everything about it. The measurements and um how it was to be carried, everything about it. It was very detailed. It was a very serious thing. And um anyway, so if you back up to 1 Samuel, we're gonna we're jumping around quite a bit tonight um at the beginning, and then then once we get into things we'll we'll probably stay in 2 Samuel. But go to 1 Samuel chapter 4. Why was the ark even being transported here? With the story we just read. What in uh 2 Samuel? David is taking 30,000 men, they go to get the ark, and they're going to bring it back And while they they get it, they put it on the back of a cart, a new cart, and uh while it's going along, the oxen are are shaking it, and the ark goes to tip, and so Uzzah uh grabs the arc and steadies it Um and then of course when he touches it, uh he dies. So if you why why why why is this even happening? What's going on? Why is the ark even out of place. This man of Benadab. First Samuel chapter four. Israel is at war with the Philistines. And if you read the first few verses here, look at verse 2, and the Philistines put themselves, Philistines put themselves in array against Israel And when they joined battle, Israel was smitten before the Philistines. They slew the army in the field about four thousand men, and when the people were come into the camp with the elders of Israel, wherefore the Lord had smitten us today before the Philistines And then they get the idea, let us fetch the Ark of the Covenant. But that wasn't a good idea. Let me just stop there. That wasn't a good idea. Let us fetch the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord out of Shiloh unto us. That when it cometh among us it may save us out of the hand of our enemies. They're trusting in the Ark to save them, they're not trusting in God to save them, and they're taking the Ark from a place that it's supposed to be to a place that it's not supposed to be. A lot of red flags going on there. Right? And so they take it to battle and the Philistines take it. Chapter 4, verse uh where we're at, verse uh twenty-one and twenty-two after the battle is over. Um and of course um this is where um Hophni and Phineas, the sons of Eli, this is where they died. In verse 19, actually, Phinehas's wife that was with child, she heard what was going on And then let's see where am I, verse 21. She named the child Ichabod, saying the glory is departed from Israel because the ark of God was taken. Because her father-in-law and her husband. They said the glory is departed from Israel, for the ark of God is gone. When you take things where they're not supposed to be, bad things can happen. Okay, and that's not the point of the message tonight. Uh but that's what was going on there. So the Philistines capture it. Then I I personally I kinda get a kick out of of chapter uh five a little bit in First Samuel The Philistines they take it to uh the temple of Dagon, their god, and things kinda fall apart literally. So they they take the ark of the uh into the uh the temple of Dagon and then the next day like he the the statue falls over, Dagan was falling on his face. So they set him back up and the next day it's over again the head's off. Things kinda fell apart. And so then um The there's a plague that goes around the Philistines because they have it, and so they're like, you know what, maybe this wasn't a good idea to capture this, let's send it back And so in uh chapter six they get sick. Chapter six they send uh and I'm not going to read all of this for sake of time, but they send it back to Israelite territory and they put it on a new cart It says there in chapter 6, and they send it out, which by the way, when Israel brought it back, I don't know if you just noticed that in 2 Samuel, they transported it the same way the Philistines did. That to me is confusing as well. They knew how they were supposed to transport it, and they were doing it the same way the Philistines did, rather than the way they were supposed to. Anyway. Anyway, so they uh bring it to one place, Beth Shmesh, I'm probably not pronouncing that right, but then it ends up in chapter 7, 1 Samuel chapter 7, verse 1. And I'm skimming through a lot, I know I'm cutting through some of this pretty fast. But chapter seven, verse one, it says, And the men of Kirjith Jirah came and fetched up the ark of the Lord and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the h in the hill And sanctified Eliezer his son to keep the ark of the Lord. So this man Abinadab, that's where they decided to keep the ark. We're going to keep it in this man's house. And and then at the end it says, and sanctified Eliezer his son, the end of verse one, keep the ark of the Lord. This is where it's supposed to be. This is who's supposed to take care of it. That that's what that was what was decided. Verse 2, and it came to pass while the ark abode in Kirjath Jairam. That the time was long. It was there a long time. For it was twenty years, verse two. And all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord. The ark stayed there for twenty years. Okay. And so after that happens, then you know Israel decides they want a king, and then there's Saul, and then there's all that kind of stuff and David. Okay, now fast forward to 2 Samuel chapter 6. uh where we started out, 2 Samuel chapter 6. I mean a long time has passed here. Now this man Abinadab has two sons. And we see their names here in chapter 6, Uzzah and Ahio. Not Uzi and Ohio. Uzi is a 9mm submachine gun and Ohio is a state where our vice president's from. Okay? So though that it's not that. It's USA and Ohio. So I appreciate both of you laughing. That helps me out quite a bit. So anyway, that's the name of his sons. I want you to think about this. If the ark was there for twenty years, It I mean it just makes sense deductive reasoning here. These two sons grew up around the ark. Pretty pretty interesting, right? Pretty cool stuff. They they grew up knowing it was their daddy's responsibility, uh this other guy, LEA's art responsibility to keep it. It was in it they grew up around it. Um I mean that's pretty cool. I mean how many people get to grow up around the Ark of the Covenant? Not many, right? Like in your house. That's a pretty cool thing Again, it never should have left Shiloh, it never should have gone to battle, but nonetheless, these guys became pretty familiar with it, which could have been part of the danger. They got familiar with the ark. Now put that in your pocket, we'll pull it back out later. Okay, so he kept it there for many years We go through some more of Israel's history. We get to this point where David, who's king now, this is after right after he captures uh Zion, and so now he's going to go ahead and go get the Ark and bring it back. Verse 1 of chapter 6, 2 Samuel. He gathers together his men, and they go after it. They go after it. Verse 3, and they set the ark of God upon a new cart. Exactly what the Philistines did when they delivered it back to Israel. Why is it, can I just go off on a tangent here, why is it that we think we should copy the world's way of doing God's things because the world doesn't know how to do God's things. We should follow God's way of doing God's things. So the world has like their music, so why should we try to Well we'll worship God with the world's music or you you know what I'm trying to say? And you can apply that to so many different things. But there's already a way that God told them to transport the ark. Maybe they should do it that way. Just an idea. And then this whole thing wouldn't have even happened. But anyway, so that's what happens. They go get it, and while they're transporting it, Verse 6, when they came to Nakan's threshing floor, Uzzah put forth his hand of the ark of God and took hold of it for the oxen shook it. Now, the oxen would not this is what just I I I don't I don't get this part. Maybe someone that knows the Bible better than me would explain this to me, but why didn't they transport it the way they were supposed to Why didn't they get the Levites to go move this thing? Why why didn't they get the staves to go run through the rings and because you're not supposed to touch the you're not supposed to touch it They they knew that they are they already mishandled it once by bringing it into battle when it sto should have stayed in Shiloh. They've already are we doing this? Why are they moving the Ark of God the same way the Philistines are And why are we so familiar with the holy things of God that we just throw it up on a cart? Well, it's a new cart. Why are we throwing it up on a cart? Not a good idea. This is the ark. This is a serious thing. So God go to go to Exodus chapter 25. Exodus chapter 25. I believe it's twenty five. Twenty five verse twelve Giving instructions for the ark. Exodus twenty five, twelve, and thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in the four corners thereof, two rings shall be in w one side of it, two rings in the other side, shall make staves of shit emwood, and overlay them with gold. I mean, even the type of wood that's spot that's the the staves are supposed to be made out of is specific. Verse 14, thou shalt put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, that the ark may be born with them. And the staves shall be in the rings of the ark, and they shall not be taken from it. Don't take the staves out of the rings. This is how we're moving it. This is the way it's supposed to be done. God gave very specific sp very specific, detailed instructions could not be mistaken, could not be misunderstood, on how the ark was supposed to be moved Specific ring, specific state, specific process on which it was to be now go to numbers. Go to numbers. Not just specific instructions on how it was to be moved. Numbers chapter seven and verse nine. He was to give he gave specific instructions on who was to move it. Verse 9 of number 7, but unto the sons of Kohath he gave none, because the service of the sanctuary belonging unto them was that they should bear upon their shoulders. So so the point was that the these were the ones that were supposed to be carrying it. It w it was specific people, sp it was the tribe of Levi, they were the ones that are doing it, but even within the fam the tribe of Levi, there was a specific family that their job was to carry the ark. Very detailed on how it was to be made, what it was to look like, where it was to be located in the tabernacle, who was allowed to go into it, if they moved it, how it was to be moved And who moved it. Very ex very specific. And so we're like, oh, let's go bring it into battle. What? Oh well now let's go get it back. Let's go get thirty thousand soldiers and we'll go get it and we'll throw it up on a a cart. Oh it will make sure it's a good cart though. A new one. Just like the Philistines did. You know, we'll we'll show 'em up. We'll make we'll make the cart have like chrome wheels or something. Like this would be nice. You're still throwing it up on a cart So there's a lot of lessons to be learned here. God has specific instructions, how He wanted to move, who was to move it. And the application here is God has very, very specific instructions for us. On how we're to live our lives, how we're to conduct ourselves. And we talked about this this morning a little bit when we were talking about the importance and the value of the Word of God and investing time in the Word of God. When you read the Word of God, you can't help but see there is a very specific way things are supposed to be done. And when we try to do things out of order, it messes things up When we try to do things our way, and even if we might think it's a better way, maybe we're just trying to take the shortcut, maybe we're just becoming too familiar with the things of God. But when we try to do things our way, It's gonna cost. It's gonna cost. One i I I don't know why this has been on my mind. I mentioned it in Sunday school this morning too when we're talking to the teens. Um There's a very specific order in which things are to be done. You break that order, you break that instruction. It doesn't work. You're supposed to get married, then you have children. Not have children and then live together, and then if it works out, get married. It doesn't work that way. And if you make it work and force it to work that way, you're you're it's you forcing it to work that way. It's not God making it let allow it working it that way, and it's not going to have God's blessings on it. That's just the side rant there. That wasn't part of the message that was free. We can't just throw something holy like marriage up on a cart. Treat it with the dignity and respect that God intended for it to have. You can't just take something like something valuable and holy like a human life and just throw it up on a cart and treat it like it's something cheap. I'm talking about the abortion crisis that's in our country. It's murder. Don't even want to call it abortion. It's baby murder. It's what it is. It's awful. It's something holy. It's something set apart. It's something sanctified. We're made in the image of God. And we're treating it like it's just oh something, some clump of cells, throw it up on a cart. You can't do that with the ark of God and think it's okay. Well there the Philistines did it. That's my point. Why are we t why are we going by the standard of the Philistines? We need to be going by the standard of God. We can't just we can't do that. There's a order there God has instructions He takes them very seriously. things are going to fall apart. God takes it and my second point is this, and I pretty much already touched on it, but God takes his commands very, very seriously. It doesn't matter that it had been y there for twenty years. It doesn't matter that the the the instructions for how to carry the cart were in Exodus and who was to carry it was in Numbers. It doesn't matter that it was that long ago. from when they were moving it. Just like it doesn't matter how long ago this was written, it still applies to our lives and we still need to follow the instructions. The instructions were not outdated. Uza just got a little familiar with it And I think that that don't get me wrong, it was probably a a pretty cool thing, and I'm sure Abinadab was when he was raising his kids was telling him, you know, it's amazing that God has entrusted uh this into our house and this is a sacred thing and this is a holy thing You know, I'm I'm pretty sure that he probably taught his sons the right way, but they just maybe just got familiar with it. They were just used to it maybe Don't don't get used to it that way. Oh, it's just church. It's alright if we miss it. No, it's it's a Christ gave his life for the church. Don't forsake the assembly of yourselves together like it's some cheap, invaluable thing. There's instructions given, follow them. Anyway, I'm gonna move along here. Hebrews, you don't have to go to these verses. It's already eight o'clock, I won't be too much longer Hebrews 13, 8, Jesus says he is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Malachi 3. 6, God says, I change not 1 Peter 125, God's word stays the same. So if God stays the same, Jesus stays the same and his word stays the same, I think probably it's still the same. I think the instructions and the commandments still apply. And when we try to go outside of them, things aren't going to work out. I'm grateful that there's grace and forgiveness. And I'm grateful that Christ died for our sins and And and um I'm grateful that we're in the rest that he's in the restoration business, and when we do mess up and when we do make careless errors, that God is willing to forgive us. I'm glad God didn't strike me down as soon as I did something that was unholy. You follow me? And I'm grateful for that. But that is not to diminish the fact that there is a strong warning here that we should listen to. Do you follow me? I'm not trying to discount grace like it's not there and it doesn't exist, because praise the Lord that it's there and it does exist, and God will, if we confess our sins. See them as He sees them, and we declare us we confess our sins. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness, and I'm grateful for that. But shall we continue in sin that grace may abound, God forbid? How shall we their dead to say live any longer therein? And don't say, well, this is Old Testament and and this, you know, that that was a good story back then, but God's a lot more lenient now Why even think that way? Take the warning. Treat the holy things like they're holy. Treat the ark like it's the ark. It's not something you throw up on an oxen cart. I believe that God means what he says, both with the ark and with what he has instructed us in our lives. God's instruct instructions is all through the Bible. Obviously, His instructions is through the whole Bible. And we talked about that this morning. It's profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. There's instruction in there. Just follow the instructions. There is no, this leads me to my third point, there is no excuse for disobedience. When he put his hand upon the ark, We might say he had a good excuse. Right? I mean from our standpoint he had a good excuse. The oxen were shaking it, and he didn't want it to fall. So he put his hand on it. Study it. We might say, oh, he had a good excuse. There is no good excuse. I think that's a lesson we can learn from this story, is there is no good excuse. It's never a good there's never a good excuse to sin. There's never a good excuse to treat God's things like they're unholy. There's never a good excuse for that. It was wrong to touch the ark. And that's the end of the story. Well, what if he wouldn't have studied it? It might have fallen. It might have, but it shouldn't have been on the arc on the cart to start with. Even if the intentions were good, even if it seems like the right thing to do, if it goes against God's word, it's wrong. And uh then this is my fourth fourth point. I'm going through these pretty quick. Carelessness can be very costly. Again, maybe I think he one reason that he was careless with it is I think he just grew up around it and was used to it I I I'm I'm reading between the lines a little bit, but I think he just got used to it. The Ark of the Covenant, yeah, it's here. Just like again, uh I'm guilty of this. Um I kind of got used to growing up in uh in a good church And I just I thought every church was like this. I thought every pastor was like Pastor Norris Belcher. I just thought that was normal. I just, you know, this is what it's I got used to it. Boy was I wrong And if I can challenge the young people for just a moment, please, don't get used to this. This is special. Don't think this is normal what you have here. This is not normal. To have a pastor like our pastor is not normal. To have the ministries that we have here are not it's not normal. This is a very, very special thing you have here If God calls you when you get up and you grow up and you get older, maybe God calls you to serve in another church somewhere, great, that's what he wants you to do. Do it. God wants you to serve on a mission field somewhere, go for it. Absolutely But but don't think like, oh, I can't wait to get out of here. You you you see the difference? One is God where you want me to go, I'll go. The other is I can't wait to get out. No, this don't treat this like it's something cheap, like it's something, eh, it's whatever, it's just a church. Because when you get comfortable around that and you get used to it, eh, whatever, bad things are going to happen. Carelessness can be very, very costly. And I actually wrote that next to verse seven. Carelessness can be costly So anyway, to them, yeah, it was nothing new. It's the ark, we're going to move it. Alright. God's things, and this is my final thought, God's things are not ordinary things. The ark was not some piece of lumber to be transported. The ark was not some couch that you might be taking off or selling or something. If there's something valuable then you need to transport it. If you're on a you know you're going to send something off, well we'll start small You send something in the mail and they ask you, do you want any insurance? I'm talking about your mail and packages. They say do you want any insurance on this package? It comes with $100. Do you want the extra insurance? If it's something like really, really valuable, you'll probably say yes Or if it's really valuable, you're probably not going to send it through the post office. You might take it yourself. You might s really see to it that it's going to be taken care of, that it's going to be transported properly. How valuable was the ark? Why why throw it on an oxen cart like it's a piece of furniture? So anyway, I'm I'm pretty much done. You can close your Bibles. This was the thought for tonight, and this is th th this is where I want how I kind of want to close. God's things, the things that God calls holy, are still holy Marriage is still holy. God's word is still holy. Life is still, we're made in the image of God. There is sanctity with it. It is holy. Things that are holy. Go through God's word and see what He says is holy. That's still holy And if you know Christ as your Savior, know you not that your your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost? And you're not your own, for you're bought with the price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are God's. Your body is holy. Treat it so. It's not some, oh well, it's whatever. Take care of God's temple. Don't treat it like garbage. Yeah, I mean and I could go on, that's a whole nother message. But the point is this the things that are holy are holy. Treat them holy. Start and start with this. Start with God's Word. We're talking about that this morning. Just read it. Entreat this holy. I think sometimes the the the young people will get frustrated with me, the teens that get frustrated with me. If if I'm walking around and I see something on top of the Bible, I move it off. Or like one you know, if there's like a phone on top of the Bible, like and they set it down somewhere, I'll take it, I'll move it off. Uh I'm not saying that everyone has to be like that, but I I am. That's me. It whatever. That's a personal thing. But I I treat m I like to think that I treat my Bible pretty well. Um I've had this one uh actually it was right when we moved here. It was uh in September because it was my birthday. Um you gave it to me. Dale gave it to me two two and a half months after we moved here. And I I the the cover's kind of fallen off of it. Um and my thumbprint's all in the middle and stuff, but I I like to think that I take pretty good care of it. Because it's holy. I I I can't think of a time and I'm not trying to be bragging or anything like that, 'cause that's definitely not. The point is it's holy, but I can't think of a time where I left it in my dash with my car for a week Or even for a couple days. I don't I don't think I've done that. It's God's word. Tolly. Alright, and I could talk about all the holy things. But anyway, point is there. Heads bowed and eyes closed. I don't know how God's speaking to your heart tonight. Maybe you're getting careless with something that's holy. Maybe you're getting careless in your marriage. You're not treating it serious anymore. In fact, I might just park there for a minute. Your marriage is holy. It's a picture of Christ in the church. You're treating it like some cheap thing. Throwing it up on the back of a cart. There's a correct way to handle your marriage. Even when there's problems, right? There's a correct way to handle the problems in your marriage. When there's disagreements, there's a biblical way to handle that. When there's sin, there's a biblical way to handle that. The ark got taken out when it wasn't supposed to be taken out. And they went to go get it back, but they did it the wrong way. If there's issues in your marriage, there's a right way to handle that, and the right way is it found in the Word of God. It's holy matrimony, that's what we call it. That means it's still holy. Treated so I'm not going to ask for a raise of hands for anything tonight. I'm just going to pray and then we'll ask you to stand to your feet. We'll have invitation. But if God's dealing with you in any way, when we have invitation, I I would ask you to come forward. Lord, I thank you for the evening that you've given us. Lord, help us to treat your holy things with respect. The things that are sanctified and have and you've set apart. I pray we would treat those things with respect and the dignity that you require of us. Help us to not get slack or careless when it comes to holy things. And it's in Jesus' name, I met