The Lord's eye is on us, isn't it? Y'all are quiet this morning, man. You're making me nervous. It's like uh if you raised kids, you know, when when you can hear the kids hollering and yelling, fighting and screaming you don't worry about it. It's when they go quiet, then you worry what they're up to something. So it's good to say amen in church. I think we need to practice. On three. One, two, three. There you go. Praise the Lord. John chapter eight, if you would turn there with me. We're going to look at verse number 44 while you're uh place Brother Pat Red. I appreciate him helping up here on the platform. And um But uh I do want to say it was a blessing to appreciate the prayers and the folks that came over to Brother James' wedding yesterday. We had a beautiful, uh very brief wedding. And uh but uh it was a beautiful wedding and so we're happy for Mr. and Mrs. James Kent. And uh they're going to be around here a little bit. They're coming to our uh couple's banquet in a few weeks, and so we'll see them around. And uh but um Again, we appreciate your prayers. It was kind of a humorous part in it. It got to the part where uh I said, James, you may kiss your bride, and it was like a little peck on the cheek, you know, it was just a little I said, come on, that's all you can do, you know? You've been waiting your whole life for this. And so uh but I told him afterward I said, Listen, I want you guys to work on that, all right? And so John chapter 8, verse number 44, the Bible says this. Jesus is speaking to uh Pharisees. He's obviously speaking to unsaved people. So keep that in mind. He says, ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He, speaking of the devil, He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth because there's no truth in him. Now listen to this: when he speaketh a lie, he speaketh it of his own. So what he's saying here is when Satan tells a lie, it's his own devices. It's of his own. He's not, you know, being pressured by anybody. It just comes out of his own nature. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own. Now look at this statement. For he is a liar and the father of it. I want to speak this morning on the subject. Satan is a liar. Let's pray and ask God to help us. Lord, we have our Bibles open to a very sobering passage of Scripture. Lord, we're touching on a subject this morning that is not uh pleasant, but uh nevertheless is very true, and uh we need to understand this. So, God, I yield myself to you. I present my body anew and With all my heart, I pray, God, that you would fill me with your Spirit and speak through me. God, it is abundantly obvious I have nothing in and of myself that can help folks. It has to come from you, dear Lord. And so I'm praying that you would use your word. Help us to be on guard, beware of the devil and his devices, that our lives not be destroyed. Again, I ask, Lord, please fill me with your Spirit. Speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I believe the Lord has directed me to preach this morning on a subject that is deadly serious. It's not any humor about the subject we're addressing. I'm afraid the subject of Satan and his characteristic is often ignored in churches and pulpits across the land. In fact, I would take it a step further. It's mocked. The very idea of a personal Satan in many circles under the name of Christianity is just a joke. Nevertheless, it's very, very serious. Preaching on the devil. We're going to be preaching this morning on the devil and one of his various methods. Now, Satan Satan has various tools, for lack of a better word, that he uses to accomplish his goals. This morning we're going to look at one of them, one of his most effective, one of his chief characteristics. But what is his goal? His goals are to keep unsaved people unsaved. He wants people to die in their sins, is what the devil wants. He wants a person to never come to the point where they will accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, have their sins forgiven. He wants them to die that way, so they're separated from God for all eternity. If you happen to be here this morning and you're unsaved, I can tell you what the devil wants for your life. He wants you to remain unsaved. And he will use this. Tactic that we're going to discuss this morning to keep people unsaved. Now, once a person gets saved, the devil can never get them unsaved. Listen to me. The Bible is abundantly clear. You and I cannot lose our salvation. The devil cannot take away from me what Christ gave me the night I trusted him. He cannot do that. John says, Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. You and I, as believers, do not need to fear that the devil is going to take away our salvation. He cannot do that. The world can't do that. I can't even do it myself. I'm secure in Christ. So what is his, what does he endeavor to do with the Christian? He wants to keep the unsaved person unsaved. Through various means and ways he accomplishes his goal. Once a person gets saved, then his goal changes. He can't get us unsaved. So he will do everything he can to keep us from having effective testimonies. They'll seek to destroy our lives to the point where we can no longer have any positive influence for the gospel. Nobody can ever look at our life and see Christ in us in any way. Just destroy our testimony. That's his goal. Now I want to ask two things of you this morning as we get into this First of all, I want you to please take very seriously what we're about to discuss. Please give earnest attention to this. This is vitally important And second of all, I trust that um you brought your Bibles or have Bible access to a Bible somewhere, but I really want to urge you As we go to some of these passages of scripture, I want to urge you to go to those passages with me. Give special attention to the scriptures we're going to reference. Listen The scriptures, and we're going to find this out here in a little bit, the scriptures are one of our key offensive and defensive weapons against Satan's assault. And so it's important, it's vitally important as we as Christians understand the scriptures, see the scriptures, ingest them into our hearts and minds and lives. And so I ask again two things of you. One, take this seriously, would you? Give attention to what I'm say- uh preaching. And second of all, let's use our Bibles together and see what God says on this so we can grasp it I have no doubt in my mind that Satan can and will do all he can to keep us in the dark as to what he is like and how he operates. Satan does not want us to understand him. He does not want us to know how he operates He wants us in the dark as to his tactics, his presence, and his involvement in our lives. There's no doubt about that And so we need to be very, very careful. In John chapter 8 and verse 44, which we Pat read, and then we read again here, we have the Lord is giving to us One of the most obvious characteristics of Satan in Scripture. Now he has different attributes, so to speak. There's different things that are true about what Satan is like. But there is one thing about them, in my mind, that is up there stands out perhaps than many many if not most of the others. And that is this. Satan is a liar. He is deceitful. He is dishonest. Look again at John chapter 8 and verse 44, the last part. Speaking the Lord speaking of the devil. He says, when he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own. It is part of his very nature. Satan's very at his very core, he is dishonest. He is untruthful He now look what the Lord says. He's speaking of his own, for he is a liar. Satan cannot be trusted. He cannot be believed. He cannot be relied on. He is a liar. Now, here's my first thought. I've got three thoughts this morning. First one is Satan's design. Satan's design. You say, what do you mean by that? By that I mean what is he out to accomplish? What does Satan want to do? We we mentioned the two goals he has. One is to keep unsaved people unsaved, and number two is to get saved people to live in such a way they're ineffective for the cause of Christ. Just destroy their lives. Now, how does he go about that? What's his design in doing that? Here it is. Satan is after our minds. Satan wants to alter the way we think. Satan's goal is to get you and I to believe to think That which is right is wrong. And to think that which is wrong is right Now we're going to use our Bibles. I really urge you to follow with me, find these passages with me. Would you go to 2 Corinthians chapter number 11? Now if you're in John, you work your way towards the back of the Bible, you get to Acts, Romans, 1 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians chapter 11. Now the church at Corinth, which the letter 2 Corinthians is written to, was a church that Satan had wreaked havoc in. He had altered their thinking about so many aspects of the Christian life. They were an absolute mess. You and I I assure you, you and I would not want to be members of the church at Corinth in the state it was in as it's being addressed. It was a mess. And so Paul, under the inspiration of God, is addressing that. And in 2 Corinthians chapter 11, look with me if you would at verse number 3. He says this, but I fear. Now he's speaking of the church here, but I fear lest by any means As the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtlety. Question: Who's he talking about when he references the serpent? Satan. This is obviously he's addressing Satan. He says, I'm afraid, but I fear, lest by any means, as in the same way, as in the same way that the serpent beguiled, the word beguiled there means deceived. As the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtlety, so your, what's that next word? Mine. I circled that word in my Bible. That is what he's after. So your mind should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ. That word corrupted is an interesting word. It has the idea to alter. To change course. And he says this: that Satan's goal is to alter your minds, change the way you think. Corrupt the way you see things. Satan's goal is to get us to have a distorted view of reality. As I said, his goal is to get us to think, get us thinking that right is wrong. And wrong is right He wants us, he wants to get an individual, whether they're unsaved, to keep them unsaved, or a Christian to keep us from having any positive influence for the gospel or experience the blessings of God in our lives, he'll get us to think that that which is right is wrong, and get us to think that that which is wrong is right Get us to think that that which is true is an untruth. And get us in a frame of mind where that which is a lie, and we start thinking it's true That is what he's that's his design. That's what he's out to do. Now there are so many illustrations of this in the world today where he so obviously has altered things. The most obvious, I think, that comes to my mind immediately, we're addressing it in our Sunday school class back in the uh fellowship hall, was this idea of Well the There we go. I thought uh I I sounded louder to me than it seemed like I was coming off What were we talking about? Renewing of our minds. Look at this here. Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, by the renewing of the way you think. Uh uh don't be conformed, don't let this world affect the way you think about things. Don't let the external influence of the world, of course the devil is uh allies with the world, don't let that affect the way you think. I tell you there's far too many Christians the world have allowed the world to affect the way they see things. They determine right or wrong by the world's values. They determine truth and error by the world's values rather than the Word of God. He says, be not conformed to this world, but be transformed, be changed. By the renewing of your mind. Now, that word renewing is an amazing word. Of course, in its very raw form, it has the idea to make new again. To go back to its original condition when it was when it was new. So how do I get my mind? The world has affected my mind. Satan has very effectively altered the way I see things, the way I value things, priorities. Satan has got my thinking corrupted And God wants to renew it, put it back to where it's supposed to be. Now, how does he do it? That word renew To make new again, or I like this definition. I was going down through strong concordance, and I saw this word in the definition. To re uh to renovate. I thought that was an interesting way to look at it. To renovate the way I think. Uh it has the uh do you ever have a house? Uh you ever see a house that's all deteriorated and whatnot? And somebody comes in, they have the skills and the resources, they come in and they renovate that house. What does that mean they're doing? They're fixing it back up. They're putting they're getting fixing the holes that are in the wall and they're tearing out that terrible carpet and putting new carpet in and they're painting the walls and they're fixing the plumbing and they're correcting the electric and they're going through and they're renovating that thing. That's what God says you and I need to do with our minds is get it corrected Get us thinking correctly in line with Scripture. Our success and our failure in our Christian lives depend upon our thinking processes. Um one person uh goes and lives their life for the glory of God. They're living obedient to the Lord. They have the joy of the Lord in their life. They're not perfect, but you know, their hearts yielded to the Lord and they're and God's uh directing them. You have another person under the same environment, perhaps, church member. Same preaching, same teaching, uh and similar backgrounds, and they go and they're not living for God. And they don't care what the Bible says. They don't care what is right and wrong and what is true and false. What is the difference between the two? The way they think. The way they view things, the Word of God. Proverbs 23 and verse 7 says this: For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. The way we see things, the way we think about things, that determines what kind of person I am, what kind of Christian I am, my view on life. So what is Satan's design? His design is to alter our thinking about God, about ourselves, about truth and lies, about right and wrong About what is real and what is not real, he wants to change the way we think. He wants to alter it and corrupt it. Satan knows the tremendous power of our minds. And he is out to affect our thinking. Affect our thinking. So my first thought this morning is this Satan's design. What's he out after? What's his goal? What's his target? Change the way I think. To corrupt my thinking My second thought this morning is, what is Satan's device? In other words, how does he accomplish that? How does he get someone that grew up in the teaching and preaching of the Word of God, memorize scripture, read the Bible and all that, and get them to either never get saved, keep them from ever genuinely getting saved, or destroy their life in such a way How does he get them thinking along the way so that happens? Here's his device. It's dishonesty. Jesus referenced it in John chapter 8. He is a liar and the father of it. He is a liar. He will use dishonesty to affect the way we think get us thinking wrong. In Revelation chapter 12 and verse 9, it says this: Satan deceiveth the whole world. Everywhere you go on this planet, Satan's lies are being believed. Satan is a deceiver Whether it's through false religions, Hindu, uh Shintuism and and Buddhism in the in Central Asia and the Middle East, or whether it's uh uh religious orthodoxy and Catholicism or Islam Or even if it's just external Baptist doctrine, he will do what he can to keep that person thinking that that which is not true is true and that which is true is not true. Dishonesty. He deceives the whole world. Now, here's where I want you to turn with me. We have a detailed example of how Satan does that in Genesis chapter 3. Would you turn there with me? I mean it is laid out right in the beginning of the Bible exactly how Satan deceives people, uh corrupts our minds. Alters our thinking and gets us believing that that which is a lie is true and that which is wrong is right. Genesis chapter 3. I'm going to begin reading in verse 3. I'm going to read the first seven verses. Then we're going to come back and dissect these a little bit. Genesis 3, first book of the Bible, chapter 3. Look at verse 1. Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord of God had made. So we know Satan's being referenced here. We already saw that in the New Testament passage, so we know what's going on here. Um and he, the serpent, Satan, Said unto the woman, who's the woman here? Eve, she's the only one around. Um So he says And he said, Satan said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, You shall not eat of every tree of the garden? And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the tree of the gar trees of the garden, but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die. And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die, for God doth know that in the day you eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat And gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat. And the eyes of them both were open And they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves aprons. Do you see how Satan effectively altered the way Eve thought? By all appearances, Eve was perfectly fine with not eating of the forbidden fruit. Everything we have here, Eve had no problem Eating of all the other fruit of the garden and just leaving the one that God said that should be left alone. She had no problem with that. She thought nothing of it. She saw nothing wrong with that. And then Satan shows up. Liar! Liar. And he comes and he very subtly, very effectively, through dishonesty, gets Eve to see that fruit completely differently. He completely alters her way of thinking about what God had said and what she should and should not do. He changed her understanding of what was right and wrong. He altered the way she thought about reality and unreality. And we have the steps here very carefully. Look at verse number one with me, if you would. And we see his first tactic using dishonesty. Number one, he questioned God's word. Look at verse one. Serpent was more subtle than the beasts of the field, glory made, and he said unto the woman Eve, Yea, hath God said ye shall not eat of the tree of the garden? What's that punctuation at the end of that sentence A question mark. Question mark. Just questioning God. Is that really what the Bible says? Is that really what God meant? Is that really what God said? And if He can get us just questioning Whether what God said is correct or not, whether that's really the way it is, is it really the way God says it is? Um, it's interesting he didn't deny God's existence, did he? He didn't say, Eve, there isn't any God. You just came from a big bat And look at the monkeys and the different stages of evolutionary progress around you. It's obviously there's no God. She didn't do that at he didn't approach that at all. He didn't deny God's existence. He didn't even at this point deny that God had spoken to them. He ignored sure God told you. But did what he tell you, is that actually the way it is? And he put a question mark where God had put a period in the previous chapter. questioning the Word of God. You know, in reality, what he's doing here is questioning God's goodness Yeah, if God said, What? God said you can't eat a bat tree right there? Really? He's questioning God's goodness. He's putting doubts in Eve's mind about whether God is really being good to her. Whether God is really doing what's best for her, whether God, this is really in my benefit and my favor to do what God says. Did God really say that? He's questioning God's goodness. He's questioning God's concern for her. Yea, hath God said. Man, we live in a world where God's word is continually questioned. Listen, we need to be uh we need to be very, very careful. We need to recognize if we're going to have victory in our Christian life, if we're going to keep the devil from destroying us We need to get to the point where we simply settle in our hearts and minds the Bible is the Word of God. It is our final authority. It is right on all matters. And I take him at his word. Until we are at that point, we are influenced of the devil. First of all, he questions God's word. Then we get to verse number four, and we find him taking the next step, and he starts contradicting God's word. Look at verse number four with me. He says, uh God said, and she responds, and that's a whole study in itself, seeing how Eve's thinking is changing, and you can see it by her response. But look at verse number four with me, he says, and the serpent said unto her, Now here's his second statement. First one was a question. The serpent said unto her, Ye shall not surely die For God doth know that in the day you eat thereof, then your eyes shall be open, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil I put in the margin of my Bible beside verse number four in very large letters with an exclamation point behind it, a lie. He contradicted what God said. God said, the day you eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. Satan said, You won't die. God is wrong. You're right. God has no authority over you. God doesn't know what he's talking about. God doesn't know what's best for you. God doesn't care about you. God isn't concerned about your well-being. God isn't concerned about your happiness. You're not going to die. It was a direct contradiction of God's word. I tell you, there's a short step between questioning God and denying God. I start saying, boy, did God really say that? It won't be long till I'll be saying, God, that's not true. God, that's not true. Satan flat out lies. Now what is he saying here? When Satan says to Eve, God says, don't eat of that forbidden fruit. The day you eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. You can freely eat of all the other fruit, but that one you can't when you if you eat of that, you will die. Satan says and comes and says, Have you always said that? You're not gonna die. What was he saying? He was saying you can disobey God and get away with it. He was saying you can directly do what God forbids And there will not be the consequences God said there will be. God said if you eat of it, you'll die. You can eat of it, you won't die. You can get away with it. It won't hurt you. He is suggesting that there is no danger in sin. Listen, we need some pulpits in America and around the world that will get back up and start preaching to folks the wages of sin is death You cannot mock God and get away with it. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. We cannot sin without consequences. And Satan has convinced this world and a huge portion of Christianity that we can just do whatever we want. We can just violate God's standards. We can just sin against God, and it's not gonna hurt us, it's not gonna affect us, it'll be just fine. And we see a world that is absolutely destroyed And we see lives and homes that are absolutely destroyed because they believe the devil's lie, that we can disobey God, and nothing will come of it. And without fail, something comes of it every time. It won't hurt you. Come on, man. It won't hurt you. There's nothing wrong with this. Listen, it's your life. Do what you want with it God, he contradicted God's word. First of all, he questioned God's word. Yea, hath God said. Second of all, he contradicted God's word. Ye shall not surely die. Thirdly, under his designs here, his devices of dishonesty, he counterfeited God's word. Look with me at verse number five. For God doth know, in the day you eat thereof, then your eyes shall be open, and ye shall be as God, knowing God's knowing good and evil. God said, the day you eat of it, you're going to die. Satan said, God really say that? You're not going to die. Let me tell you how it is. Listen to me instead of listening to God. Let me tell you how to view this situation rather than God. I'll tell you what the truth is. God didn't tell you what the truth is I'll tell you what is right. God didn't tell you what is right. Do you see where he has completely altered her thinking He replaced God's clear warning with a false promise. See what he promises her? He says, uh, oh, your your eyes will be open, and you'll sho ye shall be as gods. You know what he's saying? He's saying you can be your own authority. You decide what's right and wrong. You decide what is best for you. You be your own God. Brother, do we not live in a world with that mentality or not? Who made you a? That's the way they were in Sodom and Gomorrah. Who made you a judge over us? You know what's killing our country? We have no definitive moral authority. Every man does that which is right in her own eyes. And you know what that leads to? Total chaos. That is destruction of society. It is destruction of the home. It is destruction of the cause of Christ. Every man doing that which is right as hey you'll be just like God you can call the shots He replaced God's clear warning with a false promise. By the way, all Satan's promises are false. Mark it down. Oh yeah, uh hey, let's go out and go drink it. We'll have a good time. That is a false promise. It is gonna take a toll on your life and my life. So he counterfeited God's word, he contradicted God's word, he questioned God's word, and he completely changed Eve's way of thinking. And lo and behold, Eve is there picking the fruit from the tree. Adam standing right beside her, not saying a word. She disobeys God thinking she was doing what was best for her. She directly disobeyed God, convinced in her mind that this was the right thing to do. Satan is a liar. And she believed his lies. She believed his lies. So first of all, we have Satan's design. Get us to think Wrong. Then we have Satan's device. He has many of them. The one we're looking at is dishonesty. He's very dishonest to Eve here. He lied to her flat out. Altered the way she was thinking. And destroyed her life and destroyed humanity for all these years, and cost the Son of God his own life's blood. To save us back from the lie that Eve believed and then has been passed on to you and I. Satan's a liar. Every school teacher in our schools ought to teach their kids Satan is a liar. Every Sunday school teacher ought to teach their kids Satan is a is a liar. Every parent ought to teach their children, Satan is a liar. And every preacher ought to preach from the pulpits. Satan is a liar. What's our defense? Last of all, our defense. Our defense is very simply, it's the Word of God. It's the Word of God. If we had time, we would we don't have time, but if we could, we'd go to Mar uh Matthew uh chapter four. And uh we would see how Jesus used the Word of God to counter Satan's lies every single time. To counter, here's the amazing thing: the audacity of the devil. To come to Jesus Christ, God in the flesh, and think that he could change the way Jesus thinks Think that he could corrupt his mind into disobeying the first person of the Trinity that Jesus was a part of, co-equal with. The audacity of the devil. And Jesus Christ responds: boom, it is written. It is written. It is written Jesus Christ did not allow his thinking to be changed by the devil. He let the word of God govern his thinking. And that's what you and I need to do. Our defense is the Word of God. Now how do we get that? How do we do that? I say, preacher, I don't want to believe the devil's lie. I don't want to s I don't want to get to the end of my life and stand before God and find out I've been le believing a lie and and uh Thinking right is wrong and wrong is right. I want I want to be right. How do we do that? We come to the Word of God. Now I got three thoughts under this real quick. Number one, we must have a receptive heart. We must have a receptive heart. Boy, if we had more time, we go to Mark chapter 4. There Jesus is telling a parable about a sower. You probably remember reading it. And he said, A sower went forth to sow. Of course in those days the way you'd sew, you'd have a big machinery, you'd take a hand and they would what's called broadcast the seed. They'd have a sack for a seed and they'd just sling it out very systematically, they would go through a plot of land and they would sow the seed. Inevitably some of that seed would fly out into other parts of the plot of land And he said some of it fell by the wayside. That was the pathway where people walked, or his packed down heart. uh traveling on it. And uh it was very, very hard. And then he went on, some fell in rocky seas, some f fell in the thorns and weeds along the edge, and some of it fell in good soil. comes back and explains the parable and he says this the seed is the word of God and the sow or sow is the word of God and so And some of it lands on the wayside, the part where people walk, pack down, the road, if you will And that ground is the hearts of people, how receptive they are to the Word of God. Of course the wayside, the road part, the pathway, that's packed so hard, it's not receptive to the seed at all. It doesn't receive it whatsoever. And he says the birds come and snatch it away. And he later on he says the birds are the devil. And they come and just take it right away. You know what happens? Somebody in the providence and sovereignty of God comes to a church service. Let's just take a lost person for illustration. They're unsaved. They come for whatever reason they end up in a church service, maybe somebody uh bribed them, said I'll take you out the lights, or whatever reason they come to church, or mom and dad meet them or whatever, but they're unsaved And they sit there, and rather than being receptive to the truth of God's word, they just harden it up. Maybe they go to sleep deliberately. Maybe they just say, I'm not going to listen to this. They get their little iPad out or whatever, and they're just doing something else, and they're absolutely unreceptive to the truth of the Word of God. You know what the Bible says? Satan comes along and takes that truth they had opportunity and just snatches it right away. There's no reception. Did receive it into their heart. Not at all. They just they didn't they didn't want it Unreceptive. Listen to me. If we're going to think right and we're going to be right with God, we need to open up our hearts to the Word of God. When you say, God speak to me, show me what I need. God show me the truth. I want to know what's right. I want to know what's wrong. I want you to make it clear to me, Lord. And until we're at that point, the word of God is not going to do us much good. I had a Bible in my bedroom for years growing up, but when we were young, went to Sunday school course and later got away from it. That Bible setting in in my dresser drawer did me not one bit of good. I could care less what was between the covers of that book. I had no interest in it whatsoever. But I tell you what, all of a sudden the Spirit of God began working in my heart. Suddenly I became very concerned about what that book said. And God all changed my heart, gave me a receptive heart. And I would read that thing, and it was like God wrote it that day right to me. And suddenly it was God speaking to my heart. I tell you what, if we're going to have a right thinking, we've got to have receptive hearts. Second of all, I put this down. We must read and study God's Word. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. We've been talking about in Sunday school now for about six weeks. Reading God's Word. God's word is absolutely necessary in my life if I'm going to live a successful Christian life. I've got to read it. I've got to read it. I've got to ingest it into my heart and mind. I have no doubt. I have no one in my in particular, so I'm not meddling. I'm preaching But I'm saying this, I have no doubt a crowd this size, there are some folks, you are thinking exactly the way the devil wants you to think about some area of your life. There's no doubt in my mind, a crowd this size Some area we are convinced that what God has said should not be so, we are convinced should be so. What God has said should be so, we've convinced ourselves it should not be so. Now if we want that to be right, if we want God's blessing and don't want Satan to destroy us, we've got to say, God, I want you to show me what's right and wrong. I'm going to get in your word, and I'm going to have you speak to me and teach me and direct me. Number one, we must be receptive, have a receptive heart. Number two, we must read and study God's Word. And number three, we must retain the Word of God. Absorb it into our thinking and our way of life. Good way to do that is memorize scripture I tell you what, I've the Lord saved me back in 1979, and I had two fellows, Terry uh uh uh Terry Wilcox and uh Arden Musselman, two young men in their mid-twenties. And they took me under wing and they started discipling, and one thing they taught me is to memorize scripture, memorize scripture, memorize scripture. I tell you, God has used Passages that I committed the memory years ago, God has used them in my heart and life to help me and direct me and see things clearly over and over and over and over. We've got to get the word of God into our heart. Last night I woke up and I had a situation, I was worrying about it, stewing on it in the middle of the night, and uh James chapter one, my brethren counted all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have its perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally and abraid none. And God used that passage to help me see the situation from his perspective and deal with it from a true perspective. Memorize, retain the Word of God. We must have a receptive heart. Listen, did you get what I'm trying to say this morning? Satan's a liar. He wants us to think incorrectly about this world, about our lives, about our priorities in our lives, about what is right and wrong, about what is true and false. He wants to corrupt our mind. And he's been so successful in so many people. One thing I've heard over the years this pastor is a preacher of the Word of God. Well, that's that's just your interpretation. You know what I found out? A lot of times that's simply code word for I just don't agree with God. I just don't want to do what God said. And that's a lie of the devil. Here's my invitation. Let me lay it out here first. Number one, do you know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? If not, you better settle that. Say, preacher, I'm a church member. Hey, there'll be a heap of church members in hell. Never got saved. Church membership isn't going to save your sin. Your soul from hell. You've got to accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Let me ask you this: do you daily and consistently read the Word of God? If not, you better do it. Brother, we're in the last days. Evil men and seducers are waxing worse and worse. Right looks so wrong today, and wrong looks so right today. We better get in the Word of God and keep a clear perspective. Let me ask you this. Here's part of my invitation. Do you memorize the Word of God? Do you make any effort at all to retain God's Word in your heart and mind? Here's another part of my invitation. Do you know what God's will is for your life? At whatever stage you are in life, do you know what God's will is for your life? You ought to find it out. You ought to kneel at an altar and say, God, show me your will. I don't want the devil to corrupt and destroy my life. I want your will to be clear in my heart and mind. Show me from your word. Let me ask you this. Have you been duped by a lie of Satan? Is there something in your mind, you know it contradicts scripture, but you're convinced in your mind that you're right and the Bible's wrong? You've been duped by the devil. Let me ask you this. Do you lie? Do you lie? If you lie You are doing exactly what the devil does. He is the father of lies. If anybody in the world should be honest, it's God's people. Be truthful. You say, Preacher, if I tell the truth, I'll get in trouble. Then get in trouble It's better to be honest and in jail than dishonest and on the throne. Tell the truth. Tell the truth to your spouse. To your parents, to your children, to your employer, to your teacher, tell the truth. Satan promises the best, but pays with the worst. He promises honor. But he produces disgrace. He promises pleasure, but he produces pain. He promises profit. But he always produces loss. He promises life. But he always ends up giving death. Satan is a liar. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us take very seriously the Word of God. Help us, dear Lord, to take very seriously our walk with you and the importance of your word in our lives. And I pray, Lord, that these various areas that we touched on as we go into the invitation That your Holy Spirit would deal with us and bring us to a point where we have receptive hearts and willing hearts to trust you and obey you.