Acts chapter number twenty, if you would, turn in your Bibles. Acts chapter twenty Alright, uh we took our some of the junior kids down out to Blackwater Falls yesterday and we had an absolute blast. Uh climbing around rocks and up and down, jumping off cliffs and Just had a blast. I think when we were down along one of the down one low long along one of the little streams down there, I think a frog climbed up into my throat, down into my throat. And uh I've been hacking and wheezing and carrying on. That's why I wasn't out shaking hands too much. I'm trying to quarantine myself to the pulpit up here. So if I come near you, run. And um No, it's not quite that bad, but um it might affect my speaking a little bit this morning. Acts chapter 20, we're gonna look at verse number twenty-four. Fellows at the grocery store walking around, pushing the cart around, and um he noticed there was this older woman uh walking and just following him everywhere he went. She's following around and she's just looking at him funny And he's trying to mind his own business. Finally get to the uh checkout counter, and lo and behold, she's ahead of him, and she keeps looking back at him, looking back at him. And finally, before they get through the line, she says to him, she goes, she says, you look just like my son that passed away about six months ago. He goes, oh, well, I'm sorry. He says, that's very sad. And she goes, you know, he used to always say goodbye, Mom. See you later. He always said that to me. She goes, I miss that so much. Could you do something for me And he said, I'll do anything for you. I'm sorry, it was very sad. She goes, When I'm done the checkout and I I go through there, would you just wave to me and say, Goodbye, Mom? He goes, sure, I can do that. That would be sweet. She goes, oh, that means the world to me. So he gets up there, they go through, he checks all his here his bill is like $700, way above what he goes, wait a minute, something's wrong He goes, well your mother said that you would pick up her tab for when you went out there. So I'm going to try that at Walmart. See if that works. Acts chapter number 20. If you would, I'd like for us to read together in unison, verse number 24. Acts chapter 20, verse number 24. You got it there? Let's all read that together. Ready? Here we go. But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself. so that I might finish my course with joy and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel of the grace of God. to testify of the gospel of the grace of God. He says, neither count I my life dear unto myself. To testify the grace of the gospel. I'm entitled to message, the supreme importance of the gospel Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now as we look into your word. We pray, as we always do, that you would open our hearts and minds and we'd be receptive to what your word has to say for each of us as individuals. Regardless of our spiritual state, regardless of where we're at in our relationship with you, our Creator, I ask God that you would challenge us and help us to see where we're at and what we need to do to go forward in our faith and be stronger. I thank you for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, what it's meant to my family and I all these 24 years now. And we ask that you would bless our church. God, we ask that we could you would help us to be the very church you intend for us to be. I pray you'd use this message this morning to help us as a church to stay focused on the gospel and to keep the important things important in our lives and ministries. Lord. I present my body to you now this hour. Lord, you know the issue and the throat and the challenge there. And Lord, so I pray you'd help me to speak clearly, help me to think clearly. And I pray that you would speak through me, Lord, that when I'm weak now, you'd be strong. I pray that I ask that you would fill me again with your Holy Spirit and speak through me, my prayer, in Jesus' name. Amen. The church in the Book of Acts, that early New Testament church, is really the pattern for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We learn from other churches. I have preacher friends. I have pastors who I consider mentors without exception, the men that I go to, the pastors I go to for advice and for help. suggestions and uh counsel, I guess is the word I want. Uh the men that I do are, without exception, older than me and been in the ministry much longer than I have been. And they have experience they've been through. And as much as I appreciate these men, as much as I preach some great appreciate some great churches out there. Um we don't want to pattern ourselves after another church. We want to go back to the original pattern. You follow what I'm trying to say? We want to go back to the Word of God and what does the New Testament church, what was their principles, what was their practice? How did they function? What was their priorities? And we want to glean from that and incorporate that into our uh our church here. Um, you know We make copies, we have a copy machine back there to make copies. If you have a master, you have the original, and you you you probably know where I'm going to go with this. If you have an original cop uh original manuscript And you're going to make a copy of that. You make a copy. The copy is never quite as sharp as the original, right? Now they have amazing copy machines, they do amazing things. But then if you make a copy of the copy, that quality what deteriorates a little more, det diminishes a little more. And then a copy of a copy and a copy of a copy. And before long your your what you're looking at, your copy is almost is almost uh uh unrecognizable as far as the original manuscript. It has deteriorated so badly. I'm afraid I'm afraid in a lot of our churches that's exactly what's happened. Well that church is doing this, that works, that church is doing this, that church is doing this. And I'm not saying we can't learn from each other But we don't pattern ourselves by other churches. We pattern ourselves by the New Testament church. And with that in mind, and understanding that important Aspect of a church life, we look back at the New Testament church and we find one thing very, very clearly. That New Testament church, the preaching of the gospel was the most important thing in that church. You read through the book of Acts, you read through some of the statements Paul makes. And the preaching of the gospel was profoundly important. In fact, and we don't have time to analyze this and look at all the passages, but in that New Testament church, the preaching of the gospel was more important than their possessions. You read there in several places where they sold their possessions and brought them to the church for the advancement of the gospel. And for many of these New Testament believers. Getting the gospel out was more important than possessing some things, property or houses and lands and wealth and stuff. Getting the gospel out. I'm grateful to know that there are people in our day and age that getting the gospel to unsaved people is more important than having stuff I believe there's some folks in our church that could drive nicer cars if they didn't give as much to the advance and didn't give as much finances to the advancement of the gospel. Now there's nothing wrong with driving a nice car. I'm not, don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But I'm saying the New Testament church was the getting the gospel out, getting the message of salvation and Jesus Christ out to the lost was of paramount importance. More important than possessions and property. It was more important than their own precious freedom. Many of them uh freely sacrificed their freedom in order to get the gospel out. Uh many times they were threatened. If you preach the gospel, if you go out and preach in the name of Jesus Christ, you go out and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ, you will lose your freedom, you'll be thrown into jail. They said, well then I guess you might as well just throw us into jail because we're not going to stop preaching the gospel. And their got getting the gospel out was more important than their own personal and precious freedom. And what'd they do when they got in jail? They preach the gospel in jail. And they saw many, many saved that way. But that New Testament church, the importance of getting the message of Jesus Christ to unsaved people, that was the driving force. That was the highest priority. Is obeying the great commission that the Lord Jesus Christ has given us. For many of them in that New Testament church, getting the gospel out was more important than even their own personal life. You read the book of Acts very, very carefully. There were many of God's people who gave their lives in the advancement of the gospel. James and many others, Stephen, and many of these others gave their lives preaching the gospel, preaching the gospel, preaching the gospel, and it cost them their life, and they did it gladly. They did it willingly. And so we look at the New Testament church, who we are to pattern ourselves after as a church, and we find That the gospel of Jesus Christ, the advancement of the gospel, was of highest priority. Highest priority. Now, we single that down to any one individual, and there are many we could go to But perhaps the Apostle Paul would be the greatest example of somebody whose life was consumed with getting the message of Christ to the unsaved. Absolutely consumed by that. I believe he is the greatest example of a believer who the preaching of the gospel was more important than his own life. Did you catch what he said here in verse 24? And I tried to highlight it. Come with me again. Look with me here if you would again. He says, none of these things moving. We'll talk about that. Then he says this, neither count I my life dear unto myself. Why? Paul, you don't count your life dear to yourself? Your life isn't precious. It's not important to you? Why? Why would you say that? So that I might finish my course with joy and the ministry which I received. Look at the last part. To testify of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, boy, Paul must have been miserable. He must have despaired of life. Oh, I don't want to live. I'll just give. No, I think Paul lived a tremendously full life. I think Paul loved life. You find him rejoicing and praising God. Boy, what a what a book the book of Philippians is about a man who had the joy of the Lord in his life and the presence of God in his life. Paul did not despair of life. Now he longed to go and be with the Lord. He looked forward to the day when he would be in the presence of Christ. But it wasn't because he was miserable down here. But he makes this statement. He says Finding people who do not know for sure that their sins are forgiven, and be able to share with them the message of Christ, the message of salvation. That they can be saved, that they can find their sins forgiven, that they can be sure of a home in heaven, that they can have a new life, a good life, a pure life, eternal life Getting that message to them is more important to me than even living my own life. That is more precious to me than my own life. I tell you, I love living. I like being alive. I enjoy my life. I think the Lord's blessed me. Give me a good life. But when we get to the point where we say, you know, it's more important to me to get the gospel to the lost than it is to continue my own life. That's a powerful statement. We sing a little song back years ago in camp and different places. I don't remember where I first learned it, but it's kind of stuck in my heart and mind. And it is a powerful, powerful statement. I don't know if you're familiar with it, and uh I don't sing good even when my voice is right, so uh this might be improvement. I don't know, but it it goes more than life. I love thee, Lord More than this world can afford. I have given myself to thee. I love thee. More than life, I love thee, Lord. I think I messed it up. But that's the point. More than life I love thee, Lord. Wonder how many of us can say that honestly. It's more important to me to get the gospel of Jesus Christ, the message of my Savior. to the lost people, to unsaved people, than even my own life. What a powerful statement. The supreme importance of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now, oh, by the way, I got another verse here to support Paul's attitude there. Look at chapter 21 and verse number 13. Just the next chapter over. And Paul's Paul answered, verse 13, Acts 21, What mean ye to weep and to break my heart? Look at this. Look at this statement. But I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Wow, what a powerful statement. I'll tell you who I have tremendous respect for. I have tremendous respect for the missionaries. And their families that are willing to leave everything, leave home, leave their nation, leave the comforts, and go to some foreign nation and there tell others of the Lord Jesus Christ. What an amazing thing. More than life, we love you, Lord. We'll go. We'll go. We'll go. And that same attitude, that same commitment, that same burden, that same priority of the gospel that's true that we admire so much in our missionaries. Can I challenge Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church? That ought to be true of us. That we are willing, we are necessary. The gospel is so important that whatever it costs, whatever it takes, we need to get the gospel to the unsaved. We have some things that uh we want to present this afternoon about um about uh uh expanding some of our facilities here and going forward and being able to maybe uh function a little more efficiently and maybe uh do a little bit more in a better way f uh for the Lord. But I want to emphasize this and this is basically my purpose behind this message. I think I have the mind of the Lord, but my purpose behind this Whatever we do, we must never lose focus on getting the gospel to lost people. Everything we do should revolve around getting the gospel to the unsaved here in the Oakland area and around the world. Everything must revolve around that. We've tried over these many twenty-four years that uh we've been here, I've tried very, very diligently to keep the focus on getting the gospel to the unsaved, reaching unsaved people with the Lord Jesus Christ uh for the Lord Jesus Christ. Um I'm way ahead of myself. I am so far off my notes, I don't know if I'll ever get back to them. But I'll just blame I don't feel good on that. So the very first sermon I and and I'm just trying to illustrate my burden And my understanding of the purpose of the church and the role of the church, the very first sermon we ever preached here, way back in s in uh 1993, very first sermon Sunday morning was this, ye must be born again. And we have tried very diligently, and many people around us have joined on board with us and have helped us and have shared this vision, this burden. uh that people must be born again, must be born again, must be born again. We've had teen folks uh down in Florence uh putting uh Bibles together down there uh the Samoan Bibles for um Not America, Samoa. There's a different islands down there. This is a Samoan Bible assembled this week, many of them during Connie and Brian Sandy, to get to the mission field. You know what that is? Trying to get the gospel to the unsaved. Get the Word of God. And investing in that and um and making that a high priority. So Paul uh uh lived this life and he was focused. He says the highest priority in my life is reaching people with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Can I say this? If you're here this morning, you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven. You're here this morning, you will have absolute certaint that Jesus Christ has forgiven you and saved your soul from sin in hell I want to tell you this. The highest concern of our church right now is that you know Jesus Christ as your Savior. That's more important than anything else. Is knowing for sure that my when I die, my sins are given on my way to heaven. It's the most important issue in life. I often say this, you've heard me say this, the worst thing that can possibly happen to a person is for that person to die in their sins, to die unsaved, lost, separated from God for all eternity. What a tragedy. And so that makes the gospel, getting saved, a tremendous priority. So we come back to our text here, and Paul is right is uh uh is addressing these Ephesian elders. And I wish we had time to go through this whole chapter. It's a fascinating chapter. But Paul had started the church in Ephesus. He had an amazing ministry there, God blessed, in a tremendous way. Souls were saved. A church, good, strong church was established. A church at Ephesus was a good strong church Miracles had taken place there as the power of God was upon Paul's ministry. And it was an amazing thing. And he had spent a good number of time, a good period of time there with them And now he is has moved on. And uh as he's leaving, he before he leaves that region He extends a call to the leadership in the church, the pastor and the leadership throughout the church, and he invites them to come over to Miletus, where he is about to sail on from the rest of his journey. And he says, I want to meet with you for a little bit. I want you to give me a little time. So they travel. Now think about this. This is before cars and all of that. They travel one day's journey to get from Ephesus to Miletus, where Paul is. They spend maybe a day or so there with Paul as he spends some time with them. Then they travel a ways back. Now, I don't know about you, but that's a significant investment on their part to come and hear what Paul has to say to them. I mean they're traveling by foot, no doubt, for a day's journey, investing this time and effort into be with Paul for a little bit of time. So it's a tremendous testimony of the love and respect that this church had for the man God had used to establish them. But now he's moving on. And he comes down through this um Section here begins in verse 17, and he's addressing these elders, and in this passage here, he gives what I view to be His philosophy of ministry. Now bear with me a little bit here. But he gives them his philosophy of ministry. This is the way he sees the ministry. This is the way he believes a church ought to be And he gives a whole list of things here, and we're not going to be able to look at all of these, but he comes down, beginning in verse 19, he points out that a church ought to serve with humility. A church ought to be humble. I tell you, my prayer for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is that we never get proud. We never get proud. God has been very good to us. God has been wonderfully good to us. But I always say this. God hasn't been good to us because we're wonderful. He's been good to us because he's wonderful. And we need to remember, we're just sinners saved by grace. And it's by God's grace that uh we have and are able to accomplish anything. And so he says here that we ought to serve God with humility. A church ought to stay very, very humble before their God. And then he points out verse 19 and 23, in verse 23, we ought to expect opposition. Can't go forward with God without going against the world. I can't grow in my faith without Satan stirring up. And so he says, listen, don't be surprised when opposition comes, when uh obstacles come, when Uh people, you know, ungodly people, or people who don't share your burden, your vision, they oppose that. Uh don't be surprised by that. Expect opposition. Then verse 20 says, make sure your walk matches your talk I'm telling you, we as a church, how we live out there ought to match how we sing in here. Amen? What we talk about, how we act on Sunday mornings, ought not to be any different than how we behave on Monday morning. And he cautions them, listen, make sure your walk matches your talk. Then he verse 20 says you need to focus on soul winning You need to focus on soul winning. So many churches are dropping any soul winning efforts. So many churches are dropping outreach into their communities. I believe that's a terrible mistake. And he says, focus on soul winning. Then in verse number uh 21 and 23, uh don't compromise God's message. We ought not to compromise the word of God. We need to give it out to the world. Popular or not, we need to give God's word. And then verse 24, and that's our text. I want to get to this. He says we ought to be dedicated to Christ and the gospel. That's where he says, I don't count my life dear unto myself. Let me just run down through these. A church ought to be joyful, verse number 24. Ought to be joyful. We ought to be a happy church. Oh, it would be a joyful church. How do you say, how do you be so joyful? It's very simple. You die to self. Put Christ in his place. Then he says the church ought never quit What never quit. Just keep on going. Keep on going keep on going. You say, oh brother Leatherman, we live in a day and age. Uh nobody appreciates our position. Nobody uh it doesn't matter. We ought not to quit. Just keep going, keep on going. And then he says a church ought to fulfill our responsibilities. Verse 28 through 30 says we ought to warn people of spiritual dangers. Verse 32 We ought to understand it is God that gives us growth. Verse number 33 and 34, we ought to be content. Tell you what, that right there would solve a lot of problems. Just be content. Just be content. Then we ought to verse 35. Be generous, hospitable, and kind. I've always said this. The folks of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be the nicest people in Oakland Or to be kind and nice. I tell you what a powerful testimony is. Just be nice. Amen. Be nice. How can I have a good testimony? Just be nice. Be kind. Back it up with that. And then verse 36, ought to saturate my life and ministry with prayer. We talk a lot about that. Verse 19 and verse 23, expect opposition. We already mentioned that. Do not allow others to influence me out of God's will. And so he goes down. He meets with these Ephesian elders and he addresses these areas of ministry that they need to make sure are true in their church. But I want to come back to verse 24. And here he declares the supreme importance of the gospel of Jesus Christ, dedicating ourselves to getting the gospel into all the world. I have three thoughts here. I'm going to try and give them to you quickly. Number one, his resolve concerning the gospel. His resolve concerning the gospel. Look at verse 24. But none of these things move me. How many people agree with me? That sounds like a decision. Everybody agrees? None of these things move me. Paul made a very deliberate decision. He was resolved. That he is going to stay focused on the gospel. That little phrase, none of these things move me. That phrase move me means to draw aside. To draw aside. How many folks ever went into Walmart? You had one item you were going to get. I'm just going to go in, I'm going to get a pair of socks. That's all I'm going to get, a pair of socks. You go in there. You come out with $725 worth of stuff and you forgot to get the socks. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Oh, I need it's funny. Oh, I need that We didn't even know it existed five minutes ago. Now we need it. You know what that is? And all the men said except when we go to Cabela, that's a different story. But anyway You know what that is? That's being drawn away. That's being moved from my initial focus, my initial purpose, my init initial mission Get a pair of socks. Get in there. Get a pair of socks and get out without buying anything else. That's a challenge. And Paul said, I am resolved. I am resolved. All I'm going to do is get socks. Not gonna buy $1. 99 watermelon every time I go in there. Uh I'm gonna get what I'm after. He's resolved. He is resolved. The word resolve means to make a definite decision, a firm determination. Nothing is going to move us. There was a day, hey, there was a day when the Church of Jesus Christ was resolved that they were going to preach the gospel. That was our resolve. Nothing is going to draw us away from that. Nothing is going to distract us from that. We're not going to get caught up on all the affairs of the world. We are going to focus on preaching the gospel. They were going to they were there was a day when that New Testament church was enthusiastic about the gospel. Man, they were consumed with reaching people for Christ and getting lost people saved. They were sacrificial in preaching the gospel. They were determined that nothing was going to distract them, nothing is going to draw them away. I hate to say it, but that's not the case in many churches in 2017. We find churches wrapped up in everything else in the world except the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That doesn't mean we don't have other areas. We help people and do things like that. But we don't get off track. We don't get away from that. It's a tragic thing. And again, please don't misunderstand. I'm not trying to be critical. I I'm I uh I'm not trying to say anything about any other church other than the fact that we are responsible for who and what we are. But I get out and I knock on doors. And I'll ask someone, and you know the little spiel I go through, and I'll talk to you a little bit, we'd like to invite you out. I'll ask this question, do you know for sure if you died right now you'd go to heaven? Most of the time, overwhelming majority of the time, I get, well, I hope so, I think so, I wonder. But I'll ask from this, do you have a church you attend anywhere? Oh yeah, I go to such and such a church. Been there, been there for years. But yet they don't know for sure that their sins are forgiven on their way to heaven. And I'm wondering, what in the world is that church teaching? What is that church preaching? Why in the world are they not emphasizing the gospel? Now again, I'm not trying to be critical of other churches. They stand and answer for themselves. But God forbid that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church would ever not make the gospel very, very clear to every single person. Uh when I was a young young person, uh my folks uh would send me off to camp I think camp is a tremendous thing. I think uh kids ought to go. We have great decisions. We have some tremendous camps and I'm bageling camps. But back then I didn't like it. And they were abusive and sent me to Christian camp. It was terrible. We had to go swimming all day long and playing and all this stuff. Poor thing. It was terrible. But it was a Christian camp. And to extent. And I remember one year very, very particularly, and I've shared this before. There was one year in particular, uh Friday night, they would have big chapel service. They had preaching of sorts throughout the week. But Friday night, this one particular year, whoever the preacher was, I have no idea, I was like 12 years old. And he gave the gospel message Very very clearly, very plain, how to be saved, how to have your sins forgiven, how to know you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. Gave very, very clear gospel presentation. And I was under tremendous conviction And as a young man, again, I remember very clearly, I wanted to be saved. I wanted to know this. I wanted Christ. Twelve years old So they gave an invitation and they invited folks to come and uh make a decision. And I, along with many, many others, uh came forward. And we came up front there, and there was probably, and in my mind, you know, this is a long time ago, but the way I remember it, there was probably 20, 25 young people that had responded to this invitation to be saved. And we're up front there, and I remember they took us out. It was like a tabernacle type thing. They took us out the back door and we were outside. There was some lights and fire and stuff going on. They had us around And they came and they said um something to this effect. They said, uh, okay, you all come to uh accept Christ and be saved. And we said, yes Say, all right, we're going to get your name and address and information. And when you get back to your home back there, your pastor will contact you and he'll talk to you. That was it. I said, okay. So there's no sharing with Christ, no decision, uh no no uh uh decision being made to say we'll get your information and we'll contact the pastor. So I didn't know. I said, all right. We got back home. It wasn't long, a week or so, I don't remember the time frame, but the pastor of the church we were attending there, uh, he contacted and he came over and he said, Dennis, I understand you want to join the church I didn't know. Said, oh yeah, I guess that's what being saved is. And so we went through this little class to join the church. And um then on a certain Sunday they had all the kids from that church that had been at camp and were going forward. They came forward and they poured some water on our head. Nobody ever opened the Bible. Nobody ever showed me how to be saved. Nobody ever helped me call on the Lord and make a personal decision, except Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I think what happened was, and they're good people, I'm not trying to be judgmental anyway, but I think what happened was they lost focus of the gospel. They lost focus of the gospel. And they lost that. And I often wondered, I often wondered how differently my teenage years would have been if somebody would just take an open Bible on that night and showed me how to trust Christ and invited me to call on the Lord to be my Savior. How different things would be. How thankful that God in His grace and mercy, you know, seven years later, at the age of 19, was saved. But you follow what I'm trying to say? Paul was resolved. I can hear Paul resolved saying, I will make sure that will never happen in one of my ministries. If folks come and they need to be saved, we're going to make it absolutely clear they know exactly how to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. Now, I want to clarify here, joining a church does not save. Having water poured in your head does not save. Being dumped in water does not save. It's personally acknowledging to Jesus Christ that I'm a sinner, that Jesus paid for that sin on that cross, suffered hell in my place, was buried and rose again. And I by faith put my trust, my confidence, my hope in what he has done and who he is, and he forgives me, and he saves me and takes me to heaven. That's the gospel That's the gospel. And Paul was resolved. Nothing's going to draw me away from that. Nothing's going to draw us away from that. Now, not all of us are called to preach behind the pulpit. Not all of us are called to that. Not all of us are called to go to the foreign mission field. Not everybody's called to be a Sunday school teacher. But every one of us are given a commission by God to share the gospel of Jesus Christ with everyone we possibly can. And we must resolve that. We must be committed to that. Paul is, he says, none of these things move me. Nothing draws me away from that commission God has given me. We took the kids, as I said, to Blackwater Falls yesterday and we had an absolute blast. I'm telling you, uh I can relate to fourth graders. I'm telling you, I just feel like I'm one of them. I just uh we get along fantastic. And uh I tell you one of the greatest blessings of the world, we didn't plan this. We're down there and we're, you know, Blackwater Falls, you go down all those steps, how many people are familiar there And you go down, go down. And we're going down and uh I didn't notice it at first, but one of our young people, where's bird at? Uh uh Amaritha She's gone out to the you know, she's the sweetest thing in the world. She's just just the cutest sweet thing. And she just walks up to somebody and uh she had a whole handful of gospel tracks she had picked up. She had run in here and got them and nobody knew it, just of her own and had this whole handful when she walked up and that little smile. And the people were like, oh, how sweet, thank you. And lo and behold we got down there and all these people, everybody has these gospel tracts. They're walking around. I said, where are these people getting gospel tracts? And um here little amarissa was given em out, giving them out. And uh everywhere and then she finally ran out. I had a bunch in my pocket. I gave her some of the ones I had and uh she gave all them out and uh she goes, I should have brought more, Pastor. And then she said, we're coming back. She says, when we get back to the church, can I go in and get more tracks? Because we're going somewhere and I'll need to give more out. She's got it. She's got it. And I tell you, that's what Paul said. I'm resolved. I'm going to get the gospel out. If we go on a picnic, we're giving the gospel out. If we're going to go shopping, we'll give the gospel out The supreme importance of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We're all commissioned by God Himself to declare the gospel to every person we absolutely can. I mentioned my first Sunday here. I've determined that we were going to start this ministry on the gospel of Jesus Christ, winning lost people to Christ. And we preached the first sermon, as I said, I got a little ahead of myself there The first sermon was you must be born again. You must be born again. Say, preacher, why do you keep emphasizing you must be born again? Because you must be born again. If you're going to see the kingdom of God, you've got to be saved. We cannot be drawn away from that. And again, I'm not trying to blow my orange. I'm just reminiscing here a little bit. But our very first Day here as pastor, we moved in on a Thursday, was September sixteenth, if I remember correctly. Uh Sept uh 1993. Thursday. We unloaded Thursday evening and uh unpack Friday. I rooted around here, I was just looking for everything. I found a bunch of little church brochures and uh just uh kind of old and outdated and a couple gospel tracts And I decided, I'm going to start this thing out right. We're going to keep our focus, right? And went out through Net Mountain Lake Park. Very first day. Started knocking on doors. Say, hey, listen, I want to show you how to be saved. I want to invite you to come out to church. Here's a gospel tract, tell you how to be saved And we tried to resolve to keep that focus all these years. All these years. You follow what I'm trying to say Paul said, nothing things are moved me. I'm not going to let anything draw me away from getting the gospel to the loss. Get it getting the gospel to the lost. We must resolve as churches as a church and as individuals not to be drawn away from the declaration of the gospel. Second thing I see here in this verse, verse 24, is his race with the gospel. First thing's resolved. None of these things move me. Neither count I life my life dear unto myself. Look at this. So that I might finish my course with joy. That phrase, finish my course, has a race concept to it. It means this: to carry out, to complete the route that has been laid out for me. To carry out the path that has been given to me. It's interesting. Throughout the New Testament, several places, Paul refers to his life and his ministry as a race. If you have your Bibles there, if you would, real quickly, now keep your place here, but come over to 1 Corinthians chapter 9. He actually expands on this thought quite a bit. 1 Corinthians 9 Acts, Romans, 1 Corinthians, so just go towards the back of your Bible there. Keep moving. Get to 1 Corinthians. Find chapter 9. And at the end of chapter 9, he references this idea of the ministry, the Christian life being a race. Chapter 9, verse 24. Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, in other words, they're all out, they're all run in, they're all running all out, but one receiveth the prize. Look at this. So run that ye may obtain I put in the margin of my Bible, get in it to win it. Right? He says, if you're going to do it, do it all out. Get after that thing And then he says, verse 25, and every man that striveth for the mastery, in other words, to win the race, is temperate, self-controlled in all things. Now they, the people of this world under the sun, folks here and now, they do it to obtain a corruptible crown. But us as Christians Those of us who are involved in serving the Lord, we do it to obtain an incorruptible crown. Verse 26, therefore, I therefore so run, not as uncertainty He's not I'm just just wandering around. I'm running. I'm I'm certain I'm after this thing. Uh so fight uh he says so fight I not as one that beateth the air. I showed my dad I like boxing It's a terrible sport. It's violent. It should be illegal. But until they outlaw it, I'm going to keep watching it, because I like it. I was showing my dad a little clip It's a boxing match and I don't know who the guys were. But this guy before it started, this guy's going around you know he's doing all his stuff and he's doing all this crazy stuff and he's just swinging around and everybody's like, Oh wow, look at this and he's just going on. The other fellow's just on the side, you know, he's getting geared up and this guy's just uh whoop whoop whoop whoop whoop whoop whoop he's going on and uh carrying on. And so finally they bring them together, they they bump gloves and ding and the and the ref goes uh like this, you know, they come in box and the other guy walks out and boom knocks him over. And the guy's out cold You know what the first guy was doing? He was just putting on a show. He's just beating the air, carrying on, going on. He thought he was something. The other guy just clobbers him. He's knocked out. Paul says, he says, my life isn't just beating the air. It isn't just whoop whoop whoop whoop whoop running around. He says, my life has purpose. It has a focus. It is a race I'm running. And that race consists of getting the gospel to the lost people. We're not just playing, we're not just talking. I I've said this before, you know what the unsaved people need in our community? They don't need us singing about getting saved. They don't need us talking about people getting saved. You know what they need? Somebody to go and show them how to get saved And Paul said, that's my race. What do you do when you're in a race? The object of a race is to get from point A to point B as fast as you can. Right? Point A, point B as fast as you can. Hopefully it's faster than the others running. But the object is to get point A, point B as fast as you can. Paul said, my whole life consists of getting the gospel of Jesus Christ to as many people as I can before my life runs out. Before my life runs out. So he has a race. It's a race he's running. 2 Timothy 4. 7. He says, I've finished my course. I've kept the faith. Finished my course. I've run this race. My whole life has been committed to this. Hebrews 12. 1 says lay aside the weight and the sins, which so easily says, run the race with patience. Just stay at it, stay at it, stay at it, get after that thing. Every ounce of energy, every minute of my life, focused on the gospel, focused on the gospel. Then uh verse uh the third thought I have from this, and I won't I'll finish up with this is uh first he has the um uh his resolve. None of these things move me. Then he has the race. Uh finish my course. Then I notice the trust that he has received of the Lord. That which I have received of the Lord Jesus Christ back up and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus Christ to testify the gospel of the grace of God. The ministry, the opportunity to serve God, live for God, he says is something God has given to him. The ministry of the gospel was a trust. Paul viewed it as a trust that God has given to us. This is an amazing thing to me. God didn't tell the angels to take the gospel into all the world. He told his people, he's trusted us to do this job in the stead of Christ. God has faith in man. God is trusting us. to do uh what he's instructed us to, take the gospel to the loss. Paul said, this is a trust I've received of the Lord. This opportunity to take the gospel to the lost. It's a privilege entrusted to us. It's a responsibility God has given to us. God has entrusted us to testify of the gospel. The word testify as it's used here in verse 24 means to cause to be known, to cause people to believe it. And our job as Christians and our job as a church to take this simple message that God loves us, that God loves all the world. So much that he would die and suffer hell on that old rugged cross. So that anybody in the world, if they acknowledge their sins and turn to him and trust him as their personal Savior, they could be completely forgiven, have a home in heaven. God has given us that privilege to communicate that message. Dad's down and we've been having a great time together and it brings back we start remembering stuff and I got thinking back when he got saved back in nineteen seventy and uh wasn't long after that he he got baptized in the Baptist Church and started serving there and drove Sunny School bus and went visiting and different different things and he'd take us and I was just a young teenager at the time. And he'd take us to church, and there's a huge, big church, what they run six, seven hundred probably back then, somewhere around there. They don't know. We can just say whatever number we want. But um It was a good-sized church. We sat back about back in where he is over here in this large church. I'm telling you, old Dr. David Auckland was the pastor. I'll tell you that old school preacher, Baptist preacher, he would preach, you need to be saved. And he preached the gospel and preached the gospel and preached the gospel. And their focus was on helping people know Christ as Savior. And there was even revivals where the ushers out in the parking lot would lead people to Christ out in the parking lot while the service is going on. God's hand was on that place. I'd step back there and I was as lost as could be. And he'd preach and he'd give the invitation. Come on now. Time to be saved. You come down here and be saved. You come on, time to be saved. And the old proverbial hanging on to that pew, white knuckles. I knew I need to be saved. I knew I needed to be saved. I'm telling you, I hate to say this. But you go to that church today, there's a real good chance you won't even hear the gospel. No Sunday night service. No Wednesday night service, no revivals, no ushers in the parking lot sharing the gospel, no invitations, come forward and be saved. Sunday school buses shut down. Soul winning all shut down. You know what happened? They got moved. They got drawn away from the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Gospel Lord Jesus Christ. I read an article yesterday, it came in the mail, a little magazine I get. There was an article in there. about a fella, he was the highest rank that a enlisted officer can have. I forget what it it is. CM something And he served uh and he would go around and he would talk about his service and all these tremendous things he did and all these medals he had. And he was held up as a hero and he was held up as some wonderful thing. And without going into all the details for sake of time, lo and behold, one day they did a little research, and this fella had never even been in the military. It was all phony. It was all sham. He had gotten fake medals, fabricated this whole story. And so many people thought so highly of him, so many people thought he was really something. And it was all a sham. And it was all a sham. And I tell you what, I don't want to be true about my life personally. I don't want it to be a sham. I want to be what God's called me to be. I want to be the Christian God saved me to be. And a huge part of that, the focus of that, is personally doing everything I can to get the gospel to the lost. And as pastor, and I think the church members here surely feel the same way I do, I do not want our church to be phony. I don't want us to be a sham. And find out at the judgment seat of Christ, oh, it was all a show. It was nothing real, like that guy. I want it to be real. I want God to hear, I want to hear God say to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, well done. You got the gospel out. You stay focused. You weren't drawn aside. You're one people to Christ. You were faithful to the mission I gave you. Now as we look forward, God blesses us with facilities and different things. We have got to determine right up front we are not getting away from the gospel of Jesus Christ. Cannot let that happen. Amen? I guess what I want to say is this, maybe. If it comes to a decision between having buildings or supporting missionaries, we're supporting missionaries. It comes to having nice carpets or bus routes, we're running bus routes. Because the nice carpets never save the soul. But getting out in the communities, getting out and reaching people, bringing them in, that's where salvation is. You follow what I'm trying to say? And what's true for us as a church needs to be true for us as individuals. I hope this made sense. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us now. The supreme importance of the gospel, that we would never lose sight of that. That we would never be drawn away, that we would run this race and understand this is a tremendous privilege that we've received of you. To testify the gospel, the grace of God. Stir us and help us. I wonder how many this morning say, preacher, I know I'm saved. God has saved me. But you say, preacher, it's so easy to get caught up in the affairs of this world and the things of this world and paying bills and doing this, that, and the other, that I get drawn away of this matter of sharing Christ with others and being a personal witness. And God using me to be witness. I wonder how many say, preacher, I need to get refocused on my personal soul winning. I need to get refocused on my personal witnessing to others. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand preacher, I need to get refocused on that. I don't want to be drawn away from that. God bless you, hands all around Maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, I want to pray for our church and do everything I can, support this thing as we as a congregation try to go forward and do everything we can corporately In reaching the world with the gospel through faith promise, through the various ministries, and all of that, and you say, Preacher, I pray that God will do a great work and keep us uh on focus. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Of course we'd want to pray that way. So some here this morning say, preacher, I know someone personally That's not saved. I'm not trying to be judgmental. I love them dearly, but I'm very concerned about their relationship with God I'm concerned about where they spend eternity. You'd say, preacher, pray with me. That God will help me reach them for Christ, that they'll come to know Jesus as Savior. Is there anybody, you say, I know someone personally, I'm very, very burdened for that they'd be saved. God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. One last question. There's someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. Preacher, I'm concerned about this. I don't want to go to hell. I'd like to know for sure that God has forgiven me and saved me from sin in hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm very concerned about that. I remember that old pastor often. You need to be saved. Come on now. Come on now. You need to be saved. Let's get it settled. Let's get it settled. Is there any like that? Preacher, I need to be saved. I need to get this settled. Any at all? How about it? God's dealing with your heart. How about it? Now Father, bless our invitation. Help us now as we kneel to older. And bring these things to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together heads about our head