For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning the world. As Brother Dell was singing, you know, peace be on the river. There's a lot of people that are hurting because of things that are going on in life. Um one day we have that opportunity if we're saved to be across that river. Sometimes we wish that was sooner so we didn't have to go through these trials that we're people are going through. But God gives us this day and give us for a reason. Now, one of you guys' jobs or two is stay awake, because if you don't stay awake, I will mail you the C D. And and three is I have a tendency sometimes to uh Start to say, well, I'm not going to say that. And then what do I do? I say it. So what I need you guys to do is if I start to say, I'm not going to say that, you need to holler back, don't say it Okay? Because sometimes I don't listen to myself. And then I might be in the pastor's office. So I don't want that. So um Another thing is recently I was thinking of Ed and uh his wife, you know, Charlotte, the lovely lady she is. Carolyn. Charlotte and Carolyn the same person to me in my mind. Anyway, when Ed and Carolyn were together young, very few cars were around then. And they were out in the field, as the Bible says, with the helpmate, and they were working together. Well this odd thing started zipping down the road past him while they were out working and all the hurdles, suddenly you heard, ooga, ooga! Carhorn. Carolyn hollers, Ed, hit your knees, the Lord's coming. So, you know, because the Bible tells us there'll be a noise. So, poor Ed. Ed knows I love him. Speaking of love, that's going to be my message tonight. It's called The Greatest Commandment, and it's talking about love. Love, love, love. It's a priority, should be a priority in our lives I'm a very hard-hitter about love, especially as God's given us the last year to help in the home builders class and help the couples class Throughout our tenure and our career, in my career moving around and stuff, I've seen a lot of people in a lot of pain. Each of you in here, I'm sure, have relatives, maybe in your own life, have had a lot of pain because of lack of love. So I'm very passionate about the subject. If you have family members and stuff, new younger couples that need to hear God's word and hear the design of the home, the foundation of the home, invite them to our class, let us know about it. We'll go visit them. You know, young adults, children's families that need to hear about God's love, this is where they hear it. They don't hear it anywhere else. I want to ask, first of all, let me pray. Father, we love you and we thank you for this day. Father, I know as even as pastors now down listening to another sermon this evening, we'll ask that you would just giving comfort. Lord, we pray you'll give us comfort tonight as we teach from your word. Lord, God, we thank you so much for loving us, and I ask you'll bless the message tonight. In your name we pray Hey, when we start out of the morning, do we the first thing when we get awake, do we thank God for our health? Do we thank God for a beautiful day, even if it's raining out? Do we thank God for another day to serve Him? Do we thank God for another day to spread the gospel, the Great Commission, which is all of our jobs as Christians? Do we thank God for another day to love our neighbors? You know, do our days contain the greatest commandment of all? Turn to Matthew 22, please, verse 37. That's in the New Testament. Verse thirty-seven tells us Matthew twenty two thirty-seven. The Bible tells us Jesus said unto them, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart. with all thy soul and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love the neighbor as thyself. Both of those commandments contain love. The love God will give to us to love others. As a family man, God put passion in my heart to love people. To love couples, to love in general. Love animals, except for snakes. Um to just love God is is God a center of your love? Is God a part of your love? Do you spread God's love? You know, right now our world is falling apart all around us. You know, we're talking about North Korea dismantling the nuclear devices, you know, weapons of mass destruction. We got abortions going on. We've got people trafficking going on. Love is not involved with any of those. Typically, money is what's involved with those. People with health issues, and I want to put this note out there, and I'm not preaching to anybody but myself, but I want you to listen. When we love our spouse, we also try to take care of ourselves. This day and age, a lot of people, if you will, for lack of a better term, let themselves go. Then that forces their wife to have to take care of them. To me that's not fair, and to me that's not what God wanted us to do. He wanted a helpmate, not a pushmate. Um so keep that in mind I myself am thrilled, you know, I will uh get me a El Dorado Cadillac bowl size of ice cream, hubcap size of ice cream, and eat it with gummy bears and whatever I can get on it. But That's not fair to my wife because if I have issues, she's the one that has to take care of me. And ladies, we all know men are very strong. We take care of ourselves. We don't need anything when we're sick. You guys know that's not true. But anyway, so keep that in mind. The world is full of with the drugs that are out there. Kids are pushing drugs, everybody's pushing drugs The world is dictating to our kids about love. They're telling us through the TV, they're telling us through many avenues of what love is. Parents are not telling them about love, and parents are not showing love. Divorce rate continues to rise. Let me ask this, and I know there's issues with divorces, but let me ask this, if you really love the person that you married, how you keep falling in and out of love with them? Thank the Lord God does not continue to fall in and out of love with us. Diana and I have been married for many years now. The 23 years of 25 of my career, military career, she was behind me I never once worried about her not being at home when I was deployed for at least three years. I never worried about that. I never worried about my wife being honest and and I knew the most beautiful lady with blue eyes was laying beside me and was going to be laying beside me. Even if those eyes were closed, she was going to be there. When we love somebody, we have to be confident in our love. We have to show our love and we have to be committed to each other. Sometimes I think I got OCD towards her. So I thought, I do. I only care about Diane. That's OCD. That's good, huh? I like that myself. Surprised myself. But the biggest part is I'm so thankful God doesn't fall out of love with us. Well if if He really did, if He zapped us like we zap others We zap those around us, we zap our families, boy, we would really be in trouble. So every day we get up and we go by the laws. We have the stop signs. The yield signs, we have raising our kid laws, we have all kinds of laws, but God gave us his law in the New Testament and throughout the Bible. What does the Bible say about love? If you look at 1 John 4. Verses seven through eleven gives us an outline here It says chapter or verse 7, Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. To me, our testimony should reflect that we are a child of God and that we love Him. Verse 8: He that loveth not, knoweth not God, for God is love. Many people in society nowadays are heartless. Love's not there. They quickly will will release people that they don't like You know, we comment about people of different styles, of different ways, different beliefs. And I agree, they're not our style and everything, but you know what? God loves them. So my opinion is love them and let God do the rest. Verse 9, and this was manifested that love of God toward us Because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might love through Him. None of us have given this gift. that he had to give. He gave the ultimate gift to us. He gave himself through his son to us. Are we willing to give our love to others and through others the way that God gave it to us? Here in his love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation of our sins. He had the ability to love unconditionally to us. And give us the ability. We just need to continue to focus on it. And I would ask and pray, each of you pray too in your lives that we focus on God's love for people. Verse 11, beloved, if God so loves us, we ought to love one another. God is love because He created love. The greatest commandment is love. Is love a feeling or a sensation? Not, is it? We think it is, but in reality it's not. True love is genuine desire for the well-being of another. True love is that brings glory to God, should be evident in our life. Not loving people and not loving God's way is a sin. It's something that we do wrong. It displeases God. Love is mentioned in the Bible 442 times, 27 times in the Old Testament and 22 times in the New Testament. That many times it must be important. It must be important to God. So, where does love begin and how does love display it in our families? When we first are born and arrive into the world, Typically what happens or used to happen, some people got their one and only spanking and others got more by the doctor Paddling you're behind to make sure you cried and were good to go. Then what do they do? They put you in the arms of your parents, your mother typically. And from that point on, love began on this side of the world. But you know what? God loved us even before we were born. He loved us way longer than our parents are ever going to love us. Family is the first impression of love. So, there are many ways for a family to display love. We do it by affection. We do it by our words. Some people do it by money. Some people do it by attraction to the other person. Some people by discipline. They show love by discipline, and you say, What? Us parents that have disciplined our children, you know what I mean by that. Um Christian love. Pastor's down at the sword conference right now. He's not down there because he wanted to get away from us. He's not down here because he wanted to share the podium with somebody else. He's down there because of his love for us, his love for other pastors, and his love for Christ. He's down there so that he can learn Be taught, be fed, and be able to come back and teach us. And he's also down there to be loved by others. Other people love our pastor. So, Pastor's there with his heavenly family, but his earthly family is back here. So, brethren, do mentoring, we love, we teach, we do all of that when we are concerned about God's desire for our lives. So what kind of love are we displaying in our families? Sometimes we display hard love, don't we? We display love that we paddle our kids. Sometimes we might get a little more vocal than we're supposed to, want to. Sometimes we might go too far. That's not the love God wants us to do, but sometimes it's happened. I know it's happened to me. We have compassionate love. We tell our kids we love them, we tell our spouses we love them, we tell those around us that we love them. Sometimes we might have overbearing love. Typically that's the people that you work with and they don't like you being up in their space and stuff. But anyway. Sometimes we have helicopter what we call helicopter parents, which they're over-hovering of their kids sometimes, which is all right. That expresses love, teaches the kids love. Do we have Christ-honoring love though? Do we have the forgiving love? Do we have the love that tells people that we love them? Does our actions show our love? Great commission tells the w tells us to tell the world, but uh if we don't make ourselves lovable, how are we going to tell the world? You know, sometimes um when people are out and and road rage and maybe in the Walmart you're you're with people that are not so friendly to you and and you might have a angered face or something. Then you go out visitation and you knock on their door. That kind of backfires to you, don't it? Ed, you had that happen to you? Yeah, I thought so. Don't let that happen to you. Um one thing about with family, and and I know personally this from my own experience, don't let years go by with disputes in your mind. family. God doesn't want that. And for sure we can't be Christians and let other outside people we try to get them to come to church, but yet they know our actions. And there might be valid disputes. I I I have relatives long, long, long ago. Uh one of a great aunt married her sister's husband. That didn't go over so well. Every re every family reunion, every Christmas thing, whatever, one of the sisters wasn't there. Probably right to so. It wasn't very well to the man you had children with is now married to another lady or your sister. But their mother prayed and prayed and prayed and prayed. And one day God healed their hearts. The one was in church, the other one wasn't. Now they're both in church. Now they're at every fellowship. They love each other. They had to get through that and pass that. One day when we carry bitterness and we carry problems in our lives that are in our families, somebody's going to pass away. in that situation. And you're going to reflect back the time that you had, and it's all going to be 10, 20, 5 years, whatever, that hey, this kept me from that person. I couldn't let it go. God wants us to love those people, not love the action, but love the people. Um we're only given one life. We only were given today. We're not We don't know that we'll have tomorrow. So if we waste today and we waste not loving people today, it's not going to be good for us. It's not going to be good for when we pass. Those that are around you. And we're gonna have to answer for that one day, even as Christians, we're gonna have to answer for our actions. Those that that we should have loved, those that we should have expressed our love to, and loving people is easy, even the irritable people. is easy. Trust me. I know some. None in here, in case anybody was thinking that. See me later. So What choices do we have to do each day? As I said when I was talking earlier, we wake up every day. Lord, help me to love people today. The Bible says, love our neighbors. Do you even know your neighbors? You know those around us. Remember the old well, some people's older days. When you're in your forties, you don't really have that many older days yet. But um When people used to bring casserole dishes, I guess, and stuff, I've seen this on YouTube. They take casserole dishes and stuff to people's houses, food to people's houses and all that. Hey, I'm here. I'm I'm so and so. Just want you to know I love you. Or I you know, just open yourselves up to them. Uh for me it was an opportunity. We don't get many neighbors, but it was an opportunity for you to say, Hey, if you need a good church, we know of one And you just pass on the word. Expressing love is so many different ways. Diane and I, when we were going to Oklahoma with our sons' issues, somebody mowed our yard. I have no idea who it is, who it was. And trust me, I've tried to think of everybody's tractor because I was told it was a John Deere tractor, and I'll think of somebody like, no, they don't have a John Deere. So um whoever it was had the love for us That or either they didn't like my tall grass, but I'd like to think that they have the love for us. And it wasn't my neighbors. So other ways, simple ways to express love, even in church. Put a card on the back table. Sign it if you want or don't sign it. Hey, I love you. I'm thinking of you. I'm praying for you. You know, God laid you on my heart to pray for this week. Um, you know, as a married couple, love what your spouse loves to do, whether you like it or not. I think of Jeryn Connie. She goes hunting, Jackie goes hunting, I forget who else goes hunting. Carolyn shaking her head. No, that's safe for Ed. So but anyway, do what your spouse. This is uh husband and wife. One thing I love about uh our one son is He's under the truck working on it. His wife is right there beside him because she wants to be where he's at. You know, when we accept Christ, we choose for the rest of our life Him. He doesn't throw us away like we throw people away sometimes. He just doesn't do it. He keeps us So one other thing too is with your children. It's so important with your children is to show them how much you love them. And it's not just in words, it's in your actions. We all in here, especially the generation that's in here, and I don't mean this disrespectful, but there in the 50s and 60s was a hard knocks love. It was do as I say, not as I I do type deal. You know, we were going through the wars and various different things. It wasn't a lot of dads telling you I love you and all this. If you had one, you're a very lucky person, because a lot of times it just was not taught and it wasn't an act of love. But Please be slow to anger with your children and tell your children that you love them. With your neighbors. And when I say neighbors, I don't mean just John Henry next door. I mean all of our people, everywhere we're at. You know, again, drop them off a note. Put a note in their mailbox. Pick flowers from your yard, not their yard. And give it to them. You know, it's an act of kindness. And that act of, how many of us remember people that did something nice for us? And how many people remember the things that people did wrong? A lot of times it's the wrong. So what do we want to do? We want to do the right more often. Let God's love for you reflect through your life. Give them a candy bar. I think it's funny to give people paydays. Hey it's payday and you give them a payday candy bar. It's funny, but you know what? They appreciate it because you thought of them. Be positive around them. Comment on their house, comment on whatever. Make not make up something, but you know what I mean Say something nice. You can't be nice, don't say nothing at all. I believe is what Miss Helen used to say. I mean parents used to say. Um love our neighbors and teach them that you love them. Show them by your actions. Give the church invite cards, the ones pastor mail out. Give them out. It's an opportunity to go over and see them hi and just saw this was going on. Also wanted to let you know about church. Okay? It's something simple. Here is something simple. Can I get you guys to pass one of these out to each side, please? These are simple things, kisses and hugs. Now The striped ones are hugs, the silver one are kisses. If you get lay couples that are already married didn't get a kiss already today, Send your old unsweetened spouse to me and I'll talk to them later. Okay? It's something simple that you get. Now once we get those, Not more than one, Ed, please. Mercy. You know he's on a pension and stuff, so we'll let him have more than one Like the only kiss he's gonna get this whole week. Seriously, these are simple things. You know, it's it's a token, it's a funny kind of token. But it I when I was putting this message together, I thought, you know. Especially with our spouses, the one that we love to be with, the one that God gave us that we stood in front of the altar and said, I do, and took the vows. You know, this is a simple way. Now don't eat 'em, Ed. No. What I want you to do, once you get one, is I want you to give them to the person beside you. I want you to get in the habit of giving kisses and hugs away. Now if it's not your spouse Seth Meshaijah, please don't give a kiss. Please, I don't want to have to answer the pastor for that. Thanks, Brad. A simple gesture. A simple gesture to show your love. You know, when you're home of the morning, because we love our spouses so much, if we don't, get your heart right. Some tips not to do. Don't write on the mirror with their eyeliner that they use the eyeliner with. It dulls them. Same thing with the lipstick. It's hard to get off. But you can leave notes, you can do all kinds of things to show your spouse that you love them. So, the desire of God is for us to love and to be loved. He already gave us the love, he gave us his word. His word tells us four hundred and twenty-two times how much he loves us. And look how long God has loved this world. Did you guys give them to somebody else or did you eat them? Okay. Um John 13, 35. But this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to another. Arthur's putting hers in her pocket. She's going to be mad at me later. So, the Bible says, You are all my disciples if you have love one to another. That means we got to serve him, and by serving him we have to love others. You know, we gather the sheep into the fold by inviting them to church. They don't want to come to church if they don't see you as a smiley, happy person. Um we can't share the part of the Great Commission if we're not known as a loving person. How many of you guys always had a grouchy person on the end of the block that you walked around their house and stayed away from? Anybody? Yeah? Okay. If you happen to be that person, don't be that way. But seriously, we gotta make ourselves known Churches are dying away right now. They're dying down. Um I I've got a couple of co-workers that their churches are dissolving, and it's because the love of God is leaving. The love of God for people is not there anymore. Matthew 5, 16, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Are we concerned about our neighbors, our brethren, that relative that gets under our skin? Are we in love with them or love them? Do we want them to go to heaven? Do we want to spread the gospel to them? God does loves us and wants us to be concerned about others. That's why he gave us the Great Commission. 1 John 3. 16, hereby perceive we love of God because He laid down His life for us. We ought to lay down our lives for our brethren. Receive the love of God. Do we know the love of God in our own lives? Do we live it? Do we make it our passion? And do we do everything in love? Is it easy to do everything in love? Not. But can we try to do everything in love? And if love is a passion in our life, when we try to start doing something or attempt to do something and we know it's not right and God is We know the love of God is in our hearts. You will have some hesitation about doing what you're doing. The number one hardest thing to do in love is what? Speak it, right? We're real quick to be harsh with our conversations, harsh with our words, and so forth. Speaking in love is not easy. 1 Peter 3, chapter or verses 10 and 11. For he that will love life and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil. and his lips that they speak no guile. Let him eskew evil and do good. Let him seek peace and ensure it. We love people, is it going to be hard to see the peace? How many people, when they're loving their kids and they're disciplining them and they're expressing their love to them, little kids will give you a pushback and cry and don't want what you're about to give them. But most of the time when it's all said and done, they know that you did it for a reason. And the next time they're going to do that reason, they realize I shouldn't do that. Most generally, unless you have a child that's more stubborn than others Then you just teach 'em a little longer. Like God does with us. Sometimes we're very guilty of of not getting it the first, second, third, fourth, fifth time. But God keeps at it. He doesn't throw his hands up and quit. So, the love we should have for each other should emulate the love God has for us. He loves us in spite of our shortcomings. He loves us even to the point of forgetting our sins. And for forgiving us by sending his son to die on the cross. Psalms chapter 107, verse 6. Then they cried unto the Lord in their troubles, and he delivered them out of their distress. God loves us so much that he listens to us us. He wants to hear our pain, our agony, our frustration, our financial situations, our issues in our marriage. God wants to listen to us. He will give us help when sometimes the situation we're put in a position that's so hard to be in, so hard to handle, so hard to handle the pain, so hard to take. God is there with opening arms. We have to pray to him and listen to him and love him as he does to us. Again, imagine how many times we put God in that position with our own lives That he we make him we make ourselves not lovable to him. And I would ask, are you making yourselves lovable? Again, we're supposed to display love. You know nowadays everything's high definition. We got our high definitions. TV, phones, you'll see HD in a lot of different systems now. It's a big sales pitch. I would ask, are you the high definition TV in your family and in your neighborhood? Are you displaying the love that God has for you? Are you the billboard that everyone will see evidence of your love for God? Matthew 5. 14. You are the light of the world, a city that is set on a hill, cannot be hid. Is the light that shines from you, is it dim or is it light and bright? Something to think about. The world needs a lot of bright lights right now It seems like we don't have a lot of bright lights and sometimes unfortunately we don't have a lot of bright people. But if we love those people and lift those people up, even if we don't like what they're doing, but we like that they're a soul, that they need to be saved, and we lift them up to the Lord. Go to those people and go to people that need help and tell them that you love them. You know, give them biblical guidance. Tell them how much God loves them. We need to stand up for the love of God for those around us in this world that is that God has created. And a lot of times you look at our church sizes nowadays. People are not standing up for the Lord. Unfortunately one day we're good they're going to have to stand up and it's not going to be as good as it is now. As caretakers of the world, God knows what a mess it is. What He wants us to do. He wants us to maintain this world by love and by giving in love, by showing love And thus he will be, he will give us the love. We also have to display love. What kind of impression are you making for your neighbors and those family members around you? Those that wake up beside you, those sitting at the dinner table, think about the impressions that you're giving. Sometimes think about what you're getting in response. If you're not getting kindness and response and stuff, a lot of times we immediately try to retaliate and think, oh, they've done something. Maybe evaluate ourselves and look at ourselves and think, what stumbling block have I done? What have I put forth that's causing this distance and causing this love not to be there? Matthew 19:19, the second part of that, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Put as much love into your spouse and your family and your neighbor as you do yourself. And there are a lot of people that are very prideful, very uh self-centered Everything's about me, me, me, me. Well put that to you you and it might change your life and it will change those around you. Galatians 5. 22. I'm not going to go through all 422 verses, by the way. Galatians 5. 22. But the fruit of the Spirit is love. What else? Joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law When our heat hit when our feet hit the floor the first thing of the morning, if we would go through these and use these ingredients that's God given us from his word, And use them throughout the day, what a joyous life we would have for ourselves and also for those that are around. You guys all have people that you know that you love being around, you enjoy. There's many of you right now that I can think of that it at work if I'm having issues sometimes and you know And I have some people's pictures, and I'm not a stalker, I have some people's pictures hanging on my wall at work because I can look at them and remember something that was said and think of what they said, and it brings joy to my heart I don't have the ones on there that have brought not so nice joy to my life. Um you know it's hard sometimes to always Be loving and always be that joyous person. It's going to be hard for you guys to hear this. Sometimes dying gets out of line. But you know what? I live with it. Why? Because I love her. I do to her what God does to me. He loves me. So we get through whatever it is that I've done wrong If we make ourselves loved and approachable, sometimes that's not enough, is it? Sometimes we keep giving and giving and giving and the other person just gets grouchier and grouchier and grousier The neighbor mows his yard and blows his leaves in my yard. The neighbor teaches his dog to come, you know what, in my yard. You know, the neighbor squeals his tires out or revs his engine at four o'clock in the morning You know these kind of Lord help me with that neighbor. No, Lord, give me, let me not get caught by going and doing something. It's not always pleasing what's around us. But You did as God asked you to do. You made yourself lovable, and that's what we need to do. We need to be lovable for everyone around us. Luke 6. 22. Blessed are ye when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you and cast out your name as evil For the Son of Man's sake. Rejoice in that day and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven. For in the like manner did their fathers unto the prophets. So this has happened for generations and generations. Christians have been put down and so forth because of all their love and passion. But you know what? God's up there saying, that a boy, that a girl, that's what I wanted you to do. That's the love I wanted you to show. I wanted you to show the love that I have You know, on this earth we have to dwell together. Psalms 133:1. Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. Can we love people and not be unified with them? We can. But is it easier for if we love them? We're approachable and we enjoy being with them? Yes. Practice the greatest commandments of all ever given to man is to love people. Now, and to dwell with people. Not this way. I know someone who was married for uh twenty years and ran off with his secretary after being married twenty years. She was younger than he was. He's married to that lady for 40 years After twenty years of her marry him married to the second lady, he packs his suitcase every weekend and goes back to the first wife while he's still married to the second wife. She goes to Florida with him three months out of the year. The first wife does. The second wife stays home, married 40 years That's not the dwelling together that God wants us to do. Not at all. Um that's a tangled mess, isn't it? Total tangled mess. But it goes on They're in their eighties and still living this way. A lot of times we expect our older generation to act right. The seasoned people. Sometimes life is rough, but if we let God hold us in his arms, it'll be easy. Matthew 22, 37, we're back to the beginning. Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. The first and great commandment. And the second is like unto him, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Love God with everything we have. Let the love that we have spread to our neighbors and those around us. Let's make it contagious. What's the shortest verse in the Bible? Jesus wept. Why does Jesus wept? I would say because a big portion of it is the lack of love. The lack of love for Christ is why we have the sin that we have in our lives. He sweeps every time he hears an angry word towards another from our mouths. Um when he hears a heart being broken, when he hears a hurtful act is done. When he knows emotional abuse is out there. He did not design love and he did not design us for that. He did, we would have seen in the Old Testament, Adam griping to eat, and I mean griping to eat We didn't see that. God loves us. He loves us very, very, very much. If you will please stand. We will just heads bowed, eyes closed. I don't have a piano player and I'm not going to sing. Just think of this in your mind, and if you want to come to the altar you can. Do you love the Lord? Think of this. Do you love the Lord Do you display the love of God that God has given you in your lives? Are you holding grudges? Do you have a desire to change the world by loving people in it? And your heart has, if your heart has been hurt by someone, pray for that person that has hurt you. Make the action of love a priority in your life. God did. God loves us for everything. That we've done, he still loves us. He forgave us and he loves us. We'll take this opportunity if anybody wants to come pray.