Alright, John chapter 4, verse 35 is what we want to look at, and we've looked at this this morning when I got started. Jesus is speaking to his disciples as they are uh uh uh coming to him. It's lunchtime. He's been witnessing to this Samaritan woman, a very sinful woman, pretty loose-living woman. She trusts him as the Messiah. She believes on him And she goes back into town, she gathers town folk and says, Come on out, you've got to meet this guy. And so these crowds of people are coming out to the Lord Jesus Christ from the town there out to this well he's been at. And the disciples in the meantime show up and um they're uh concerned about eating lunch. You know, it's lunchtime. Lord what'd you eat? We got some food, what'd you eat And uh he's redirecting their thinking. He's trying to get them to see people the way he sees them. And then he says here, he says verse 35, say not ye This is the way you think. This is what you guys say. There are yet four months, then cometh the harvest. In other words, your view of folks' need of Christ, of winning souls, bringing people to saving knowledge of Christ It's not urgent. It's not pressing. Oh, we got time for a month. You know, it's not that big a deal. And the Lord says, Behold, I say unto you, now I don't know about you, but I want to see things the way the Lord sees them. I want to understand the Lord's perspective on this. And he says, let me tell you how I see it. Let me tell uh maybe we put it this way, let me tell you how it is. It says, behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields. But it's interesting. He doesn't stop there. Hey, fellows, lift up your eyes, look on the fields. But then he makes this second statement: for they are white already to harvest. They're white already to harvest. You could put in the margin of your Bible there, urgency. Urgency. Look on the fields. Alright, we look out there, we see Kazakhstan needs missionaries, we see Russia needs missionaries, we see uh Mexico, we see all these countries. Yeah, they need missionaries. He says, alright, look on the fields But then he doesn't stop there. He says they're white already to harvest. Its time is now. It's an urgent. And so I want to speak on the urgency of missions. Let's pray. Father. Please bless tonight. God, I pray that you please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And I just, Lord, I just want you to be the preacher. I just want you to speak through me is my prayer. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I don't know how many folks here are old enough. I'm looking, there's a few of us. Remember the name Baby Jessica. Does anybody Aha we have a few. Mark looks like he's thinking back there. Uh baby Jessica. I know we got some folks that are old enough online watching. Anyone that was born after 1990 probably doesn't know anything about jet baby jessica. In nineteen eighty seven baby Jessica was eighteen months old. Now it's what she got known. Her name is Jessica uh starts with an M on Solon or something like that. Well she was net became known as baby Jessica. She was 18 months old and she was at her grandmother's house in Midland, Texas And out in the backyard, behind the backyard of grandma's house, was an old well that had been abandoned and it wasn't covered correctly. And this 18-month-old toddler, baby Jessica, fell down into that twenty-two-inch pipe That went down in the ground. She fell um oh actually I think it was twenty-two feet down into the pipe. I don't remember the size of the pipe, but she fell down into that well 22 feet and wedged down in there. And they could not get little baby Jessica out of that well. They called the emergency squads, they called the fire department, they called the rescue squads, came in there, and the media Got word of what was happening, and the whole world focused on getting baby Jessica out of that well. Uh for two and a half days, people from around the world, rescues, experts, uh rescue people from around the world came to Midland, Texas and worked nonstop twenty-four hours a day for two and a half days. They worked on getting little baby Jessica out of there. If I remember correctly, I think they were digging holes down beside, going down beside, trying to come over to her, because they couldn't get her up out of there. And the reports were this not one expense was spared on getting little baby Jessica out there. There was not one piece of equipment that was not available. I mean they'd ship it from the other side of the world to get it there to get baby Jessica out. They spent hundreds of thousands of dollars. They invested people from all over the world came down. The whole world was watching and praying People were giving. People would show up there and offer food, did anything and everything they could possibly do to get baby Jessica up out of that well. After two and a half days They were able to break through. They got her out of there. And some of us will never forget that picture on the news of that rescue guy carrying little babies rescue. She's all black. She'd been trapped there. She had some gangrene headset in And uh she was black splotches on her body. And that rescue uh that EMT carrying that little baby off to the hospital, she ended up losing, I think, a couple of toes, part of her foot Um and I was reading the other week uh she has uh there's still a scar on her face where she was cramped down in there that's uh by the way, she's a mother now of her own children. She's a grown adult woman with her married and has her own children now. A plastic surgeon offered to do surgery on that scar and remove that so that it wouldn't be there. And she says, no, that's part of who I am And it reminds me of what people did to save my life. If they had not done that, I would not be here now. And so she opted to leave it. I got thinking about that. What if What if the rescue squads, the emergency people, what if everybody involved in that would have put the time and effort and the resources into rescuing baby Jessica that your average church puts in to get lost people saved. I'd venture to say she would have died. If the if they would have put in the time and effort and finances that your average church effort puts into to getting lost people saved from going to hell Little baby Jessica would have never come out of that well, I suggest. Let's reverse that. What if our churches? What if our churches would put the time and effort and have the sense of urgency of getting lost people the opportunity to be saved that the world, the urgency that the world had at getting little baby Jessica up out of that well, I wonder if there would be one nation in the world that wasn't reached with the gospel. If we had that same urgency. The urgency of missions. The urgency of missions. Would there be any unreached countries in the world if we shared that same urgency uh that was there. When the Lord gave the Great Commission, you read through the Gospels, he gave it various versions of it in each of the four Gospels. Mark we know it as going to all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. And Matthew He put it this way, go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe what uh uh uh teaching them to observe all things whatsoever he command you, and lo, I'm with you always. And then Luke he has a version of it and John, he has a version of it, as the Father has sent me, even so send I you. Every time the Lord gave that great commission to his disciples and to us as a church, every time there's a sense of urgency behind it. If you read it very, very carefully and you pay attention to what the Lord is saying and how he's saying it, he is saying that with a very urgent sense behind it. Go ye therefore and teach all nations. Go into all the world and preach the gospel. And then we get into the book of Acts, and you look as the church is established and begins organized and is energized and powered by the Holy Spirit You can't read the book of Acts and not sense an urgency on the part of those New Testament believers in reaching the whole world with the gospels. Uh over and over it says things like, they went everywhere preaching the gospel. And as they went through the cities, they were preaching the gospel. And Paul and Barnabas went out on their missionary journeys Preaching the resurrection of Christ, preaching the gospel, establishing churches. And the urgency that characterized that New Testament church, I'm telling you, we need that today again. We need a revival of the urgency of missions. When the New Testament Church was established and organized and energized, they began to carry out the Great Commission with a sense of urgency, as I said in the book of Acts, you find them selling their properties to finance the ministries of the church. They were giving their lives. Paul said, hey, I'm willing to die in Jerusalem for the gospel's sake. They were willing to leave their homes and their families to go on extended missionary journeys to get out there and plant uh plant churches and and uh win souls, they were willing, and they did, suffer persecution even to the point where some lost their lives, were martyred for the cause of Christ. You talk about an intensity. You talk about an urgency of getting the gospel to the Bible term regions beyond. Paul said, I need to go places where Christ has not been preached. A preacher years ago made the statement. He says, nobody, now you can take this for whatever it's worth, he said, nobody has a right to hear the gospel two times when there's somebody in the world that's never heard it once And another preacher I heard, and I can't give you the names of the guys that made these statements, but um uh another preacher said, everybody's worked up about the second coming of Christ when there's billions of people never heard of the first coming yet. The urgency behind this matter of getting gospel out, getting missionaries out, getting into all the world with the gospel. I want to quickly give you four reasons I believe that world missions is urgent, the urgency of world missions. And there's no doubt many others you could come up with. I put this one down. Number one, because we've been instructed to go into all the world by our Lord. The Lord has instructed us that we are to take the gospel into every home, into every street, every city, every country, every people group, every continent. The Lord has instructed us. The greatest and highest authority in existence, God, the Lord Jehovah God, the highest authority in existence. has instructed us, commanded us to date the gospel in all the world. Now I don't know about you, but if God says we ought to do something, it has a sense of urgency about it. Right or wrong. Amen or not God says to you, you need to do this. You need to do this. There's a sense of urgency. So the very fact that we've been instructed by our Lord, the highest authority in existence, has told us to do this It ought to give us a sense of urgency. Let's see if you can finish this quote for me. Delay obedience is what? Disobedience. Delayed obedience is disobedience. The Lord says, do unto all the world, preach the gospel. We say, well, you know, we'll get four months. Ah, someday. One of these days I'm going to get involved in getting missionaries around the world. Someday I'm going to start giving. I'm telling you, God delayed obedience is disobedience. I modified that little quote. I put it this way. Neglected obedience is disobedience. How many parents here ever told your kids to clean their room? Six months later, you ask them, Did you clean that room? Well, I'm getting around to it. One of these years I'll clean it. And uh, is that obedience or disobedience, kids? It's disobedience. Neglected obedience is disobedience. And so I expect all your rooms to be clean by tomorrow night this time The Lord has instructed us. God Himself, Jehovah God, has instructed us to take the gospel into all the world. That gives it a sense of urgency. Number two, I put this down. Now I'm going to have to explain my little alliteration here. Number one, we're instructed by God Himself. Number two, the imploring of the damned. The imploring. What does it mean to implore? It means the pleading. Would you take your Bible with me? Now I hope you guys at home there are following along with this. Go to Mark. Or I'm sorry, Luke chapter number 16. Turn over there with me, Luke chapter 16. And here we have a tragic story, a rich man, and there's a poor man named Lazarus. The rich man is very rich, and Lazarus is very poor. And lo and behold, they both die. You know, rich people die just like poor people. And the rich man who were not given his name, he was unsaved. He died in his sins. And he ends up in hell. Lazarus was a believer in the Messiah. He had been forgiven and cleansed. He had eternal life. And he ends up, well now of course he's in heaven. And in hell, we're given, it's like the Lord Jesus here gives us, by the way, this is not a parable. This is a literal event. He gives names, places And it's like the Lord is opening up a spiritual window, and we can look down into this place called hell. And he describes this man, this rich man that died in his sins and is in hell. And by the way, he's there today. And he has this, this rich man in hell has this conversation with Abraham. And his first his first request is that Abraham would Send Lazarus a dip his tip of his finger in water, and he can cool his tongue because he's tormented in the flames. So that gives us a little picture of the horrificness of hell, the torments of hell But then you get to verse number twenty seven, and you find an interesting turn in the conversation between this rich, unsaved man in hell and Abraham. And um by the way, I think it's interesting, the man in hell never asked to be get let out of hell. You say, why in the world wouldn't he say, get me out of here? How do I get out of here I think he knew number one he was guilty and deserved it, and number two, he knew there was no way out. But look listen to this conversation takes a strange turn And he makes a request. Look at verse 27, Luke chapter 16. And it says this: Then he, this rich guy, died in his sins, this unsaved man in hell. Then he said I, what's the next word? Pray. He's pleading. He's praying. He's imploring is where I got that word. I pray thee, therefore, Father, that thou wouldest send him, that's Lazarus, send him to my father's house. I put in the margin of my Bible, missions. He's praying, Abraham sends somebody. Now he wanted Lazarus. That's impossible. But he said he wanted Lazarus. But he says, send somebody. Send somebody to my father's house. Look what he says. For I have five brethren that he may, what? Testify, that's witnessing, sharing the truth of Christ, and sharing the gospel, that he may testify unto them. Why? Lest they also come to this place of torment. What's he doing? Here's a rich man in hell praying and pleading that somebody will go and reach his brothers for the Lord Jesus Christ. Get them saved. Get them to the Messiah. This is a prayer for missionaries. This guy's a burden for his family. This guy's concerned. He's unsaved, he's lost, he's doomed and damned in hell for all eternity. But he's praying that somebody would go. This urgency. Now, I preached this years ago. I preached on this passage on prayers from hell, I called it. And there was a fellow in the church that got very upset with me and later on that later in the week he uh let me know that he strongly disagreed with my message that nobody in hell prays And uh that I was uh teaching false doctrine and you never came back to church again. Uh it's kind of hard to get around the fact it says, I pray thee. Sounds like to me like he's praying for missionaries. And I got thinking about that. I wonder, now maybe I'm reading too much into this, but I wonder if there isn't people in hell today. From countries that have no gospel, that have no no gospel witness, no scriptures in their language, and they've died and gone to hell, and now they realize they now know what This is all about. And I wonder if they aren't praying. Oh, if only somebody would go reach my family so they don't come to this place of torment. We think about that, that there is very likely people in hell longing and wishing and praying. That somebody would reach their family members. I don't know about you, but that puts a sense of urgency on my part. Puts a sense of urgency Somebody shows up and says, My house is on fire, and I have family members in the house. Can somebody please, can you do something somehow? We've got to get them out of there. Pleading for their family to be rescued. Sense of urgency, sense of urgency. Number one, we've been instructed by our Lord, that gives it urgency. We have this imploring, this pleading uh from the damned in hell. And then number three, I put this one down. We have the inspiration of the Holy Spirit or the indwelling of the Holy Spirit In Acts chapter 17 and verse 16, Paul was in Athens, and he was waiting for the rest of his entourage, his mission's entourage to show up, and while he was there, he saw that the whole city was given over to idolatry. They were worshiping false gods. They were lost in their sins. They were unsaved. They were in spiritual darkness. And Paul saw all this Whole city given over to idolatry, and the Bible says his spirit was stirred within him. Something down inside his heart and soul said We've got to get the truth to these people. We have got to get the message to this people. In um uh we are told in Matthew chapter 9 and verse 36 that when Jesus saw the multitudes He was moved with compassion on them because they were as sheep without a shepherd. They were lost and undone. They were lost in their sins. And the spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ was stirred, and uh he was moved with compassion. Now here's what I believe. I believe the Holy Spirit of God, the Spirit of Christ that dwells within every saved person, the moment we get saved, we're indwelt by the Holy Spirit. We're indwelt by the Spirit of Christ. And that same spirit that stirred the Apostle Paul when he saw the city of Athens given to spiritual darkness, that same spirit of Christ, when he saw the multitudes, and he was stirred with compassion. That same Spirit dwells within you and I. And I believe down inside the heart and soul of every genuinely saved person, every person that's indwelt by the Spirit of God. There is somewhere down inside the heart and soul a voice crying out, we've got to reach others. We've got to take the gospel to others Now here's a tragic thing, we have a free will, and we can quench that spirit, and we can grieve that spirit, and we can resist that spirit But down inside every saved person, I believe there is a desire to see other people saved. I tell you, I have a problem, and God knows I can't be the judge of this, but I have a problem with someone that claims to be saved And never has a desire, has zero desire to try and reach other people with the gospel. There's something wrong there. There's something seriously wrong. So the urgency of missions, number one, the God of all the universe, the highest authority in existence, has commanded us to go into all the world. Number two, we have people that have died are in hell And they're crying and praying that somebody goes and reach their family members or friends. We have the Holy Spirit of God indwelling us, the Spirit of Christ, that is prompting and stirring us To go. That gives us a sense of urgency. And then last of all, I put this one down. We have the appeal of the unsaved. Go with me, if you would, to Acts chapter 16. Paul is on his missionary journeys just before he gets to uh Philippi. In fact, this event we're going to look at is what how God led him to the city of Philippi where the Lydia gets saved, this uh wonderful woman, and then the Philippian jailer gets saved after they've been beaten and in prison and God miraculously uh sends an earthquake. This Philippian jailer gets saved. A church gets established. And later on we have the book of Philippi that Paul wrote to the church there. And one of the great books of the New Testament, one of the great churches in the New Testament era, uh the church at Philippi, Strong Missions Church. But notice how God led them. Look with me in Acts chapter 16. Look with me at verse number 9. Look at verse 8. Well, let's back up here. Let's get the whole context. Come back to verse 6. Now, when they had gone through Persia and the region of Galatia and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. That's a strange statement. After they were come, by the way, later on they preached in Asia, eventually got there, but God's timing was somewhere else. After they, verse 7, after they were come to Micah, they essayed to go to Bithynia But the Spirit suffered them not. Alright? God's directing them. He's closing doors. He has somewhere he wants them to go. Then verse 8 And they passing by Micah came down to Troas Look at this. And a vision appeared into Paul in the night. And there stood a what? Stood a man of Macedonia. And prayed him, there's that phrase again, prayed him, saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us. I put in the margin of my Bible there a call to missions. Come and help us. Come, bring us this message you have. Bring us this truth that you have. Bring us this light that you have. We're in darkness. We're unsaved. We're in our sins. And God is uh gives Paul this vision of this man. Come over and help us, come over and help us. I like verse 10. And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavored to go to Macedonia, assuredly gathering That the Lord had called us for to what? Preach the gospel unto them. It's a call to missions, appeal of the unsaved. Come and help us. Come and help us. We're lost in our sins. We're in spiritual darkness. Come and help us. And Paul said, that's God's leadership. We need to go and preach the gospel. By the way, preaching the gospel will help people more than about anything else. Come and help us, they went and preached the gospel. The call of the unsaved all around the world. I believe all this false worship, all these idols. We were talking about when I was in Mongolia and a large uh cemetery. We're looking at these numbers of people die. And they're there in Mongolia in the capital. They have uh if I remember correctly, one of the largest cemeteries in the world, I think Might have been the largest in Mongolia, maybe one in the world, just hundreds and hundreds of thousands of tombstones, as far as you can see And every one of those would have some little light or some little candle, and they believed the spirits of the dead were there, and people would come and pray to the spirits of their ancestors, trying to find answers. Trying to find direction. Trying to find purpose and meaning and protection and light. You know what that is? That's all cry for help. All cry for help. Come and help us. Come and help us Years ago, we took a mission trip up to James Bay up in Canada, one of the most amazing mission trips I'd ever been on. Uh we saw God do things. I mean drove for days to get up there. That place is so huge and uh drive for hundreds and hundreds of miles just between towns. And you had to plan out your gas and everything, your food, because there there's nothing. We got to this one one town, and if I remember the name of it correctly, it was called East Maine, Canada, and whatever province that is up there. It was right along the bay, James Bay. Just a little village, an Indian village. I think they said they had 900 people lived there. And we had boxes and boxes of Romans booklets that we had assembled. And Brother Gary Forney was with us, another preacher from New York, Brother Livermore, was pastoring up in New York at the time. He went along with us. And then we had our team of folks. And uh we left early in the morning. It's about a four hour drive from where we were staying at this little settlement type place and drove four hours into this uh little nine hundred uh uh uh City a little s uh um village, about nine hundred people right on the water. We drove all four hours, got there, and by the time we got there it was pouring down rain. I mean torrential rain And we thought, well, we can't get out and we'll just get soaked, our literature will get soaked. So we found a little a little diner type thing there and we went in and we sat there and we got lun got a meal, got lunch, and we're just kind of talking and trying to waited out a little bit, decide what to do. And uh we prayed and we were talking Lord and uh these are all Indian folk, you know, I don't know if they'd be Eskimos, but they're Indian native folk from there And this one fella came over and uh we were obviously not natives for the area there, and he says, Where are y'all from? We said uh he didn't say y'all. But he said, where are you from? And uh we said, oh, we're from America. What are you doing up here? He said, well, we come up to distribute Christian literature, scriptures, and and tell people about Jesus. And the guy's jaw dropped. He came and he sat down. He said, Can I sit down? He says, Yeah. He says, What are you giving out? And we told him it's a Romans book. Then it tells people how they can know their sins if again on their way to heaven And he says, we have been s trying to study the Bible. And here he was like the head council guy of the village. They have their own little nation, it's considered. So they were in their own rules. So he was like the chief. And he said, we've been trying to study the Bible, and we want to be Christians. And so Brother Forney, he's experienced with that, and he talked a little bit, and he said, This guy's for real. This town, this little village out here in the middle of this tundra, four-hour drive from any other civilization, they want to be Christians. And uh so we got talking to it a little bit. He says, What's your literature? We showed him, we showed him Plan of Salvation. We said, What are you studying? He said, Well, we get to the council together, and they had a little book, it was called Guideposts. Anybody ever see that little booklet guideposts? That's all they had. That was their Bible study. And we said, well, this is the Bible itself. And they had Bibles, but they didn't know what to do with them. So he goes, by then it had quit raining. And he said, uh he says, we have a radio station. I'm going to go down the radio station and announce. And he said, everybody listens to it. Because they're so far from TV and stuff. Uh he says, uh I'm gonna get on a radio station and I'm gonna tell everybody that you're here and you go out and give them out and I'll tell everybody to wait on their front porch for you and get these bu these uh scriptures from you. And we went out and everywhere we went people were like, Oh yeah, thank you, thank you. Met a saved gal that got saved down Montreal somewhere. She came down to the city for a while. And an American missionary led her to Christ, then she went back up there. And she said, We've been praying that our town would be Christian Isn't that an amazing thing? We had boxes of. He said, you leave, we said, can we leave these with you? He said, I promise you, we will give these out to all our people. And then he said, This, can you stay and have meetings for a week or two and tell us more about this? And we couldn't. We had a time frame, we couldn't, it was just physically impossible to do that. And so Brother Forney and others were going to try and arrange the guy has a plane and he flies into these little towns. They all have their own little air airstrip and he was going to try and get that guy in there. And I communicated back and forth with that chief. I forget his name. This is years ago. And we would send him sermons from down here. We'd send him CDs up there. One day he r he wrote me and says, We need King James Bibles. And uh we don't have any King James Bibles. We need King James. I guess I had preached the sermon on or something, and so we sent boxes of Bibles up to them, and uh we just kind of lost touch over the years. But you know what I thought about I thought about that Macedonian guy say, come and help us. Come and help us. I wonder how many people are out there like their dear folks that just somebody come and tell them the truth. Just somebody come and tell them of Christ. What an impact that would have. The urgency of missions. The highest authority existence. Jehovah God has commanded us to do this. We have the law stand in hell crying, send somebody to my loved ones. We have the Holy Spirit of God, the Spirit of Christ within us, prompting us, longing to use us To bring others to Christ. And we have the unsaved, lost in darkness of sin, and the call, come help us, come help us. We did a little memorial service yesterday for Dean and Andrew's baby I mentioned this morning. Such a blessing to me. That was such a good thing. And earlier in the week, maybe a week or two before, I had read an article about a rock and roll group, Fleetwood Mac. And the lead singer of that rock and roll group, apparently one of the lead singers or something, whatever she is, Stevie Nix, had made a statement that made headlines Listen to what she said. She said, if I would not have had an abortion, there would be no Fleetwood Mac. She said it's a good and this is what she was saying, it's a good thing I killed the baby in my womb. So that I can enjoy the pleasures and the riches and the popularity of being a rock and roll singer. And I mentioned that yesterday at the funeral. And I said, What a tragedy. How appalling. How appalling that somebody would consider the pleasures of sin, the wickedness of that life and lifestyle. Is of greater value than the life of her own child. And to make a conscious decision, I will kill my child. So that I can indulge in this then. How many people agree with me? That's appalling. Unbelievable. And to publicly say that. I mentioned that and uh we're talking about the the life of the child in the womb. Today I got thinking, this morning, I got thinking about that. I wonder how many Christians Oh, we would never abort our child. I wonder how many Christians consider my lifestyle, my fancy car and my house, and I fancy vacation is more important than taking some of that money, taking some of that resources, and investing in it so other people can be saved from sin and hell. Sin and hell. Now I'm not trying to put a guilt trip on, but I'm saying we need to see people the way the Lord sees them. And I'm afraid American Christians and probably Christians around the world, and no doubt I've been guilty. We see our things and our pleasures and our stuff is so important to us. And the reaching the unsaved and reaching the lost who are dying and on their way to hell. Is less important than that. You follow what I'm trying to say? The urgency, the urgency of missions. Maybe God's calling some of us to go give our lives to go to the mission field. I laid myself on the altar down at Highland Park so many times I said, God, here am I. I want to go. I want to go to the Philippines. Then it was South Korea. I had all these places. Philippines primarily. God would never give me the green lane. I pursued it and he never did. And I made a decision years ago. If God, if I cannot go, if you're not willing for me not to go, then I want to do everything I can to enable and support those who are going. Because it's urgent. Because it's urgent. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord, you would stir us Stir us to see people the way you see. See this world the way you see it. And God give us that sense of urgency. And getting the gospel out, not just across the country, across the planet, but here in our own neighborhoods. We want to be balanced on this, Lord. We want the whole world to be reached. And so help us and stir us. And maybe that old pew or that sofa or wherever you may be listening to me from. Living room or kitchen table. I don't know. But maybe you can take that spot where you are and make that a holy altar before God. And say, God, I give myself. Here I am. And Lord, take me and use me however you see fit to get this gospel, this message to those who are lost. And I believe God will use us. I like what Isaiah said. Hear am I, Lord. Send me. Hear am I, Lord. Use me. So, Father, I pray you'd stir us and don't leave us alone. Provoke us to have this sense of urgency. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Amen.