At chapter two, let's look at a bulletins. How many folks need bulletins? Anybody need some bulletins? Slip your hand up and the usher's already there to get them to you. Appreciate the guys filling in for me. I heard good reports. All the messages were great Um Mike didn't go too long. That was super. Although all the commodes blocked up when Mike was preaching, so I don't know what the significance And no, I didn't shoot any leprechauns. Alright, Zechariah chapter 2, second last book of the Old Testament. I'll begin reading. In verse number six, Zechariah chapter two, in verse six, I might use a little more volume up here, birthday. Verse 6, the Bible says, Ho, ho, come forth and free from the land of the north, saith the Lord. For I have spread you abroad as the four winds of the heavens, saith the Lord. Deliver thyself, O Zion, that dwellest with the daughter of Babylon, for thus saith the Lord of hosts After the glory hath he sent me unto the nations which spoiled you. For he that toucheth you toucheth the apple of his eye. For behold, I will shake my hand upon them, and they shall be a spoiled to their servants, and ye shall know that the Lord of hosts hath sent me Singh, and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for lo, I come, and I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith the Lord. And many nations shall be joined to the Lord in that day. And shall be my people, and I will dwell in the midst of thee, and thou shalt know that the Lord of hosts has sent me unto thee. And the Lord shall inherit Judah, his portion, in the holy land, and shall choose Jerusalem again. Be silent, O all flesh, before the Lord, for he is raised up out of his holy habitation. Take that phrase from verse 8, the last part. He that toucheth you toucheth the apple of his eye. I want to speak tonight on the apple of God's eye. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven Lord, it's good to be back home and back in the church where you planted me. And Lord, I rejoice in that. I thank you for the faithful folks here and and uh all that you're doing in so many lives. We rejoice in that Please bless now as we look into your word. I ask that you would speak to our hearts. God, I pray that you, Holy Spirit, would take the word of God, apply it to each of our lives. You know we have need of. Help us to grow in our faith, Lord. Help us to grow in our burden for the lost. Our witness. Lord, I pray you you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield myself to you anew, Lord. Present my body anew Please be our preacher tonight, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Israel's captivity at this point was basically over. You remember for seventy years they'd been in Babylon because they'd forsaken the Lord. And after seven years, God moved on the king's heart of Babylon and he allowed them to return. In spite of the fact that they'd been back about 17, 20 years. The fact of the matter is, the city was still in shambles. And the people, as you study the book of Zechariah and Hagariah, you pick up the fact that the people were still living in fear They were still living in danger. And I think there's two reasons why that small group of Jews that came back to Jerusalem were living there. They had started building the temple, rebuilding it, and getting things settled, lost interest, got discouraged. Two reasons they were living in danger, two reasons they lived in fear. One of them was because of the greatness of their enemies. There was still, just like there is today, there was then, entire nations who hated Israel. And their goal was to destroy the nation of Israel. And it seems like it's been that way from Israel's beginning. There have been nations have sought to wipe them out. There's uh today, as I'm speaking here, as we meet here tonight in New York City, the United Nations is meeting And there's some ungodly men who rule nations who are standing behind a United Nations podium and they're espousing uh ideas that Israel should be destroyed The Iranian country, Venezuela, um you have any number of countries, Saudi Arabia, their whole purpose for Israel is to wipe them out And just let me throw this out, and again I don't want to get political, but even our own president speaking at the United Nations today suggested that Israel should be cutting back and that we were going to start acting against Israel. I heard that on the news and I thought, is this guy nuts? We'll bring the judgment of God on us so fast if we abandon Israel. But then right now, perhaps even more so then, Israel was surrounded by enemies and they were very dangerous and they were out to destroy the country. So They had a wall, they had a partial temple built, but that was basically it. And humanly speaking, that little nation of Israel, that little city of Jerusalem, was sitting ducks for their enemies If they chose to move in and invade, there was nothing they can do. But there was something true that was even a greater danger than these nations surrounding Israel, and that was this. Not just the greatness of their enemies. But I believe it was the weakness of their faith. Israel still had not learned that safety was not in their walls or in their chariots or in their swords. But safety was of the Lord. Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here, but I'd like you to go to a few passages. Psalms chapter 127. Come back to Psalms. Chapter 127. Brother Charlie, could I get a glass of water, please? Psalms 127. And I want us to notice verse number two. Psalm 127. Well, let's look at verse 1. Psalm 127, verse 1. That's what the Bible says. Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain, they build it. Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain. Now look at verse two. It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows, for so he giveth his beloved sleep. Oh do this is not the verse I'm morning. 127 verse 1 is what I want. I got ahead of myself. Look at verse 1. Except the Lord build a house they labor in vain again. Now look at the last part of verse 1 Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain. Israel had still not learned the lesson that God is the one they needed to trust That their faith had to be in God. Come back to chapter 27 of Psalms. I hope that's right. Psalms 27. And look with me at verse 2 and 3. Yeah, this is David. He says, When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell. Though a host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident. You know what David's saying? Now listen, David was a great warrior When he came to a battle, he could take care of himself. But he says, My hope is not in my ability to defend myself. My hope is in God defending me. And that was true for Israel. That's true for the United States of America. I believe we should have a very strong defense. I believe we ought to have uh jets and ships and nuclear bombs and all that stuff. But listen If we ever get to the point where we're trusting in ourselves and we're not trusting in God, again we're in big danger. And that's true for our church. We have to be very, very careful. God has blessed us with facilities. Amen. Isn't this wonderful? Everything paid for. We got beautiful property here. And uh everything, the Lord's provided all this. God has blessed us with freedom in our country. But we've got to remember that God is the one that makes all that available, and if we don't trust him, he can take that away from us like that. And Israel still didn't learn this lesson. And they're still trusting in themselves. They're still relying on themselves. And because of that, they put themselves in great danger. Whenever we trust ourselves We put ourselves in grave danger. We open the door for Satan's attack. That tells me Wednesday night prayer meeting is so important. That we get together as a church. And I hope you take the prayer time when we pray together. I hope you take that very seriously. Because we need God's blessing, and God's blessing only comes Through us trusting him and praying and seeking his face. So what we do on Wednesday night is very important. We're praying God's power on our church. We're praying God's Blessing on one another. Hey, I hope we pray for one another that God hedges us about hedges us about from temptations and assaults of the devil and and uh and our Faith lacking. We've got to pray for one another. Israel didn't learn that. Another passage we won't go there. Proverbs 21, 31 tells us about safety as of the Lord. Now come back to Zechariah chapter 2 And in verses 6 through 9, I'm going to read that again. And I'm going to probably read portions of this over and over. But he says, Ho-ho, come forth and flee from the land of the north, saith the Lord. For I have spread you abroad as the four winds of heaven, saith the Lord. Deliver thyself, O Zion, that dwellest with the daughter of Babylon Alright, now look at verse 7. Deliver thyself, O Zion, that dwellest with the daughter of Babylon. Who is he speaking to here? What group of Jews? Where are they at? They're still in Babylon. He is speaking to in this vision that Zechariah has. It's now, this portion is not addressed necessarily to the Jews in Jerusalem He's speaking to the ones who never came out of Babylon, the ones that decided to stay when they could have returned. Now look what he says Deliver thyself, O Zion, thou that dwellest with the daughter of Babylon, for thus saith the Lord of hosts, after the glory hath he sent me unto the nations which spoiled you. For he that toucheth you toucheth the apple of Isaiah. Now look at verse nine. For behold, I will shake my hand upon them, and they shall be a spoil to their servants, and ye shall know that the Lord of hosts has sent me God had told them in previous visions that He intended to bring judgment upon these nations that dealt so harshly with Israel. How many folks are glad you're here? Say amen. Everybody with me? Alright, good. I think these guys before outpreached me, and um I'm trying to keep up with them. But anyway, uh um God had told them that God had used Babylon and Assyria. He used them to chasten Israel. Remember us talking about that before? And they corrected Israel's gone, so God let them come in. But they went overboard They didn't come in and just try and correct Israel. Their whole purpose, as I said earlier, was out to destroy Israel. They wanted to crush them So God says, because you were so harsh on my people. I used you, Babylon, I used you, Assyria, but you went overboard. And because you were so harsh on my people, I'm going to shake you. I am going to destroy you. And he says to those Jews still living in Babylon, you better get out of there. You better flee Babylon. Because I am going to deal with these nations that dealt with you. Now, there's two things about verse 6 that I want to point out Verse 6, ho ho, come from come forth and flee from the north. First of all, just in this verse here, this verse is not talking about Santa Claus. How many people thought that? How many people thought of that when you read there? Ho ho, come forth, flee from the north. It's not talking about Santa. I've read whole articles against Santa using this verse that this is referring to Santa. Listen. I'm not a big fan of Santa Claus. Alright. Some people accuse me of looking a little bit like them. I am not a big fan of Santa Claus. But I want us to remind us a few things. There's nowhere in the Bible, now this may shock you, so please pass in your seatbelts There's nowhere in the Bible where we're commanded to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ. It's not there. We're commanded to celebrate or remember the death, resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, the crucifixion, resurrection. And we do that periodically at the Lord's Supper. We're not commanded to celebrate the Lord's birth. Nowhere is it there. Christmas is not a sacred holiday. Christmas is a man-made holiday. In fact, the very name, Christmas. Anybody want to take a guess where that comes from? The Catholic Church. They came up with the idea of having Mass, the Eucharist, it's called, on the birthday of Christ. Now, some of you may be thinking, good grief, our preacher's against Christmas. I'm not against it. We celebrate Christmas. Anything to get a present, I'm all for it. There's nothing and and we read the Christmas story, and as a family on Christmas Day, we bow our heads and we thank God for the incarnation of the Lord Jesus Christ. There's nothing wrong with it, but what I'm trying to say is People can exalt man-made things to a degree that God has not made it. I have a dear friend of mine, a godly man, served the Lord for many, many years. He does not celebrate Christmas. They have it in their family? They don't. It's another thing. He respects others. He doesn't preach against it, but he says, I don't see it in scripture. And uh, you know, one man considers one day to be special, another all day the same, and they each answer to the Lord for it. So having said that, I'm not on a campaign against Santa Claus. I'm not a big fan, we don't put him up, and um, but uh we're not c uh anyway. I said all that to say this. This is not talking about Santa Claus. And the first few words, ho ho, that is not a laugh That's not Santa's laugh. Ho ho ho ho ho. That's not what it is. That phrase, ho, ho, is a call to attention. It's like somebody standing up in a crowd. Hoo! Hoo! Trying to get everybody's attention. So in the next couple months He probably Brother Smith will put an article on the sword about Santa Claus. If you read an article or hear a sermon and they use this verse to preach against Santa, they are taking it completely out of context Alright. If you can use this to preach against Santa, then you can start any cult in the world you want by pulling verses out of context. Alright? Now that I got that off my chest What is this talking about? He says, ho, ho. He's trying to get everybody's attention. Come forth and flee from the land of the north. That is not talking about the North Pole. Alright, we've got this settled. Now here's the problem. This is what I want to get to. In this vision, Zechariah The Lord says, ho, ho, flee. Uh he says, ho ho, uh, come forth, flee from the land of the north. Now there's a problem If you look at your map, if you have an escopial Bible and you're going to back, and we won't forsake a time, but if you would do that and you look where Jerusalem is, And you look where Babylon is, Babylon is not north of Jerusalem. Babylon is east of Jerusalem. In fact, on some maps, they have it southeast somewhat from Jerusalem So we read down through here, and God is speaking to the Jews who are in Babylon. And he's telling them, come forth out of Babylon, get out of there. flee from the land of the north. But they're not in the north. In fact, they're not even close to the north. They're east, maybe a little bit southeast. What is the answer to that? The answer is very simple. You need to know a little bit about Israel's history and their relationship with other nations. Every time that Jerusalem was attacked by a foreign nation They always came across the north and came down from the north. And in Israel's vernacular If you were going to go to Babylon, you would go north. That was the route around to get over to Babylon. When we first moved here, we moved here on September 19th I think September sixteenth, nineteen ninety-three. We ran a U-Haul, came from Boulder. Now I was always pretty good with directions. I pretty much could tell where north and south was. When I grew up, you always if you're going north, you go up. You go up north. Alright? Anybody is everybody with me on that? That's you go up north. You go down south. Well we were going to take the Uhaw back. We found out the only place you could take the U-Haw was the Cumberland. And so to me, Cumberland is north of here. And we said, I've got to go up to Cumberland. And everybody looked like me. I'm an idiot. I said, you don't go up to Cumberland. I thought, yes you do. It's north of us. But you don't go up to Cumberland around here. You go down the Cumberland. Am I right or wrong? Is that in fact you go down no matter where you go from here So when he says flee when he says here flee from the land of the north, he's using their vernacular of the dead. And what they would say, they would go up to Babylon And they'd have to come, they would come from the north. When a Syria invaded Jerusalem, they came from the north And so you have to understand the context here. You have to get a little bit of the history. So uh when he says, ho ho, uh, flee, come forth, flee from the nail of the north, it's not talking about Santa Claus, it's talking about the people living in Babylon. The vast majority of the Jews had lost respect, and the temple was the most important and the most precious place on all the earth. And they had lost that completely. And their love for the Lord was ref the coldness of their love for the Lord. Get this. Was reflected in their lack of interest in the house of the Lord. Now let me make some application. Now I'm preaching the choir tonight. You're here. But let me say this. Our love for the Lord, whether how strong it is or how weak it is, cold it becomes. Will almost always be reflected in our commitment to the house of the Lord. It is impossible. The church is the body of Christ. Right? This this church here, Mount Lake Independent Church, this is the body of Christ. I cannot say I love the Lord And yet separate that from the body of the Lord. Follow what I'm saying? I'd say my wife, oh yeah, I love you, I just don't want to be around you. I'd be more than just bald, I'd be my my head would look like Mike's. But um and man, why do I do that? Sorry Mike. I get in trouble every time I pick on Mike about that. But anyway. So there they had gotten cold. Now some had come back to Jerusalem and they had worked on it for a while and lost interest, but the vast majority were over in Babylon. They had built houses, they had their farms, they had businesses up and running. Um, Jewish people are great entrepreneurs. And boy, you put them somewhere, they're going to make money, they're going to have a business going, they're going to succeed. And so they're over there, they're having a great time. And they're thinking with this, why Should I mess up my schedule and my investments and my income and what I've been dedicated my life to just for the temple of God? I'll tell you why, because that represented the presence of God. That at one time was where God met with his people, and they lost all of that. And this was a grave, crave mistake. When these Jews, still in Babylon, decided that they were happier out of the will of God That there was more success and more happiness outside the will of God, they made a terrible, terrible mistake for two reasons. And it's given to us here. One reason was God was about to judge Babylon severely for their treatment of Israel. They needed to get out. Judgment was coming. Now can you think of anyone else in the Bible who had so settled into the world and society? That God was about to judge that society that they didn't want to leave. You think of anyone else? Lot. That is the exact same mentality that these Jews had. God's telling them, this is what, the fifth vision, fourth or fifth vision? And he's been telling them over and over and over, listen, he sent prophets, Hagi, Jeremiah. I'm going to destroy this nation. You've got to get out of Babylon. But they had settled in. And they put themselves in grave danger. Listen. When we start loving this world and the things of this world more than we love the Lord and the things of the Lord, we are putting ourselves in very grave danger. And as pastor for now sixteen years, last Sunday was sixteen years, pastor here at Mountain Lake, and uh in the ministry for twenty some years, since nineteen eighty five, I tell you I've seen so many folks, and it seems like a lot of times It's young couples with small children, and it becomes such a danger. The cares of the world and the things of the world become so important. The things of God get laid aside, and I tell you, tragedy strikes Heartache kids. And the devil comes in like a flood and absolutely brings destruction. So they were in grave danger Because God was about to judge them. It was a terrible mistake to stay there. But he also tells them this: it was a grave mistake, not just because God was about to judge them, but because God was about to greatly bless Israel. He makes these promises here. Look at verse 10. Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for lo, I come, and I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith the Lord. Look at verse 11. And many nations shall be joined to the Lord in that day, and shall be my people, and I will dwell in the midst of thee, and thou shalt know that the Lord of hosts has sent me unto them. The Lord's making these great promises to the land of Israel. And he's saying to those still in Babylon, you've got to get out. Judgment is coming. I want to bless you over here where I intend for you to be. And I'll tell you, there's always heartache outside the will of God, and there's always blessings in the will of God. I think of Sam Davidson's message last year at our sword conference. Does anybody remember? It's hard to believe it was a year ago. But he preached from uh uh was it Hagi? Same message to these people. And he says, you have your own agenda. And I would just remember him asking us, he says, how's that working out for you? You're doing things your way. You're not listening to me. You're not trusting me. You're not doing what I've instructed you to do. I want to bless you. There's danger out there. There's safety and blessing here in my world. You're out there. How's that working out? And that's what Zechariah, God is saying through Zechariah. Then we come to verse 8 through 11. That's really what I wanted to get to, but we'll have to look at that another week. But look what it says. For thus saith the Lord of hosts. After the glory hath he sent me unto the nations which spoiled you, for he that toucheth you toucheth the apple of his eye. And God saying, and this is all part of his message for them to get out of Babylon. He said, if they're messing with my people. They're messing with me. And I tell you, John, Jesus tells us in the Gospel of John that we are in God's hands. And we need to trust the Lord because when this world messes with the people of God, they're messing with God. And there's a day coming, verse 9, 10, when the Lord's coming back. And God's going to deal with this world. And you read Revelation very carefully, and much of his dealing with this world is because of how they dealt with God's people. The Jews, and then later the church. Alright, so we don't have time. I wanted to get into that. We'll pick that up next time. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I pray that you would help us to trust you God help us to obey you. And when you warn us of something we need to avoid, I pray you'd help us to have faith in you and stay away And God, when you instruct us, we need to be somewhere involved in something. I pray you'd help us to trust you and obey you. God, this world has nothing to offer us but heartache. Nothing but the grief and judgment of God. Help us to trust you, Lord. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, I wonder if there's some here tonight say, preacher, you know there's some areas of my life God's been dealing with my heart And I've just been struggling with that and I've been hedging on that and God's been pushing me in a certain direction or God's been dealing with some issue. And you say, preacher, tonight, I just want to trust the Lord with it. I'm just going to do what God says. I'm just going to have faith in him. And believe that he knows what's best for me. Is there any like that, preacher, some areas in my life where I just need to trust God with it? God bless you, a number of hands around Preacher, there's some issues in my life that I'm so tempted to just hold on to it and and deal with it my way and I'm just going to trust the Lord, let him have his way. Any others, preacher, pray for me. I got some areas there and the Lord's dealing with my heart. How about it? Any others? Father in heaven, I pray you bless our invitation time now. Lord, help us to trust you. Help us to obey you, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand again