Galatians chapter 5, I'll read verse 22 and 23. We began this a few months ago, a series on the fruit of the Spirit. I don't know if anybody else got as much out of it as I have. Generally, when you prepare a lesson or a message, the one preparing it and teaching the lesson or preaching gets more out of it than anybody else And it's been a help to me. But notice there again in verse number 22, he says, Paul writing under the inspiration of God, he says, but the fruit of the Spirit, capital S, Holy Spirit The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, Temperance. Against such there is no law. Tonight we want to look at that ninth fruit that is mentioned here. Temperance. Temperance. The fruit of temperance. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, we thank you for a good day. And we are grateful for your blessings. We pray and ask now that you would just speak to our hearts here once again. And Lord, we pray for our country. There's a lot happening in our world. I believe spiritually, there's spiritual warfare. We pray you'd have mercy on our land. We pray we could see revival. God, regardless of maybe Or some things maybe we wouldn't do exactly the same way others do, but we rejoice in the fact that Christ is being proclaimed, the gospel is being declared, and so we rejoice in that and pray That you would do a work. I pray you begin here in our church. I pray that every one of us, as members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, that we could walk in the Spirit as we're instructed here Walk in the Spirit, and you would produce these fruits in our lives. They'd be evident. And we could have an influence in our realm, our world of influence. And so fill me with your spirit, I pray. I yield myself to you and pray you'd speak through us, convict us, challenge, encourage, help us, Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As we bring this series to a close, as I was mentioning, I think there's one thing that I really believe that we must not forget that we need to take away from this series, at least for me, this has been significant in my mind. And that is this. All these fruit, these different characteristics here, and we mentioned before, if you remember, multiple times, I believe these are characteristics of our Lord Jesus Christ. We see every one of these in his life and how he lived and these characteristics of them. That here's the thing: that every one of these already exists within me. I don't have to go somewhere and get these various fruits and somehow incorporate them into my life. I don't have to s Go through this program or make do this or do that or don't do that and work this up. This that's all already in me. And if we can go from this series with that in mind that in the person of the Holy Spirit, already dwelling within me, every one of these attributes, every one of these characteristics is already here. In other words, I can love people unconditionally. I can In the person of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit enabling me. You say, preacher, I'm just not that kind of person. I wasn't raised, uh, you know, I was raised in, you know, north of Philly You didn't express a lot of emotion, and there's no doubt in my mind. My my parents loved me, but it wasn't you didn't express it a whole lot. There wasn't a lot of hugging. Anybody come from a home like that, just a little stoic I knew they loved me, but so you say, well, I was raised the way I'm just not that lovely. But the thing is, if the Holy Spirit is in me, if I know the Lord Jesus Christ, Savior, the Holy Spirit's in me, that potential, that possibility is there, that ability is there. In the person of the Holy Spirit. And we just go down the list here. I can have joy in trials. I can. See, there's no way in the world I could possibly have have joy in the circumstance I'm in. I can't have joy. I can't laugh. I can't smile. Oh, that's not true. If you're saved, the Holy Spirit's in you. That joy is there. I just need to get out of the way and let the Holy Spirit do it. You follow? Follow? We've been emphasizing this. Peace. I can have peace in the midst of turmoil. I can have peace in my mind. I can have peace in my heart. The peace of God. I can have that. I can display that. I can experience that. Regardless of the chaos maybe going on around me, because the Holy Spirit in me produces that. This has been one of the most encouraging things in my Christian life to realize it's there. Then he says of love, joy, peace, long-suffering. To be able to endure and stay faithful and stay true, regardless of the opposition I'm dealing with, regardless maybe of open persecution, I can stay faithful, I can stay the course I don't have to quit, I don't have to give up, say, well, I just don't have the ability to do that. Right, that's the whole point It's the Holy Spirit enables us to do that. And then being gentle and kind. We can be. You say, well, it's a cruel world. Yes, but we don't have to be cruel. We can be kind. Holy Spirit enable us to do that. Goodness. Faith, even when I'm tempted to doubt. And I don't doubt that most, if not all of us, are sometimes tempted to doubt. Am I right or wrong? Sometimes it's air, but the Holy Spirit enables me to have faith. Even when naturally I would be tempted and tend to doubt, the Holy Spirit enables me to have faith in God and stay faithful. Now we cut, and then meekness. And now we come to this last one, temperance. We'll talk about what that is But the whole idea is this, these these characteristics that were true, I believe, in Adam when he was created, they were lost in the fall. Christ is incarnated. He comes. He displays all these attributes. He lived his whole life by these characteristics. And now, Holy Spirit in us, he wants to produce them in us. And so it's possible. Oh, I you say, well, what do I do? How do I do this? Basically, I just get out of the way. Paul put it this way: I die daily, I die to self. I quit trying, I quit putting this effort in. I just yield to the Lord and say, Yeah, not my will, Lord, your will be done. And God enables us as we submit to Him and walk in the Spirit. That's the key. The Christian life is a supernatural life. We keep emphasizing this for 32 years. I've been emphasizing it. It's not something we work up, it's something God does in us. It's a supernatural thing. This Christian life. The world cannot produce a Christian. The church cannot produce the Christian life. Only God can do that. It's a supernatural thing. And he does it in the person of the Holy Spirit. I trust Jesus Christ. Savior, the Holy Spirit moves in. He begins changing my life. He begins producing this supernatural Christian life. And so it's there. I just need to get out of it. All these aspects of this fruit are already in me, already in us. They're there. And none of these, if you notice, none of these are external. Every one of these are stuff that comes from the heart, that comes from within me. None of these are dependent upon external circumstances. I've had people over the years, and I've thought this myself, I'm sure. Well, you know, if my circumstances were just different, I'd be a better Christian. You know, if my spouse was just this or they weren't that, then I could be a good Christian. If I had a little bit more money and I wasn't stressed over finances, then I could be a happy, joy-filled, victorious Christian. That is not true. It's all from within me already. It's not dependent upon my circumstances. It's not dependent upon how I'm treated. It's dependent upon my submission to the Holy Spirit. It's dependent upon my putting my will aside and letting the will of God take place and the Holy Spirit fill me in and produce these things in me. They're all there. And also, one other thing as we finish up these this fruit of the Spirit is every one of these is interdependent. In other words, and I didn't say, I don't think I said a whole lot about this, but they are uh they come as a package, this fruit. And did you notice there in verse number 22? Notice it says the fruit of the Spirit, singular, not plural. Then he gives nine different fruits, so to speak. But they're referred to as fruit, singular. That tells me that all of this comes together in one thing. In other words, I can't separate these. Alright, I'm going to yield to the Lord. I'm going to walk in the Spirit. I'm going to be filled with the Spirit. And I'm going to have the fruit of joy. But I'm not, I don't have the fruit of love. No, it doesn't happen. If I don't have one, I don't have the other. It's impossible to have the fruit of love and not have the fruit of long-suffering. They're connected. They're part. They're one and the same. You can't dissect them. All of these are true. Either I have the fruit of the Spirit, all nine aspects of it, or I don't have it. Now we can work up to a certain degree some of these naturally, but not the way he's talking here. This is supernatural. So they all come together. Now we're at the final fruit, the final one, temperance. It's not a word we use a whole lot, so my first thought, my first point is this, the definition of temperance. What in the world Is he talking about when he uses this term temperance, that the Holy Spirit a fruit is temperance in my life? What is that Well, the word itself means this. The word temperance means to be kept under control. The emphasis there is on the word control. To be kept under control. To be restrained, held back, kept under control. Another definition is to be disciplined. Very disciplined. Now I got looking up in dictionaries, even uh Bible dictionaries I looked up English dictionaries, Webster's and those, and I looked in the uh Bible dictionaries, Greek and Hebrew uh Greek dictionaries And almost every one of them gave a definition that me and my ignorance disagree with At least in this context here, just about every one of them defined temperance as self-control, self-discipline. Now, where I take issue with that, at least in this text, in this passage, in this context, is that word self. What he's talking about here is not self-discipline, discipline that I can do, control that I can establish in my life. My definition of temperance in this context, at least, is spirit controlled. Spirit discipline. In other words, in areas of my life, in areas of my Christian life, my Christian growth, I'm trying to be a witness. trying to glorify the Lord with my life in the areas where I am weak and I'm not able to discipline myself, I'm not able to control myself in some areas The Holy Spirit, if I yield to him, die to self, walk in the Spirit, He'll enable me. It will be Spirit controlled. You follow my thinking? All of these here are not stuff we produce. And so the definition here, my definition of this, or and maybe a little more accurate Definition would be spirit-enabled control. Holy Spirit enabling me to discipline myself, to control myself. The Holy Spirit enabling me to live a disciplined life and all that that involves. It's the ability, the Holy Spirit enabled ability To restrain myself from doing things that are wrong. That God forbids. The Bible in Hebrews chapter 12 talks about besetting sins. And people are familiar with that term. Besetting sins. There's sins that we're vulnerable to. Sins that we have a tendency to a weakness towards. And they're different for all of us. It's interesting. He doesn't uh itemize what those besetting sins are because they're different. My vulnerabilities in my Christian life might not be the same as what Dave's vulnerabilities are. Or what Andes, or name anybody else. We have different vulnerabilities. I think it's wise to study yourself a bit and determine what your besetting sins are. Figure it out. Take a look. Take inventory. Do self-examination. Say, all right, where are my weaknesses? Where do I tend to give in? Where do I tend to be vulnerable in my Christian life, in the spiritual warfare? Be aware of that. But the Holy Spirit, if I yield, what this fruit is here, he enables me To discipline myself and not give in to things I know I should not give into. And then the other side of that coin is the Holy Spirit enabling me to do what I know I should do. Regardless of my feelings, regardless of what my desires are. Now I don't know how many folks would admit this, but I know it's true for every one of us, as Christians, that there are some things that we have a desire for that God says, uh-uh uh-uh-uh Am I right or wrong? You with me? So we have this desire comes up and I know it's not God's will. I know the Bible says no. No, no, no, no. Don't you do that. But something inside me wants to. Come on now, y'all looking at me so pious. I don't know what you're talking about. Yes, you do It's called the flesh. And by the way, we talked about Paul this morning. None other than the Apostle Paul himself wrestled. But doing things he know he should not do and not doing things he knew he should do. And we all have that But what he's talking about here, temperance, is the Holy Spirit enabling me to not give in to those areas where I know I shouldn't give in to. And enabling me to do those things I know I should do. Anybody here ever have something, you know, I know I should do, but I just don't want to Yeah. Anybody here ever get up Sunday morning? I know I should go to church. I just don't want to. We got one honest person in the church here By the way, a and by the way, I admire folks that have physical conditions similar to Ed and yet they make sure they get here. I'm telling you, I told some friends of mine, I said, we got folks in our church, they will come to church, they'll come in on their hands and knees and drag themselves here because they want to be at church and they want to do what God says. And praise the Lord for that. But sometimes we don't want to. And I'm afraid more often than not we have Christians and I'm I'm not trying to be judgmental, it's between them and God, but I'm afraid a lot of times we have Christians that aren't faithful to the house of God, forsake the house of God, not because they can't, just because they just don't want to I'd asked somebody years ago, uh I'd asked someone, they never came to prayer meeting, how come she never come to prayer meeting? And they said, we don't want to. Okay All right, God bless ya. So this temperance, this fruit of the spirit, this temperance Is the Holy Spirit of God enabling me to not do something that maybe I really want to, but I know I shouldn't? And the Holy Spirit enabling me to do that, which I know God wants me to, but I really don't feel like it. But I do it anyway. I do it anyway. It's a supernatural ability. It's not self-control. It's spirit control. The spirit stirs me, stirs me. Um any uh and uh maybe I'm being l overly re redundant like usual, but um maybe uh I wonder if I wonder if there'd be someone Um that uh you know you really didn't feel like doing something, but something inside you just compelled you to do it anyway, even though you didn't want to. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You know what I you know what that is for me? Soul winning Thursday soul winning. Now it's not so bad as it used to be, but years ago I knew I should go soul winning Thursday. I know, and this is before I was even in the ministry, I knew I should go out and help the church get out in the communion and and and share the gospel. And sometimes I just didn't want to. You know, and it's like every reason in the world comes up, but something in my heart and soul compelled me to do it, regardless of whether I felt like it or not. You know, I think that is I think that's spirit, that's temperance. That's what he's talking about. The Holy Spirit compels me to do it in spite. The Holy Spirit disciplines me and controls me to do that. And so it's a spiritual thing. Look there at verse 16. And look at these statements in light of temperance. Verse 16, he said, this I say then, walk in the Spirit. You know what I think he's saying? He's saying, walk under the control of the Holy Spirit. This temperance, this discipline. Just walk in the Spirit. Let the Spirit control you. And when I do that, then all this other fruit comes along with it. Sometimes there's somebody we really don't feel like loving them. Don't look around But the Spirit of God stirs my heart and I love Him, even though I might not really feel like it, huh? Sometimes I uh uh I want to I I need to be good and kind to somebody I really don't want to. Pretty much every day. And um not really, not really But the Spirit of God compels me. The Holy Spirit of God disciplines me and He prompts me to be kind. And here's the thing, I meant to say this before. Sometimes we know That there's something I know God wants me to do, I know I should do that, I really don't feel like it, I really don't want to But I walk in the Spirit and I yield myself and say, Lord, you lead me, you direct me, you help me, and the Holy Spirit disciplines me, and I and I do what I know God wants me to do, and then afterward, the joy of the Lord is all over that thing. You know what I'm talking about? After it's a boy I'm blitz. I wonder if there's folks here, y maybe a s a church service or something, Wednesday night, Sunday night, Sunday morning He really didn't feel like going. The Holy Spirit wouldn't let you go. And he prompts you to go. And after you after it's all over, you say, Man, I'm glad I went to church. That's temperance. We do it. Walk in the Spirit. Look at verse 18. He says, but if you be led of the Spirit, again, I think that's spirit control. The Holy Spirit's leading me. The Holy Spirit's directing me. And I'm yielding to them, cooperating with them. I'm dying to self-say, all right. The Holy Spirit leads me to do that. And then look up at verse number 25. He uses two terms here. If we live in the Spirit, and let us also walk in the Spirit. I think he's referring to this fruit of temperance. The Holy Spirit controls. So the definition of temperance, my definition in studying this, is spirit-enabled discipline. I wonder if there's folks, I know I'm asked a lot of questions getting back and forth, but uh this this relates to me a lot. I I connect with this, I can relate to what it I'm talking about, I think. But I wonder how many folks here, if there's some folks here that say, boy, I wish I was more disciplined. Anybody? Oh, I wish I was I bet I wish I had better self-discipline. Anybody at all? Yeah. I tell you, there's a s there we can be, and it's not self-discipline. The Spirit can discipline us and enable us. to do these things and not do the things we saw. So number one, the definition. Number two, the display. What does it look like? What does this fruit of temperance look like in action in somebody's life? How's it manifest? How does it display itself? Well, actually, the Bible is full of it. I got looking, I thought, well, I'll give a few illustrations. Man, a lie. They're all over the scriptures. Let me just give you a couple. Come with me, if you would, to Genesis, way back Uh Genesis chapter number thirty-nine, towards the end of the book of Genesis And uh we have Joseph. We studied the life of Joseph not long ago. Fascinating. Talk about temperance. He was a man of temperance. I believe the Spirit of God enabled him. It's a little different than New Testament age, but uh church age, but nevertheless it was there. Genesis chapter 39 And look with me at verse number eight. We're familiar with this event in Joseph's life. He's been bought by Potiphar. chief uh officer in Egypt. I mean a high-level uh government official and uh he's bought Joseph as a slave purchased him like you'd buy a vacuum cleaner And brought him into the house, and Potiphar's wife gets a hankering for Joseph. Right? How many people know the story? And so she starts coming on to him. And um and she gets more aggressive and more aggressive. And Joseph, in his wisdom and his integrity, refuses to give in. And he refuses her advances And notice here in verse number 8, here we pick it up, and it says, but he refused. I underlined that and circled that in my Bible. And said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master whateth not, in other words, doesn't know What if not what is within with me in the house? He doesn't even know. He's committed everything to me. He trusts me, is what he's saying. And he has committed all that he hath to my hand. Potiphar trusts me. There's none greater in this house than I. Neither hath he kept back anything from me but thee, because you're his wife. Thou art his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph, day by day, relentless. That he hearkened not unto her to lie with her, to be with her. He just kept saying, no, no, no. Would you agree with me? That sounds like temperance to me. And it came to pass about this time that Joseph went into the house to do his business, and there was none of the men in the house there with him. Uh-oh. And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me. And he left his garment in her hand and fled and got him out. You know what that is? Now this is a young man. He'd never been with a woman before. The temptation there would be phenomenal. Maybe flattering, maybe a little flattering that she would want me. But he has the discipline and the control to say no and get out. Now it's it doesn't say that he's exercis that this is a fruit of the Spirit being displayed, but there's no doubt in my mind this is God enabling this young man To be disciplined, to have control over his passions. How many people are familiar, I'm sure. How many people are familiar with the word fornication? It's in the Bible. It's all through the Bible. Fornication is the inability to control my lust. Or an unwillingness to control my passions And here's the thing, the Holy Spirit of God, regardless of the circumstances, regardless of the situation we find ourselves in, Joseph. The Holy Spirit can enable me to say no. That's what it looks like. Saying no. Now, thank God, and we go later in the Bible, we find King David. He gave in. I mean, one of the greatest men of faith in all scripture, in all of history, a great the throne that Jesus Christ will sit in is named after King David. But he gave in to his passion. He gave in, it hurt. God forgave him. He got back up. He went on. Great man of God. But what I'm trying to say is this. Here you have a young man that was, I'm convinced, enabled by God To exercise discipline and to say no. To say no. Come with me, if you would, to Exodus chapter 32, next book. We'll just look at a couple here. I mean the Bible's full of them. We could just go on and on and on. Exodus chapter 2. Now that was a display of a of a positive display of the of the of temperance. of the ability to s to control himself and not uh uh behave in a way that's contrary to the will of God. He was able to. Now let's look at another instance of the opposite of that. Exodus 32, and now we're looking at Moses. We're studying the life of Moses on Wednesday nights. Now they're in the wilderness and the people are complaining. They want water and and uh God's been taking care of them. And look with me, chapter 32, look with me at verse number 19. Oh, I'm sorry, this isn't the water situation. This is when he's up on the uh Mount Sinai and God gives them the the tablets. Remember the Ten Commandments? Um some of the young people don't remember Charleston Heston. You know. He goes up, he gets the Ten Commandments. Well this isn't Charleston Heston. This is Moses. And look at verse 19. He comes down, and here all the Hebrews are worshiping this stupid golden calf. What in the world? And they're they're embarrassing themselves, they're living in shame, it's just an awful thing. Look how Moses responds, verse 19. And it came to pass, as soon as he came nigh unto the camp That he saw the calf, that's that idol they made, and the dancing, and they're incredibly immodest. Look at this. And Moses what? Anger waxed hot. And he cast the tables out of his hands. These are the ten commandments that God Carved with his finger for him. Good night. And Moses' temper waxed, anger waxed hot, and he cast the tables out of his hands and broke them before the mountain. Whoa. That is not temperance. That is temper You know what a temper is? Temper is the inability to control my anger. Moses lost control of his anger. And he smashed the only thing we have in Scripture that was given directly by God to him, written by the hand of God there on those tablets. He smashed him. That is not temperance. That's a display of not having control. And by the way, we don't have time, but later, chapter two later, God tells Moses, the first tablets, God made them. And gave them to him. All he had to do was bring them down. The next time, Moses, God says, Moses, come on up, I'll give you new ones. But this time, you make it. And you carry it all the way up the mountain. And I'll redo it, and you carry it down. I tell you, uncontrolled anger has horrendous consequences. So this is an illustration of not being temperate, not having control, not being disciplined. Come over if you would to chap num Numbers chapter 20 real quickly here. Numbers And as I've been saying, we could just keep going through. Here's illustration positive and negative. Here now's the water situation. Israel's doesn't have water, and they're griping and complaining And notice Numbers chapter 20 and look with me if you would at verse number 8. Verse 7, the Lord spake unto Moses And uh take a rod and gather thou the assembly together, get all the Hebrews together, thou and Aaron thou brother. Now notice the wording carefully And what? Speak ye unto the rock before their eyes, and it shall give forth water, and thou shalt bring forth to them water out of the rock. Question, is it clear what he's supposed to do? Yes or no? Speak to the rock, miraculously water will come out of it. Come down, if you would, to verse number 10. And Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock. And he said unto them, Hear now ye rebels, must. What's the next word? We, who's actually getting the water out of the rock? God is. Moses is losing his temper again. Anger's taking over. Must we fetch you water out of this rock? And Moses lifted up his hand and with his rod smote the rock twice. Water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank in their beasts. Look at verse 12. And the Lord spake unto Mosara and said, Because you believe me not. You didn't do what I said. Moses never was able to enter the promised land. I tell you, a lack of temperance on Moses' part cost him the ability to enjoy the promised land. Uh I I got a whole slew here. I don't have time. Let me give you one more and we're we're winding down. Go to Proverbs. We could go while you're finding Proverbs, but in Daniel, we have Daniel exercises temperance when he refuses to eat the king's meat. And God honors that in a tremendous way. Go to Proverbs chapter 10. Proverbs is full. I mean, just chalk full of Referencing temperance, control. Proverbs chapter 10 and verse number 19. Now this strikes home, I think. Says, in the multitude of words there wanteth not sin, but he that what Are you there? He that what? Refraineth his lips is wise. That word refrain has the idea of controlling, disciplining, temperance. What he's saying here, you're wiser to keep your mouth shut than you are to open it. Right? Multitude of words. They're one that's not to your grand. Anybody here ever talk so much you got yourself in trouble? Anybody here ever walk away and say, why in the world did I say that? What was anybody know what I'm talking about? Come over to chapter 13, just page over there, and look at verse 3. Now we're thinking about temperance. He that keepeth his mouth, temperance. Restrains, holds up, disciplines, controls his mouth, keepeth his life. But he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction. And a lot of people sometimes people run their mouth and end up destroying themselves. Ruin their testimony. Chapter 17 One more and notice with me, if you would, verse twenty seven. 1727. He that hath knowledge, what's the next word? Spareth. That word spareth means restraints, keeps under control. Temperance He that hath knowledge spareth his words, and a man of understanding is of excellent spirit. Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise. The guy can control his tongue. He can control his mouth. He must be wise. Even if he's a fool. If he has temperance, he at least appears to be wise. And he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding. Discipline, the display of temperance in my tongue, in my actions with others, in my resistance to temptation, in my control of my passions, my anger. Paul references this when he says in Corinthians about, I keep under my body and bring it into subjection. Discipline, discipline. So this is the supernatural ability. Now I end with this. Are you still in Proverbs? Let me give you a couple verses. The defense of temperance. In other words When I have this spirit-controlled, when I live a spirit-controlled life, there's security. There's safety in that Chapter 16. Just two more passages. I want to make a statement, then we'll quit. Proverbs 16, look at verse 32. He that is slow to anger, there's temperance, is better than the mighty. And he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city. The strength of temperance, the security, the safety of it. Come over, chapter 25, verse 28. A very similar statement. Proverbs chapter 25 and verse number 28. He that hath no rule over his own spirit, no temperance. is like a city that is broken down and without walls. What would you say about a city, at least in this context, in this time? In history, that a city that was broken down didn't have walls, what would you say is true about that city? They're in danger. They're vulnerable. They have no defense. I tell you, the best defense in the Christian life against ruining my testimony, against shaming the name of my Lord, the best defense I have Is the Spirit of God enabling me to be temperate, control, do what I know is right, speak the way I know I should speak, behave the way I know God should speak, and the Holy Spirit enables me to do that And that keeps me safe. That keeps me secure. A spirit-controlled life is a powerful, powerful witness. I wonder how many people have lost their lives because they couldn't they didn't have any control. They didn't have any discipline. I wonder how many people have been hurt. Because a Christian did not control his tongue, control his actions Churches have known over the years have an issue. They couple leaders in the church disagree. One thing leads to another. Next thing there's a fist fight. Would you agree? What a shame on the name of Christ. All because of no temperance. They're not walking in the spirit, they're walking in the flesh. Um how many testimonies have been ruined, how many families have been broken, how many ministries have been damaged, how many people are in hell Because a Christian wasn't spirit-filled, didn't walk in the Spirit, and there was no control, there was no discipline there. A spirit-controlled life is a powerful witness. Now some people have more self-discipline than others, some just comes naturally. I know some people that are incredibly disciplined. Some leaders in government and military are incredibly, just naturally, they're incredibly disciplined, right? I know some people that aren't Naturally. But regardless of whether I'm naturally a very disciplined person or whether I'm naturally an undisciplined person, if I walk in the Spirit, the Holy Spirit can empower me, enable me to be disciplined, regardless of what I am naturally. Right? Father, I pray you'd take these. I pray you would help us to be the witness, to be the testimony, be the Christians, have victory in our Christian lives, and have have effectiveness in our witness But God, we need your Holy Spirit to fill us. Help us die to self. Yield ourselves to you so you can empower us, enable us. To live the uh to to bear this fruit in our lives. Any anybody heads bowed, eyes close. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I really need the Holy Spirit help me in this matter of temperance. Any like that at all, my hand is raised. I tell ya You get convicted studying and preaching this. And we need to walk in the Spirit. And they come as a package. I can't pick and choose. They all come together. Father, bless our invitation now. In Jesus' name. Amen.