And I appreciate what he said to the visitors that uh we don't talk about uh money in this regard every week, but there's something else that needs to be addressed as well. And that is that next week, I won't be here. So if you want to hear a real sermon, come back next week, amen, and hear Pastor Leatherman But uh it's my joy to be here with you. This is one of our favorite places to come. As I said in the Sunday school hour, it's easy to preach here. And uh not only because this is a great mission-minded church But coming from a preacher's perspective, there is hardly a harder place to preach than in a church that doesn't get real Bible preaching and really get down to it. And so I can just tell that uh as a congregation that you love You love preaching, you appreciate hard preaching, and that just makes it all so easy. But it tells me that your pastors trained you with that kind of preaching and teaching. And so I appreciate that. Well, let's turn to this morning to the book of Acts And uh we're gonna be um basically I'm gonna just point out a few things briefly because I want to get on to uh the uh body of the message this morning, but we'll call this uh message this morning the local church in missions. And I want to point out that um sometimes um we when it comes to uh missions conference time Faith Promise uh Commitment Sunday or as we do here six months into it a mission's emphasis month uh to get everybody, draw everybody's attention back to the task at hand. That sometimes the messages are strictly motivational messages. And that's a good thing. I'm not condemning that at all because certainly if there's one thing that's needed today uh in churches across America and around the world, it's to be motivated, amen, to live for the Lord and to do right. And yet at the same time, I find That if our understanding of missions is only in a motivational sense and not in a foundational sense, then by and by we'll get weary of the job of worldwide missions and the way that we're to participate in it. And so both this morning and this evening, uh while I hope that the preaching won't be dull for you, But understand that we're going to go back and to point out some things from Scripture that are very basic or we would say fundamental, but certainly foundational to the job of worldwide missions. Now the Great Commission is given very clearly five places in the New Testament It's alluded to many other places, but five places that we could just nail down and say that's the Great Commission It's given once in Matthew, which we read this morning already, once in Mark, which Pastor kind of alluded to. It's once in Luke Once in John, once at each of the Gospels, and certainly once in Acts chapter 1 and verse 8. And so as we think about that, the account that's given actually in Acts chapter 1, verse 8, which we're going to read here in just a moment, makes it abundantly clear That the evangelization of the world is a responsibility of the local church, and I think that you'll see that before we're finished this morning Just before we read, well, let's go ahead and and uh read uh verses uh Acts chapter 1 verses 1 through 8 and then uh I'll make a comment that I am needing to make here. But um It says in Acts chapter 1 and verse 1, The former treaties have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach. until the day in which he was taken up. After that he, through the Holy Ghost, had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen. Now I want to just stop here and make a comment. That what that verse is saying is, the first two verses, that Christ, during his ministry, during his earth time, his sojourn here on earth, he gave commandments, and since then Through, as it says here, through the Holy Ghost had given commandments. And so the commanding of the Lord Jesus Christ did not stop when he ascended into heaven. But he continued to do it through the Holy Ghost, as it says here, unto the apostles whom he had chosen, to whom, verse 3 now Also, he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God, and being assembled together with them. Notice there, they were assembled together. Is not one of the earmarks of the church, of the ecclesia, a called-out assembly? And so we see here that they were assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which saith he Ye have heard of me. For John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence. When there they therefore were come together They ask of him, saying, Lord, Wilt thou this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? He said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or seasons or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power And let me stop right there and say this. That what the Lord is saying here is, that is not your concern, but what is your concern? Is verse 8. Okay, that's that's the that's the idea of what he's getting across here. But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. Father in heaven, bless now our time together here in the scriptures. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want to point out something here that Uh when we read uh Acts uh Matthew chapter twenty-eight, verses nineteen and twenty. We see there in that particular passage the most complete thought of the Great Commission. Now, the doctrine of missions is like any other doctrine in the Bible. You cannot pick one verse and build a doctrine upon it. But just say, for instance, that I'm going to study the doctrine of the deity of Christ or Christology. I have to take of necessity all of the verses that deal with and pertain to the deity of Christ And and examine them all in order to really understand what the scriptures are saying. Are we in agreement with that? Amen? Nod your head, raise your hand, something. Okay. So it is so, and it is so with the subject of missions, that we can't just take go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. and assume that that contains everything that the Lord was thinking of when he said that. But let me just say this that The Matthew 28, 19, and 20 actually contained four very important elements. And I want to go back, even though this isn't part of the message. I want us to go back and see something there because of its huge importance. So let's go back to Matthew chapter 28 for just a moment here. And I want to point this out to you, something that uh is uh largely missed even by um uh sometimes uh people who are involved in missions Because he says in verse 19, he says, go ye. So first of all, that's the first element. There is the command to go. And uh secondly, he says, and teach all nations. The obvious uh implication here is that, particularly in pioneer missions, that the content of faith must be taught. In other words, how to be saved. We cannot assume when we get to a pie in their mission field. In other words, uh my uh obviously Barbara and I's uh ministry of twenty-five years on in the Canadian Arctic, uh up above the Arctic Circle, that when we go into a village and begin to preach, we cannot assume that they understand anything that would underlie as a foundational truth the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he says teach them, but he says teach all nations. That word nations is an important word because it doesn't mean a country. Actually, it comes from a word that from that that our word ethnic would come from. The word would be ethnos or we would say ethnic. So he's talking when the when you read in the scriptures about a nation, he's talking about an ethnic people group And so that's the target then. It's not just every country. I can remember back in the days when I was uh out on deputation like the missionaries that you see here all the time. They're coming through. God's called them to a mission field, they're excited to go there. They know that they have to have uh financial support and prayer support to be able to do that. And so they come present their work, and uh they uh they're they're you know they're just um bubbling and and and excited about going to their people group, to their nation. And then he says something important. He says, baptizing them. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Now, in a Baptist church, we believe that there are two what we call ordinances. And that is baptism and the Lord's Supper. And these are ordinances that are to be conducted with the authority of the local church and basically in the local church. But the point here would be, when he says baptizing them, it must be connected with a church plant in order for it to be authenticated, you see. And so I can't, for instance, uh, if I send my children, my grandchildren to a Christian camp somewhere where there may be uh 10, 15, 20, who knows how many different churches represented there by the campers I do not expect that camp to baptize anybody. That's the job of their local church. They send them back. If they get saved at camp, they send them back to their local church to be baptized And so the idea here of going and teaching all nations, baptizing them, is talking about more than just worldwide evangelism, as important as that is And this will come out a little bit later on in the message. But the point being that from the very get-go, the Lord's intention concerning worldwide missions did not uh uh uh finish or end when he uh said uh win them to Christ or teach them how to be saved. But it was to go on they were to organize local New Testament churches And then, of course, he goes on and he says, teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I have commanded you, and that's discipleship, that's living the Christian life. And so we come then this morning to what I want to talk to you really about is our role. And I say our, excuse me today if I just include myself here in the church. I've been invited by your pastor to come and preach. And I just can't help it. I like it here. If they kick me out of my church up in Ohio, I just might come here, preacher. But uh so I'll just say us, okay, today. But the point is this that we have as a local church We have a fourfold, fourfold responsibility for this thing concerning worldwide missions. And the first one is to understand that we have a part, four P's. We had three Ps, or yeah, three P's in uh the introduction in Sunday school lesson, then we had three E's, but now we're going to go back to four P's to help us remember here this morning. Understand our part in missions. Now let me ask you a question Look at me if you would please. Do you believe this morning that God wants you to know His will for you? Amen. All right. Now that seems like a pretty you know foregone conclusion. The answer would be just a foregone conclusion, but actually people struggle with that. And oftentimes We find that when we're dealing with young people and even college-age young people, that they don't know what God's will for their life is. And I've heard actually speakers kind of shaking their finger and shaming young people because they don't know what God's will is. Well, let me say this to you. That in God's own time, when it pleases Him, He'll reveal His will to you. And that's not something that you should necessarily be overwhelmed by because you don't know what God has for your life. Just keep yourself right, stay in the Word of God, be active in your local church, be open to the will of God, and when it pleases the supreme God of all of the universe He'll reveal his perfect will to you. And by the way, you're right, church, that God does want you to know his will. Listen to what Paul says to young Timothy. Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. And so if you want to know the will of God, you must not neglect the word of God. But rather you must be studying the Word of God because it is through His Word that He speaks to us today. We don't have prophets like we did in the Old Testament to stand up and say, Thus saith the Lord But rather we have the Word of God. And actually, you remember a time when there were a couple of disciples, the sons of uh thunder, I believe, went up on a mountain. I could maybe correct it need corrected about the who it was, but they're up on the mountain and they see the transfiguration of Christ. They see the glory of God coming down and it's such a wonderful experience And the and the and the apostles that are there, the disciples that are there, think that this is a great, great thing. But the Lord says to them, there is a more sure word of prophecy. And that's this book that we hold. I thank the Lord for the emphasis that Pastor put on this morning upon this book and upon the special that the choir sang. And uh it's just a uh we cannot overstate the importance of the Word of God as far as our local church understanding and us as Christians on how we're to live and conduct our lives. And so we see that we have a part. Listen also concerning the will of God for our life, understanding our part in missions. Ephesians 5. 17 says this. Be ye not unwise, now listen to this, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. And so God not only wants us to know the will of God, He wants us to understand the will of God And so that would be one of the reasons why, when we come together, that we always go to the book, and there's always a Bible message or some teaching, some preaching. uh some exhortation out of the book. Why? Because we must not only know God's will, if one thing for me to stand here and tell you that it is God's will for you to endeavor to reach the world, but it's another thing for you to understand the whys and the wherefores behind that. Because when we understand the will of God Then you see we've got some foundational truths to build upon, and it's not just an emotional thing because we heard a motivational message. But it's something that will last from now until Jesus comes. Amen. Our understanding of the will of God. But listen again, as I as I read for you Colossians chapter 1, verse 9 He says, For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will In all wisdom and spiritual understanding. And so you know it's a great, great thing. I get around a little bit And so I'm uh uh you know I'm I'm mixing up with Christians in different congregations, you know, and in in independent Baptist churches, and it's amazing sometimes uh particularly in the day and age we in which we live, as to how confused God's people are about the will of God. And can I say to you that there's a direct link with their confusion and their lack of study of the Word of God? And usually that comes from something that isn't happening right here behind this pulpit week in and week out. If the pulpit is weak, the congregation is going to be weak in their understanding of the will of God. In church, you ought to thank God For the pastor that you have, and the good solid Bible teaching that you have, the Bible Institute, and all that goes into that. I just appreciate that so much, and I hope you do as well. So we have a we uh so our the the first element in the local church and missions, our full f meeting our full four fourfold responsibility is to understand that we have a part The second thing that we are to do, according to Scripture, is we are to supply personnel for missions. And I want you to go with me here to Luke chapter 10. And I want you to see this, and I know you probably know this verse. But I want us to look at it again, because in Luke chapter 10 and verse 2, he makes this statement. Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. Now, I was paying attention. When we read the scripture verse this morning from Matthew chapter 28, I paid particular attention to how you pronounce the word alway. Did you teach them that? Yeah. You didn't say always. Right. And you say, well, that's the same word. No, it isn't. For one thing, it's spelled different. But did you know that always has a different meaning from always? It's a subtle difference. But it does not mean all the time. The word always means under all conditions. And what I said that for is not to try to act smarty here, but there's a point I want to make. That the language and the words of your King James Bible, now we No, and we believe that the Bible was inspired in its original manuscripts But God went beyond that and he preserved his word, didn't he? Down through a family of Bibles that does not include the modern Bibles, such as the Living Bible and Bad news for modern man and I mean good news for modern man and um uh the uh NASV and um whatever else. But we believe that we hold here in our laps the King James Bible, the Bible that the words originally were inspired, and now listen to me, I'm going to go a step further than most guys will go. And that inspiration was preserved up until this day. And so the words are important. And so I want you to look with me at Luke chapter 10. And it says here, therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is plentious, but the laborers are few. Pray ye. Now every modern Bible you look at is going to have pray you or you pray or you should pray or something of that nature. They're not going to use the word ye, probably. Say what's the significance? Well the significance is this. That the word ye is actually a plural pronoun. Think about it. He's not saying you as an individual, right? He's saying ye It's sort of like I was preaching in Alabama. There's a bunch of good old boys in Alabama, amen? Anyone from Alabama? Well anyway I'm preaching there and all week a mission conference and so it came time the last night, you know, for the thank yous to be passed out and thank you for the r nice room and thank you for the meals and And I'm doing all this and I said this, I made this statement. I have even learned how to say you all. The preacher sitting down. About right here. And he gets this disgusted look on his face and he goes No, no, no. Well stop me short. And I said, did I say something wrong, preacher? And he said, you sure did. You said you all. It's not you all, Yankee It's y'all. The point I'm making is this. Then when he says ye, he's saying in our contemporary language, we would say y'all or you all. Us Yankees would say you all. Okay, I'm from Ohio. And so um I am a Yankee, I guess So the point is this, that the allus he's alluding to this, that he's not speaking even though individuals have a responsibility But this suggests a corporate responsibility. You see what I'm getting at? He says, the Lord of the harvest, pray ye And so the idea is that, yes, individuals should pray, but there ought to also be what we call corporate prayer. for the calling forth of missionaries from our group. Now Pastor said something earlier that he would love it for God to call some young people out of this congregation to the mission field. Can I tell you this? That our second responsibility as a local church is to supply workers for missions, to supply personnel to keep the peas going there. Let me ask you this, church, do you corporately pray that God will call people out of this congregation to send them to the mission fields of the world? And let me just say, if you're not doing that, I hope you'll be challenged today to begin to do that. I started to tell you in Sunday school about a single lady missionary. Her name is Ruth Mickle. She's out of Loudonville Baptist Temple in Loudonville, Ohio. As she came through on Friday and we sat down in uh uh had an interview with her to make sure that we were doctrinally on the same page and philosophically aligned so that we could help so that Calvary Baptist Church at All Points Baptist Mission could help Loudonville Baptist Temple send her there. She is a she's graduated from Bible College. She has graduated from uh that school in uh uh w with that Rex Cobb has down there in Bowie, Texas, you know, Baptist Bible Translators Institutes. And by the way, I'm so excited about that, you know, that there was a day When if if uh independent Baptist people were going to learn how to translate the scriptures into another language, they had to go to a new evangelical group like uh New Tribes Missions or um Wycliffe Bible Translators or something to do that. But right now, right here in America for the last twenty years or so, thirty years Bible Baptist translators, a ministry of a local independent New Testament Baptist church. You can go there, take their training, nine months training, and be able to go to a people group that doesn't even have a written language. You can write their language, you can give them a grammar, and you are equipped then to translate the scriptures uh into their language. How good is that? Amen. And so Ruth Mickle, before I finish the story, I have to tell you that their church did something like your church is doing. Look, uh if you haven't seen it and you visitors, when you go out there, look on that back wall right over there, you'll see the country of say it for me. Kazakhstan. Yes, that country. And you've adopted that as your country because you're going to pray and work and try to get the gospel to that country. Well Loudonville Baptist Temple did that But instead of a whole country, they picked a nation or a people group called the Luri people. Now you're not going to believe where these people live. They live in Iran or Iran. Okay? No Bible, never have had one. And this young lady, Ruth Meckle, is called there. She's called there, I believe Because her pastor and the church adopted that people group and began to pray that God would send them somebody to go there and translate the scriptures into their language. And lo and behold, right out of their congregation, God raised up Ruth Mikkel. And she's going to be getting her deputation to go there to the Iranian to the uh Lure people. She can't live in Iran, obviously, but she'll live in uh Armenia. And so we have a so we have a responsibility to uh not only know our part, but to supply personnel. And then you just knew I was going to get around to this part We have a responsibility to yield provisions for missions. And we'll just ask this question this morning. Where does money for missions come from? Did you ever think about that? Well, first of all, we'd have to say that it comes from the local church. And just uh you've uh I take it from what you said, Pastor, that Pat Creed comes and preaches, etc. Well then Brother Creed has oftentimes probably taken you to 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and shown you the text of and the um the the way that the faith promised principle developed in the life of the Apostle Paul. How this started out one day in the very beginning as a uh a love offering for the poor saints at Jerusalem, but then Paul swung it over to his missionary enterprise. Amen He taught you how that uh that they gave uh not out of their abundance, but the churches of Macedonia who were very poor country, uh very poor churches how they gave over and above uh uh you know what they in their wildest imagination thought they could give And they didn't give out of their abundance, there was no abundance, but they gave by faith out of that which they had. And of course the teaching there is that if by giving now this isn't the same as going out and creating a new credit card debt. This is different than that. But let me tell you this, if you take that you take that piece of paper this morning and you look at that and you feel burdened in your heart to do something about it, But you say I am at the limit of what I can do. But I feel so impressed. God's impression. God wants me to give $10. I don't know how I can do it. I don't know where I can take it from. But God wants me to g uh to up my giving by ten dollars a week. And I say to you that according to and on the authority of the scriptures of 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and chapter 9 That if that giving, now pardon my former way of saying this, but if that kind of giving creates a hole behind you in your financial picture, that's what you're trusting God to meet. Your what? Needs. Okay? You with me? How many understand the principle already? You understand what I'm saying? Alright. So I'm not going to belabor the point. But where does money come from? According to 2 Corinthians chapter 8, it comes from a local church, just like Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. But once we're within the church and we understand that and I and listen to what your pastor said that this is not about sending me as an individual and by the way Barbara and I are involved in faith promise giving. This church supports us. You say, well, if we give it to you, why would you turn around and give it away again? Well, we only give a portion of it away, but Because we love missions too. Amen. We want to be a part of that. Listen, I don't know what I could do, what I would do if I was in my home church and one of our missionaries we support came home to report on the work And I sit there and say, boy, all these people around me here must sure have a blessing in this. They had a part in this, but I didn't Now I can't do that. I want to have a part in that. When they show the pictures of the churches that are planted and the people that have come to know Christ and the baptisms that are being performed, I want to jump up and say, I had a part in that. Woo! So don't tell me I can't give away your money. It's it's important that everybody, I think, gets involved in it. But it comes from individuals within the local church, Acts chapter 4, verses 34 through 37. And let me say this and before we pass on to the next point here, that it does not come from the missionary himself Do you hear me? Presume with me for a moment that there is a missionary called to a mission field, and he just so happens to be independently wealthy. Do you know that there is no biblical precedent for him going to the mission field without going under the authority of a local church? Let me just show you something about this. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians. And I want you to look at 1 Corinthians chapter 9. 1 Corinthians chapter 9. And let's look at verse 7, 1 Corinthians 9, 7. Who goeth a warfare any time in his own charges? And so let me stop there before we read the rest of the verse. But what that's talking about is that when the United States of America um uh sends somebody off to war, They do not expect that man to pro to buy his own M sixteen. Who supplies that? Well you say the government does, but let's go back a little further. Who supplies that? The taxpayer does. I do. You do. And you know why that's that concept is important? It's important that we should understand that we who reap the benefits of being protected, of our freedom being protected, pay for the uh necessities of that soldier That's the way it works. And so when we swing this over, the idea that Paul's trying to get across here is who goes to warfare at any time at his own charge? It might be a rhetorical question, but the answer is nobody. Nobody does that. Some of you, how many of you are in here that uh went on the missions trip up to Quebec that time that I I was there? All right, several of you. And uh you remember a man, a pastor that was with us by the name of Pastor Bill Livermore. How many remember Bill Livermore? Well let me tell you something about Bill Livermore's past. He was in the United States Army. And he was what we call a tanker. Did he tell you about that? He was a tanker. He rode around then and had some kind of job in the M1 tank. Okay? At the time, I don't know how much they are now, but at the time, the cost of an M1 tank was about ten million dollars So he signed up on the line, but he's joined in the army, he's interested in the antagonist. They said, oh by the way, you can give your $10 million to the treasure on the way out. You have to buy your own tank. Ridiculous. But the point I'm making is, and let's continue on here with what the text says, who goes to warfare at any time in his own charges Uh look at what it says. Who planteth a vineyard and eateth not of the fruit thereof, or who feedeth a flock and eateth not of the milk of the flock? And so the point is that you and I, church member We give our faith promise missions into the into the treasury of our local church. You hear, me there. Uh but we do that because this has to be a local church enterprise. We can't just do this all individually. By the way, uh you let me say that y you surely know That we can accomplish more together, corporately or as a body, than we could accomplish if we were just did it all as individuals. You know that? Um I have a friend that that uh has uh uh horses. And uh he pulls them at the county fairs. And he tells me I've forgotten now what the percentage is. But you would think, just suppose a horse could that that uh one horse can pull um a thousand pounds and the other horse and the team could pull a thousand pounds individually, you would suppose that together then that they could that they could pull two thousand pounds. Actually a percentage, there's a percentage that's over and above that. And I suppose it has something to do with the encouragement that one gives to the other and back and forth. And when we do this corporately, we can do better than we can do as individuals. Let me just say this to you, while we're on this idea of money. that I already have talked to you about the need of not just evangelizing the lost, but planting New Testament churches. In two more months, the church in the Nuvik, Northwest Territory, Canada will have their faith promise commitment. Faith Promised Missions uh uh conference. And I don't know what they'll do for this coming year, but for the year current year that they're in right now, They are on schedule and they will by the end by March, they will have given $75,000 over and above their tithes and what it takes to run their church there to foreign missions. They just we give it away You say, well, why would you think that a bunch of poor Eskimos should give demissions? And the answer is if it's right for Americans, why is it wrong for them? And so here's what happened at a mission conference a couple years ago. I was there, ran the conference for them, and so we had like uh Wednesday night, Thursday night, Friday night preaching. Saturday we're having an international banquet. Do you all have that? Okay, and so we've got the you know time for testimonies and I had three testimonies lined up from the men. And when I got it all done, I when when those three men finished, I said, Does anybody else have anything to say? And one of our ladies lifted her hand and very sheepishly, very quietly, she said, Can I say something? I said, Yes. And I said, You want to say it from there? You want to come up to the we have a little lectron like y'all have for Sunday school here And she actually came up front, which kind of surprised me. And she said this, this is almost a word-for-word quote. She said, some of you are wondering whether we should give to missions Of course we ought to give to missions. Where would we be if somebody hadn't sent a missionary to us? And that ladies and gentlemen is the program of worldwide missions. Why do we plant churches? For many reasons, but one of those spin-off reasons would be that that church then on the mission field also becomes a part of the and uh of the uh of the necessity of uh the machinery that's needed to reach the world in this last day. Then let me close with this thought. Not only do we have a responsibility to know our part and to supply personnel and to yield provision, but we have a responsibility to offer prayer. For missions. Jesus said in Matthew 9, 38, Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest. That he would send forth laborers in his harvest, into his harvest. So are we praying corporately that God would outright out of this congregation call people to the mission field to Be involved in the procuring of soul, harvesting worshipers for God, if you please. Well, we ought to pray for laborers, but secondly, we need to pray for missions in regard to their safety. 1 Thessalonians 5. 25, Paul said this, brethren, pray for us. And he also another he he talks about there are many adversaries. And you know that Paul was shipwrecked on a couple of you know three occasions and and um uh he had he had a rough life. But he begged the prayers of the people of God. As he writes to that church in Thessalonica, brethren, pray for us. He didn't say, brother, pray for us. Brethren, pray for us. You wouldn't know this man, but his name is James Dean, not the Jimmy Dean that you knew when you were growing up. But James Dean, I am preaching at his, I think I told you this story years ago, but you've forgotten it. But James Dean and his then fiance Cassie was at that college and I came to them and I noticed as I walked up to my display they had their backs to me and they were looking at a picture of the world from the top of the world. And around that top of the the map of the top of the world were different people groups represented. And I s walked up, they weren't real close because they were not allowed to touch in college, you know, and so I walked up kind of between them and I said, can I help you They both turned to me and I noticed tears in both of their eyes. And Jing said, yes, sir. And he pointed to a particular people group. Listen to this, in Arctic Siberia. And he said, Yes, sir, you can help us get to these people. Well, they're there. They're in the Arctic. They work with a people group called the Avinki Group. According to the Joshua Project, less than 1% profess Christianity, and that most certainly is going to be Russian Orthodox. Well, James Dean is getting ready to move his family from southern Siberia, city called Kroznyarsk, up to the Arctic on the winter road. Winter Road is a combination of driving on the frozen ice river and overland on frozen tundra. How many have you ever seen ice road truckers? All right, that's what we're talking about. By the way, Barbara and I do that all the time. And um some of what you hear on that program just isn't true, just flat out lie, but some of it is true. But James is getting ready to do this. And one of the things that he has is a big spool of wire, like you see the power companies with along the road, you know they're putting wire up to the telephone poles. Is this thing weighs several hundred pounds? He has it in the back of his Russian-built uh four-wheel drive van. And as he's going down the road, traffic going both ways, there's a vehicle, a car behind him. In front of him is a state body truck, like a ton and a half truck. And this guy pulls out to pass both James and the truck in front of him, but there's an oncoming car. Actually that car has a dash cam on it, records the whole thing He cannot get past the truck, so he forces himself into into a line between James and the truck in front of that, forcing James off of the road. He goes off the road, over corrects, goes back across the road, spins around in the road, by the way, and his truck slams tailgate first, or his van, tailgate first, up against the bank on the other side with such force that the spool of wire gets loose, busts the doors off, his seatbelt breaks, and his chair, his driver's chair, actually is broken loose from the frame. Thankfully, he has no children and no passengers. If he'd had his children there, they surely would have been badly hurt, probably killed. Can I say to you that you don't know when you get up in the morning what dangers your missionaries are going to face? And I'm here to tell you that we need to be praying, not just in a general way, Lord bless our missionaries. You know who they are and you know what they need. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'm talking about getting specific about our prayers. We need to play for Holy Spirit leadership in their lives. We need to pray for divine appointments. How many of you know what I'm talking about when I talk about a divine appointment concerning witnessing opportunities? And let me say this, if you don't understand it, I'll try to summarize it quickly. It's the idea that God is an expert at bringing a person who needs answers. And causing their path to cross with a Christian who has the answers. And oh, how we need to be sensitive and we need to pray that our missionaries would be sensitive. Listen They're just like us. They're common ordinary people that God's called to do a job that they're probably without him, I'm sure without him, couldn't do anyway. Let's begin to pray about their divine appointments. Let's pray about their well I don't have time to go into it, but because I want to read you this and we'll close. We're one minute to twelve. But I want to challenge you with this thought. As you take, as you look at this card, this paper, and you consider what you're doing, and considering whether or not you ought to up it. That's between you and God. I'm not putting any particular pressure on you except I want you to understand something. That when God puts into your hand your paycheck however you get it, maybe it's automatically deposited on the house. But God, let's just say for the sake of sake of simplicity, that God puts dollars in your hand. when uh construction workers particularly got paid on Friday in cash. You all remember some of that? And um say God places your paycheck in your hand You can do one of you can do a couple of things with that. Now listen carefully. You can consume that if you please. Of course you'd take your tithe out of it first, wouldn't you? But what's left you could consume or you could invest it And I want to illustrate what I'm talking about by this. This is from missionary Del Tar. He was in West Africa. served in West Africa. He said, I was always perplexed by Psalm 126 when I till I came to the Sahel. That vast stretch of savanna more than 4,000 miles wide just south of the Sahara Desert. So then the Sahel, all moisture comes in a four-month period, May, June, July, and August. After that, not one drop of rain falls for eight months. The ground cracks from dryness, and so do your hands and feet. The winds of the Sahara pick up the dust and throw it thousands of feet into the air, and it comes drifting, slowly drifting across West Africa as a fine grit gets inside your mouth, gets inside your watch and makes it stop. But a year's food must be grown, of course, in those four months. And people grow sorghum and Milo in small fields October and November. These are the beautiful months because the granaries are full and the harvest has come. People sing and dance. They eat two meals a day. The sorghum is ground between two stones and makes flour, and they make a mush out of it with a consistency of yesterday's cream of wheat. How many of you know what cream of wheat is? Okay. The sticky mush is eaten hot. They roll it into little balls between their fingers, drop it into a bit of sauce, pop it into their mouths. And a meal lies heavy upon their stomachs and they sleep. December comes, and the granaries begin to recede. Many families omit the morning meal. Certainly by January, not one in fifty families is still eating two meals a day. By February, the evening meal diminishes. The meal shrinks even more during March and children succumb to sickness. You don't stay well on half a meal a day. April and March are the ones uh April is the month that haunts my memory. In it, you hear babies crying in the twilight. And most of the days are spent are passed with just a cup of gruel. Then, invariably it happens A six or seven-year-old boy comes running to his father one day with sudden excitement, Daddy! Daddy, we've got green! He shouts. Son, you know we haven't had grain for weeks. Yes we do, says the boy. Out in the hut where we keep the guts, there's a leather sack hanging up on the wall, and I reached my hand out in there, Daddy, there's grain in there. Give it to Mommy so she can. make flour and our tummies can sleep. Well the father stands motionless, doesn't quite know what to say. Because he says, son, we can't do that. That's next year's seed grain. And the only thing that's it's the only thing that stands between us is starvation. If we eat it now, we won't be able to plant. We're waiting for the rain, and then we'll use it. Well the fain the rain finally comes in in May, and when they do, this young boy watches his dad take the sack down off the wall. And to his young mind does the most unreasonable thing imaginable. He takes that precious seed that they could eat, and he watches his father throw it in the dirt. Now you know where that goes, right? But when you get a paycheck, you're faced with one or two things. You can consume it. Or you can invest it. Because I'm telling you, payday someday, not only in a negative sense As a great sermon's been preached, but in a positive sense, that our reward is not on this earth. But one day we shall stand before him who is the master of all. And I don't know about you, but I want to hear, well done, good and faithful servant. What are you going to do with that which God has given you, Pastor? Let's bow our heads. This is a great challenge from the Word of God. Spirit of God's dealing with our hearts, no doubt about it. And I wonder how many this morning you'd say, Preacher, God's God has stirred my heart concerning missions. I want to be a part of this. My prayers, my living, my giving. You say, preacher, pray with me. God has challenged me. God has stirred me. And having a part in getting the gospel to everyone around the world. How many uplifted hand that way there? God bless you. God bless you. I wonder how many of us would make a commitment. I'm going to pray. faithfully, consistently, and specifically for our missionaries, by God's grace, with their self, on a daily basis. I'm either going to continue to do that, or I'm going to make a deliberate effort to make that part of my daily schedule praying specifically and consistently for our missionaries. How many like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, God bless you. We need that as much as anything And then this matter of giving, I'm not asking you to raise your hand, but I'm challenging and I'm asking the Lord to challenge all of us to exercise faith and invest in getting the gospel into all the world. If you're here this morning, you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. The Bible's very, very clear. You can know that. You can be saved from sin in hell. Would there be any net in this morning you would say, Praetor, I'm not sure that when I die I'm going to heaven? Say, I don't want to go to hell, I want to be sure That God has forgiven me all my sin. That my home is in heaven. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. I'd like for the Lord to help me settle that in my heart. Any at all? Uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure about my salvation. I'm concerned. I'd appreciate your prayers. Any at all? How about it? Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. Lord, you've been dealing with us. And I pray now as we go into imitation, you'd help us to exercise faith, to trust you, follow your instructions, and let you lead us. And Lord, we'll give you the glory in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.