Please take your Bible and turn to the book of Proverbs. As you've already noticed, and I greeted most of the seniors here tonight by calling them young people. There was a reason for that. You're really only as old as you feel. And just because there's a little frosting on top does not mean that you're old. And it also doesn't mean that you're finished, you know. A lot of times we live in a society which, you know, well, you know, older people, you know, they're just they're kind of they can't work like they used to. They're, you know They're just really not what they need to be. Let me tell you something. I've been around long enough to know without the seniors in this society, not much would go on. And most churches are thankful to have the senior saints in them and what they can do. So we're going to be looking at that and no, I'm not going to pastor hope that all of your seniors leave the church and go to Mexico or a mission field. But I am going to give them a vision for something before we finish tonight on how they can be profitable to the work and the ministry, not only somewhere else, but here as well. So in the book of Proverbs We find in Proverbs 16, we find an expression used, and we're going to trace that for a few verses here. But it says in verse 31, Proverbs 16, 31, the hoary head is a crown of glory if it be found in the way of righteousness. Now that's a big if It is not just the hoary head, the gray hair, that is a crown of righteousness. It is if it is found in the way of righteousness And with you being here tonight, knowing the Lord is your Savior, your gray hair is in the way of righteousness. And therefore it is a crown of glory to you. Turn with me over a few pages to Proverbs 20. Proverbs 20 and verse number 29. Proverbs 2029, the glory of young men is their strength, and the beauty of old men is the gray hand. Now, Brother Dave, I never thought I'd become beautiful But according to God, with a gray head, I just got beauty. Amen. So you you gray heads, think of that All right? Some of us think we, as we got older, we we got less good looking, not according to God. God honors the gray head. Turn to Psalm 71, please. Psalm 71. Psalm 71, we come down to verse number 18. And verse 18 goes thus: Now also, when I am old and gray-headed, O God. Forsake me not. Why? He gives us the why. Until I have showed thy strength unto this generation, and thy power. to everyone that is to come. Our desire is to be used of God to show this generation The power of God. What God can do. Now let me just take you on a quick trip, if I might. Michelangelo, at the age of 87, painted his greatest artwork. The first American to orbit the Earth. We know him. John Glenn became the oldest man to go back into space at the age of 77. Oliver Wendell Holmes set down some of his most brilliant legal briefs At the age of 90. Colonel Sanders, oh, we know him. He had a chicken recipe that he had used locally for a while. At the age of 65, when he drew his first retirement check, he took it national. And we know it today as Kentucky fried chicken. Winston Churchill wrote his four-volume work on the English-speaking people, the history of the English-speaking people, at the age of 82. Ben Franklin, at the age of 81, effected the compromise that led to the adoption of the United States Constitution. These men did not give up when they got older. They continued to work, they continued to do, and they continued to accomplish things that God wanted them to do. Turn, please, to the book of Isaiah, chapter 46. Isaiah 46. We talked about it being the way of righteousness, the great head. My dear ones, one of the best things you can do here and online is to make sure you know Jesus Christ as your Savior. If you go through this life and you live to old age and you don't find the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, you have missed everything And so you have a great opportunity, because you're here tonight, you do know the Lord as your Savior, to be able to share and to be able to make a difference and an impact in this future generation. In Isaiah 46, notice what God says in verse 4. And even to your old age, I am He. Meaning God says, I am still the God that was with you at a young man, I am still the God that is with you in old age. And even to whore Will I carry you? Now get this next part. I have made and I will bear. Even I will carry and will deliver you. What an incredible promise God gives. Not to the young people. Oh, I'm thankful for young people. I really am. But God gives it to the grayheads as well. This promise is to us that God will do a work. Now turn with me to my text. That's all introduction. Turn with me to my text. In the book of Judges, chapter, excuse me, I'm not Judges, Joshua, chapter 14. Joshua chapter 14. Joshua chapter 14. We come to a story. Most of us remember Moses The man that led the people of Israel out, Moses lived to 120. Moses really started to do God's work at the age of 80. Joshua comes behind him. And we know Joshua. Joshua is familiar. But there's another man in the story, one of the two spies, like Joshua. By the name of Caleb. He kind of falls into obscurity in the scriptures. We know about him, but he's not I guess as out in front as what Joshua and Moses were. And so in chapter 14 of Joshua, we find this passage telling us about Caleb. Caleb was one of the only two spies that returned and said, we can do it. We can get them. We can take the land. And of course you know what happened. The other ten convinced Israel not to do it. They're too big. We can't take it. They have fenced cities. We can't go in there. We're like grasshoppers in our sight. We're we're we're just not able to overcome them. And Joshua and Caleb said, what do you mean? We can do this They're not too big to miss. Excuse me, they're not too big to hit. They're too big to miss. We can take them. We can do this. Notice verse 8. Joshua chapter 14 and verse 8. Nevertheless, my brethren, that went up with me made the heart of the people melt. But I holy, now notice. Follow the Lord my God. And Moses sore on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon thy feet have trodden shall be thine inheritance and thy children's forever, because thou hast wholly followed the Lord thy God. Twice now he said about him following the Lord holy. Now notice verse ten, and now behold, the Lord hath kept me alive, Caleb says, as he said, these forty-five years. Even since the Lord spake the word unto Moses, while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness, and now, lo, I am this day fourscore and five years old. So how old is he? Eighty-five years old. He's no spring chicken. Right? Now notice yet I am as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me, meaning a spy 45 years before. As my strength was then, even so is my strength now. For war both to go out and to come in. Caleb says, 85, I've learned a few things. And I'm ready to go. Verse number twelve. Now therefore, give me this mountain. The famous statement that we sing about, that we know about, and oft times is quoted, whereof the Lord spake in that day. For thou heardest in that day how the Anakin's were there, and that the city was great and fenced, if so be the Lord will be with me Then I shall be able to drive them out, as the Lord said. Notice he's not going to do it in his own strength. He's going to do it in the strength of the Lord. We're not going to Mexico in our own strength, folks. We very much desire the prayers of God's people. That's why my desire to do a video every week, I want you with me. As we owe. As I walk down into the villages, I want to look behind me and see all the saints of God that are praying for us. That's my desire. So Caleb says, I remember 45 years ago, and these guys boasted that they could not be beat. Caleb says, let me tell you something. It's time that they fall. He said, I remember when the Lord said He was going to deliver him. And this is the only part of the land still standing. And Caleb wanted that mountain. My wife and I desire Mexico, particularly the Yucatan For the Lord Jesus Christ. That's our desire. We want to see what God will do. Now, as we think about this, Our story doesn't end there. Of course, we understand that Caleb goes in, takes the city, and so forth But there's a couple of interesting things about this that we need to understand and note. And that, of course, we find As we look at verse number six, then the children of Judah came unto Joshua and Gilgal and Caleb, the son of Jephna. Jessna, the Kinesite. You see that expression? The Kinesite Said unto him, Thou knowest the thing that the Lord said to Moses, the man of God, concerning me and thee at Canaish Pharnia. But my my concern is that expression of Jephana and the Kinesite Where does that come from? What is going on here? And who is this guy in the scriptures? Well, let's go back to the book of Numbers a moment. Back to the book of Numbers. We'll be back over into Joshua Judges in a moment, but go back to the book of Numbers. To Numbers 32. Numbers chapter 32. And we find there in Numbers thirty-two in verse number twelve 32 and verse number 12. It says, Save Caleb the son of Jephanah. The Kinesite and Joshua the son of nun, for they have wholly followed the Lord. There's that expression again. Holy following the Lord. But his father and his tribe, or the people from which he came, were the Kinesites. We still don't know who they are. Well, let's go back a little further. The book of Genesis. Genesis chapter 36. Notice Genesis 36. In Genesis 36, we find out who this is. Genesis 36, notice please, verse number 10. Genesis 36 and verse number 10. Now these are the sons of Esau. We know him. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Who was Esau? Jacob's brother. Who is the chosen? Jacob, not Esau. Now, watch what God does. And these are the generations of Esau, the father of the Edomites in Mount Sur. These are the names of Esau's sons, Eliphaz, the son of Ada. the wife of Esau, Ruel, the son of Bathamath, the wife of Esau, and the sons of Eliphaz were Temon, Omar Zopho or Zipho and Gatam. And who? Kaniz. Wait a minute. You don't mean. Yes, I do. Caleb was not of the Jewish line. Caleb was of Esau's lineage. How did he get in Israel coming out of Egypt? Apparently he was adopted into some Jewish family And ended up in Egypt and coming out with the children of Israel. But I want us to also note, he was not only thought of as an Israelite or a Jew. But he was also so well thought of that his tribe picked him to be representative as a spy going into the land. You know, you and I are a lot like Caleb, aren't we? We're adopted into a family. Now I don't know about your background, maybe yours is better than mine, but I'm amazed that God has asked me to represent him at all. But much like Caleb, his tribe wanted him to represent them in the promised land. He was one of only two that brought back a favorable report. My dear ones, we are in reality as Gentiles a lot like Caleb, because God has adopted us into his family. Now, our story doesn't end there, because Caleb had a younger brother. Anybody know the younger brother of Caleb? What? Oh, I figured it was one of our young people that would say that. Oath Neal. Okay? Oath Neal. You say, who is Oath Neal? What is an Oath Neal, right? Well, let's look real quickly in the book of Judges. The book of Judges, and we find in Judges chapter 3 A deliverer. Judges chapter three and verse number nine. And it says, and the children of Israel cried unto the Lord, and the Lord raised up a deliverer to the children of Israel who delivered them, even Othnil, the son of Kines. Caleb's younger brother. Now, at 85 or 90, by this time, in in Judges, 90 years old probably, um How old do you think Othaniel was? Well, I have a feeling even if he was 65 or 70, he's still what? Pretty old, right? He's still the younger brother, but he's still pretty he could have been much older than that even. He's still been the younger brother So apparently serving the Lord in old age ran in Caleb's family. And they were willing to give themselves and to serve. Now, dear Saints, dear senior saints, please understand our desire through our deputation time has been to encourage you and challenge you. God is not finished with you yet. If we are still breathing, God is not done with us yet. He said, Oh, Pastor, let me tell you something. He said, Man, I can't get around much. I can't do a whole lot. I barely make it to church. Some of you online, maybe you are not even able to come to church, but there is still Breath, and you have a great ability to pray. We need prayer warriors. So as we age in Mexicanity, the blessing about brother, being our age, we don't have to buy new prayer cards every time you turn around. We're not going to change. Our prayer cards are going to stay the same. 20 years from now, we're going to look about the same. All right. Twenty years from now, folks, you can have a part in everything that goes on in Mexico. As you pray and walk the trails with us to the villages. You say, well, Pastor, I'll never learn another language. That's okay. I'm not sure I will either. I'm hoping to. I'm working that direction with every part in me. I have led some people to the Lord in Spanish, Mexican people. And God, I prayed for that for a while. And God finally gave me the opportunity, and I actually led some folks to the Lord. Say, well, I'm not going to be able to learn a language, Pastor. No, but BIMI has a mission group, part of their mission, called Reseeding America. Now, Reseeding America, brother, is pastors that go into an area to resurrect a church. establish a good Baptist church. Maybe it was Methodist at one time, but they're going to establish a good Baptist church. Do you know what they could use more than anything? A couple of seniors coming along with them and saying, we'll give you six months. We'll support you. Will be there for you. Do you know how long it takes a pastor to normally raise up a deacon and get one that can actually serve and deak You know that just doesn't happen. You've got to train him. You could go alongside. You could be the first deacon of the church and help him Be an assistant to him. Do that which lift him up in prayer. Be there and amen him. You're the only one outside of his family. But you're sitting there, amen, Pastor, amen And as they add to the church, you can be a part. You can still come home because it's in America. You don't have a new language to learn And you still come home for Thanksgiving, for Christmas, you don't miss a thing of your kids' graduation, but you can be a blessing To that pastor, going into a work. So there are things that you can do. How about here? Pastor, can I ask a question? If you were to have ten people volunteer to do something in the church tonight, could you use them in any way? That's the answer of most pastors. Okay. There's an unwritten list probably, but yeah, probably see some things. And they wouldn't just be things to do. They would be things that would benefit and enhance the ministry of God right here. So think of that, folks. Don't think It's time for you to retire. It's time for you to retread and get back on the road and see what God will do. Challenge you with this. Pick a country. Study about it. You've got missionaries here, right? Pick a country. Study learn everything you can about that country so you can better pray and target that missionary for a year and just pray for them. Get everything you can about them, get their requests, get their desires. Pray for them. And see what God will do in a year if you just commit yourself to be a warrior with them. There's a lot you can do. Thank you so much for allowing my wife and I to come. Please stop by the table. We have a church already there we're going to be working with. We don't have to go and establish a church. By doing the Institute, we hope to magnify and multiply ourselves by starting Independent Baptist churches, helping them do it. I already hopefully will have indigenous pastors ready to go because of the institute, and we will be able to get churches started uh even faster. And so we're that that's our desire to just see what God will do. We have a house down there already, all paid for, it's debt free. And so we go, pray for us, please, Pastor. I don't know how God may have spoken to your heart. I just thank God for this for the hoary heads in our church, the senior citizens that are so faithful, work so hard I think most of our fingerprints ministry, majority of the folks are senior citizens or blankets for babies, all across the board. But regardless of whatever our age is, how about as we finish out this Sunday night? We go into a new week. Maybe we just want to commit ourselves, say, Lord, here I am. Want you to use me in any and every capacity you possibly can. Maybe commit ourselves to pray. What a challenge to find a missionary and just focus on that missionary and pray for that one earnestly and diligently. I wonder how many say, Pastor, God spoke to my heart tonight. God challenged me and my involvement in missions and my service to the Lord. Is there anything like that? By the uplifted hand, God's challenged me tonight. Any age Amen. God bless you. I don't know how God may be stirring you or calling you, but let's let the Lord have his way and just uh sign that blank contract. Say, I'll do anything but best. Why don't you surrender that over so that way God can lead you to where he really wants you to be and doing what he really wants you to do? Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And Zenford place