If you would look at Nehemiah chapter 8 and verse number 10, the last part of that verse, last half of that verse. It starts off like this, for this day is holy unto our Lord. Neither be ye sorry. And Nehemiah had led the people to rebuild the wall. We'll mention that here in a little bit. And they got the Bible out, and they read the Bible to the people, kind of like a dedication service, maybe, for the wall. And the people came under such conviction that they had not been living for God the way the law, the Word of God says they should And they began to weep and were grieving over how far they had gotten from God. And he's saying, listen, no, no, no, we're coming back. We built the wall. And this is not the time to grieve. This is not the time to be sorrowful. This is the day the Lord has made. Holy unto the Lord we built these walls. And then look at the end of verse number eight. I'd like for us to read that little phrase together, the last statement after that semical one there. Read it together. Ready? Read it with me For the joy of the Lord is your strength. Would you say that again with me? For the joy of the Lord is your strength. I want to say it one more time, but I want us to change it. I want to say the joy of the Lord is your is my strength. Would you say that with me? The joy of the Lord is my strength. I want to speak this morning on the strength of joy. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our study of your word. I pray that you would um uh I pray you would do for us a bit what you did for those your people way back there with Nehemiah in Jerusalem and that wall build I pray, Lord, you'd speak to us and challenge us. And Lord, we even need conviction to convict us where we're away from you. Lord, draw us close to you that we can have this joy and we can see each day of our life as a day that is holy unto the Lord. God, we could be your people and serve you with gladness. I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. I ask you, Lord, to Speak to your word to us through my lips now in the next few moments. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We've been looking through the summer. We've been looking at what the Bible says about joy. And I'll tell you, it's a fascinating study how much the Bible says about joy, about Christian joy in particular. And if you remember, we started out, just a little recap here, we started out with our first message was from James chapter 1. Where the Bible says, where God through James tells the believers there in the New Testament, he says, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. Now the word temptation there we pointed out means trials, difficulties, adversity. And he says that we are to, as believers, we're to count it joy when we go into difficulties and heartaches and and uh these trials that God allows into our lives. And so our message then was we can have joy even in the midst of adversity. We can have joy even amidst of trials and difficulties. We can have a real joy as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we saw that. Then the second message we noticed, if you remember, we looked at the joy is a fruit of the Holy Spirit. We got that from Galatians chapter 5 The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. He goes down the list. One of them was joy. And what we noted in that study from that passage and others is that this joy that God uh ha that we have available as believers is not something we work up Uh have you ever been sad or you ever been discouraged or out of sorts and you tried on purpose to be happy? You're you're um just you're mad, you're frustrated, uh you don't feel good, and I'm just gonna be happy Yeah, anybody uh it doesn't work. I've tried it. Did you ever see somebody you know they're mad and they're smiling at ya? God tells us that there this joy that He's talking about that is available only to believers, really It's not something you and I work up. It's not some go through this mental process and boy, I can have this joy of the Lord No, it's a fruit that the Holy Spirit produces in us. It's something, it's a supernatural joy that God produces in our lives, and it's available to every believer. Then we noted, we actually spent two messages from Psalm 51, where we noted that joy can be lost. It's possible for a Christian. To have the joy of the Lord and to be rejoicing in the Lord, as the Bible says, but to lose that joy. David, if you'll remember, had committed a horrific sin of adultery with Bathsheba. We know the story And uh tried to cover up his sin, ended up killing her husband, and ended up killing a number of other people who died. And he tried to hide that for over a year, we believe. Baby was born as a result of the adultery. And try and cover that up. Well, you can hide things from man, but I'm telling you, you can't hide anything from God. God knew it. God saw it. And uh finally God sends Nathan by David and said, David, you've sinned. Brother Dave came under Dave. Sometimes I call him Dave. David, uh boy then David fell under conviction. And Psalm fifty-one is the most public confession of sin in all of history. David said, Against thee, and thee only have I sinned, done this evil in thy sight. Down verse 12, he said, This: Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. Sin had stolen the joy of the Lord from David's life. And he begged, he sought the Lord and said, God, I want to make things right. I acknowledge this and I repent from my sin. And Lord, give me that joy back. Give me that joy back. So joy can be lost. A believer can lose the joy of their salvation and it can be restored. So when we refuse to confront our sins by confessing and forsaking them, we can lose our joy. Now I hate to say this. I'm studying what the Bible says about joy, and I'm looking at my own life And I hate to say this, but I'm kind of coming to the conclusion that there are a lot of Christians That are do not experience the joy of the Lord. As I see it described in Scripture And I'm studying this and I'm looking at myself and I'm saying, you know, there's a lot of Chr there's a lot of Christians living, I think you'll know what I mean by this, living subpar Christian lives Anybody know what I mean by that? Subpar. It's not where God expects us to live, that level of spirituality. And along with that, we have that subpar joyfulness. We're not experiencing the joy of the Lord that is available to us. We're not experiencing that peace of heart and mind. That only God can give us. I'm getting ahead of myself here a little bit, but let me say this: this joy we're talking about, this peace of heart and mind we're talking about, is not found in a liquor bottle It's not found in a movie theater. It's not found in any kind of sinful pleasure. It is found in the Lord and the Lord alone. And I'm afraid, like I said, I I hate to even say this. I wish I couldn't say it, but the fact of the matter is, uh there's a lot of Christians have no more joy than the unsaved world has I hate to say this, but there's a lot of Christians who don't live a life that's little, if at all, different than what the unsaved world lives. I tell you, these things ought not so to be. We ought to have the joy of the Lord. We ought to be unique and distinct. As the people of God in a fallen world out there. And that's what God is just challenging us through His Word To rise up and experience that joy, do what needs to be done, make what adjustments need to be made, to receive and experience that joy and that peace. That God gives us and we can be in an effective witness out in this world that's on its way to hell. Literally And so the challenge is for us to rise up. And somebody had said, I heard somebody say not too long ago, another preacher, He said, maybe people leave our churches not because we're too conservative, but maybe it's because we're not very Christ-like. Is what's hurting. Maybe it's because we're now I I don't I'd like to believe it's not true for our church, but maybe it's because as Christians we're miserable We offer little or nothing different than what the world has. And I'm studying what the Bible says about joy. I'm studying what this book, God's Word, tells us about joy that's available to us and that God expects from us. And I say, man, we fall so short of that When it's available there. I tell you, just the language of some Christians. You know, if there is filthy words coming off the lips of a Christian. That tells me something. That tells me that's not a very happy Christian. Listen, cussing and the joy of the Lord do not go hand in hand You can't have one without the other. And so this joy of the Lord, it can be lost. And it can be restored when we come to it. Now, we're here in Nehemiah, and Nehemiah references the joy of the Lord. A little background of the book in Nehemiah mentioned it earlier a little bit But Nehemiah is not a priest, he's not a preacher, he's uh what some people would refer to as a layman, just uh just a guy And uh they're taken captive over into Babylon, and he somehow ends up as being the uh the food tester for the king of Babylon. He his job is to try the food, make sure it's not poisoned. And then if he doesn't die, then the king eats it. Um I don't know if I'd really apply for that job there. But uh I'd get to know the chef real good, that's for sure. And so uh but he gets word back that Jerusalem's in shambles, the walls down, the w the build walls around the cities then and He gets word back and all this. And God stirs his heart. And God gets a hold of him, and he is absolutely broken. And he begins to seek the Lord And praise God raise somebody up to go back and rebuild your city. God, you've got to raise somebody up. And guess who God raised up? It's Nehemiah. I tell you, folks, just ordinary guys have done more for the cause of Christ throughout history than some big name folks you hear all about I thank God for Nehemiah. What a man. And a prayer. So he goes back, he's very wise, he prays a lot, and uh he brings the team, gets the team together, he gets the resources. You read the book sometime, it's tremendous gets the resources together and lo and behold they rebuild the wall. It's a daunting task, the rubble and the the debris that is left after that city was ransacked and setting for years is overwhelming. And in fact there's people criticizing, you'll never be able to do this. Good. Night uh the the the task was overwhelming and then there was opposition. People hated God and hated Nehemiah and They're fighting them and mocking them and doing everything they can. In fact, it got to the point where they had a trowel in one hand with the mortar and a sword in the other hand in case they get attacked While they're trying to rebuild it. I mean adverse situations, trials. But yet the book of Nehemiah, all through it, there's referencing rejoicing in the Lord, the joy of the Lord. This is the Lord's day. Rejoice. Be glad. Ezra goes along with it. In fact, the book of Ezra and Nehemiah are almost two volumes in a two-volume set, is they're rebuilding the temple. Under Ezra's leadership. Now, Ezra was a priest, a scribe. And so that's the context here. But the interesting thing is, as I said, in spite of the overwhelming task, the discouraging circumstances intense opposition by the enemies of God, I mean even to threaten their lives, he accomplishes the task. He gets the wall rebuilt in a amazing amount of time, record time. And the people are re-established, the people are getting back together, relationships are established, and he's got a good, strong thing going there. And all through the book of Nehemiah, he references This, as I said, the joy of the Lord. The joy of the Lord. Nehemiah knew a little bit about the joy of the Lord. And that brings us to chapter 8, verse number 10. The last phrase, the joy of the Lord is your strength. Now he's speaking to the people. He's admonishing them. That they need this joy. They need to experience it. They need to make sure that they have this joy of the Lord. Uh for about five years down in uh Chattanooga, I worked in a in a Sunday school bus route. I mentioned it often Often over the years we would uh we actually had an afternoon Sunday school route. The church there, Highland Park, ran forty-two Sunday school buses. Can you imagine that? Uh brought in eighteen hundred bus kids True, that's a lot of snot. But um I'm sorry. I don't know why I said that. But all these little kids coming in, inner city, uh I mean just eighteen hundred, some we have up to twenty-two hundred kids at one Sunday. So they ran the buses in the morning, took the kids home during the church service, took them home afterward. Sent them got back, sent them right back out again, filled all those buses up again, brought them in the afternoon, had three big s assemblies, they called it. I had one of them, the the C Assembly, and um Uh no, we were the B Assembly. B Assembly. And we had probably six hundred kids, something maybe not quite that many, three, four hundred kids in there And um I'd ride that bus and we'd teach them silly songs, silly bus songs. One of them was The Joy of the Lord is your strength. Anybody know that song? The joy of the Lord is my strength. The joy of the Lord is my strength. The joy of the Lord is my strength, for the joy of the Lord is my strength. Then we wrote another verse for it. It goes like this. He fills my mouth with laughter. Ha ha ha! He fills my mouth with laughter. Come on now, I'm not the only one making a fool of myself. And we'd sing that song with those kids and they'd laugh. He fills my mouth with the joy of the Lord is our strength. I want us to consider number one, here's my first thought this morning. I want us to consider the source Of this Christian joy. Where does this joy come from? I mentioned earlier, you're not going to find it in a bottle, you're not going to find it in a movie theater, you're not going to find it on a dance floor. You're not going to find it on some nasty computer site. The source of this joy that God is talking about is of the Lord. The joy of the Lord is your strength. Now that word of there has two ideas behind it. You could take one either one. The joy of the Lord, the joy that the Lord possesses himself. Is your strength, the joy that the Lord has, or you can look at it as the joy that the Lord offers to us. I think they're both true. I think they both apply here. And what Nehemiah was saying to the people, of course, under the inspiration of God, he's saying, listen, this joy that we're experiencing, this joy that you've seen displayed in my life, this joy that's available to us Its source is in the Lord God, the joy of the Lord. Turn with me over to chapter 12. He kind of touches on this again. Nehemiah chapter 12, and look with me at verse number 42. Now there's a couple names here. We're going to work our way through, these guys. Verse forty two, Nehemiah twelve, is uh uh for forty two begins, and Ma Sia and Shemaiah and a laser and Uzai and Jehohahanan and uh and Malchin Malchijjan Ja And Eliam and Ezra. Now look at this. And the singers sang loud. With Jezrahiah, their overseer. So they're singing out. Now look at verse 43. Also that day they offered great sacrifices and what? Rejoice. There it is. Now look at this next statement. I have it underlined in my Bible with red ink. For God had made them to rejoice with what? Great joy. God made them to rejoice with great joy. The wives also, and the children rejoice, the whole family. So that the joy of Jerusalem, look at this, was heard even afar off. Isn't that a great statement? But he says, it was God That made them to joy? What's the source of this joy we've been studying that God talks about, this deep-seated peace this peace of mind, this contentment and satisfaction, this fulfillment that is all part of having the joy of the Lord. Where do we get it? How do in the world do I find it? Its source is God. I can't work it up Um uh it's uh this joy is far beyond anything this world can produce. Um it's far greater, it's deeper than anything that the world can provide. It's greater than anything you and I can work up. Listen, you say, well, if only my circumstances were different. Then I could really have some joy. Then I'd be a joyful Christian. Oh, if only I if only I I had a little more income and I have to worry about bills and finance. If only that Then I could have this joy and this peace. Oh, if only my marriage was a little better, if only my spouse was a better person, if only my kids, if only my parents, if only my employer. Listen, I'm telling you that if you got everything you wanted, you would still not have the joy that only God can provide. In spite, we live in a world of heartache. We live in a world of fear. I have never seen a world, now I've not lived through World War II, so I can't imagine. But I in my lifetime I've never seen a world so scared as it is right now. Afraid. On edge. The whole world. And what I'm saying is, and what the Bible is telling us is this, is that in spite of what our circumstances are, we can have a peace, we can have a contentment, we can have a confidence, we can have a joy But it only comes from God. And by the way, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church can't provide this joy. Only God can do this. The joy of the Lord is your strength. The joy of God made them to rejoice with great joy. We got everything we wanted here in this life. We still would not have the joy that only God can provide. We mentioned this before. The problem is for many of us we're looking for joy in all the wrong places. We're going to the wrong sources. If I got my way, if I got me, if it was what I think, if it's my. That's not where joy is. In fact, that's anti-joy. Most miserable people you'll ever meet are people who live for themselves. Right or wrong? Their eyes are on themselves. It's all about me. I heard about a lady named Edith. Um North. Uh never mind, I forget how it goes. But um Uh there was uh the north, south, east, and west border were all uh bordered by Edith. Never mind, that one didn't work. This joy is in the Lord. The source of our joy is in the Lord. True joy is a gift from God. It's a fruit of the Holy Spirit, as we saw earlier. As a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, the moment I'm saved, I'm indwelt by the Spirit of God. And the joy of the Lord As it's experienced by the Spirit of the Lord, the Holy Spirit is available to me, but it's the Holy Spirit produces it. The Holy Spirit Bears this fruit in my life. It's not, and I keep saying this, but it's not something I work up. It's not something the world can produce. It's not something circumstances bring about. It's in the Lord and the Lord alone that this joy is found. And we see so little of it in our Christian lives. And I think it grieves the Lord. You say, preacher, does God have emotions? Does God have joy? You'll read through the Bible. As you read through the Bible and you pay close attention, you'll find that God has the emotions of a person. The personhood of God. And it's interesting. Go through there. God has an intellect. God has a volition, a will. And God has emotions. Let me list some of the emotions that the Bible says that God expresses, that God has. One is anger. You read particularly in Jeremiah, some of those prophets, the anger of the Lord. And many times the anger of the Lord was against his people for living in sin and not trusting him. So God experiences anger, and we can give you references for that. Psalms, Deuteronomy, Romans. The Bible speaks of God experiencing and expressing compassion. God feels compassion for us as a father pitieth his children. So the Heavenly Father pities his children. What an amazing God we have Anger, compassion. The Bible speaks of God experiencing grief, both the Old and New Testaments Ephesians tells us that we can grieve the Spirit of God by things we say and the way we say things. And our behavior towards other people, brothers and sisters in Christ, God's other children, the way we talk and act, the Bible says it Grieves the Holy Spirit of God. I don't know about you, but that's an amazing thought to me that I can say and do something that grieves God, makes him sad. Our God is an emotional God. Now He's not controlled by His emotions. Sometimes we end up, our emotions take control of us, right or wrong. And anger takes over. Whatever. Sometimes we can be controlled by emotions. God's not controlled by his emotions, but he is an emotional being. Anger, compassion, grief. God is love. The fact that God loves us. What an amazing thing. I got, did I mention recently I got new eyeballs? But those new lenses there. It's incredible. I still can't I'm amazed. Last night, 10 o'clock, uh Pastor Matt and I have since I was pastor here, 10 o'clock Saturday nights always come over and pray And uh pray for the church and the services and people in the church. And last evening, about 10 o'clock, I was coming over and the cli the clouds had cleared out And I know I've been talking about this, I'm just so dumbfounded. I walked out and that moon was there. It was about a three quarter third of a moon, maybe, half, not quite half. And the stars were there, and there's two up here, I forget which ones they are, uh were up there, and then I was and and there there's a lot up there, man And they're so crystal clear and I thought of the distances. I was walking over. I thought of the distances between me And some of those are galaxies, actually. They're not just stars, they're entire galaxies with billions of stars. And I just thought, and the God That spoke that into existence, just spoke it into existence. And Solomon says that the heavens cannot contain God. This incomprehensible vastness of this universe. And God's bigger than that. By the time I got to the door back there, I thought, that God loves me. He loves me. I thought of where Jesus said, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. I thought, does God, I'm in his hand. Does God have emotions? Yes. God gets angry. God is compassion. God grieves at our behavior sometimes. God loves us. God is the God of emotions. You might not believe this one, but it's true. God hates Proverbs, uh, I think it's chapter six, has I put it in the origin of my Bible, God's hate list. Six things doth the Lord hate, yea, seven are an abomination unto him, a proud look and He goes on down there. Do you say God hates something? Yeah. God has a list of things he hates. He has that emotion. Here's another one. You say God. God is a God, the Bible references God being jealous. You say, oh, God would never be jealous. Yeah, he's jealous over his people. He doesn't want us loving the world. He doesn't want us having idols and putting other things before him. He's jealous for our love and our devotion. And then the Bible speaks about the Lord having joy. You ever think about God being happy? The joy that God experiences a perfect fool Completely developed, unhindered joy. And the Bible says you and I have that available to us. Jesus said, These things have I spoken unto you that your joy may be full, and that my joy may abide in you. Think about that. Being as happy as God. The joy that God experiences It's available to you and I. The joy of the Lord is your strength. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, the world can't touch that World can't touch that. They can come up with the most fancy movies in the world. Ain't it going to do for you and I what only God can do for you and I And come up with the most potent ecstasy drugs they want to. And going to touch the joy that God gives us You can win they they can they can give away billions of dollars in lottery. It ain't going to touch the joy that God gives them. So the source of this Christian joy that we've been studying in the Bible here is from God Himself, and it's found in God. He gives it to us, he makes it available to us, but it's found in my relationship with God Himself. God is perfectly good. God is He is wise. He loves me, He wants what's best for me, and I'm in His hands. And the joy that that produces, the joy of salvation. David referenced that in Psalm 51, restoring to me the joy of thy salvation, the joy that your salvation produces. How many folks here you say and you know it? Say amen. Think about that for a moment. We get so caught up in stuff going on, we don't even think about what we have in our salvation. We will never, ever, ever end up in hell. Phew. That in itself, praise the Lord. I can live a life of misery and end up in heaven. Our sins are forgiven. Get this one. God is our Father. Man. I tell you, you're not going to get a better daddy. I tried to be a good daddy. I failed so many ways. So many times I wish I'd go back and do it again. Anybody feel that way? But God never fails our Father. I can rejoice in that. I can find some joy. Before I got saved, May 6, 1979, you know who my father was? Spiritual father? The devil. Brother, I'm glad to be out of that family. Phew. I trust that Jesus Savior, I'm adopted into the born into the family of God. God's my Father. And all that that entails. What I'm saying is this, the source of our Christian joy is God Himself and His person and what we have as believers in Him, being saved. That's the source of our Christian joy. Secondly, real quickly, I want us to notice the specifics of this Christian joy. The joy of the Lord is your strength. Well, what are the specifics of that? And what I mean by this, what are the characteristics of a person who has this joy that only God can give to us? Well, I I put a few down here. I'll try to go through them quickly. Number one The person that has this joy of the Lord, first of all, they have faith in God's plan. Now look with me, if you would, at verse number 10. Come back to chapter 8 here in Nehemiah. And uh chapter eight and verse number ten. Then he said unto them, Go your way, uh eat the fat Drink the sweet, send portions unto them for whom nothing to for this day this day is holy unto our Lord. And um uh come back up uh verse number five is uh what I'm looking for. And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was above all the people, and this is the Bible, and he opened it up, and all the people stood up, and they blessed. The great God, and all the people answered, Amen, Amen, with lifting up their hands. Oh, here's what I'm getting at. Verse 6 is what I wanted. And they bowed their heads, and what did they do? Worship the Lord with their faces to the ground. You know what worship is? This is I think it's important to understand this. Worship In the Bible is not the way most religions present worship. We think of, well, we're going to church for worship. Well I'm glad we should. But they think of this. Well you walk down and you cross your heart and hope to die and then uh You know, you say these little series of prayers and we all repeat this. Anybody ever been in in a quote unquote church like that? Very ritualistic and you do all these. I'm not trying to make fun or anything But worship is not going through some rituals or quoting these pre-written prayers and going through gyrations and all that. That's not worship. Here's my definition of worship. And I like my definition of the worship. Worship is recognizing God's supreme authority over my life, God's supreme authority over my life, and then humbly submitting to that authority by trusting him and obeying him. Did you get that? That's what worship is. So should we go to church to worship? Yeah, sure. If we go to church, we recognize God's God. I humbly submit to him as God by trusting him and obeying him. But what I'm trying to get at is this. It doesn't stop when we leave church. I if you'll notice, you won't find our services referred to as worship services. Now sometimes people ask when's your worship service? I'll tell them. And I don't I don't make an issue about it. I'm not if other churches doesn't, I'm not mad at them. I don't think they're I just choose not to refer to it as a worship service because we should be worshiping from the moment we woke up in the morning to the moment we go to bed at night. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday. And so these people worship God, and by that it means this. They recognized that God was in control and that God had a plan. And God had a purpose for their lives, and they submitted to God, and they trusted, they had faith in God's plan for their lives and their will. And that It was a part of what brought about this joy in their life. God, listen, God has a plan for your life. You say, well, preacher, you're not talking about me. Yeah, you. If it was just you and I sitting there, I would say the same thing. God has a plan. I want to look at every one of you in the eye. God has a plan for your life. God does And he's in control, and he wants to carry out that plan, and he wants me to be a part of that plan. I tell you what, that's a powerful thing. I wasn't real athletic when I was young and played little league and played soccer for a while. I hated soccer. No offense to you soccer moms But um anyway, um I just got myself in trouble there But every time they'd play we get play ball or something, they'd always do you ever do that? They line up all the guys and then you have two captains and they pick. Pick this one. Guess who was always the last one picked? And if they weren't even teams, then I was the oddball. They always had the two teams even, ten on each team, and I'm the I'm the eleventh one. I don't want them. Do you want them? I don't want them That didn't bring a whole lot of joy to my life. But you know, when so every now and then the captains didn't know you. And they would be like, I'll pick Daddy, first one. They got confidence. They got something for me. You know what? I this is what I'm trying to illustrate. God looks down and says, I'll pick you. I got a plan. I got a purpose. I tell you, that brings joy. Faith in God's plan. God has a plan for my life. God has a purpose for my life. He can use me and he will use me if I just trust him. Trust him. Let him have his way. So one specific of Christian joy, the person that has Christian joy, is they have faith in God's plan. Number two, they focus on God's precepts. In other words, his word. In verse number 8 here of chapter 8, it says, They read in the book of the law of God distinctly. In other words, they were looking to the Word of God, not on their circumstances. Their focus was on God's promises, their focus was on God's warnings. Their focus was on God's instructions. They weren't looking at the circumstances and the situations around them. Here's your problem and here's my problem. We get all been out of shape and we lose our joy and we're all frustrated and we're afraid because we watch that stinking news And we pay more attention to the awful news than the networks tell us than what God tells us in His Word. I think I think we can solve 90% of the world's problems just turn the staken television off And these people, we look to the Word of God. We look to the Word. Don't look at your circumstances to determine your situation. Look to God's Word. This is the old verse. It's great. I don't care how old it is. Romans 8. 28. For all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. All things work together for good to them that love God and to them who are called according to his purpose. If you love God, you're surrendered to his will for your life, you're trusting his plan for your life, God says, I'll work everything out for good. There's a little bit of joy in that. I like for years uh when I moved out in uh in August of 1981, I moved to Tennessee. Left my dad and I were living together. I left moved to Tennessee. That next week he drove me down, dropped me off, came back. That next week I got a letter in the mail from him. Every week up until he retired, so about ten years ago. I got a letter from my dad every single week, unless he was busy with me at the time, and every single letter ended with this reference at the end of the verse, at the end of the letter. Philippians 1:6. Every single verse, every single letter, he wrote that verse, wrote that verse. You know what it says? It says, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. You know what I'm saying? Saying God's in control. God will work it out. God will take care of it. Just trust Him. God will take care of it. I found, according to the Bible, I found that those who have the joy of the Lord, or those who have faith in God's plan, but they focus on God's precept. They look at what God says, not what the world says about it, but what God says. Let me m move on here real quick. They have fellowship with God personally. Nehemiah chapter 9 and verse number 4. Notice the end part it says They confessed and worshiped the Lord their God. I'm sorry, uh all the way down through verse 38, actually, they go through, and it's talking about their relationship with the Lord. Their relationship with the Lord This is a tremendous prayer here where they're close to God. Listen, what I'm trying to say is this. I'm stumbling on my words here a little bit. What I'm trying to say is this. Those that have the joy of the Lord are men and women who know how to pray. They get a hold of God personally. I've read a lot of biographies. You come back to my office, I got books stacked, the whole wall, I don't know, I must have maybe a thousand or two books, I don't know Maybe more, but I have a big section of biographies there. I've read just about all of them. Very few I haven't. You know what I found? I like to read biographies of great men and women of God. You know, I found a common denominator about these great men and these great women that God used. You know what it was? They were men and women of prayer. They knew how to pray. They prayed and they got a hold of God. And I don't mean it was just, oh Lord is great and God is good, and we thank him for our food. Bless the preacher and the missionaries and Aunt Mary and and everybody That's not the kind of prayer. This kind of prayer where they get a hold of God. Pray. God bless them. And I found that those that have the joy of the Lord are people who pray. People who pray. Have a personal relationship with the Lord and fellowship with the Lord in prayer. I'm reading right now Adder and Iram Judson, another, I've read a couple others, I found another book about his life. I'm about halfway through right now And he prayed and he prayed and he prayed. He was under attack by natives in Papua New Guinea, and they're in there singing songs while they're coming to kill them. The joy of the Lord is your strength. He was a great man of prayer. Great man of prayer. Every home ought to be saturated with prayer. Mom and dad ought to pray together. Parents and the kids ought to pray with each other. Prayer, prayer, prayer, prayer. Number four, fascinated with God's provisions. Nehemiah chapter eleven and verse seventeen, chapter twelve And verse 8, 24, and 27. They were so grateful for what God had done for them. They were so thankful for how God had provided for them. You know what our problem is? I hate to say this. You know what our problem is? We've had it too good for too long. We've gotten spoiled. We don't know how to be thankful anymore. We don't know how to be grateful for the things. Look around. God has given us so much. But it's not enough. And it's not good enough. We can't be happy. I found, as I studied the Bible, those that have the joy of the Lord are people who are just fascinated by how good God has been to them. What did Mark saying? God has been so good to me. That'll bring some joy. And then they're filled with God's produce. And what I mean by that is they're filled with the Holy Spirit. They died as well. Now let me get to the last one. I've got to end with this. Number three, the strength of Christian joy. The source is God Himself. The specifics, we gave the list, the strength. Come back to Nehemiah chapter 8. I hope you're bearing with me here. Look at this statement again. Would you read that last phrase in Nehemiah 8, verse 10? Would you read that with me again? Ready? For the joy of the Lord is your strength. That word strength is interesting. I thought when I first read it, I thought, oh you see that That's what I thought. The joy of the Lord. Strong. But I got studying it, how it's used other places and words it comes from. It has a lot more meaning to it than just that. It has this idea, a place of safety. You ever hear this statement, safe through strength? A strong person is going to be safer in a situation than a weak person. You follow what I'm trying to say And that's the idea behind it, the safety that comes by strength. It's actually translated some other places, refuge. The joy of the Lord is your strength, it's your safety, it's your refuge. It also has the idea of a stronghold. In other words, when I get to the point where I have God's joy in my life, that peace, that fulfillment, that contentment, that heavenly happiness, In my life, and I'm experiencing that, I am in a safe place spiritually. Safe place spiritually. Victory or defeat in my Christian life is very much dependent upon my frame of mind. Paul told the Romans in chapter 12. He said, present your body as a living sacrifice, holy acceptance of God, which you read. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. It's the way we see things, it's the way we understand process things in our mind, very much determines the quality of my Christian life. And God says when we get to the frame of mind where we are rejoicing in the Lord and we have the joy of the Lord, when we get that frame of mind, and it is a mental uh uh uh position in my mind, the joy of the Lord, when I can have that established in my heart and mind Temptations lose their power. It's hard to tempt somebody with food that's already full. Right? It's hard to tempt somebody to drink something when they're had their fill of liquid. And what I think the Bible is saying and what he's saying telling us here is when we get the joy of the Lord, we're in a place spiritually strong. We're in a place where we are safe and temptations will lose their power. It doesn't mean we'll not be tempted But I found, I've found in 27 years pastoring and years before in the ministry, I've found that those that get out of whack with God lose the joy of the Lord before they get out of whack with God. They lose that contentment, that fulfillment, and then they become vulnerable. They become vulnerable. The joy of the Lord indicates a strong spiritual life. The joy of the Lord shelters me from many temptations. Uh, when we were little, we used to play tag. Anybody here ever played tag when you were little? Um but uh when uh you alright, Andy? Alright, good. At first I thought the Lord was calling, you know. Man, you're running around and yikes, you know, and you're gonna get tagged and um And uh there was always one pole with the safety pole. Anybody remember that? And nobody could tag you when you're on that safety pole. And you're terrified running around, oh no, I'm gonna get tugged. And in in first grade, when I remember it we played Boys Against the Girls, tag, and if the girl tagged you, she had to kiss you Now later on I ha felt differently about that, but um at that point in time that was like the worst thing in the world gonna happen to you. It'd be like putting That of oil, you know, boiling oil would be terrible. And when we get a hold of that safety, oh sh You know what joy is in the Christian life? The safety pole. I get the joy of the Lord. I'm just yielded to Him, surrendered to Him. I've got I'm seeing life in the world through the promises of God. And I'm strong. I'm safe. Helps me. The joy of the Lord is our strength We're vulnerable when we're out of sorts. We're vulnerable when we're miserable. It empowers our witness. I tell you, there's going to be more people willing to listen to you and I about the Lord if we're if they see joy in our life than misery. I tell you, I've I've seen some Christians over the years, I think, I don't w whatever they got, I don't want it. That's that's worse than coronavirus, whatever they got. But the joy of the Lord. And you got something we don't have. Anyone here, Brian might recognize this name. Robert Murray McShane. Anybody recognize that name? Robert Murray McShane. He was a young preacher, a Scottish preacher back in the early 1800s. Well, maybe a little later, in the 1800s, and powerful preacher, sickly, small, uh frail, feeble, sickly boy, young man. But the power of God was upon that man. He was a man of tremendous prayer. And uh he died when he was like 27, 29, just a young man. He wrote journals about what God had done. He's influenced millions of people all these years. He was a known for two things. One, his prayer life, and he was known For having the joy of the Lord. Sick in pain. He often said, he would often say from his pulpit to his congregation, he would say, I'm a sickly man. And I don't believe the Lord has many years for me. And I'm going to preach to you straight because I only have a short time with you. And man, these skin there hide. But he he was known for his prayer life, he's known for his preaching, he was known for having the joy of the Lord. 27, 28, 29, somewhere near he died. They were getting his belongings together and they were getting his pulpit, and you know, pastors end up sticking stuff in the pulpit, and they were clearing out his pulpit. And they found an unopened letter from a man in the community there over in Scotland that had written to him, he apparently carried it to the pulpit, but never opened it. And they very carefully opened the letter. They read the letter, and it said something to this effect. I was not a believer for many years. I scoffed at your God and your preaching. But the joy that I observed in your life has brought me to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Isn't that something? An unbeliever. But he saw the joy of the Lord in that person's life. I don't think people leave our churches bec I mean some probably because we're too conservative. Or because we're to this or to that. I wonder if it isn't just because we lack the joy of the Lord. The presence of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we need your joy, Lord. We need that strength. I pray you'd challenge us and convict us, myself included, Lord That we would just be yielded to you, that you would take us and fill us with your joy and use us in this old sad, angry, unhappy world. To be a light shining, pointing people to Christ. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder how many say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. I trust in Christ. But you'd say my Christian life's not what it ought to be. And I know I need to give attention to it. I know I need to give more attention to my spiritual well-being. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. That I'll make these adjustments, that I'll that I'll give more attention to my walk with God. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Goodness, sure, our hands are raised. God will help us. God wants us to have this joy and fulfill his purpose for our lives, but we've got to take it seriously. Maybe there's some, there's some sin that's crept in. Something and the Holy Spirit, even as I'm speaking, the Holy Spirit speaking to your heart right now, and you know what it is. It's between you and God. As your pastor, preacher, I urge you, confess that, forsake it, get it out. Let the Lord have his way. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I want to be a good witness. I've got people unsaved. I really want to point people to Christ. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that I could have that joy and be that testimony of what God can do. Any like that by the uplifted hand. I need that joy. I need it. God bless you. Now, is there somebody maybe that's not saved? You've never trusted Christ. Today is the day of salvation. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to know that God has forgiven my sins. I don't want to go to hell. No, I'm going to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. Any online? Contact us. We'll show you how to be saved. Right from the Bible. Now Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.