Last verse of James chapter four The book of James is really written as um I I look at it at it as a uh like a instruction manual. on how to develop a mature mature faith, how to be mature in my faith, how to uh Be a spiritual Christian, have spiritual maturity. And the book of James is very practical, much like the book of Proverbs. And if we've go through the book of James as we've been doing it and we apply the teachings and the instructions given us here uh we can be pretty confident that our s our Christianity is going to mature and be strong and our faith and our spiritual well-being is going to develop and be strong if we'll follow the instructions here. And so it's Like I said, it's very much like an instruction manual for us. And uh so if you would notice, I'm just going to read the one verse there, James chapter 4 verse 17. Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, sins of omission. And that's what we want to look at here real quickly. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now a few moments we have in your word. It's been a good day. We just rejoice in a new year and a And starting out in the Lord's house and just stir our hearts tonight, Lord, and challenge us as we come to this new year and a new week And um, have your way. I ask, Lord, you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. I just want to be a channel, Lord, that you speak through me. to each of our hearts, and we leave here a little stronger in our faith. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. As a Christian, actually anybody, but as a Christian, I can do one of two things with my life. I have one life to live. I've burned up 55 years of my life. I've got one life to live. Every one of us here, we have one life to live. We don't get second chances. There's no do-overs. I can do one of two things with what I have left of my life. I can either consume What I have left of my life. Now what do we mean by consume? If somebody's consumes something, what are they doing? So They're using it up. We we're referred to in the business world the the big uh companies out there, they refer to us as what? Consumers. They want us to buy up what they have. They want us to spend our money and consume. I have whatever's left of my life. I can do one of two things with it. I can have my life and I can just consume it. Just spend it on myself. Use up my time that I have left. Use up the abilities that God has given me. Use up the resources I have, whether they're financial or whatever. And I can just consume them. And use them up, burn them up on myself, on my pleasures, on what I want. So one thing I can do with my life, what re what is left of it, I can consume it And use it for me and burn it up for myself. Or I can take what I have, my life, what's left of it, I can invest it. And there's a world of difference between consuming, let's think of money. It's a world of difference between consuming my money or investing my money Now of the two in the long run which is better? Consuming it or investing it? Investing it, of course. And of course we need to consume some of it. We need to buy uh things for ourselves, food and clothing and whatnot. There's a place for that. But investing my life. When you're investing into something, for the most part, you are devoting, whether it's finances or whatever, you're investing it For the most part, you're devoting that resource to something that is ultimately going to be good for me. It's a higher good than just burning it up here and now. You're investing it for a future benefit. Something that's going to benefit, it's going to be good down the way down the road somewhere. So I can take my life and I can live for today, I can eat, drink, and be merry, tomorrow die. And what do I have? Nothing. Or I can take the time and abilities and resources the Lord has entrusted me with, and I can invest that in the things of God. I can invest that in the things of the Lord. And the day will come when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ, and because of that investment, the Bible tells us, I can find uh uh gold and s and silver and precious stones, I can have uh a return on my investment at the judgment seat of Christ. Or if I consume my life, I get to the judgment seat of Christ, I have no return. There's wood, hay, and stubble, it's burned up. I haven't invested And so, a mature Christian, mature faith invests into the cause of Christ, into the things of God, into the good of others. And That is what brings us to our passage here. Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. This is what I'm trying to say. Investing in the things of God, investing my life in eternity in the things of the Lord, using my time and my abilities for God's glory and for the advancement of the gospel. That involves more than simply avoiding bad stuff. It also involves being active in good things. If all of my Christianity, if me being a Christian, if all it is, if all it consists of is me not doing bad things, and I hear this sometimes. In fact, there was generations there that were taught don't do this and don't do that and don't go there and don't drink this and don't do this and don't do that and it was a whole list of don'ts. But there was never the other side of it. There was never a list of dues. You follow what I'm saying? And so we had a generation, I think, had ingrained in their heads and minds, as long as there's these As long as I'm not doing these bad things, therefore I must be a good Christian. I must be a mature Christian. I must be, boy, things are going to be great when I get to the judgment seat of Christ. I'll give you what I don't do all these things If all our Christianity consists of is stuff we don't do, we're missing it. We're falling short. And by the way, there's a lot of stuff we ought not to do. I think today the Christianity is, hey, anything goes. You know, we don't have lists of don'ts. We've abandoned that. But what he's telling us here is there's more to being a good, strong, healthy, mature Christian than what I don't do. There must be some positive end of it. For instance, there's a what I call the most neglected doctrine of the Bible is the doctrine of separation. personal separation. There's also what we call ecclesiastical separation where the church is separate from liberal organizations and whatnot. But there's two sides to separation. When we think of personal separation, we're thinking of not going to a bar and not going to here and not doing that. But there's not just, and the Bible teaches there isn't just a separation from sinful things. There also needs to be a separation to godly things. In fact, I like to emphasize, I like to emphasize being separated unto Christ over top of the separation from the world, because if I'm separated to Christ The natural thing that follows is I'll be separated from the world. Am I making sense? Everybody with me? And so what he's challenging us here, he's reminding us, listen There is an aspect of Christianity that is not just the negative staying away from and avoiding the bad things. It is just as wrong to neglect the good things as it is to engage in the bad things. That's a pretty good quote right there, I think. So he says, he says here, therefore to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. Our concept of sin is saying bad words. Our concept of sin is drinking bad liquor. Our concept of sin is looking at bad movies or whatever. Listening to bad music. Don't sin, don't listen to that bad music. Don't do this. And that is true. That's correct. But it is just as sinful not to pursue the good. If I know to do good and I don't do that, that's just as much sin as engaging in the bad. All Christians, and so he says here, therefore, to him that knoweth to do good. Now that phrase caught my attention, to do good. We think of doing good, you think of good works Your average Christian, the only thing they know about good works is that they won't save you. Yes, Christian. What about good works? You can't get saved by doing good works, and that is absolutely true. But that doesn't mean that good works don't play a role in our life as a Christian. Take your Bible if you would. Now let's keep your place here, if you would, real quickly, go with me to Ephesians chapter 2. And here, of course, he addresses, we know Ephesians 2, 8, and 9, for by grace are ye Save through faith, that not of yourselves, the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And we all say, Amen to that. Nobody's saved by good works. But notice verse number 10 of Ephesians chapter 2. For by grace, let me get here. Verse 8, for by grace are you saved through faith, that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, thus any man should boast. But look at verse 10. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto Good works. You know why God saved you and I? Not just so we would stop drinking, not just so we would stop cussing. Not so we'd stop running around. That's part of it, but he saved us so we would start doing good things and doing godly things and doing good works. And so if all I have is the one end and I don't have the other, I'm falling short of being a mature Christian, being having a complete testimony. We are saved unto good works. God saved you and I so that we can work for Him and do good things for God's glory. It's one of the reasons he saved us. Take your Bible, if you would, turn to Acts chapter number 10. I want to look at a few verses real quick here, and I'm going to have to cut it short here a little tonight. But Acts chapter 10 So my first thought as far as introduction is we are saved unto good works. Not saved by good works, but we are saved to do good things, to do Now, Acts chapter 10 and verse 31, we find out that when we do good works, we do these good things, we're being like Christ. Look at chapter 10, verse number 31. Speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ here, he says, Immediately, therefore, I send unto thee that thou hast done well, that thou art come. Now, therefore, we are all here. Wait a minute. That's not right. X ten thirty-one. Ah That's not right either. Man, I hate it when this happens. It talks about the Lord Jesus Christ who went about doing good. You don't need the reference, just trust me, it's in there. Uh but the Bible says that Jesus went about doing good. And so uh when I do good works, did anybody find it? I know y'all are looking for it right now. What about doing good? So the Lord Jesus Christ went about doing good. So if I'm doing good works, if I'm doing good things I'm being like Jesus Christ, going about doing good. I'm suggesting you, if I'm a good Christian, I'm going to do good works. I'm going to do good things for people, not to be saved, not to make me acceptable to God. Uh but because it's part of my Christianity. Now this one I know is right, Matthew chapter five Matthew chapter five. Hey, that's not bad. That's the first mistake I made all year, so that's pretty good, right? Matthew chapter five, and look with me if you would at verse thirty-one. I'm sorry, sixteen. Matthew five. Sixteen. Mercy Now, are you there? Let your light so shine before men that they may see your Good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. You know what people a person gets saved? And people around him, family members, co-workers, or whatnot, they say, Good night, what a change. He don't cuss no more Wow, she's she uh wow she don't dress that way anymore boy and she don't talk like that you don't listen to that music anymore And praise the Lord for that. But there needs to be another side of that coin where it's not only do they not do this anymore, but man, now all of a sudden he's helping me Now often he's doing these good things. Now he's active. He's doing all this stuff. He's working harder. He's a better worker than he was before. And these good works are just as much a part of my Christian testimony and my spiritual development as avoiding the bad stuff And that's what he's saying. He that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. To be a complete Christian, I need to get rid the get uh rid of the bad and get involved in the good. I need to actively pursue doing these good things. So that's what James chapter 4 is addressing. Now I know what time it is. Let me give you my thoughts here very, very quickly. Number one He's addressing people here in James 4. 17 that recognize what is good. Notice what he says here. Therefore, to him that knoweth To do good. This person is not ignorant about what they should be doing. It's not addressing what they shouldn't be doing. That's not the issue here. They know what they should be doing. That word know there means to have a clear understanding of. To be able to discern what I should be doing, what is good. To clearly perceive what is good. The word good there has this idea, something that is divinely approved. It's excellent, it's honorable in the eyes of God. Now, all of us here, I would venture to say, know, we've been Christians long enough, we know some things the Bible teaches that are good and we should be doing. There are things we should be saying to other people. We know we should be. Doing good things, saying good things to other people. We know we should. We don't cuss them out. And that's good, because if we cussed them out, we would be sinning. But he's telling us here, we know there are positive things we should be saying, and if we don't say that, that's just as sinful as if we're cussing them out. He knoweth to do good. So he's addressing people who recognize what is good. It's not that they're ignorant of what is good, they know. They know what they should be doing. They know how they should be talking. They know that they should be working and serving. They know they should be helping people. But they don't do it. These are folks that recognize that which is good. We will be held accountable for what we know. If I know that there's something I ought to be doing, if I know there's something I ought to be saying, if there's no there's something good that I should be involved in, I know that's there, then God holds me accountable for that. Some of our greatest struggles are not so much avoiding what we should not do, but sometimes our greatest struggles are what we should be doing and we don't. Right or wrong? Sometimes not saying the bad thing is a lot easier than actually saying the good thing. I'm not going to cuss them out. My Bible says, bless them that curse you. So I'm not cursing them. That's great. But if you don't be positive, you're sinning just as much. He knoweth to do good. He knoweth to do good. And so he's addressing folks here that recognize what's good. They're not ignorant. They know. They're fully aware. They have a clear understanding What God expects them to do, the positive things. The second group, the second aspect of what he's addressing here, he's addressing folks who not only recognize what is good, but they refuse to do what is good. Notice he says here, therefore to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, that has the idea of a deliberate decision. I am not going to do that. I'm not going to do this bad stuff. I'm not doing that stuff. I'm not getting involved in sinning and all that. And you can put whatever sinful list you want there. I'm not going to do all that. But I'm not doing that. These are people who will deliberately make a deliberate decision not to do what they know is good, what God wants them to do. A positive thing. Now here's my question. I thought I'm looking at this and I'm asking myself, why in the world do we have, why in the world would we decide, deliberately decide not to do something that we know is good That we know that God says it's good. Why would we deliberately decide not to do that? Well, I came up with three quick reasons. One is sometimes I think we don't do deliberately, don't do what we know is good. Because we're unwilling to inconvenience ourselves. If I get involved in that, if I do that, if I get involved in blankets for babies and I do that something of good work there, it'd be a blessing to uh uh couples with small children have an influence for them to for Christ into that home. If I would do that, uh that would upset my schedule. I've got stuff going on that I'm doing And sometimes we deliberately, and I'm just using that for an illustration, but sometimes we deliberately won't do what we know is good because we're not willing to inconvenience ourselves. It'll upset my schedule. It interferes with my plans. It requires too much effort. I would actually have to get up and do something, and I don't feel like doing anything. I'm afraid we have developed in America a convenience Christianity. In fact, we got churches that are completely altering their schedule and everything like that, so it's more convenient for people. Now listen, I'm not against for making it convenient. But when it comes to the point where we won't do right because it's inconvenient, then we are sinning against God. I hear folks, and this has been going on for years, but church Pastors and different ones will say, well, you know, the Bible doesn't say you have to have Sunday night church. The Bible doesn't say you have to have Wednesday night church. The Bible doesn't say you I to do that no Uh but I'm afraid that the reason they're saying all that isn't because they want to go by the Bible. They're saying all that because it's more convenient. I can watch my show, I can go to my game, I can do all this other stuff. It's not because of a stronger, greater devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ than the body of Christ. It's simply more convenient And he that knoweth to do good and deliberately chooses not to, many times it's because we simply are unwilling to convene ourselves. By the way, If we're going to do it the way they did in the Bible, if our commitments to the Bible, you know how often they got together in the Bible? Daily So why would why would we not want to do good? Why would we deliberately say, no, I'm not going to do this good work? Well, sometimes we don't want to inconvenience ourselves. Sometimes we don't want to do good because we just are unconcerned about doing good. We just don't care. I don't care. You know, this is a good thing. This is something God says that Christians be involved in. I don't care. I won't be a part of that. I'm not interested. I'm afraid that the fact that we just don't care about whether God wants us to do that or not, I'm afraid that that's more often the case than we are willing to admit We really don't care. And then the third reason I put down here why we would refuse to do good, uh, one, we're unwilling to inconvenience ourselves. Convenience is the priority in our life Or we just don't care about what God says. There's a third one I put down, is sometimes I think we're we'll deliberately choose not to do good works because we're afraid we'll stand out will be different. Doing good often means being different than the crowd. Now we automatically think when we think of peer pressure, we automatically think of what group? Teenagers. And I'm telling you, teens face tremendous peer pressure. There's no doubt about it. And you get a teen in school that decides, you know, I'm gonna do what God says is good. And I'm going to get beyond just not doing all this stuff. I'm not going to the parties. I'm not going to the dances. I'm not doing all that stuff. But I'm going to actively start doing what is good. You get a team like that, you know what's going to happen? They are going to be different. They're going to stand out. I'm going to carry my Bible to school and I'm going to read my Bible at lunch. Brother, you're going to be at stand out then. Now, wait a minute. Teenagers are not the only ones that face peer pressure. I'm telling you adults face peer pressure just as much as teens do. Now it might not be as vocal But I'm telling you, it's still there. Can I suggest this to you? When I became pastor, I found out that pastors face peer pressure. I'd go to preacher fellowship. I got here, so I'm going to those preacher fellowships. Man, I went out to them and there's some of them out there good, but I tell you if some of them we got to and I they'd have testimony time or something and I'm excited. We had some people got saved at church I'd stand up and say, Man, we had some folks saved last Sunday. And brothers, some of those churches would glare pastors would glare at me Oh, they probably didn't really get saved. It was just easy believers. And I mean they would just pile on. I said, I'm quick going to them. Good grief. And so peer pressure is across the board. And sometimes we don't do what we know we should do. We know is right. We know is good. The positive aspect, we don't step out on that because we're afraid that we'll stand out and we'll look different. I'm telling you, you don't you don't read the book of Acts. You know what those Christians? They were out there. They were getting after it. You know what? They stood out. They were different than the world. And sometimes we don't do it. Let me give you my last thought here real quick from this verse. First of all, he's addressing folks that recognize what's good. They know that's the right and good thing. I should be doing that They refuse to do it, and last of all, there's going to be a reckoning for their decision. He that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is what Sin. The worst thing in the world that I can do, the worst thing in the world I can do is sin. That is a terrible, terrible thing to sin. I'm afraid we have trivialized sin down to a point where it's absolutely meaningless. But you study what the Bible says about sin. And sin is a horrible, horrible thing. Sin is what plunged mankind into darkness. and end up millions and millions and millions of people in hell because one person sinned. Right or wrong? By one man, sin entered the world, and death by sin. Now this verse tells me That if I know to do good and I don't do it, that is sin. I'm not saying it sends us to hell, but I'm saying it falls in that category of something that is horrific. And you and I ought to fight sin with every ounce of our beings. We ought to hate it. We ought to be on guard against it. We ought to battle that because sin is a horrific thing. Sin in any form. Sometimes we get out and knock on doors. I ask somebody, do you know for sure you're going to heaven? Oh yeah, I'm going to heaven. How do you know? What gives you sure? Well, I never killed nobody Well anytime, and I've had a lot of people say it to me over the years, anytime they say that, I always say this. Well, I'm really glad to hear that. That's encouraging. But not doing bad is not enough. I need to positively do good. Not to be saved. You follow what I'm saying? And so what happens? He's writing to believers here. Here's believers. They know what is good. They deliberately don't do it. Now that's sin. What happens? What happens to a Christian when they sin? Well, it brings chastisement. We don't have time to go there, but Hebrews 12:4 says, you have not resisted unto blood in striving against sin. How badly do we fight sin? How badly do we determine I'm going to do what's right? If I know what's right to do and I don't do it, it brings God's chastisement on me. But not only that, 2 John 1. 8 tells us that Sin brings a loss of reward. I don't fully comprehend this totally But my understanding and studying scripture, it is possible for me to lose rewards that I have gained at some point in the past. We had a teenage boy at that when I was youth pastor and this guy just went off into the world. I mean he was soul winner, he was sharp, he dressed like little Micah, I mean sharp as can be, Jacob, but doesn't Jacob look good And uh I mean he just as sharp as that. He was out soul winning. He had his Bible, he had a witness. He got about a junior or senior in high school and he went nuts. Kathy, you know you know who I'm talking about This guy just went out in the world. He turned against me, rebellious, hard-hearted, as worldly as you can get. And he made a statement to me one time. He said something to this effect. You know, I still got lots of rewards I had back when I was living for God. I'll get them. I said, I said his name. I said, you need to read John 2 John 1. 8. And there it says that we can suffer loss. I can lose those rewards. And we sin. There's a real possibility of losing the rewards that we've gained. Now, he says, he that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. I put this down. Failing to do that which is good is much more serious than we first think. We've got in our heads, as long as I'm not doing this stuff, everything's pretty much okay. But God says, no, no, no. It's just as important that we do these positive things. Be proactive. I think at the judgment seat of Christ, sin in our lives as a Christian is going to be very, very serious. And so let's determine this coming year. He makes a very strong statement there. He that knoweth to do good and doeth it not To him it is sin. And let's determine this coming year, as God gives us opportunity to do good, as God gives us opportunity to To serve and do good works for the glory of God and to bring people to Christ. Let's determine I'm not going to sin against God, I'm going to do that good thing. Have I made any sense tonight? I hope I did I hope this is a challenge to us that we ought to be known not just for what we're against, but we ought to be known what we're for. Ought to be known not just what we don't do. We ought to be k for the good things we do And let's just determine this coming year. I'm going to give my heart and soul. I'm going to give my life. I'm going to invest my life in doing what God says is good. For His glory and for the advancement of the gospel. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to use this few thoughts tonight, maybe, and challenge us. And in our homes, Lord, in our workplace, in our schools, in our community. And we would go about doing good. And when we see that and we know it's something we should do, we should say, help us to have the faith and maturity to step and say, all right, I'm going to do that. How many here tonight would say, preacher, with you, I'm going to pray that God will help me this coming year to be actively doing good As far as what God says involves stepping out. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Make this a year of doing good. Of doing good. Father, you saw hands, you I saw the hands, you know that you see our hearts. Help us, Lord, maybe just put ourselves on an altar here, the first Sunday night of a new year, and say, Lord, here I am. I want to invest my life in the cause of Christ, in the glory of God, and just go about doing good. Help us to do that, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Maybe