Needs love. Who needs love? Does everybody get love? And is love done in different ways? Love is a lot of different meanings. My father used to think that for mom, buying her things was the way he could show her love. And I know we know of the five luggage languages and things like that. But there's only one true love that will satisfy all of our needs. And that's not from our spouse, that's not from our moms, that's not from our kids, that's not from our co-workers, that's not from anybody. Who is it that gives us that love? God gives us the love that we need the most. So, but sometimes we don't feel loved. Sometimes we feel dis Despaired, sometimes we feel lonely, sometimes we feel discouraged, sometimes we feel unhappy, sometimes we feel under pain. I think a lot of those things that we feel a lot of times in our lives, but I think through all of those, if we still remember we're loved by God, that will change our philosophy and our thinking. I think it takes practice because I believe the way we are we are raised, the way society is done, the way our workforce is They don't know of God's love as we know it. And I think we forget it and we put it in the back of our minds and we need to be reminded to remember it. We can turn to Romans chapter 5, please Chapter five, verse one. A precious word says, Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. By whom also we have access by faith into the grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. And not only Not only so, but we glory in tribulation also, knowing that tribulation worketh patience, and patience experience and experience hope And hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much for this time. Lord, we thank you for loving us and caring for us, being our Savior, sending your Son to die on the cross Lord, so many things we're not worthy for, but you've allowed us to have, and you are there for us, and we thank you so much for that. Be with the sort of the Lord conference tonight, Lord, and I pray you'll be with me as I teach your word. In your name I pray. Amen. I ran into that verse, uh, the love of the Lord, the love of God. And I'd never, you know, we always are told the Holy Spirit dwells in us when we get saved. It's always there for us And I think sometimes we use the phrase, God loves us, God loves us, God loves us. And I wanted to think, I thought, what does it mean God loves us? And I'm like, you know, what's the the meat and the potatoes of God loving us? And it that stumped me for a little bit. But God loved us and how he showed that was Him dying on His Son dying on the cross for us No one else can die. No one has died for us like Christ has died for us. Yes, we've had servicemen die for our country so that we can be free. But no one has done what Christ has done. No one does for us what God does for us. One of the things that God gave us, since He lives inside us through the Holy Spirit and His love is in us God also gave us, provided us his word and the love for it. In Psalms 1197, We all know this verse. Oh how I love thy law. It is my meditation all the day. If we think of God's word continuously, it's going to help us. But nowadays, sometimes whether we think about other things, right We think about what's going on in our lives. We think about what's going on with our kids. We think about bills. We think about what our neighbors are doing. Various different things. Which I think that's all right, but I think we put aside what God has got going on, what God has got in His Word So we need to keep in our keep our mind busy on God's Word and not on the World's Word. Right now, the world's word, media and so forth uh I say is drastic and it's it's it's not great for us at all. Um I think we don't want to be ignorant but I think and not knowing anything, but I do think we are wise to monitor what we see and do uh with what we are provided. So in schools, we studied all the time for the tests and everything that we were going to do, right? Because we didn't I don't know about y'all, but I didn't want to bring home no bad grades. And back in my day, my writing wasn't as good, so them F's couldn't be changed to A's without them being noticed Plus I knew I'd be half killed if I tried that. You know, you tried to get them to turn the paper different or whatever to not see that great But, you know, we studied hard in school to to learn to t to to learn our education. We also um We study hard to do our to get our test, our driver's license. We study hard to maybe get a professional license, be a doctor or a lawyer, or things like that. We also Do things to get other license, equipment license and various things like that. So we study hard for those because we want to pass that test So I asked the question, do we study God's word enough and know enough of it that if we were given a test, how would we do on God's word? I do know as we get older, sometimes it's not as easy to remember things from the Bible because we get our minds filled with a lot of other things. But I think it's still very important that we continue to study God's Word. I know Pastor always preaches, um, you know, spend time in the Word every day. That is so, so helpful. I don't know about you all, but Proverbs There's a lot in Proverbs about marriage, about loving each other, and to me, as that's our study in in my Sunday school class, it's very important and it's very useful in our marriage. But when we love the body, the Bible also, God's word teaches us how to spread the gospel, teaches us how to raise our children, teaches us how to love people and our spouse. What not to do. It teaches about money management. It teaches us about salvation. It teaches a work ethic. And it teaches us about soul winning. A lot of those factors that I just mentioned, I feel our country is really in dire need of. Their need of those of recalling what God teaches us and tells us to do in those type of subjects. God loves for us requires our actions, though. So he loves us because that's who he is and what he does. But he also loves for us to do and do things for Herm. Joshua 22. 5. This was Moses. It says Moses talking to Moses. Moses, the servant of the Lord, charged you to love the Lord your God, and to walk in all his ways, and to keep commandments, and to cleave unto him, and to serve him with all your hearts and with all your soul. Is there anything in that that I left out that we in life, if we do that, it's going to pretty much cover everything that we have going on in life? We walk the way we're supposed to if we cleave to the Lord, if we desire to learn His Word and be with Him. Deuteronomy 30, 20 tells us. Thus thou mayest love the God, thy God, and that thou mayest obey his voice, and that thou mayest cleave unto him, for he is thy life. and the length of thy days that thou mayest dwell in, the land which the Lord swore unto the fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and to Jacob, to give them We have that same confidence now that God loves us. God wants us to obey Him. God wants us to serve in this life, to be there And to preach the gospel. If we're not preaching the gospel, house our children, our co-workers, our neighbors, the people on the bus The people in the store, how are they getting the gospel if we're not teaching it? I don't know about you all, but when you drive by these churches, are these churches parking lots just overflowing and they're all out and parked out in the road, or are they starting to dwindle some? I see that they're starting to dwindle some. Now that doesn't mean God's still not in existence, because he is, but they are starting to dwindle. It's up to us as Christians, and it's our responsibility to help spread the gospel and teach The land that that was referred to, that uh Jacob and Isaac and Abraham worked, guess what? That land is still occupied today, all these years later. You know what? It still needs someone to teach them the love of God. We need to love the Lord thy God. We need to obey his voice. We need to cling to him, cleave to him, and make him a part of our life. How easy is it to make Christ a part of our lives when we're having a dilemma in our marriage and having a dilemma at work? When we're in an argument, when we're in a disagreement, uh, when I got my paycheck and it had zeros on it. Do I say, thank you, Lord? Looks like you're feeding me this week No. But you know what? God loves us enough that God will take care of us. We know of many missionaries that tell on the field of how much God has taken through that taken care of them through over the years. So God does have the ability. Why? Because He loves us. Now, again, I always think of the Holy Spirit directed and guiding us. But when we really think that God is in my heart and loves me I think it changed my actions on certain things. It cautioned some things that I have would say, not necessarily derogatory, but just not needed, because Christ is in me. Is that something if he's standing right here would I say that? I think it's really changed my mind and my life because of that. And I think it's worthy. I think if society would have that right now, it would be helpful. The other day I passed somebody on the road, which I often do sometimes, because there's some slow drivers out there. But I was probably passing a little bit too much and he hugged my tail and we got to an excessive amount of speed and luckily he backed down so I could pull over Um and I thought later on I should not have done that. I should have so what if that guy sees my I won't really say what color car I have 'cause But, you know, saw my car and later on saw me somewhere and thought, well, hey, this is the jerk that just blew me off the road. Wasn't my intentions. It's just, again, he was going way too slow. Uh not even the speed limit. Um you know, so I think in the stores, you know, places we're at, we just have the human nature of things that we do That sometime again Christ is in me, so should I really cut that person off? Should I really get that last whatever? I I think it's things that we need to if society would make some of those thoughts and changes now, we would not have this mess that we see in the world. We are all humans. We all have a soul. We all are loved by Christ. Why are we fighting at each other the way we are? Another thing is we have the Lord of God that indwells in me. So if God is in me, as I've said, Leviticus 19, verses 17 and 18 Says, thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart. Thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy neighbor and not suffer sin upon them. So if I'm not supposed to hate Why is the world so hateful right now? Why are people so hateful right now? Why are Christians so hateful right now? Um It seems like we run into a lot of Christians or claim to be Christians, and I'm not casting judgment, but whether people claim to be so if you claim to be a Christian, should you be Christ-like? We should, right? So if I'm Christ-like, then why am I acting the way I'm acting? Even at home, no matter where I'm at, why am I acting that way when the Lord Jesus Christ, through the Holy Spirit, is in me and his love is in me? Why am I doing that? Why am I saying that? Why am I being that way? I think if we changed our attitudes a little bit, we all know politics can get everybody flared up, especially today. We can get that anger being built up in us and conversations start that probably don't end well. If we sometimes just pause, the love of Christ is in us and leave things alone. Does God work among people's lives? He does. Does God work by me not saying something sometime? Probably so, because I have set a standard that I'm a Christian at my workplace So you all have been there where people have said words they shouldn't have said and a lot of times they'll say, Whoops, I shouldn't have said that, or uncolorful jokes or or slander, or various things that they say, and they'll stop saying that because they know you're trying to have a testimony in the workplace. And I think sometimes if we just hesitate in what we say, if they know you're a Christian, then they'll go with that. They'll back down and you won't have a disagreement that could cause their opinions to change of you in a negative way. So just be mindful of that. So we don't want to hate our brothers. We want to love all people. Is everybody lovable? No. No. Um but I think you can find something nice in everybody. It might be their socks, but it's something You can find something. Um you think Christ is in the in in heaven and he's looking down, you think he's satisfied with everybody? Not at all. Not at all. I know he's not satisfied with me. I'm a sinner. But I think if we s if we have the same approach Thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against thy children of the people, but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. I am the Lord. So do not be a part of the hate crowd that's going on right now. Don't be a part of it. Be a part of the showing love. Doesn't mean you agree with what's going on. It doesn't mean that at all. But it means that you're not going to be a part of that Show love wherever you're at. We also must share the love, the joy, and the peace that God gives us. If I'm getting ready to, again, when I was passing that guy, He wasn't happy with me. So I'm not sure he probably loved me. He probably didn't. Again, I should not probably have done that. Um it's things that I think sometimes you just learn from. It was a simple thing, but it's things you learn from. Um when you're in the grocery store and you and somebody's talking and talking and you're blocking the whole aisle and somebody's trying to get through that aisle and they're getting furious and they're getting mad and then they start voicing their anger. Probably not where to voice it. Probably ought to just back up and go the other direction. Um It would be disheartening for me to go to the Little Debbie Isle and my s sna snack cake that I like not be there no more. And no, I don't wish it would be a heavier person than me that gets it and it makes them sick. No, I don't do that. I'm joking, but in a sense there are things that tick people off, all kinds of simplest things. Who loves going to we c I DMV we call it, the Department of Motor Vehicles where you get your license and all that? How we used to I don't know of any other organization that you hear where people go to it, they come out typically they're angry before they even go in. It's it's it's a mark they're already ticked off before they even walk in that door Then people are just doing their jobs. They're just doing them ninety-nine percent of the time we don't have what they need It's an example of things when if you know what if we just go in there praising God, the love of the Lord is in me. He's got somebody maybe in my path today that I can smile at, as Pastor said the other day You know, smiling changes a lot of people's attitudes, a lot of people's uh feelings. There's a lot of people out there that need hugs, need love, need cared for. 1 Timothy 2. 1 says, Exhort therefore that first of all supplication, prayer, intercession, and giving of thanks be made for all men. Giving of thanks for all men For kings and for all that are in authority, that we may lead that we may lead a quiet and peaceful life in all godliness and honesty For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour. We will have all men to be saved and to come to you in knowledge and of truth. For there is one God, one mediator between God and men, and the man Christ Jesus. Verse 2 says, For kings and all that are in authority, right now a lot are not thrilled with what's in authority The Bible still tells us to love them. The Bible still tells us to pray for them. The Bible still tells us to be peaceful with them. That's not easy, I'm sure. I know it's something who's ever had an angry boss Right? Probably a couple of people. You think my twenty five years in the Air Force, now if you remember that's eighty six to 2011. There's been a few commanders and chiefs in there that I wasn't real thrilled about. If I was currently in Maybe not so really thrilled about. I was currently in some of the things that they're allowing to have, allowing to to take place in there that not during my time they allowed. It would not make me happy, but he's my commander-in-chief, or would have been my commander-in-chief. You have to praise them, you have to accept them, you have to love them, and you have to pray for them Not praying negative for them, praying God change their hearts. God puts somebody in their place. Put somebody in a position that that has some influence on them that they will see that they may change their hearts and their minds. That's what we need in our country right now, was we need Christians there that's influencing Um when you hear a lot of of politicians talk, and there's good Christian politicians in there, but right now it's it's um It's not acceptable talk about Christ. But it's like guys if you look back and see who why our country was founded who helped support our people that come over, why would we not talk about Christ? Why would we not think about Him? Why would we not express the love that He inputs in us Because when we're saved. They don't do it. Because it's a negative thing. But really, it's not a negative thing. Praising God is never a negative thing So remember that if there's authority over us, we have to pray for them. Love in return. So God loves us so much. Guess what? He requires us to love him back. He wants us to love him back. Because why? Do we have a relationship with Christ when he loves us? Now let me ask this question. If we're saved and we love Christ, are we going to love him back? So the question is, people that that get the love of Christ in their hearts when they are saved through the Holy Spirit. How do they walk and leave and don't do anything for the Lord for many years? I don't have that answer It's kind of hard for me to understand that when they have they're imputed by his love in them so much, plus he gives the Holy Spirit to guide them. So we get the Holy Spirit to guide them, we get a permanent love in our b in our hearts, and we get his word. What other um position are we in life that we get all of that. You're at work, you get a few hand a few manuals, a few things, how to do things, but at work they don't teach me how to love my wife. At work, they don't teach me how to deal with my money. Christ teaches me all of that through his word and also through the Holy Spirit guiding and directing me by my actions and then, oh, by the way I'm feeling doubt. I'm feeling horrible today, but I'm thinking of the love of God that resides in me and how he his son died on the cross for me that so one day I can go to heaven. No other thing gives us what God gives us. So we need to have a relationship back with the Lord. Psalms 145-20 says, the Lord preserveth all them that love him, but all the wicked will he destroy. That's heartbreaking. People, all people have the opportunity to serve God and to love God, to care for God Accept God. It doesn't cost money. It doesn't cost our lives. It doesn't cost anything to accept Christ as our Savior other than to accept Him. And again, he loves us. Thou shalt not nope Start to do the avenge again. Um We loved we love him by respecting his word and by living it. Again, this goes back to now we all fall short. And we all do things that we're not supposed to do. And God knows that. The disciples, a few of them once in a while, uh did some things that you know, anger and things like that that were there I'm guilty of being not very often, but angry once in a while. So, uh has anybody in here never been angry? Because the next question is does everybody lie or not? Um We love him by respecting his word and by living it. Matthew 5. 44 tells us, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you. And pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. How many of you guys have faced people that you just really don't care for and haven't liked and so forth, and you start being kind to them And then the relationship starts changing. Right? Let me ask this. Does that not happen in marriages once in a while? Not that I have ever upset my wife. I try not to do that. Don't ask her, please though. You know, we do that in our relationships. We do that with people. What happens? You cut somebody off in the parking lot or take somebody's spot in the parking lot at the grocery store and then you run right into them in the s inside the store. That's an awkward. Um Can say sorry, I shouldn't have done it. You know, there's various things. But God we need to love our enemies. That is not the very easy thing to do But God asks us to do that, and also to bless them that curse us. Again, if people are not happy with us The best way is probably to win them over. In our marriages, what's the best way for for our spouse to want to be with us and love us? What's the best way Love them back, right? Now there's different meanings, as I said, about loving. You gotta figure out what the right loving is. Yelling, hollering, and screaming is probably not the right loving Complaining about the food is not the right loving. Various, various things about the proper loving. Use Christ as an example. Use him an example in your life You want to have a uh a God-loving testimony. We as Christians right now are on the we're under the scope, we're under the microscope right now. People are looking us, they're watching us, they're seeing us. They're seeing how we're acting with what's going on in society, especially in the political realm. So in our home, all around us We might be the only testimony that somebody sees. I know where I work, I think I'm the only, there's two people that I've heard talk about Christ. And I've mentioned him As much as I can. No one else is mentioned at all anything about Christ. And that's kind of disheartening because the last place I was at, there was a lot that were Christians there So if I'm the testimony, I definitely want to display the love of God that's in my heart to people. 2 Corinthians 13, 11 says, finally, brethren, farewell, be perfect, be of good comfort. Be of one mind, live in peace, and the God of love and peace shall be with you. Again, the God of love is with us. Girls are so with their fathers most generally. Girls are daddies, girls, boys are mommies. Boys, unless you're a middle child and you're just out there. If you don't know what that means, I'll tell you later. But so it's funny that girls, you know, they have a special place in their father's lives Now dad's gonna say, yeah, I love them all the same. Fool. It's it's so it's like wait a minute, if if mom loves me more than that they do my others, family members To mean that God loves me that much, and I can know mom loves me that much. Why can't we in our minds remember that God loves me that much? God cares for me that much Again, not only did he send Christ to die for me, he gave me a pattern to go by. He gave me all the rules. Everything to think about that we need to live in life is answered somewhat somewhere in the Bible. You know, so there was a lot of time and energy, if you will, that was put forth in God allowing us to have his word, to preserve his word, and to teach us from his word. So if if I am perfect and be of good comfort and be of one mind, the one mind is living for the Lord and live in peace, then I'm going to be complete because God is in me. God is there for me. I'm also Going to have good comfort. I'm going to be comforted in knowing what's going on that God's got me. God's got my back. Things are going to be fine. This is going to work out. This is just for a little period of time We're going to be of one mind. The one mind is of the Lord. We're going to use His Word. We're going to use His law to be able to guide and direct us. And we're going to live in peace. Living in peace is what's the best thing, and I think our country and our world needs so much to live in peace right now. We need to focus on that. How do we do that? The love of God's in our heart. So God's love requires us, and Micah 6. 8 says, He hath showed thee, O man, what is good What doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God? Do justly, which is due right. Is it hard to do right It is, but I don't think for the simple things it's not. For the simple things, it's not hard to do right. And love mercy. Christ is so merciful to us. He is the example of mercy I know what he forgives me for, what he rebukes me for, and over. I take that same philosophy in my own life. If you're a hollerer, you quit hollering. If you're a person that swears, you quit using those words. If you're a thief, you try not, you just quit stealing. You're not trying not. You have to We are so burdened with the epidemics of drugs and alcohol still, still in our communities this day. It's taking so much of our young generation because it's so addictive Let me ask this. Parents, how involved are parents in kids nowadays, in raising kids nowadays? I say somewhat it's um They're not as involved as what they used to be. Times have changed when you could just send your kids out the door and let them go play to the neighbors. Nowadays you can do that, but you better go find out what's going on Schools have changed. Various laws have changed where correction is more of an issue now. But again, we have the Word of God. We have where we're a parent, we just need to be concerned. We need to pay attention to what's going on around us. So if we have the mercy, again we don't have to do things uh belligerent. We don't have to do things hateful and angry. We can just show the mercy that Christ showed us. And then we need to walk humbly. We haven't arrived on this earth. You know, the statement so-and-so's arrived or they think they've arrived. None of us have arrived. God created us for a reason. What was that reason? To serve Him, to live for Him, to win souls to Christ. That is our goal. That's what He put us on earth for. God gives us the assurance of His love. Romans 8. 38. For I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor For principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, verse 39, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. With those two verses right there, it's a it's it's A firm foundation that God loves us, no matter what our actions, other than not accepting Him as our personal Savior, are covered. Of course, he doesn't want us to do what we're not supposed to, but this is concrete that God loves us so much that he pretty much overlooks and see not necessarily overlooks, but he But it transpires what takes place, transpire. But he has forgiven us. Now of course we all know that he will correct us and so forth. But it's amazing to me that no matter what I have done, he's loved me. He loves me that much. Um There's many divorces out there where people can't stand up and say that. They can't say that so-and-so has loved me that much. I will say there's hard things in life. So and I'm not sure of all the things that people have lived through, but some things are very hard to live through. Again, God will give us strength. We need to remember every day in Galatians 2. 20, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God. Guess what he does? Who loves me and gave himself for me? So if you leave here today and don't think God loves you, remember he does. Romans 5. 5 tells us that through the Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost, God loves us. I've given you numerous, numerous verses that God loves you. For me, I take that verse now and I only not only think of what the Holy Spirit thinks or is directing me, but I also think God's right there. Should I do this? Should I say that? Should I act that way? Should I make a comment about that? It's changed my philosophy and thinking, you know, that I need to be more alert of what I'm saying and what I'm doing. He loves us, so what we need to do is not distance ourselves from that love. People that don't uh have a close relationship with the Lord, they don't read his word every day, they don't pray every day It's hard to see that. When you don't call Aunt Betty, who's 93 and lives in California, and you haven't talked to her for six months, how much do you got to talk about? Not much. Typically it's a sore on the foot or something wrong with neck or something like that that gets come up on the conversation. Not something about the Lord, not what's going on. You've distanced yourself from that person. We do the same thing with Christ. We don't stay focused. We don't keep Him in our lives, and we don't Pray to him. We don't read his word, then we are going to a distance. Does that mean God's gone from us? No. God's still with us. God still loves us. God's there. He gave it to you. He gave his word to you. It's up to us to pick it up and run with it. You know what? When people used to I think very few people get checks now actually in the mail at work, right? Most people get it direct deposited nowadays But in the days when people picked up checks and stuff, you know what? Every Friday, guess where they were at? Or Thursday when they got their check. They were there picking up that check. They were getting that payment because they need to live on it, right? Well this right here is the same thing. This is the Word of God. This is the thing that guides our lives, directs our lives, gives us everything we need to know. We need this. This is what helps us through our life. The same as we pick that check up and we utilize it and it helps us through the week, guess what? This does the same thing. This does more than that check Because guess what? When that check's low, God's laid on somebody's heart, hey so and so needs something, go give it to them. That person that's close to the Lord and praying to God, Lord, help me serve, help me take care of somebody this week God will lay that on their hearts. God covers everything. We just need to remember that. I thank you for listening to me. Please remember how much God loved you. And if we're not in our relationships the way we should be, take the opportunity to make that right. Um, I lost an aunt Saturday night. Kind of had no idea that that was was recent was would go to be this recent. She passed away. What I'm getting at is we none know. We none know when God's going to take us home or God's going to take us from this world So we need to be mindful of that. Be the testimony in your family, be the testimony in your community, at the bus stop, at the store, everywhere you're at, be that testimony. Uh how many people love to run into a smiling, happy person? We do, right? The grumpy people with the scowl on their face and stuff, what do we normally do? Stay away from them, right? I don't want somebody to stay I don't want to be the one that somebody stays away from. I want to be the one that somebody sees me smiling love of the Lord, want to come to me with hey, I got this going on. Can you pray for me? I want that to be the person that God wants me to be. And with the love of God in my life, I think I can do that. You guys will stand, please. As she plays the piano, if you feel that you would like to come and just pray, the altar is open. Just remember how much God loves us and cares for us, and how much we are our children of a child of His