Exodus chapter number twenty-four. Exodus chapter number twenty-four. And we're looking at the word of God here in just a moment. I'm excited about uh being a part and just being able to stay over a couple days for your um sword conference and I know that you all are excited And um and many visitors coming in. It's always an exciting time. And I just want to kind of just give you a just a quick thought from God's Word as you prepare for this conference and no doubt have been praying and preparing that God will use these men as they come in, travel in in a great way. And I like the emphasis of the Sword Conference. The Sword Lord Conference. It's a conference on revival and soul winning. And if there's anything we need, I believe, in America today, it's revival and soul winning. There's no doubt in my mind. And um and God is uh you know, I've grown up in a pastor's home my whole life, and I thank God for that. I try not to take that for granted, I really don't And God has allowed me to be a part of many conferences, many revival meetings, many camps, many missions conferences, Bible conferences, sword conferences, even all types of things. And God has done some of the greatest work in my heart through special meetings. Somebody said this, we reap a harvest where we place an emphasis. And when you have somebody come in and place an emphasis on revival and soul winning, then I believe we place the emphasis where God places the emphasis and really reap that harvest. And that is our prayer we've been praying for this meeting. But I just want to give you a brief thought out of Exodus chapter number twenty four, just to kind of get you up to speed of where we're at in the book of Exodus. You know And we're not getting into all the history of the children of Israel, but the Bible says that the children of Israel, of course, were in bondage in Egypt. And God said that he told Moses, Moses, I want you to go to Pharaoh, and I want you to tell Pharaoh to let my people go. And uh Moses began to say over and over again, Mo uh God, I can't do this. I uh can't talk right. I don't know what to say. This, this, this. He began to make excuses on why he could not go to Pharaoh. A lot of times I think that's the same thing that you and I do. God leads us or gives us something to do, and we begin to think of all the reasons why we can't do it, and God gives us all the reasons why we can do it. And the reasons that we can do the things that God gives us to do is because He is the one that sends us and He is the one that enables us. And anytime God leads us to do something, He's going to equip us to do the task that He's given us to do. Have you ever tried to do a job without the right equipment? Very frustrating. Very frustrating. But God will never lead us to do something that He will not give us the grace or the equipment to fulfill what He's given us to do. The Bible says eventually Moses goes into Pharaoh and he tells Pharaoh, he said, God says, let my people go, and he brings the plagues, and for nine plagues, the Bible says the heart of Pharaoh's heart continued to be hardened. And then after the last plague upon the Egyptians, when the angel passed over, the Bible says for the uh if there was no blood on the door face, the Bible says all the firstborn of the Egyptians died that day Finally, Pharaoh says, All right, get out of here. And Moses begins to lead the children of Israel to go into Canaan's land, what we know as the promised land, the land that God promised his children. As they began to travel there, the Bible says they ran into several obstacles and God parted the Red Sea. God delivered them again from the Egyptians through all that. And the Bible says as they began to go into the promised land, they sent twelve spies to go spy out this land. The Bible says ten of them came back with an evil report. Two of them, Joshua and Caleb, came back and said, Man, this land is great. It flows with milk and honey. The grapes are uh are monstrous. Let's go and take the land. But because of the unbelief of God's people, they wandered around in the wilderness for 40 years. And as they're wandering around in the wilderness, God says, Moses, I need to give you some things in which I want my people, some law that I want my people to live by. In Exodus chapter 20, Moses goes to the Mount of God, and God gives him what we know is the Ten Commandments and the Law, and God said, This is what I do want my children to do, and these are the things I don't want my children to do. And Moses comes back From off the mountain, and he delivers the message from God to the congregation of the children of Israel. Exodus chapter four twenty-four and verse number one. We'll pick up reading. The Bible says he said unto Moses, Come up unto the Lord thou and Aaron, Nadab, and Abayu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship ye afar off. And Moses alone shall come near the Lord. They shall not come nigh, neither shall the people go up with him. And Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord. And all the judgments and all the people answered with one voice and said, All the words which the Lord has said will we do And Moses, verse 4, wrote all the words of the Lord and rose up early in the morning and built in an altar under the hill and twelve pillars according to the twelve tribes of Israel. And he sent young men of the children of Israel which offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen unto the Lord. And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar And he took the blood of the covenant and read in the audience of the people, and they said, All that the Lord hath said will we do and be obedient. And Moses took the blood and sprinkled it on the people, or what we know as the pillars that he had set up for the twelve tribes of the people, and said, Behold the blood of the covenant which the Lord hath made with you concerning all these words. And I want you to notice a phrase found in verse number 7. The Bible says he took the book of the covenant and read it, listen to this, in the audience of the people. We read about here, we read that the people of the children of Israel were having a conference I looked up just in an online dictionary the word conference, and it is, it means a formal meeting or gathering. And the Bible says that as the children of Israel came near to hear what God had delivered to Moses, that they came together and they had a conference, they had a gathering, they had a meeting to find what God had told Moses to deliver to them. And is not that what your church and many churches from this area are going to do this week? You're going to gather together and you're going to hear from God what the men of God are coming to deliver to you from God's Word. That's an amazing thing, and that's the conference that you're going to have. And I want you to notice what the Bible says the people did. It says, they said, all that the Lord has said, will we do and be obedient. As I mentioned through I don't know how many hundreds of revival meetings and conferences, some of the greatest things that God ever spoke to me about were spoken to me during a conference just like this. And for just a couple minutes, I want to talk to you about this thought very quickly, a typical conference. A typical conference The Bible says that as they came together, Moses read the word of the Lord, and the Bible says all that the Lord has said, that's what we're going to do. What happens during a typical conference? First thing that happens is we come near the Lord. I believe that's a very needed thing, to come nearer the Lord. I I pray that after uh Tuesday, after the conference, and after Wednesday, and after uh everything kind of gets back to normal, that we will actually not get back to normal. And my prayer is that I will be nearer the Lord on Tuesday than I am today. The Bible says if you look at Exodus chapter 24 and verse 1, and he said unto Moses, Come up unto the Lord, thou and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu. And seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship ye, listen to this, afar off. And Moses alone shall come near the Lord. I like this. If you study the Word of God, from the very beginning, it has always been God's plan for man to commune with God. It has always been God's will for God to meet with man. From the very beginning, the Bible says God came down in the midst of the garden and walked and talked with Adam in the cool of the day. And the Bible says that he had communion and fellowship with man from the very beginning. And like it always happened, man messed it up. And the Bible says, even after that, that now sin comes into the world, and what sin does, sin separates us from God And the Bible says, even through all of that, God continued to still make ways for man to meet with God. And we know about the tabernacle that he gave Moses in the wilderness. And Moses set up this tabernacle. It was a place for man to meet with God. In Jerusalem they built the temple and the temple was a place to worship, to come where man could meet with God. But here's what the difference is between then and now Then the Bible says, if you'll find in verse 1, many people had to worship ye afar off. But Moses alone shall come near the Lord. Before Jesus Christ came, the Bible says that man would have to go through a high priest or go through a mediator to get to God. The Bible says that God would deliver the message to the prophet, and then the prophet would deliver the message to the people. The man would come to the priest, and he would go to the priest and offer sacrifices, and the priest would offer sacrifices on behalf of the people. But then the Bible says when Jesus came that he was our high priest, and the Bible says that when he died on the cross, the Bible says that veil of the temple that separated man of God was Separated was torn in two from the top to the bottom, ending the separation between God and man. And now the Bible says that you and I could come boldly before the throne of grace to find to find grace and obtain mercy to uh help in time of need. You know, we don't have to go through another person to get to God now. I'm glad about that. I'm glad that Jesus is our high priest. And today, right there where you're seated in September 27th, 2015, right where we're seated in our pews tonight, listen to this. We are as near to God as we want to be. As my children are growing up and the truth is they've all kind of had if you had small children you'd probably know have a story just like this. They've kind of all gone through certain stages, you know. Uh sometimes they more gravitate to mom. That's no fun, you know, when they always want mommy. I don't understand that. Oh I actually I do understand that very much. Some and then sometimes they take they sometimes gravitate towards dad. My middle daughter Lily used to have a routine. Children have routines Now I would get up early and I would be sitting in my chair reading in the mornings and drinking coffee and things like that. And uh I'd all we'd always make juice and I would always make all my kids juice cups and I would set it on the uh on the stool next to the island in the kitchen I would hear they would all get up at cer different times. But Lily especially had to say she doesn't do this anymore. Kinda wish she would, but she doesn't do it anymore. And she would always come through the house. I could hear her walking And she would always come through out here, stop and get her juice, get her a little drink, and then come on into the living room, and she would come over, she'd never say a word, she'd come over and sit her juice cup down. on the table beside my chair and I would scoot over. She would go get a blanket and she would crawl up on my left side every morning and she would sit there and never say a word, point to her juice cup. I would hand her her juice cup. She would cover herself up with a blanket. And she would take her right arm and hook it around my left arm and just sit there and drink her juice. Now, I don't know about you, but that made this dad feel pretty good when she did that. And you know the truth is, some days I would have to leave early, but I would always hope that I would be there until she got to me, because I wanted and she wanted to be near me. And that made me feel wonderful. You know, that's the same way I believe that God feels when you have a desire to get right up close to your Savior. But how do you think it makes him feel when you don't take time to do that? God has sacrificed so much to allow us to have the privilege to meet with Him and now through these special meetings and through a typical conference, hopefully by the end of this week. All of us will come near the Lord and be closer to God. The Bible says, draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. The closer we get to God, the closer he will get to us. It's a wonderful picture found in the Word of God. And the Bible says that those men worshiped afar off. Moses alone came near the Lord, but now you and I, we don't have to worship afar off. All of us can come as near to God as we want to be. During a typical conference, we will come near the Lord. The second thing I want to show us is this. During a typical conference, we will consult the Word of God. You know, as we have this sword conference, I imagine that Dr. Smith, Dr. Jenkins will come and every message will be preached from the Word of God. Amen. That's what we need. And as they come and as we hear the word of God, then we'll do exactly what this conference did in Exodus chapter 24. Look at it. The Bible says in verse number three, and Moses came. And told the people a story of things that he'd seen on that mountain. That's not what it says. The Bible says he claim and told the people all the words of the Lord and all the judgments. The Bible says in verse 7, and he took the book of the covenants and read it in the audience of the people. You know what Moses did, and you know what this congrat uh this con uh uh conference they were doing, not only were they coming near the Lord, but the second thing, they were consulting the Word of God. And they were finding what God's word had to say about their situation and it was all new to them. They were listening the words that Moses was given to them from the Word of God. And this week we're going to hear something every service from the Word of God. You know, I believe with all my heart that we are holding in our laps today the most powerful thing that we have on this earth. The Bible says in Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 12, the Bible speaks of a cell that says, the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than a two-edged sword. That means that the Bible is living and it's powerful and it's active. This is not a dead book. This is a Bible that every time we open it up, whether it's in your own personal study and devotions, or whether it's in a Sunday school class or a Bible study Or whether it's in a church service or even a conference, every time that the Word of God is open, it's an opportunity for God to change your life through His eternal Word of God. That's an amazing thing to think about that God wants to speak to us through his word. It's living, it's active, and it's relevant for our day-to-day. You ever had a question of what you're supposed to do? The Bible says, Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. You ever tried to find your way in the dark? It's not very fun. God's word illuminates our path so that we can find our way through life. You know, in our day-to-day, there are things that are constantly changing. You ever notice that? Laws are changing. Opinions are changing, morals are changing. And so many times people and even good people, even um well you know people with the right motivation or at least the right objectives, they go and they think as long as th something is legal, as long as the law says it's okay, then that's fine There's a s there's a problem with that. Laws are constantly changing, as you know. Some people believe I'll govern my life according to the law, some people think I'll govern my life according to the morals and and the mores of society. Whatever these morals say and and this is if as long as I believe it's moral, then I'll govern my life because of that. And that all sounds good, but there's a problem with that Laws are constantly changing, morals are constantly changing. And now more than ever, and you know, you know what's going on in our country. I don't have to speak on that. You watch the news. You see what's going on around the world. You know everything that's going on. Now more than ever, it is time for God's people not to govern their lives by legalities or morals, but we need to govern our lives by that which is biblical. Because the Bible is our fixed point of reference. The Bible does not change. The Bible does not waver. Laws may change, but the Bible stays the same. Morals may change. But the Bible says the same. And I would like to govern my life, and God wants us to govern our lives upon a fixed point of reference. And during a typical conference, yes, we'll come near the Lord. I pray that we'll do that. During a typical conference, we'll consult the Word of God and how I pray that we'll do that this week. Then the Bible says, look at it in verse 7 as we read it. After they consulted the Word of God, he took the book of the covenant. Read it in the audience of the people. And they said, All that the Lord has said will we do and be obedient. I heard a preacher say this, and I think it's a good thing, that it would be it would be wise for us, before ever consulting the Word of God, just to stop and pray. God Whatever you speak to me about, the answer is already going to be yes. Well, that'd be great, wouldn't it? God, whatever you speak to me about this week during this conference, Lord, the answer is already going to be yes. Whatever you want me to do, God, the answer is yes. And the Bible said that's exactly what these people said They looked at the Word of God, or they heard the words that God gave to Moses, and they said, All that sounds wonderful. Everything that you've told us, everything that God has said, that is what we are going to do. And we're going to be obedient. Praise God. I hope all of us will have that same attitude. But I want you to look at something else during a typical conference. The Bible says after all this happens, Moses probably was feeling pretty good. In verse 12, it says this, and the Lord said unto Moses, Come up to me into the mount, and be there, and I will give thee tables of stone and a law and commandments which I have written that thou mayest teach. And Moses rose up and his minister Joshua And Moses went to the mount of God. And he said unto the elders, Tarry ye here for us until we come again unto you, and behold, Aaron and her are with you. If any man have any matters to do, let him come unto them Moses said, All right, everything's going pretty good. I think uh everybody has the right um the right you know mindset and they've told me they're gonna obey the Lord and And I have no worries about that. So God says I need to go back up into the mountain. So the Bible says Moses and Joshua leave and go up to the mountain of God. Now what was the last thing the people told Moses? Everything that God said, that's what we're going to do and be obedient. Moses has no worries. The Bible says as Moses goes to the mount of God, look what the Bible says in verse number 18, and Moses went up into the midst of the cloud and got him up into the mount. And Moses was in the mount 40 days and 40 nights. Moses leaves, and the Bible says that he's gone for 40 days. And he's up there, and God is giving him more of the law and more of the commandments and more things that he wants to tell the people. You know, I got to thinking about this, and just a quick thought. A typical conference, yes, we'll come near the Lord, and yes, we'll consult the Word of God. But I just, in my, this is really just a testimony from my own heart. As a young person growing up, as a child, and in my teenage years, and up into my college years, in my young adult years, and even being, you know, uh an assistant pastor to church. It seems like in my, at least in my own heart, this may not be for everybody, that a conference comes and it seems like it goes so quickly. Last week at our church in Ripley, we had a week-long revival meeting. Man, God used it in a great way People were excited and we had souls saved. Praise God. And I I I can think about in my own heart about how at the end of a conference and and most of the time, you know, I I hope that I've drawn near the Lord. Most of the time I've found what God's Word says about certain things. And we leave a conference with good intentions. Man, we're going to do everything that God says. And then 40 days come, or somewhere thereabout. The end of September, 40 days is going to be right around Veterans Day. I got to think about that about the sec first, second week of November I got to thinking about in the first, second week of November, how are we going to be feeling about what we heard about this conference this week? You know, there's something about the right kind of emphasis and we reap the harvest and and I I can think about conferences and and youth camps that I've been in and how God spoke to my heart and how I was so excited and how I made decisions and how I came to the altar and asked God to help. uh do so many things in my life, but yet my testimony is like the children of Israel's. Let's fast forward 40 days if you'll flip over with me if you would to Exodus chapter number 32. The very last thing the people had said to Moses is, Moses, we're going to do everything That God tells us to do. The Bible says in ver chapter 32 and verse 7, 40 days after Moses left, the Lord said unto Moses, Go get thee down. For thy people which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They have turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded them. They have made them a molten calf and have worshipped it. And have sacrificed thereunto, and said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which have brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. Now you think about this. Forty days Moses was up into the mountain. And for whatever reason, and I don't know what happened, but the people began to think Moses is never going to come down. He's gone forever. We don't know. And they went to Aaron and said, Aaron, what are we going to do? And And Aaron said, All right, here's what we'll do. We'll come and and bring all the golden jewelry and all the rings and all the earrings and all the necklaces and all the bracelets and let's melt them all down and we'll make us a golden calf out of gold. And we'll make this image. And this image will be our guide, and we'll bow down and worship him. The Bible actually says they began to bow and worship that golden image and attributed what God did for them in Egypt. to that golden calf. Ridiculous. And the Bible says that Moses came down and and Joshua hears and he says there's sound of war in the camp and Moses said, No, it's not the sound of war, it's it's the sound of music and dancing. And the Bible says Aaron blamed the people, the people blamed Aaron. It says in verse number twenty-six, Then Moses stood in the gate of the camp and said, Who is on the Lord's side? Let him come unto me. The Bible says Moses was angry and and he and I I can see his heart just broke and I'm sure he's thinking in his mind, I've only been gone forty days. I mean the emphasis has only been gone forty days and and I've come down and and and I thought you were going to do everything that God said and now we need to make a decision. Every everybody that'll be on the Lord's side, I'm going to make this line. Everybody come unto me. I want to submit to you tonight during a typical conference, we will come near the Lord. And I, again, this is just my own testimony. The typical conference will consult the Word of God. But so many times in my own life during a typical conference, the excitement wears off. And I don't think we go to worshiping golden calves, but something distracts us in our life. And we forget the decisions we made during a typical conference. You know what I submit to you tonight? We don't need a typical conference. We need a non-typical conference. We need a t a conference that will last not just for the few days or for the few weeks after, but a conference that will last Not only this month and the month after, but twelve months out of the year and fifty-two weeks out of the year and three hundred and sixty-five days a year, where every single day we're coming nearer the Lord and every single day we're consulting God's word and every single day we're saying, God, whatever you want me to do, that's what I'm going to do. And that's what I'm going to be obedient, and I'm not going to stray, and I'm not going to get distracted, and I'm going to keep on doing exactly what your word says, and everything you've said, that's what I'm going to do, and that's what I'm going to be obedient. Say, well, preacher, how does that happen? Look what the Bible says in verse number 29. And Moses had, for Moses had said, consecrate yourselves today to the Lord. A non-typical conference is when, yeah, we come near the Lord and we consult the Word of God. During a non-typical conference, we consecrate ourselves to the Lord. That word consecrate literally means to accomplish, to fulfill, or to be expired. You know what God wants? God wants us not to just make an emotional decision. God does not want us just to say what we're going to do, but God wants us to actually accomplish what He gives in our hearts to to do. God wants us to fulfill the word that He gives us to do. And God wants us to actually do it until we are expired trying our with His help to serve Him. The encouraging thing while Moses was up on the mount those 40 days, God did give him more of the law, but God also gave him something else. As he was up there in the mountain those 40 days, yes, God said, here's some more commandments, but God says, here's what I want you to do. I want you to make me a tabernacle. And God begins to give him the very intricate design and the very detailed information on how Moses is supposed to set up the tabernacle. From the from the labor to the basin to the holy place to the holy of holies to the Ark of the Covenant and and and every all the pieces of furniture to the to the coverings and to the posts and and to the sides and the dimensions, very intricate detail, everything God gave to Moses, and all of that pointed to Jesus Christ. You know why God gave Moses the tabernacle? Yes, because God wants to meet with man, but here's why. Because God knew Sinful man, sinful heart. And if Moses came down with just the law, and if Moses came down off that mount And he saw that golden calf, and all he had was the law of God in his hand, and it would be boom. End of story. No more, children of Israel. But God gave him the tabernacle, a picture of the very grace of God. Because God knew sinful man needed help and needed a way out. And God does not just give us the law, but God gives us the grace to fulfill and to accomplish and to be expired for him. The Bible says about Jesus Christ. Remember in John chapter 1? Bible says the word speaking of Christ was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory as of the only begotten of the Father. Then what does it say? Full of grace and truth. If God only gave us truth, it'd be end of the story for all of us. But God gives us grace. And God gives us chance after chance to be expired, to be fulfilled, to accomplish. That which God has given us to do. A typical conference, wonderful thing. God draws us near to Him. We find what God's Word says. But tonight and this year and the shape that our country's in, and the revival on conference and soul winning that we desperately need. We don't need a typical conference. We need a non-typical conference where we accomplish, where we fulfill, and where we are inspired at everything that God gives us to do. I'm praying this week that in my own heart that God would help this to be a non-typical conference. Would you bow with me in prayer, please? Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Just a moment. Pastor's gonna come and he's gonna take over the end the service. How many of you are here tonight and say, Preacher, I can remember a time in my life where I pray and I ask Jesus to forgive my sin. By faith I trusted him as my Savior. Beyond a shadow of a doubt, if something were to happen to me tonight, or if Jesus were to come back, I know that I would be in heaven, no doubt in my mind. Would you raise your hand as a testimony, please, all around? I know that I've been saved and there's no doubt about it. Thank you. Put your hands down. I wouldn't be much of a preacher if I didn't ask you this. How he'd say, preacher, if I were to die right now, I'm not 100% sure I'd go to heaven. I'm not going to embarrass you. All I want to do is pray for you. Maybe you have some questions, maybe you have some doubts, maybe you just you just know that you're not saved. And say, preacher, if I were to die right now, I'm not 100% sure I'd go to heaven. Would you just flip up your hand where I can see it so I can pray for you? Anybody like that? Say, I'm just not sure that I'm saved. Alright. So that's you in just a moment. Piano's gonna play, the pastor's gonna come. And I'm sure this altar would be open if you're a Young man, we'd have a man take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure you're saved. You're a lady, we can have a lady do the same for you. The Christian church, let me ask you this, and this is my prayer for my own heart. How we say, you know what, God's spoken to my heart. I want God to do something special this week. And in my own life, I want God to make this a non typical conference where I will accomplish everything that God has for me. Would you raise your hand all around? Say I want this to be a non-typical conference. Father, I pray you bless your word. And again, bless this church, thank you for what you're doing here. God, I pray you would bless our time together this week. Bless the preachers as they come in. God, use them in all of our hearts. Lord, no doubt you're doing something wonderful in this church, in this place, in this community. Please continue it and do greater things, I pray. In Christ's name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. This is a great message, great challenge, right? Exactly what we needed.