I seem a little razzled and worn out and tired. That's because I am. But uh we're looking forward to this coming week and we're excited what the Lord has in store. James chapter 1, and um we're beginning the second section of uh chapter 1 in James. The first section, uh 1 through 12, actually verses 2 through 12 are what um uh are the one topic sort of. Let me get my mic on here, Brother Dave. I think I'm up and running. There we go. And uh I want to read verses 13 through 16, James chapter 1. I really believe tonight's message would be really helpful. So, and uh for all of us, all ages, but I think particularly young people might help uh to understand a little bit some of the areas where we're dealing with temptation and that type of thing and why parents do some of the things they do. And so I just want to encourage you, maybe take a pen or give some special thought to what's being said tonight and I really believe it would be helpful, like I said, for all of us. Look at verse 13. He says, Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. So we looked at this last week, and this verse is pretty clear, isn't it? When temptation comes, when we're dealing with temptation, it is not from God. We cannot pin the blame on God when we're tempted to do something. And so uh that was very, very clear. Nanny expands on that in the next few verses he elaborates about this matter of temptation and uh all that's involved with it. Look at verse 14 That no man saying when he's tempted, he's tempted of God, not tempted with evil, neither tempting any man. But every man is tempted, look at this, when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. So there's the source of temptation. Then he builds on that. Then, when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth what? Death. Then he adds this: Do not err, my beloved brethren He says, this is serious. Don't mess up on this. Do not err in this matter of temptation and what it leads to. But tonight I want to look at verse 14, and I want to try and be concise because I think it's just a real basic truth here And um the source of temptation. I think if we understand where that temptation is, how the the the root of it, I think it'll help us have victory over temptation. Let's pray together first. Father, I ask now as we look into your word that you would uh open our hearts and minds to understand this matter that all of us deal with on a regular daily basis. Probably truth or no, maybe on an hourly basis Continually dealing with temptation. And I pray you'd help us to understand it from your perspective so that we can deal with it correctly and deal with it thoroughly and victoriously. I ask, Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. Present my body anew this hour to be yours To use as you see fit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Remember we pointed out temptation in verses two through twelve has to do with hardships. The temptation in verse thirteen through sixteen is the exact opposite of the temptation being addressed in verses 2 through 12. Let me point this out. Verses 2 through 12, look again. He says, My brethren, count it off joy when you fall into diverse temptations. And if you'll remember, we said that that temptation there is not an enticement to do wrong, but rather is a hardship. It's a trial going through. Now get this. Verse 2 through 12, the temptation being addressed there, the hardship and the trial, is designed by God to strengthen my faith To draw me closer to God. Now, this is the point. When God allows you and I to go through hardships, now some of them we bring on ourselves by dumb decisions. Somebody said, I can't think of Anna, I heard this quote one time, somebody said life is tough and it's even tougher tougher if you're stupid. And um that's a good point. We go through hardships in life. We go through difficulties in life. Some of it we bring on ourselves, but some of it God brings into our lives. Sometimes God sends a hardship. Sometimes God sends a trial or a Temptation as used in that context, and it is designed for this to make my faith in God stronger so that I can understand a little bit more about God's power and his love and his wisdom, and it's to draw me closer in my love for him and my walk with him. So Verse 2 through 12, the whole purpose of those trials and temptations to make me a better Christian, make my faith stronger, draw me closer to God. Now we get to verse 13 316, and now there's a temptation being addressed, not a hardship, not a difficulty that God allows, like the first few verses, but now a temptation to do wrong. An enticement to do something wrong. And the whole purpose of this temptation is to weaken my faith. Is to get me farther from God. To make me a poorer Christian, not a better Christian It's the exact opposite of the first. Now, the first, 2 through 12, God allows that. God many times brings these trials, difficulties in our lives, these temptations. Verse 13 through 16, that's not of God. This temptation is not of God. And uh so it's important to understand There are diffic there are there's a complete contrast there. Now God will and he does try us. How many people found that to be true? Sometimes person gets saved and they think, oh great, I'm saved. I'll never have any more problems. Ha! I found I I I found that sometimes I found sometimes people get saved, they have more problems after they get saved than before. Now they've got to deal with family members who are unsaved, they got more trials, difficult as they had before Thinking of one family in particular. They said, man, after we got saved, it's been tougher in some ways. And I said, That's true sometimes. But you stay faithful, you stay in there. God will bring you through and help you God will and does try us, but God never tempts us. God never seeks to entice us to do evil. So if it's not from God, and we looked at that last week and we see that in verse number 13, where does temptation come from? God doesn't do it. God's not the one that's in uh initiating it. Where does it come from? Number one, here's my first point of two tonight. Temptation source, first of all, is twofold, actually, a combination of two things. One is inner desires Number one, inner desires. Temptation, part of the temptation is a result, comes from desires from within me. Look at verse number 14 Every man is tempted when he is drawn away. Look at these next three words, four words, of his own lust. Temptation begins in my own heart and soul with my own desires Look at this word. I broke these words down and did a little study on each of them. Of his own. That phrase, of his own, has this idea of his personal, private, individual desires. Temptation begins with the desires that are in my heart and life With the desires that are there. The word lust. Every man is drawn away. Every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust. Now we think of lust. What do you think of? That word has a connotation connected to it. We think of sensual desires, right? Lust. The word lust, in and of itself, does not necessarily mean something bad. It could be good or bad, a lust. It simply means a strong desire, an intense desire. It means something like has the idea of a longing or a craving for something. Lust in and of itself is not always sinful. For instance, listen to this. In Luke chapter 22, verse 15, listen to this. Jesus said that with great desire, he, Jesus, wanted to eat the Passover meal with the disciples. That word desire, I have greatly desired. That word desire is the exact same word translated all through the New Testament, lust. Jesus had an intense desire to have the Lord's Supper, to initiate the Lord's Supper with the disciples. He wanted that. That tells me Jesus wants our fellowship. And he desires that. He lusts for that. So that's uh it there's nothing sinful there. That's a good thing. In Galatians chapter number five, verse seventeen, the Bible says that the Holy Spirit lusts against the flesh. And the flesh lust against the Holy Spirit. That word is used there. And so we know that the Holy Spirit does not sin. So when the Bible says the Holy Spirit is lusting against the flesh, it simply means the Holy Spirit strongly desires to control your life and my life. In other words, the Spirit of God wants to be in control of my life, not me and my flesh in control of my life. And there's that conflict back and forth. Flesh wants to have its will and have its way. Spirit of God wants to have his will and his way. There's a conflict there. They're both lusting one against the other. And so when the Bible says every man is drawn away of his own lusts and enticed, that lust there, that desire, isn't necessarily something sinful. It may be a temptation, maybe begin with a legitimate desire. In fact, it often begins with a legitimate desire, but it becomes temptation when that legitimate desire is I seek to fulfill that legitimate desire in an illegitimate way We have some school teachers in here, some teachers working in the schools and some homeschool parents maybe. Is it wrong for your child to desire or lust To pass the final examination. Is that a sinful desire? No, that's a good desire. I would want my kids to want to pass the final exam. Amen? So that desire is there. I want to get a good grade. I want to pass that test. I want to go on to the next grade. I want to be accepted into Bible college. I want to be accepted into Bible college for one year, every young person. Amen. And so they want to pass that test. It's a legitimate desire. But the desire to pass the test is legit, but cheating To pass the test is illegitimate. Follow what I'm saying? The desire itself, there's nothing wrong with it. Temptation comes in when that legitimate desire, and I'm getting ahead of myself here, but I want to explain it, when that legitimate desire Is introduced to the opportunity to accomplish that desire outside the will of God Let me give you another example. I have a list of them here. How about owning your own house? Somebody says, I really would like to own my own house. That is a desire of my heart to own my own house. Is that a sinful desire? No, that's a good desire. I think the Bible promotes per personal property, owning your personal property. I think there's principles in Scripture that endorse that and support that, and I think it's a good thing So that desire here you have a young man or whatever, he wants to own his own house, have his own property, and uh as a legitimate desire, but He embezzles money from his work to buy his own house. That's a problem, right? So here you have a legitimate desire, but you have an illegitimate means of fulfilling that desire. For instance, here's another one. Is it sinful to eat food? No, it's not sinful to eat food. In fact, God designed us to eat food. Hey, I've got news. Adam and Eve ate food in the garden before the fall. So the desire to eat food, the desire to enjoy a meal, the desire to keep my body nourished, that in and of itself is nothing sinful to that, but gluttony would be sinful. Right? Um how about sleep? Oh sleep comes precious this weekend. Amen, Brother Graham. We were worn out. And uh uh l is is it sinful to desire to sleep? No That's unusual because normally little kids don't want to sleep. But laziness That's sinful. No, I love Well I I can't wait to hit the sack. I think I think I'll just stay home from church and sleep. I think I'll just call in sick. Well, I'm not gonna I'll find a closet back here behind the shop and uh I'll just sack out when I'm supposed to be out there working. Follow what I'm saying? So the legitimate desire, there's nothing wrong with that desire, it's good and fine in itself. Temptation comes in when the opportunity to fulfill that desire in an illegitimate way when that opportunity to fulfill the desire in an illegitimate way is introduced to the desire, temptation develops. To be physically intimate. Is there anything sinful in and of itself about being physically intimate with the opposite sex? No, that's a good desire. There's nothing wrong with that. God created us that way. God, Adam and Eve, before the fall, God instructed them to be physically intimate. There's nothing sinful with that. In fact, the Bible says in the marriage, within the perimeters of marriage, it's good and holy and sacred and right and good and necessary. within the confines of marriage. So the desire for physical intimacy, that in and of itself is not wrong. And nothing sinful about that desire. But how about fulfilling that desire outside the bounds of marriage? Oh, now it becomes sinful. Now it's illegitimate. Now it's wrong. And so temptation begins. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lusts, his own desires. The lust in and of itself may not be wrong. In fact, I want to suggest to you the vast majority of desires that we have in and of themselves, there's nothing wrong with that They were God given to us. Now I was trying to think of some desires that under no circumstances would they be legitimate The only one I could come up with, I'm sure there's others you may think of some, tell me afterward, but the one I come up with was revenge. The desire for revenge. Now I cannot think of any legitimate situation I cannot think of any situation where seeking revenge would be a legitimate fulfillment. It would be legit to fulfill that desire. In fact, the Bible says several places that we should not give place to vengeance because vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. And there may be some others. But my point is this: temptation begins, the very source of temptation. Is in the desires that are part of our very nature, that for the most part, in and of themselves, there is nothing wrong with them So look at the verse again. Don't blame God, verse 13. God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempt any man. But every man is tempted. When he is drawn away of his own lusts. So those lusts are there. Those desires are there. They're innate. They're natural. Temptation comes when though when I am drawn away. Those desires are being drawn. So that leads me to my second point. First of all is temptation begins with our inner desires. They're there. They're legit. They're fine. God put them there. For the most part, nothing wrong. Temptation comes, number two, inner desires, number two, and this is a fancy word, you are going to be impressed with your preacher. Insidious deception Insidious. What do I mean by decidious? Insidious. Sneaky. If somebody is insidious, uh the serpent in the Garden of Eden, when it approached Eve. Boy that thing, uh that devil was insidious. He was sneaky. And he knew exactly how to go about and trick Eve. Into fulfilling a legitimate desire in an illegitimate manner. Was it wrong for Eve to want to eat fruit from the garden? No. God said, freely eat. But she wouldn't eat of the tree of knowledge in good and evil. And the serpent very trickily, trickily, um uh trickfully Fooled her and introduced her. Here's what Satan did. Satan introduced Eve to the opportunity of fulfilling a legitimate desire in an illegitimate manner. And thus she was tempted. Now, Satan did not tempt her, he just introduced her to the opportunity of temptation. And so every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lusts and enticed. Two key phrases here. Drawn away. That word drawn away. Uh how how many folks here enjoy fishing? Anyone here enjoy fishing? I enjoy fishing. How many folks here will fish Some of you guys cheat and use live bait. How many fish and use lures? Like to fish with lures. I like to use lures. That word drawn away actually comes from the same word that we get the word lure It means to it means to lure, it means it is actually a hunting and fishing term, I'm told. I like to deer hunt. In Maryland, you are allowed to bait deer. I thank God for that, because I would never get a deer probably if you couldn't. And you're allowed to bake deer. And what the the idea is, is you put that corn out or that salt block or whatever you have out there And the idea is I want the deer to smell that and see that corn so that they are drawn away from where they are and attracted over to where I can shoot them and then cook them and eat them. Like I did today. I didn't shoot them today, but I cooked them and ate them today. And so that's the idea there, to be drawn away, to be lured away. You throw that you throw that uh topwater popper out there in the summertime and you put that that thing lands and you just twitch that a little bit and it just pop pop And boy, that big old bass, that smallmouth bass that are down there, and they see that and they think, good night, that's a little lured it lured uh that's a little injured um uh little injured minnow up there That's a free meal. That's like a double quarter pounder with cheese. I got a coupon for a free quarter pounder with cheese. And that thing goes flying up there, whoa! And I lured him out of where he was. And he bites that thing. Every man is tempted, when he is drawn away, he's lured away and enticed. And that has the idea of crossing a line. Coming outside of a perimeter. So temptation has a twofold source. Number one, a legitimate desire. That's part of me. God made me that way. It's nothing wrong with that desire But then an enticement, an allurement to go outside of God's perimeters to fulfill that desire. To be enticed over across the line. An insidious Deception. It is the appeal to fulfill a desire outside of the perimeters of God's law. Now, here's my point. This is my message. Temptation takes place when I have a legitimate desire And I have an opportunity to fulfill that desire in an illegitimate way. That's when temptation takes place. Desire and opportunity. If there's no desire, there's no temptation. This is stupid, but it's what I came up with. I have never been tempted to eat charcoal. Can I get a witness? There's nothing about it. I have no desire in my part of me to eat charcoal. There's nothing desirable about it. So somebody could come up and say, hey, there's charcoal over there. You could steal that and eat it. They'd never know it There's no you follow what I'm saying? There's no enticement to do that. There's no desire there. So there has to be the desire to begin with, and we have them But then there has to be opportunity. I can tell you honestly, and you may be glad to hear this, I've never been desired, I've never been tempted to steal $15 million. Is that you say brother Lethman you wouldn't like to have $15 million? I'd like to have a shot at it, you know, give it a chance. People say, oh, I if I could get a million dollars, I wouldn't do it. I don't believe that for one minute But anyway, I've never been tempted to steal $15 million. You know why? I've never had the opportunity to steal $15 million. You know, if I walk home today and somebody said, Brother Leatherman, here's a bag it has thirty million dollars in. I'm gonna set it there, we're gonna give it to so-and-so. If you'll just hold it at your house overnight Get and you're gonna give so and so and they're not gonna count it, they're not gonna uh worry about it, they're just gonna assume uh do you think there might be slight temptation or think there could be a temptation on my part to maybe Pilfer some of that? You are looking to be so pious. Oh I wouldn't. Of course, there's a desire there, sure. That would be great to have $15 million. There's the opportunity to get it But it would be illegitimate, it would be wrong. So the temptation comes when the desire is introduced to the opportunity. Right? You follow what I'm saying? If there's no opportunity, there's no temptation. If there's no desire, there's no temptation. But desire and opportunity produce temptation So you say, all right, what does that have to do with me? Here it is. And we're going to find this next week. Temptation, giving into temptation, leads to bad stuff. Many people believe that. Look at the next verse. Every man's temptation is drawn away his own lust and taste. Then when lust hath conceived, the opportunity and the desire are come together. When lust that conceived it bringeth forth sin. And sin when it is finished bringeth forth death So when my desire for something may be legitimate is given an opportunity to fulfill that desire in an illegitimate way, when the conception of those two takes place, sin happens. And the result of sin is always bad. So, if I understand that temptation is a desire With the opportunity to fulfill that desire in a wrong way. That's where temptation blooms. That's where it begins. Then what I want to do, here it is, I can't change my desires They're innate. They're part of me. So what I need to do is limit the opportunities to fulfill those desires in a little legitimate way. You know what that's called? Standards. That's called having convictions. I want to end with a few verses here. You got your Bibles here. I want you to look here at a few verses real quick. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. And we're just going to race across these, but I want you to see them. I don't want to just read them to you. First Corinthians chapter 6. Here's what happens. A lot of times, and you know it's just something you have to work at, but a lot of times a church or a family or parent will establish some convictions, some standards that they live by. And immediately people will start crying, oh, that's legalism. Oh, that's the law. They're so strict. They're just don't want to have fun. What they're trying to do is minimize The number of opportunities that are available to me to fulfill a legitimate desire in an illegitimate way. Look at what they say, 1 Corinthians 6, look at verse 18 What do the first two words say there? Flee fornication Now, that comes back to the desire for physical intimacy. It's a legitimate desire. God gave it to us, it's fine, it has its place. Fornication Is the fulfillment of that desire in a sinful way, outside the perimeters of God. So what does it say? Does he say endure? Does he say just ignore? He says what? What's he saying? He's saying get away from the opportunity to get involved in that. Put distance away from you. Don't let that opportunity to be there. Minimize the opportunity to fulfill a legitimate desire. in an illegitimate way. Get away from that, minimize that opportunity. You know what he's saying? Set up some standards and convictions about how you're going to behave yourself physically with the opposite sex. Or nowadays, either sex. Right? That's what he's saying. He said set up some standards. Get away from that. I'm not gonna have that. I'm not gonna have that on my TV. I'm not going to have that in my house. I'm not going to have that on my computer. I'm not going to get involved in that at the store. I'm not going to get involved in that in the office. That's that maybe you're a secretary in the office or some guy that's all flirtatious and he's always trying to s hook something up and set something up My Bible says you better get you some convictions, you better get you some standards because you have a legitimate desire, and here is an illegitimate opportunity to fulfill that desire. And you've got to get away from that. You've got to put something between you and that opportunity, or you're going to be tempted. Follow what I'm saying? Uh come over to chapter ten, First Corinthians, and verse fourteen. Wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry. Now I didn't touch on this before, but God, you may not be fully aware of this, but for every one of us God has put inside us a desire to worship. It is a natural desire God gave us. There has never been a society of people, there has never been a people group found in the history of the world that did not worship something. The deepest, darkest Africa, most remote, uncivilized people, they're bowing down and they're worshiping something. So God puts into us the desire to worship. Now he says here, and let me ask you a question. Is it wrong to worship? No. Is it wrong to worship anything but God? Yes. And so I've got to be careful that Jesus Christ is Lord and Lord alone of my life And no other person, no other thing, no other object, no other activity takes the place of Jesus Christ. I've got to put it this way. You know what that means? I set up some convictions about how I allow things to control me. Follow what I'm saying? I have some convictions about how much I'm going to invest time, money, and effort into things other than the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, there's a lot of nice, legitimate things, but they can become idols. If they take the place of God, I've got to have some convictions. I said before, I really enjoy fishing, I really enjoy hunting. And that could very easily to me become an idol I could very easily, if I would let myself go, I could very easily spend the time and money and effort into those activities that really I need to put into the Lord. And so I have to be careful. So I have some certain things in place that I try to do, try to follow to keep that temptation away, to keep a standard of conviction there. Let's go to 1 Timothy chapter 6. Come over there. Everybody doing okay? I think this is really helpful. I think you'll see here and I finish it. You'll see where I'm going with this. Chapter 6, 1 Timothy, chapter 6, verse 10 First Timothy chapter six verse ten. For the love of money is the root of all evil. Money isn't the root of all evil, love of money is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after They have erred from the faith, pierced themselves through with many sorrows. But thou, O man of God, what? Flee these things. What's he saying? Put distance. Minimize the opportunities I have to love money, to love stuff Keep that temptation at a bay. Keep it at minimum, as much as I can. Let me give you one more, and then I'll wrap it up. 2 Timothy 2 and verse 2. This applies a little bit. He's kind of addressing young people here on this one. 2 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 22. Are you there? Look what it says. Here he used that same word again. 2 Timothy 2. Verse 22. Did you find it? Look what it says. This would be a good one for young people to underscore all of us, really. Flee also, youthful what? Lust. There's that word. What's he saying? There are certain temptations that are characteristic of youth. Um I think the Bible makes that clear. Certain temptation We're all tempted in all ways. Every man is tempted uh in all ways. We're all tempted. But there's certain periods of life, certain stages of life, that some temptations are greater than other temptations. For instance, a ten-year-I've never met a ten-year-old kid that was actually Tempted to embezzle from their employer to buy a house. That wouldn't be the case. But that little kid might be tempted to steal a pack of bubblegum from the store. Almond Sam. And so he's saying there's certain temptations that fit different categories of of where we're at in life, different stages of life. And he's talking to the young Timothy here, and he's saying, Hey, there's certain temptations you're facing. You need to set up some standards, you need to set up some convictions about that, and not let yourself Get in a position where those temptations that are characteristic of your age can be illegitimately fulfilled. Now we can talk about a lot of different areas about music, about uh entertainment, all that. We could talk about interaction with the opposite sex. I think every young man, every young lady ought to have some convictions about how they interact with the opposite sex. Amen. And I think there's clear Bible teaching. I ought to have convictions. We ought to have convictions and standards about the kind of music. Is it wrong to enjoy music? No. The angels sing music. There's music in heaven. God designed music. The book of songs is music But the desire to listen to music, if I seek to fulfill that desire outside of the standards, the perimeters of God, then lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. I'll just be real frank with you. There's a lot of Christians listening to sinful music. Just going to be frank. Because we don't have any standard there. We don't have any convictions set up. Flee useful lusts. So what my what I need to do is establish standards. Lust, every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lusts, own desires, he's drawn away and enticed. To fulfill that desire outside of what God has established is right and good and profitable And then when that opportunity and the desire conceives, sin takes place And sin, when it is finished, is death. Sin never produces anything good. Never And so I've got to set up a wall. I've got to set up a moral, some moral standards that, you know, I really, it's a legitimate desire. I really like to do that But I don't want the opportunity to fulfill that desire. I don't want the opportunity to do it illegitimately. I don't even want that opportunity. I want to keep that out in a way. See what I'm saying? Um the old flesh likes likes some of that old worldly music. Here's what used to happen, Brother Grant, when I was in youth pastor and in youth evangelism We'd preach against rock and roll music and stuff like that. By the way, I still think preachers and teachers and parents should preach against rock and roll music. The amens on that gets gets lower and lower as time goes by. But I still believe that. Um, here's what the young people would do. They'd get convicted. And we'd say, all right, we're gonna trash all this music, we're gonna destroy it. Inevitably I'd have one or two would say something like this. Well, I'm not going to listen to it anymore. I know I shouldn't listen to that music. I'm not going to listen to it anymore, but I'm not going to destroy it. I'm just going to put it in a box and put it up in the closet. Temptation, the desire, and opportunity is what produces temptation. So as long as that music's up in the box, he has opportunity to listen to it, there's going to be that temptation. Follow what I'm saying? If he destroys it, it's gone. I don't even have the opportunity to listen to it. Temptation's cut in the bud. Dealt with. So I need to establish these standards. I need to establish these convictions. I need to establish something that I'm not going to cross at. I'm not even going to allow that opportunity to be have that opportunity Because that's where temptation begins, and then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. And sin, when it's finished, bringeth forth death, and nothing good ever comes out of sin. I heard a preacher say years ago, he said he was preaching somewhere, and I don't know if this has happened or he just made it up. But he's somewhere and he saw there was a little Chihuahua dog. I think they're they call them dogs, I don't I assume they actually are dogs. You know what I'm talking about, little yapper dogs, the ones that always bite me when I'm out soul winning. He said he saw this old dog was in a fenced-in yard just run around. And he said he saw coming down the road was a big old pit bulldog. Just loose. Coming down the roof. He said, that little Chihuahua saw that big old bulldog. And he said he lusted for it. He wanted to get out and get after that big bulldog. He wanted to get in a fight with it. He wanted to bite him. He wanted to torment him. He had desire. Is it a a dog has that desire, right? To attack other dogs. A dog will attack a car 5,000 times its size. But there was a fence around the yard. And he said that big old bulldog come trotting down there. That little dog wanted after that thing so bad. And he went racing across the yard and smack up against the fence. He said the whole way that dog went down. And the dog went down. He said, lo and behold, about five minutes later, here comes that big old dog again Trotting up the alley. He said, I got listening. He says, I could understand what that little doggy was saying Doggy dog dog wish. He said he was saying this. Let me out. Let me out You're being legalistic, you're being too strict. You need to let me out there. I want to fulfill this desire. I want to get out there and do that. I want to And the little dog viewed that fence as a restriction. The little dog viewed that fence as something bad, something that's hurting me, not letting me get what I want. But in reality, that fence was saving that little dog's life. That's what convictions are. That's what standards are. If I could fulfill my desires. In an illegitimate way, it will destroy me. Because sin, uh because uh when lust hath conceived, when he gets out of the fence and he gets what he wants. When lost I conceived, it bringeth forth sin. And sin when it's finished, tears you and me limb from limb. destroys us. I could take you to homes. Listen, young people, I could take you to homes today. Where as a young person, that person got what they wanted regardless of what was right and wrong. And that home is disaster. They look like meth labs. The kids are dirty. The home is ungodly. The people are miserable. Because there was no standard. Any lust they had, any desire they had, they could fulfill it any way they wanted. And when lust hath conceived, bringeth forth sin. Sin when it's finished, bringeth forth death. Nothing good comes from it. It tears us up. So we have got to, in our own personal lives, we have got to establish some standards, some convictions. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to. David found out. He's up you know what I'm talking about? He's up on the roof, he sees Bathsheba. Was it wrong now now I know I'm I'm trying to be careful here, was it wrong for David to have physical desires like that? The desire itself? No, he had a beautiful wife, Abigail. But the desire was there, and there was an opportunity to fulfill the desire in an illegitimate way And he buried his son. And he lost his other boys. And it was scarless testimony. And that sin, like that bulldog, ate him alive. You know what would have been good? To have set some a standard set up, a conviction set up. I'm not going on the roof at night because I know there's folks out there bathing or whatever. See what I'm saying? Minimize those opportunities, minimize those chances where my desires can be fulfilled in an illegitimate way. And the more I minimize them, the less temptation I have to deal with. Now, there's no way we can go through life and not face temptation one way or another. It's there. We're going to have to deal with it. Those opportunities inevitably are going to present themselves. But I'm telling you, we can do a whole lot more than what we're doing to minimize them. This world has talked us into dropping all standards, dropping all convictions, anything goes, and look at what's happening to our world. And it's coming in the church. And so my challenge tonight is this. My desires, I can't change them. But I can sure do everything I can to keep the opportunities to fulfill them in a wrong way. I can do everything I can to keep them at a minimum. And that'll help me a lot. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that you would help us, help me, all of us, to establish some standards of right and wrong based on the Bible, what is within your perimeters Understanding that that is best for us, that's good for us, that you will bless us. And we step outside of those perimeters of God, then trouble comes. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight would say, Preacher, I am thinking right now the Holy Spirit of God has brought to my mind some areas that I could adjust some things I could do that would minimize the opportunity to fulfill a desire in a sinful way. I'm thinking of it now and there's some areas the Spirit of God has brought to my attention and I need to I want to change that and establish some things. so that those opportunities are minimized. Anything like that, by the uplift hand, I'm thinking of some very specific ways the Spirit of God has brought to my mind areas that I can set up a fence, I can set up a perimeter, a wall, where I'm not having that opportunity to do something that Is outside the will of God. How about it? Any others? A lot of hands raised. Now we need God to help us. You say, well, I don't know. I don't I'm not sure where. Verse 5 says, if any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God. God will show us. God will help us I like what Dr. Robertson said. If you don't have any convictions and standards of your own, borrow mine until you get some. Now, Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless us tonight and help us to understand how serious it is that we do not err. in this matter. One last question before we give the invitation. Is there anyone here tonight say, Preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven? I know I'm a sinner. I've done things, said things, there's things true about my life that are not pleasing to God. I know I'm a sinner. I need Jesus to come in my heart and life and forgive my sin and save me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me also. You pray for those others. Pray for me also. That God will help me settle that any at all. Father bless now our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together