Chapter one, if you would turn there in your Bibles, James chapter one, we're gonna look at verse number twelve. We've uh brought two messages from James chapter one verse twelve and uh tonight will be the third and Uh I believe last we'll move on to the next section. Verse twelve, as you remember, we pointed out last Sunday night, I believe, is the final uh verse of this passage that begins in verse number two where he's dealing with the Christian's response to temptation. Now, we need to understand that temptation here is not the uh enticement to do sin or to do wrong. But rather this is the temptation used in the sense of hardships and difficulties we go through. I think I'm a little strong, Brother Dave, um but um I mean my voice is um I'm probably other ways too, but uh Uh but this is the final one. He's kinda I think as I study this I kinda come to the conclusion that that this is kind of a summary of what he's been teaching the previous eleven verses. Now look at verse 12. He says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. Not solicitation to do evil, but hardships, difficulties, trials. He endures them. Blessed is the man that endured temptation. So that's the blessings of enduring temptation. There is a blessing of staying faithful, staying place, going through the tough time Then he says, for he shall receive the crown of life. That is the benefit of enduring temptation. If I stay faithful, stay in my place, thick or thin, uh good times, bad times, rainy days, sunny days, just stay faithful to God, stay true. Uh there's a benefit to that. God will reward me with the crown. And again, I I can't help but say this. That blows my mind that God would do that. After saving us from sin and hell, and then crown us if we are faithful to him. And now we come to this last phrase, and this is the way I'm looking at the last phrase is uh the basis of enduring temptation. For he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that what? Love him. And I want to suggest to you that that is the basis of faithfulness. That is the love, love for God. Is what will keep me in my place. Love for God is what keep me faithful and true and strong for the Lord Which he has promised to them that love him. So I want to speak tonight a little different title than what we had in the bulletin, but the basis for enduring temptation. Let's pray. Father, I ask that you would bless our time. I know uh uh the I know we have a little bit to do yet and we're a little late in the hour, so help me get to the point here, Lord. Fill me With all my heart I ask God that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my body to you anew. I present, I yield my will to you, and ask that you'd speak through me And God, I ask for my own heart and for us as a church that you would revive our love for you, that you would help us do what you need to do in our hearts and lives That we get back to our first love. We need that desperately, dear God. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Notice that last phrase. He said, The crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. I want to notice what he doesn't say here. He doesn't say, Blessed is the man endure temptation, for when he was tried, he will shall receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to them that endure temptation. Doesn't say that. It doesn't say to them that uh he says uh to them that endure temptation, he says the Lord has promised to them that love him. Love him. Our willingness, we've been preaching this on the last several Sunday nights. Our willingness to endure temptation, to be faithful through hardships, to not Walk away from God, our willingness to do that is a result of our love for God. It is love for God that will keep me faithful to God And it is an absence or a lack of love for God that will enable me to be unfaithful to God. The victorious Christian life is often very costly And we must never misunderstand that. We uh we like uh uh us independent Baptist preachers, we like to pick on the health and wealth and prosperity crowd. And there is an element out there that try to suggest that uh living the Christian life is just a free ride, it's a big party, it's a it's a rock and roll concert, and we just have a blast. I don't see that in scripture A victorious Christian life is often very, very costly. The blessings of God upon my life are often very costly. How many folks are familiar with uh how many folks here know uh at least somewhat what I'm talking about when I reference the Beatitudes Jesus spoke of the Beatitudes and Matthew, I think, again in Luke references the Beatitudes. You go down there, he says, blessed are the, and he has a list of ten. You lead them very carefully. Every one of those are some sort of difficulty, trial, setback. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are the meek. And you go through there, and it is not, the blessings that God promises are not upon what this world would think, but are upon folks that go through, often pay a heavy price. And so what I'm trying to say is this, the victorious Christian life, the blessings of God on my life, many times are very, very costly. Now, what in the world would motivate me to pay the price that is required to be faithful to God? What would motivate me to pay that price? I want to suggest to you it's a love for God. It's love for God. What would motivate me to trust and obey God even though other people don't understand? What would motivate me to stand for what is true and right, even though I'm reviled for it and maybe persecuted? Why would I do that? The Bible says it's love for God. I don't mean to put them on the spot, but it fits beautifully in here. Why would Jesse Horse stand for the Word of God and be booted out of a church and people turn on him? I t I suggest to you, he loved God. He did not want to fail the God who he loved dearly And that's what he's talking about here. The Lord has promised this crown of life that the Lord has promised to them that love him. That's the basis of us being faithful in the midst of hardship, in the midst of paying a price. Loving God does not equal an easy life. But loving God does produce a blessed life. And that's what he's saying. Let me give you my three thoughts here, real quick. And uh I want to get right to the point as I prayed. Number one, the basis of the Christian life is loving God Anything and everything done in the Christian life that is not rooted in love for God is nothing more than sounding brass and tinkling cymbals. Anything I do, my church attendance, if my church attendance is not rooted in a genuine love for God. And it's of little value. It's of little value. My daily Bible reading. And by the way, I am absolutely convinced every Christian should read their Bible every day. And if you're in your night, you're not in the habit of reading your Bible every day, I urge you with all my heart, if you know the Lord Jesus as Savior, you just decide tonight that from here on out I'm going to spend some time in God's Word today. Now wait a minute If my reading of God's Word is not rooted in my love for the God of the Word, then it's going to be a little shallow. I told you about the fellows actually from the Seventh-day Adventist Church and they teach a little work, salvation, and there, and we were kind of going back and forth. I was visiting another lady and they were there doing this Bible study with her and We were kind of going back and forth a little bit, and I was emphasizing we're saved by grace through faith, not of works. And they emphasized keeping the law and a lot of that. And finally I uh came to a point I was I was shown some scripture and this guy just lost it. And he got mad, he was sitting at the table. I was standing up and he had his Bible there in front of him. And he picked that up and he says, if I can lose my salvation, if uh if uh it's if I can just uh not read my do whatever, if I can if I can't lose my salvation, he took his Bible and he threw it down, he said, Why would I even read the Bible? He was depending on him reading the Bible to get him to heaven. Going through that ritual. I said, Well, I don't know why you read the Bible, but I said, I read the Bible because I love the God of the Bible. It's a love letter to me, it's not a means of salvation. And so Anything and everything done in the Christian life that is not rooted in a love for God is just sounding brass tinkling. So it's nothing, 1 Corinthians 13 tells us. More than anything else, please, if you don't get anything else out of this message, get this. More than anything else, God longs for us to love Him. He wants us to love him. And when I love God, as the Bible instructs me to, I can endure temptation. I can go through the most difficult heartache. I can go through the most difficult time. That love for God is the basis of all Christian life. You know why I think one reason Jesus got so disgusted with the Pharisees was because they had this outward show, but there was no love in their heart for God. It was all for self. It was all to be drawn to self. They weren't doing what they were doing for God because they loved God. They were doing it for the praise of men. And that absolutely, can I say it this way, made Jesus sick You read through the Gospels, he is harder on the Pharisees than he is on prostitutes. He lays in to those Pharisees, he says, You hypocrites, you children of the devil, he's harder on them to put this show on that they were living for God than he was on the drunkards and the publicans. Why? Because God wants to be loved. He doesn't want just some show. He doesn't want some outward ritual. That's why liberal dead liberal Christianity is such a uh disgust to God. We go through and put on our show and all of that and there's no heart, there's no love for God behind it. And by the way, that type of Christianity you send the slightest bit of persecution by, and that Christianity evaporates like the morning fog. There's nothing to it. But when we fall in love with God, and we love the Lord with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, with all our body. I tell you what, nothing's going to shake that. Nothing's going to shake that. Listen to some of these verses. Here's my statement. More than anything else, God wants us to love him. You say, where do you come up with that? Glad yes. Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 5: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. Deuteronomy chapter 7, verse 9. Know therefore that the Lord thy God, He is God, the faithful God. Listen to this. It keepeth covenant and mercy with them that love him. You know what he's saying? He says, those that love me, a special blessing for them. Deuteronomy 10, 12, and now Israel, what doth the Lord require of thee? But to fear God, to walk in his ways, and to love him. You say, preacher, what's God's will for me? I can tell you what God's will for you is. Love God with all your heart. Love God. Deuteronomy 11:1. Therefore thou shalt love the Lord thy God, and keep his charge and his statutes, his judgments, and his commandments always. Deuteronomy 36, and Lord thy God will circumcise thine heart and the heart of thy seed to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, that thou mayest live. You know what he says? God works in our heart to draw us to love him. God does things in our lives. God allows things in our lives so that it'll draw out love for God and cause us to love Him. Deuteronomy 30, 16, in that I command thee this day to love the Lord thy God, to walk in his ways, and keep his commandments. And the Lord thy God shall bless thee. Deuteronomy 30, verse 20, that thou mayest love the Lord thy God, and that thou mayest obey his voice, that thou mayest cleave unto him, for he is thy life. and the length of thy days. Listen to Matthew 22, 20, 37. Jesus said, fellow came to Jesus, said, Jesus, what's the greatest commandment? You know what Jesus said. He said, the greatest commandment is thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. It's repeat it again in Mark chapter 12, verse 30. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. Luke 10 verse 27, and he answered, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy strength, with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself. I believe the great heartache of God in this day and age is told us in Revelation chapter 2 and verse 4, where it says, Thou hast left thy first love. I believe God's heart is broken. I tell you what, there are a few things that will break a heart as deeply as As the unfaithfulness of a loved one, there are few things that will shatter a heart as deeply As the unfaithfulness of a spouse. And when we don't love God, like he intends for us to do, that he longs for us to do, it breaks his heart Read the book of Hosea, where Gomer's unfaithful to God, unfaithful to Hosea, and uh she leaves him, she plays the harlot. Man after man after man. And uh Hosea stays faithful. And the Bible says he loved her and longed for her in spite of all her infidelity. And that whole book is a picture of God Almighty longing for his people to love him. The basis of Christianity, of the Christian life, is loving God. It's interesting. Jesus said there in the Gospels, he said this is the first command. I think what he means by that is the first in priority. It's interesting. Before God said, Thou shalt not commit adultery, he said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. Before God said, Thou shalt not kill. He said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all my heart. He said, It's the first command Before he said, Thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt honor thy father and mother. He said, Before all these Love me, love me. First, love me Love for God keeps me from these other sins. As a child, if I love God with all my heart, my soul, my mind, I'll honor my father and mother. If I love God. As a Christian, if I love God with all my heart, with all my soul, with all my mind, I'm not going to steal. I don't want to do that, not if I love God. If I love God, I don't want to kill my brother. I don't want to commit adultery. I don't want to bear false witness. Not if I love God. Over the years had folks come through and they're having some struggle in their marriage or whatever, or maybe it's parent-child, whatever, but a lot of times the marriage will sit down. And uh they'll say something like this uh uh years ago in particular, I'm thinking when he and the fellow said, I I just don't love my wife. I said, that's really not the problem. I'm sure you're right, you don't love your wife. I said, but that's not the problem Problem is you don't love God. If you love God, you would love your wife. A husband that loves his wife is not going to cheat on her. And a Christian that loves God isn't going to want to sin against God. Turn if you would to Luke chapter 14. And verse number twenty six I tell you what, when Jesus starts giving the qualifications for being a disciple, good night. Have you ever looked at them? What he requires to be his disciple is intense. And in Luke chapter 14 and verse number 26, look what he says here. Let me get to it. If any man come unto me, hold your horses now, put your seatbelt on, and hate Not his father, his mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sister, sisters, yea, and his own life always. What's that last phrase? He cannot be my disciple. There's no wiggle room there. There's no exceptions. You say, what in the world? God wants me to hate my family? No, that's not what he's teaching. Well Jesus is saying, if you want to be my disciple, if you want to be a follower of mine, if you want to be used of God in a significant way as my follower, Your love for me has to be so supreme and so overwhelming that it even appears that you hate your family. Hate your family. Now by the way, I don't believe you can love your family like you should until you love Jesus supremely. And so what are we saying here? God is saying he wants us to love him. That is the basis of the Christian life. Jesus Christ dying and suffering hell for me, being buried, rising again, forgiving all my sins, saving me, taking me to heaven, giving me a new life. And my response is to love him with all my heart, my soul, and my mind, and my strength, and my body. Everything. Number two, not only is loving God the basis of Christian life, but I put this down: obedience is the byproduct of loving God. It's possible to obey God and not love him. The Pharisees did that in many ways. But it is impossible to love God and not obey him. It's impossible. I can obey him, go through emotions of that, and not really love God. But I can't love God and not obey him. You say, oh, give me some scripture for that. I'm glad you asked that too. Turn it over to John chapter 14. If you would real quickly, John chapter 14. And by the way, I just I didn't think of this until just before the service tonight. I was looking through my notes again. This ties in to us having Lord's Supper just beautifully. Look with me at John chapter 14. If you're in the habit of underscoring passages in your Bible, I highly recommend this. John chapter 14, look at verse 15. Jesus speaking, if ye, what's the word? Love me, if ye love me, look what he says: keep my commands. Huh. Come down to verse. Now I underscored that, circled the number 15, and I drew a line down to verse 21 and circled the number 21. Look at verse 21. He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me Now I underscore that, circle twenty-one, drew a line down to verse twenty-three, circle number twenty-three. Jesus answered and said unto him, If any man love me, he will keep my words. Verse 24, again, I connected the two. He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings. So what's he saying? There is a direct connection between loving God and obeying God. There is a direct connection between disobeying God and not loving God. He says, if you don't love me, you're not going to keep my commandments. You're going to disobey me. If you do love me, you'll keep my commandments. You'll obey me. And so obedience is the byproduct of loving God. I put this down. Disobeying God is the most unloving thing I can do. To disobey God is the most unloving thing I can possibly do. How many people recognize this name? See how many people recognize this name? Demas. Now, when we hear the name Demas, we don't think of somebody that loves God with all their heart, soul, and mind, do we? We hear the name Demas, we think of somebody that loved the world rather than God. And Paul said, Demons has forsaken me, having loved this present world. Jesus said in another place, you cannot serve God and mammon. Listen what he says. Either you will love the one and despise the other, or you will hold to the one and not the other. You cannot serve God in mammon. Now, take that word mammon, just put a blank there. And put whatever you whatever comes up, whatever issue it is, and put it in there. I cannot love God and this. I've got to make a decision. Either I love God supremely with all my heart and I obey Him and I trust Him or I'm living, or I love and live for and serve this temporary thing. And by the way, if somebody's not going to love God and they're going to love the world and the things of the world, my thinking is, boy, I hope you get everything you can out of the world because that's all you're getting. That's it. My Bible says He's promised the crown of life to them that love Him. And to love Him is to obey Him and trust Him, be faithful and committed to Him. And if I'm going to try and juggle that somehow and say, well, I love this, then I hope you get everything you can out of whatever that blank is where the word Bammon is, because there's nothing coming from the other direction. Not reward-wise, not blessing-wise. So number one, the basis of Christian life is loving God. Number two, obedience is the product of loving God. Number three, the bottom line in the Christian life is loving God. God. It sounds a little repetitious, point number one, but this is what I mean. If that's the case, if God wants me to love him, if that is what he's longing for, if that's what he's commanded me to do, And if loving God is what's going to keep me faithful to Him and bring His blessings on my life, Then every ounce of my energy and effort ought to be put into loving God. I need to focus my life on loving the Lord. Because that is the basis of the Christian life. The highest priority in my life as a Christian must be fostering my love for God. Can I be honest with you? This afternoon I got on my knees. I said, God, I do not want my love for you to grow cold. I do not want the actions of others to cause me to fall out of love with you. I want to love you, God, and I want to be faithful to you. The highest priority in your life and my life as a believer must be developing and maintaining a supreme love for God. We live in a day and age when the love of many is waxing cold. Am I right or wrong? We live in that day. You and I have the privilege of living in the day when Christians' love for God is waxing very, very cold. And we got a decision. Am I going to allow that to happen to me? Or am I going to be faithful to God? Am I going to love Him and develop Him? I was reading about a missionary down in Tijuana back years ago. And God was blessing their work, and the church was growing, and souls were being saved, and the hand of God was upon it. He came back to the States years later and he told this. He said, but I think it was in the 50s or 60s, sometime around there. He said they brought electricity into our community. And people started putting televisions in their homes. And he said the church attendance started dropping down, dropping down, dropping down. And he said, our people, our Christians, fell in love with the television and left their love for God. Charles Holmescher, the founder and director of Neighborhood Bible Time, started Bible Time in the slums of Denver. Dear friend, we were close for many, many years. He said back in the late 50s, early 60s, when television started coming around, he said, we saw the crowds coming out to Bible time, the kids just started dropping off. He said we saw a change. And Christians in the United States of America began falling in love with the world and leaving their first love for the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a song I learned years ago, and I tried finding the words all I know is from my memory, and I think I got it right. It's just a little chorus. Goes like this. More than life, I love thee, Lord. More than this world can afford, I have given myself to thee. Oh Lord, I love thee more. Well, that stirs my heart. More than life, I love thee, Lord. Listen, if there's anything in this world that has a priority over the Lord Jesus Christ in my heart, Can I be very honest? Can I just be frank? We need to get right with God When there's more Christians in the movie theater on a Sunday night than there are in the church house on a Sunday night, we are in desperate need of revival. We've lost our love for God in America. And we need to humble ourselves, confess our sins, say, Lord, I want to love you. You've done all for me. We love Him because He first loved us. And we come to the Lord's Supper and we have right in front of us the biblical testimony of God's love for us. That he gave his flesh and blood. For you and I, no greater love hath any man than this. A man lay down his life for his friends. Now, if he could do this for me, surely I could love him with all my heart. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I.