Of a monastery in Portugal. That monastery apparently is on top of a three thousand foot cliff And the only access to that monastery is to be hauled up by hand on a rope through a series of pulleys and whatnot, and strong men at the top would pull the visitors up to this monastery. Um, there was an American tourist that was coming and was going to visit this building, this this monastery up on top of this huge cliff. And uh they began pulling them up this uh in this basket through these ropes, apparently a very large basket. There's other staff and whatnot in there with them. About halfway up, this American tourist got nervous He got looking at the rope and it was old and it was frayed and uh he's looking down at the huge drop and how far they have to go and he got a little bit anxious and he asked the fella there that was uh supervising, he says, how often do you change this rope? The answer was, whenever it breaks Not a lot of assurance, not a lot of security going up that day. Well, like that basket and rope, we live in a very insecure world. Um my father likes to say, he says, you never know when you put your shoes on in the morning whether whether the undertaker may be taking them off that evening. We really don't know. We have no promise of tomorrow. Jesus said, boast not, the Lord says in the Bible, boast not thyself of tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We live in a very uncertain world. We crawl out of our bed in the morning. We may be in the hospital bed that evening. The job I have on Monday may be gone by Friday. The money in my savings account today may be vanished by next year. We live in a very insecure world. We live in a world that we really Aren't have real confidence on what's going to happen tomorrow. How many of us know somebody that got up in the morning, went out, and lo and behold, there's be a horrific wreck, and they're out in eternity by that evening How many people do we know, or maybe some of us, felt fine. We went to the doctor for our checkup, and the doctor says, I've got bad news, we've got to operate immediately. There's a malignant cancer one of our missionaries just this past week. Uh I believe, I think I have the time frame correct. Uh I believe Monday morning took their little daughter to The doctor in Dominican Republic for a checkup, the doctor says your daughter has a malignant brain tumor Needs to be removed immediately. They flew to the States Friday. They did brain surgery sa uh Thursday in New York City And we praise the Lord. The doctors are confident. They got all of it out and they said she should live a full life. But my point is this. Last Sunday at this time, they had no idea What they would be going through this coming week. We live in an unsecure world. We live in a very uncertain world. I got thinking even our freedoms and our security is as in the great United States of America are now being shaken. I never dreamed that there would be a day when Christians would become under the intense pers opposition and potential persecution that we face here in the United States of America. Do you realize, do you understand that our doctrinal statement of our church is considered by some in political powerful positions, is considered by them to be hate speech? And so we live in a very uncertain world, even things that we counted that we thought we would never lose, even things we thought would never change. Are now changing. I I I believe, I hope I'm wrong, but I believe that the faith and the conviction of this coming generation, these young people that were just up here. Their faith and their conviction is going to be tried and tested as never before in the history of our nation. They have got to be grounded in the things of God. They have got to be strong in their faith. Because what you and I are beginning to see in the news and in the reports out there, what we're beginning to hear is only going to intensify as these young people grow and develop. We live in an uncertain world, even in spiritual issues. People were very uncertain. Each week of the year we go out and and uh we knock on doors and we try to talk to people about the Lord Jesus Christ. If nothing else, we at least distribute gospel tracts and we try and share the message of Christ with people. We try to do here in the Oakland area what we expect our missionaries to do on the mission field And as I talk to people, I find out over and over I'll have people say something like this to me. I have a little spiel I go through as I introduce myself, invite them to church, and different things that are going on at the church. I'll try and use that as an open door. But inevitably I'll say something like this. I'll ask them, do you attend church anywhere? Sometimes they say yes, sometimes they say no I always say this. I say, going to church is important. God instructs us to. But more important than that is knowing for sure that when we die, that our sins are forgiven and we go to heaven and not to hell. I ask him, do you ever give that any thought? You'd be surprised how many times people say this to me. Preacher, I think about that a lot. I think about that a lot. Do you ever give that any thought? Yes, I do. Sometimes I'll ask this: has anything been happening in your life recently? That made you think about heaven, eternity, God, the Bible, anything like that, you'd be surprised how many times people say something like this to me. Preacher, we were just talking about that a day or so ago I just had someone close to me die, and I wonder where they're at. I wonder where I'm going. I explained to him, I say, listen, the Bible tells us we can know for sure when we die our sins if we're going to go to heaven or not to hell. And I'll ask him, do you know for sure? That when you die, your sins are forgiven, and you'll go to heaven and not to hell. And here's the answer I get. Overwhelming majority, I get this answer. Preacher, Pastor Lederman, I hope so. I think so Oh, I hope so. Sometimes somebody will say, no, I know I'm not going to heaven. But the overwhelming joy will be this. I hope so. I think so. That is not security. Hoping so. I think so. I believe I will. There's the i uh that's insecurity. Um when they say that when someone says, Well I hope so, I always say this. I say everybody hopes they go to heaven. Nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell. And I reiterate that right here and now. Nobody in their right mind wants to die and be separated from God for all eternity in the devil's hell. Nobody in a right mind wants that. Nobody that stops and thinks that through would say, yeah, that's okay with me. I'm telling you, God does not want anybody to die and go to hell. And the Bible says that we can know for sure. We don't have to hope so. We don't have to think so. We don't have to wonder. We can say with full biblical assurance, yes, I know that Jesus Christ has forgiven all my sin, that when I die, I go to heaven and not to hell. We can know that with assurity when we come to God the Bible way. The Bible way. And so we live in an insecure world. We live in a very uncertain world. We don't know what tomorrow holds. We don't know what the rest of today holds. We don't know what's going to befall us, but there's one thing we can know That if we trust Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, our sins are forgiven, and we have a home in heaven, and that can never change. That is secure. And that is so, so important. The security of the believer. There's a lot of circumstances in this world that I have no control over. So I can't be 100% certain what's going to happen tomorrow. I can put some things in place, but there are too many variables out there that I'm unaware of That I can have total security as far as this world is concerned. But our text and many, many other passages of scriptures just like it Tell us though that though living in the world is uncertain. Our relationship with the Lord is absolutely certain. We can know. We can know. Now we come to Psalms 125. I tell you, this passage was a blessing. I read through, I was kind of uh in a hurry. Do you ever uh uh every Christian ought to read their Bible every day Really should. If you're not in that habit, I urge you with every everything, establish a daily time of reading your Bible. Just get alone Open that Bible up, read through there, let the Lord speak your heart. Notice what's being said. Pray. Ask God to help you and direct you. Ask God to give you wisdom. Ask Him to meet your needs. And uh just spent a little time with the Lord. As I read Psalm 125, it just stirred my heart. I come back and read it again. And I come back and read it again. And I underscored a few passages there, verses 1 and 2 in particular. And I got looking at that. I thought I want to preach on this. So I did a little research. And uh we don't know who the penman of Psalms 125 was. Sometimes on the top of a chapter in Psalms that'll say uh David's Psalm by David or it'll give uh Moses or different fellas will be mentioned there. But if you notice at the top of this Psalm 125, there's no name given. We don't know who wrote this. And we do a little background on it. We we don't know what the circumstances were. We're not told who the penman was. We're not told what the circumstances are. But we do know who the author is. We do know that God inspired whoever it was, God inspired and moved them to record this For all eternity. This is God's will. So we don't know who the human penman was, and we don't know what the circumstances were, but we know this is a psalm from God. Now notice there at the top of verse 1, it says, a psalm of degrees I got looking at that and got checking things out. I found out that there are 15 psalms in the section here of the book of Psalms that are attributed to have this written, a psalm of degrees. 15 of them Four of them we are told were penned by David. One of them was penned by Solomon. The rest we don't know. We're not told. Now, what does it mean? This is a song of degrees. Now we know that this Psalms were songs that Israel sang. These are more than just passages of scripture. They were actually musical songs. That were like uh the the book of Psalms was kind of to the Jews like our psalm book is to us. It's in the pews there, it's kind of their psalm book. And so this and the other fourteen identified as song of degrees were uh uh were a song of degrees. Now what does that mean? And I got looking, I don't know Uh but I wanted to see the people smarter than me, what they thought this was. Some of the commentators and people I looked at suggested that the Song of Degrees uh was the songs that they sang as they came up to the temple where they would worship there the Jews. They'd go up the steps and they would sing these as they went up the steps. The word degrees itself has the idea of ascent, ascending. Psalms that are ascending. And so some have suggested that they would sing this and the other Psalms of the Greece as they went up the steps up to the temple to worship God. Maybe. Others have suggested, no, no, no. They said these were songs that were sung by the Jews when they came back from exile when they were in Babylon and slaves and God uh stirred the heart and let them come back and they would sing this as they came back to Jerusalem. Jerusalem is on a hill, and you go up to Jerusalem and A song of degrees, as they would send up to the city of David, the chosen place of God, as they ascended, they would sing these songs. Could be. Others said, No, no, you're both wrong These are actually a song of degrees is actually referring to the song itself, and it's referring to the structure and the content of the song. And they suggest if you go through these fifteen Psalms that as you look at them, they get higher and higher in their glory, and the subject becomes greater and greater and greater. This song of degrees is each Psalm 126, 127, 128. They just get greater and greater and greater. Ah, could be. I think they're all great, to be honest Then others say, no, you're all wrong. The answer is it's a musical term And that the people that had music written to this would not, oh, this is a song of degrees. And it would increase in intensity in that. Here's my conclusion I've studied this. I did research. I looked it up. Here's my conclusion. I have no idea what it means. I don't know. Could be any one of those. I think probably it's a musical term You say, well, what does all this mean? It means nothing. I just wanted to tell you all that stuff. But I do notice something here that's very important. Look at verse number one. They that what? Trust in the Lord. That, now get this, this is important. That is who is being addressed. They that trust in the Lord. That is who this promise that we're going to notice is given to. Person that's not trusting the Lord, a person that's never accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, these promises do not apply to them. You hear me? They don't apply to them. This psalm and these promises of God are for those who trust in the Lord. Now, trusting in the Lord is a very simple thing to do. It's really not complicated. It simply means the trust in Lord simply means that God gives me a promise and I believe it's true. It's simply believing the promises that God gives me. It simply means to follow the directions the Lord gives me. Somebody says to you you ask someone, well how in the world do you get to Walmart from here? Well, you'd go out the driveway here and you'd turn right and uh actually my wife could close her eyes, you could follow her, she'd drive her there and uh Ah she's here. I forgot she was in the service. Watch it. Now that person gives you directions to Walmart if you trust them You will what? I'll follow those directions. Now a preacher said turn right out of the driveway, go two uh two road three roads to the left, turn left there to the to the T, turn left again, follow that down to fourth street, turn right, follow that out past the uh uh the uh laundromat there and turn right you go up the hill see I told you I'd do it with my eyes closed and um and you'll find Walmart and the preacher said the preacher said turn right here he said go straight there he said turn left here If you trust the person giving the directions, the instructions you'll do what they say. You know what they that trust in the Lord, you know what it means to trust in the Lord? It means I do what he instructs me to do. I don't know. I don't understand all this, but God said that I ought to be faithful to church. I don't you know, I got other stuff and this and God said I oughta Read my Bible, and God said I ought not to set any wicked thing before mine eyes, and God said I should do this. I'm just going to trust God and do what He says. It's really not complicated. Sometimes you'll hear a preacher or you'll see a book for sale, the key, the secret to the Christian life. I'm telling you, there's no secret to the Christian life. It's simply trusting God. Follow his instruction. Believe his promises They that trust in the Lord. That's a very simple thing to do. Trusting the Lord simply means receiving the gift of salvation that God offers us. I've told my story here a million times, but when I was 18 years old, my 19th birthday, God had been working in my heart. I was unsaved. I knew I was unsaved. I was being Becoming a man I did not want to be. Sin was destroying my life. And I began reading my Bible, trying to find help. I cry out to God, God help me. I don't want to be what I'm becoming. I don't want to be this kind of person, Lord. And uh God began convicting me of sin. The more I read my Bible, the more uh I realized what a wicked, ungodly sinner I am. And finally, I come to the conclusion, on May 7, 1979, read my Bible, I needed to accept Jesus as my Savior And simple act of faith. I got on my knees beside my bed. I cried out. I can't even tell you the exact words, but it was something to this effect. Dear God, have mercy on me. Come in my heart and life, be my Savior, forgive me, and be my personal Savior. An act of faith, trusting God, receiving what he offered to me. And God saved me. God changed my life. Why? Trusting the Lord, they that trust in the Lord, it requires no particular level of intelligence. Thank God for that, huh? Uh it doesn't require any particular level of education. I think we ought to learn all we can. But my mom used to use this term. I used it recently. My mom used to use this term. A dumb bunny. I don't know where she came out. Anybody ever hear that before? What a dumb bunny. My mom would say, any dumb bunny can do that. Any dumb bunny can trust God. I'm glad for that. Praise the Lord. Uh any age These little children up here, you realize many of these little kids are up here, they've already accepted Jesus as their personal Savior. You say, oh, can a little kid like that get saved? Yeah, problem isn't a kid Being like us to get saved, we need to be like that kid get saved. Just simply trusting. Just simply trusting Any age can do that. Any background. You say, preacher, you don't know my background. You don't know what I've been through. You don't know all the sin I you don't know how badly I've sinned against God You don't know how many commandments of God I've broken. There's no way I could trust God. I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ came to save sinners. And where sin abounds, grace does much more abound. And the worst of sinners can trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. You read in your Bibles, you find murderers getting saved. You find adulterers getting saved. You find liars and thieves and prostitutes and drunkards getting saved. By trusting Jesus Christ their personal Savior. It's a simple thing to do. They that trust in the Lord, any age, any background, any social standing. The person on the farthest, lowest way down on the social standing can trust Jesus Christ as Savior. And by the way, the big shots on the social standing need to trust Jesus Christ as Savior also. Any social standing, any background, any age can trust the Lord. So if it's so simple, why do we find it so difficult to trust the Lord? Why do we struggle with that so much? To simply trust our Creator The God that made us. Has God been untrue? Has God failed? Has God not proven himself to be trustworthy? Is the problem on God's side? No. Problem's on our proud heart. The problem was our sinful, rebellious hearts say, I'll not trust God. Oh, we would never word it that way. We would never raise our fist to God. But in our hearts to say, I'm not doing that, God, I'm not trusting you. How many times, as I mentioned, we knocked on doors and talked to people, people say, I hope so. I think I'd go to heaven. I hope I'd go to heaven. I say, listen, the Bible tells us how we can know for sure I take my Bible and I'll go through the simple plan of salvation, particularly in the book of Romans, and I'll show them and I'll say, listen, Jesus Christ died on that cross for you in your sin Would you be willing to call on him and trust him as your own personal savior? And they'll say something like this, oh not now. Oh, I've got peas on the stove. I've got to go take care of the Oh we got a ball game to go to. I got how many times, how many times people say, oh, I'll not trust the Lord now. I'll not trust the Lord now. Why do we struggle with that? Why does why does some peas on a stove be more important? Why is that more important than it is me trusting the Lord and have my sins forgiven and go to heaven, not to hell? Say, well, Bert, I got a solution. Go turn it off and come back and get saved. Huh? Why do we struggle with it? God is faithful. God is true. God is without failure. I'm here to tell you this morning. Listen, I'm here to tell you this morning, you can trust God. You can't. You can trust him with your soul. You can trust Jesus Christ with your destiny. You can trust Jesus Christ with your life, with your love, your heart, your future. You can trust God. He's never failed. He's never failed. When I put my eternal destiny, when I take my sin and my soul. And I put it in the hands of Jesus Christ, trusting him, believing that he died and suffered hell for my sin, turning to him and trusting him to forgive me and cleanse me from all of it. My soul is secure. My destiny is settled. Yes. You say, preacher, do you know for sure, do you know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven? I'm absolutely certain of it. He said, who do you think you are? You're so good you deserve heaven. No, I'm not so good I deserve heaven I'm a dirty, wretched sinner that deserves to die and go to hell, but I have a Savior who died for my sin and said he would save me from hell. I'm not saving myself. I'm not cleansing myself of sins. Jesus is, and Jesus never fails. So yeah, we can know. We can be secure. We don't have to hope so or wonder. God never fails. Jesus is. Let me ask you a question. We've got some farmers here. What does a farmer do? He forms. Listen, you gotta understand I'm gonna I'm down here IQ wise, okay? So they're not big fancy answers to this. They're very simple Um I'm glad you didn't say amen there. So what does a builder do? You guys are on the same level I am What does a deacon do? Deacon. He don't do nothing. No, I'm kidding. We got good deacons here Here's my point. What does a savior do? Ah. Who's the savior? Jesus. Jesus saves. You say, yeah, I've seen that on signs. Stop and think about it. I'm not the one doing the saving. I'm not the savior. Jesus saves. I want you to name me one thing that Jesus ever did that he failed at. Nothing. He's never failed. And if Jesus is my Savior, then I am saved. Because Jesus never fails. He's the savior. Now, I've got seven minutes. I'm going to give you 42 points in seven minutes. No. Let me give you a few thoughts real quick, and we'll have to expand on another message. But the salvation of a believer, now here's what I'm talking about. Once a person comes and they accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior For me it was May 7, 1979. We had several ladies here last Sunday morning during Sunday school. They accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. Nick's back downstairs. He'll be up there. He accepted Jesus Savior. Many of you accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Now, once I do that, once I accept Jesus Christ, my personal Savior, turning to Him, repenting faith, trusting Him to be my Savior. Then my soul is secure. I'm safe in the hands of Jesus, the security of the believer. I'm going to real quick, and I wish I had more time, but I just want to give you some reasons for that. First of all, number one, we have the presence of God's person. When I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, God Almighty in the person of the Holy Spirit indwells my body. Bible very clear. Listen, if you're here and you've been saved, don't go asking God to give you the Holy Spirit. If you're saved, you have the Holy Spirit. So I don't feel anything. You don't have to feel anything. It's God's promise. May 7, 1979, 1030 at night, right after Laverne and Shirley went off, I called on the Lord Jesus Christ and God moved into my body. All right? Just I'll tell you the Vernon Shroy part later. God said over and over and over, the Bible says this, Jesus says this, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Never. Look at our verse here. Look at our passage. Look at verse 2, Psalms 125. As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the Lord is round about his people from henceforth even. Here God gives to Israel, He gives them the image of Jerusalem. And Jerusalem, we are told, has mountains around it. Those mountains were natural barriers. In fact Back in the day that this was written, they were considered to be in an impregnable fortress. Nobody could get to Jerusalem because of these mountains. Now We understand over years military techniques and travel advanced and and the mountains don't do a whole lot of good. But the point is this Just like those mountains surrounded Jerusalem at that time and kept them secure, God is saying, the believers have my presence in them and they are secure. I can never go somewhere where God isn't. He's in me. Think about that. I am secure. God is saying to the Jews, the way you view your city, secure, safe from all attack, that's the way I am. You are safe. Spiritually speaking. Come over. Look at Psalms 121. Just a few short Psalms before there. I almost preached on Psalm 21. This is a great chapter. Look what he says here, Psalm 121, verse 1. I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help? My help doesn't come from the hills. Look at verse 2. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. Now look, there's a key word used down through here. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy Keeper, the Lord is the shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth even forevermore. Three times he says the Lord will keep you. Three times he says the Lord will preserve you. I got looking up those words. You know what I found out? The word keep, keep it there, and the word preserve both come from the same word. Saying the same thing, just two different ways. I'm going to keep you, I'm going to keep you, I'm going to keep you, I'm going to preserve you, I'm going to preserve I'm going to preserve you. Listen, if God tells me something one time, that's all it takes. Did your mom ever say to you, I'm not gonna tell you this again? Kathy says that to me all the time. I keep forgetting she's in here. I'll preserve you, I'll preserve you, I'll preserve you, I'll keep you, I'll keep you, I'll keep you Listen, if I would lose my salvation, God would lie to me. He said he'd preserve me. Here's what really gets interesting. As I got studying this, I found out that in Psalm chapter 12, we don't have time, but verse 6 and 7, God uses the exact same word. Listen, are you with me? He says, I'll preserve you, I'll preserve you, I'll preserve you. In chapter 12, verse 67, he says, I'll preserve my word. Exact same word. I gotta look in that. Do you know what he's saying? That my soul, my salvation is just as secure as the Word of God. If God's word ever fails, then I might lose my salvation. I've preserved my word for the rest of eternity. That Book is secure, it is safe. No one can destroy it, no one can abolish it, no one can eliminate it. And he uses the same teaching about the soul of the believer. It is secure from henceforth and forever I will preserve thy soul. Tell you what, I don't make a Presbyterian shout right there I like Brother Humble last week. I'd feel a shout coming on. He's been saying that for years. I wish he'd just let it rip. Over and over, God says, I'll never leave thee, I'll never leave thee, I'll never leave thee, I'll never leave thee. Go ahead and try and run away from God He can outrun you every time. Alright, let me give you a second one quick. We have not only the presence of God's person, we have the promises of God's word. Man, I wish I had more time John. John chapter 3, Jesus said to Nicodemus, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of heaven. Peter, he talks about us being born into the family of God. When I accepted Jesus Christ Savior, when you whenever a person accepts Jesus Christ Savior, they are born into the family of God. They are born spiritually. We're already born physically, that's obvious, but we are born when I accept Christ as Savior. God gives me eternal life. I'm born into the family of God. I become a child of God. How in the world does a person ever stop being someone's child? It's impossible. A Chinese preacher told the story one time of a new convert he was helping, teaching him about the Christian life and the Bible and whatnot. And the young convert said, I keep messing up I'm trying to live for God and I keep messing up and I do things I know I shouldn't do it. I don't do things I know I shouldn't. I'm trying I'm but and uh he goes, I think God has just put me aside, I'm no longer a saved man. I just keep messing up. That Chinese preacher said, you know, at home I've got a little doggy. And he said he's a tremendously obedient doggy. He doesn't mess in the house. He only eats where we're at. When I say sit, he sits. When I say stop, he stops. When I say heal, he'll walk right beside me. He does everything I instruct him to do. He is not messy. He's the best dog in the world. He said, in my same home, I've got a little boy. He said, That little boy is a mess. Everywhere he goes, he makes a mess. I tell him to stop, he won't stop. I tell him to do this and he'll disobey me. And he says one thing after another. He said, of the two, the doggy is far more obedient than that little baby boy. He said, but let me ask you this. Who is going to be my heir? Not the dog. And the new convert said the little boy is going to be your heir, your inheritance. He goes, you know why? Not because of his obedience, but because of his birth. Listen, you might not be the best Christian in the world, but if you've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, if you're born into the family of God, you are an heir of God. Period. Now that's not a justification for sin. That's not an excuse to do wrong and disobey God. If you'll remember, Hebrews chapter twelve tells us very clearly that the children of God are disciplined by God if they do not live for Him. And if there's no discipline, then they never really were born of God because they are the Bible uses a very strong word. He says you are bastards. Your claim to be a child of God is illegitimate claim. You're not really a child of God. And so I have the presence of God. I know my salvation is secure because Jesus Christ, God Almighty, the person of the Holy Spirit has come into me. I have his presence in my life. He said, I will never leave thee. I my salvation is secure as a believer in Jesus Christ because I have the I have the promises of God that if I was born into his family he would never fail me. I've got John three sixteen for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord For God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth him should not perish. That's a promise of God. John chapter 10 and verse 28, I give unto them eternal life. If something is eternal, how long does it last? Forever! He doesn't say I give them temporary life. He doesn't say I give them probationary life. If you live up to it, then you can get it. No, he gives us eternal life. If I would get saved and then somehow lose my salvation, I never had eternal life. I had a best temporary probationary life. But over and over and over, especially in the Gospel of John, the Lord uses the term eternal life, eternal life, eternal life, everlasting life, everlasting life, everlasting li And last of all, I have the prayers of God's Son. And this is a series. I really want to encourage you to look up John chapter 6, verse 37 to 40. at home and read that very carefully. Pay attention what the Lord's saying. The Lord is praying to God and he's saying to God, God Every person that you've given to me, every person that's gotten saved, every person that's come to me and trusted me as Savior, your will is for me not to lose any of them. And if you'll read that carefully, you'll find out if somebody loses their salvation, they lose it because Jesus lost it. My eternal security is based upon the obedience of Jesus Christ, not me. And Jesus Christ never disobeys God. Jesus Christ never fails. Listen, you say, oh I know you're going to heaven. You really think you're some great Christian. No, you don't know me very well. I know I'm not a great Christian. But I've got a great Savior. And my salvation is not dependent on how good I live my life. My salvation is dependent upon how thoroughly Jesus obeys his heavenly father. And he never, ever, ever fails his heavenly father. Does that make sense? The promises of God. Hebrews 7 tells us that Jesus Christ intercedes for us. He stands before God on our behalf. Old Leatherman down there messed up. God, I'm interceding for him. Here's the blood I shed for that sin. I already paid for that. I suffered hell for his sin, for I'm standing in his behalf. I'm interceding. John, 1 John 2, verse 1 says he's our advocate. Comes before God on our behalf. Thank God, thank God, thank God Jesus Christ is alive at the right hand of the Father, interceding for you and I, so we can rest assured We can lay our heads on our pillow at night and say, Yes, I'm safe in the arms of Jesus. My salvation is secure. I don't have to worry about hell ever again Because Jesus Christ is my Savior. I have His presence. I have His promises. I have His prayers. There was a botanist, studies flowers and whatnot, went to the Alps. And there was some rare flowers there, and he thought there was another type of flower that had never been discovered, and he brought his team with him, and they're there in the outside. And they found all these amazing flowers that had very little documentation, and he was just recording stuff down and looking at them and pictures and analyzing them, whatever you do to flowers. And he got looking, and way down in a canyon, he says, I think I see the ellipsis camelius, some kind of weird name, whatever it was, flower. It's never been seen by human eyes before. I've got to get that. So I looked around. Here was a little boy, native boy lived there. And they said, son, come over here. We're going to drop, we're going to tie a rope to you. And we're going to let you down that cliff, and you see that flower down there, I want you to dig that thing up, and we'll pull you back up, and we'll have that flower. Little boy said, okay, so we'll give you lots of money. He says, okay, but one condition. He said, what's that? I need to run back to town first. They said, all right, you ran back. Came back out. He goes, this is my dad. When you let me down over that cliff with a rope, I want my dad to be holding that rope. They said, what's that? He says, because I know my daddy will not fail, and he'll hold that rope, and I'll be safe. You know who's holding the rope of my salvation? My Heavenly Father. And he's not going to fail. He's not going to let go. I'm safe. I'm safe. Now if you're here this morning and you never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, I'm telling you, you are in dire straits. Can I be very frank with you? If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven and not to hell, you are in dire straits. You need to settle that. I'm not trying to be in kind, I'm trying to be very, very firm. Don't play games with your soul. Hell is horrible And every single person that comes to Jesus Christ, Jesus will save them, forgive them their sin, and you can be safe in the arms of Jesus and know that you're going to heaven someday. And by the way, living the Christian life is pretty good. And then you get heaven on top. Amen? Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us and help us. I pray this matter be settled in our hearts and minds. I pray you'd stir our hearts to want to share the message of Christ, this glorious gospel with people around us, our friends and neighbors and workers and community around the whole world. That people can be saved, they can know it, and they're safe. Through trusting Jesus. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved? I know I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. There's no doubt in my mind, I have a time and place that I trusted Christ according to the Word of God. I know that's settled, but preacher. I'm really not living for the Lord like I should as a Christian. And though there's no fear of losing salvation, there is the chastisement of God and the loss of blessings. And you would say, preacher, pray for me. My Christian life, there's areas that need attention. And I need God to help me shore up some areas. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I know there's areas in my Christian life that I've got to get in line. God bless you, hands all around. I'm telling you a wonderful truth. If we ask God to help us, He will We ask God to show us He will. And He'll help us. There's someone here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I don't even want the risk of it at all. I want to know In my heart and soul that God has completely forgiven me and that when I lay my head down at night, I know for sure I'm going to heaven and not to hell. And you'd say, Preacher, when you pray for all those other folks that raise their hand, I'd like for you to pray for me also, that God will help me settle that in my heart. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me also I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven. How about it? Any at all? Slip your hand up, good and high. Say, preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. God bless you. How about it? Any others? God bless you How about it? Any others? I need to know that. I need to know that. How about it? Now in a moment we're going to have what we call an invitation. We're going to invite you to find a place old-fashioned alder Just come ask God to help you live for him. If you're not sure about your salvation, we can show you from the Bible how to settle that. Trust Jesus. But God will help you. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand