Thessalonians chapter two. Thank you, Eddie. Complaining that my pulpit was small, the desk part of the pulpit was small, and now I got this thing, it's even smaller. Smaller. So the moral is don't complain or you might lose what you got. I would have said amen. right there. First Thessalonians chapter 2. Try and get hooked up here and get all my stuff together. While you're finding piece of machinery had stopped working. The company mechanic couldn't get it running, so they called in an expert. The man looked over the machine for a few minutes. He picked up his hammer, gently tapped it. one spot on the machine and amazingly the machine started running again and productions back up. A few days later they received a bill from this expert for $1500 The owner hit the roof. He yelled at the mechanic over the noise of the machine, uh this the fellow, uh or he called him up, I guess, and uh started chewing him out. He says you took less than five minutes. He said, I demand an itemized bill. So he received in the mail a bill and it said this for tapping the machine ten dollars for knowing where to tap fourteen hundred and ninety dollars and uh I thought about that uh sometimes the Lord knew knows where to tap up on our machines and get us uh working again. So first Thessalonians chapter two verse number thirteen I don't think I'm on here, Sam. All right, great. Nothing is working tonight. All right. Might be better just to go with that out. There we go. So do we have some interesting things? We all we all love Sam, though we just thank God for Sam. 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 verse 13. For this cause also we thank God without ceasing. Now notice this, because when you received the word of God, which ye heard of us, you received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God. Word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe. Rapture-ready church. And characteristics of this church here in Thessalonica that got them that uh portray the fact that they are a church that was prepared for the rapture. Paul commends them repeatedly and very highly that this was a church, a model church, and they were rapture ready. And I want our church to be that way. I would like for us, I would like to think that uh we're every one of us here. If the rapture to take place, we're ready, we're ready to go. There's no cheat changes need to be made in our And uh I don't know that we're there yet. But uh we want to learn from this. And I notice here in verse thirteen something that uh I notice here something about the church at Thessalonica that indicates is an indicator of what was it was about I've entitled the message The Effectual Word of God. Let's pray. I feel like I'm just I hate to say this, but I feel like I'm a little too s All right, let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you, Lord, for the Word of God, and I thank you, Lord, for the provisions you've given us and at the facilities and resources. Lord, we need your Holy Spirit to take the Word of God and apply it to our lives. I pray, Lord, as I read and studied here in this verse, that your Your word would be effectual in our lives. And God, that we could be everything you intend for us to be, that your will would be done for us freely and fully in our lives. And so I yield myself to Lord, present my body anew, fill me. I plead with you, with your Holy Spirit, and speak through me and help us. Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think it's become obvious as we studied through chapter one and getting through to uh chapter two here that Paul had a uh uh he has very strong affection for the believers at Thessalonica. He seems to be very at ease with them. He's talking to them very positive. There's obviously an endearment here. between Paul and the church at Thessalonica, the people that made up the church. Now you read some other books of the Bible, you don't necessarily see that so much. You read through the book of uh Corinthians, particularly 1 Corinthians Now I have no doubt in my mind, Paul loved the Corinthian believers. There's no doubt about it. He makes that statement. But when you read through that book, you find you don't you have a different spirit going through the book of Corinthians than you do in the book of 1 Thessalonians. I get the sense in 1 Corinthians that Paul is somewhat frustrated With the believers there at Corinth. He's getting impatient. He's making statements like this. He says, he's making statements, I'm paraphrasing here, but things like uh you ought to know better than that Come on, you should be beyond this. You know that's not right. And I get a sense in Corinthians that Paul is frustrated with them. I pick that up a little bit in the book of Hebrews also. And uh I tend to believe that Paul was the penman of the book of Hebrews. And in there he makes statements like, you ought to be teachers by now. And instead you're uh you're you're still uh uh uh in the milk of the word. And get this frustration, but you don't see that here in the book of Thessalonica Read it over and over and over, and I just get this sense of endearment of uh of a a special uh uh Uh endearment is the word I want between Paul and these folks. Now what is it? I think in this verse we find one thing about the believers at Thessalonica that really endeared them to Paul's heart. And that was this God's word had had a powerful effect on their hearts and lives. And boy, that appealed to Paul. Here was some believers who had heard the word of God. It had transformed them. It had changed them. They'd grown in their faith. And boy, that just stirred Paul's heart. Look at verse 13 with me. At the end there, last part of the verse, he says, which is in truth, the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe. Now he could have just said it worketh in you. But he adds that word there in front to really emphasize the fact that the Bible had had an impact in their lives. It effectually worketh in you. It had a powerful impact on um it had a powerful impact on how they viewed life. Before Paul had showed up preaching the Word of God, they had one view of life, what it consisted of, what was important in life, what the priorities in life should be. But Paul showed up, he preached the word of God to them, and man, it effectually worked in their lives and changed their entire outlook on life. They saw things differently after the Word of God impacted them than they did before. Their priorities in life were affected. Their values in life. How they viewed God changed. Their understanding of the world and their role in the world and the world's influence on them, all of that changed as a result of the word of God. It effectually worked in them. How many people recognize the name John Wanamaker Anybody recognize that name? John Wanamaker, the great businessman, had the big uh department stores. I think they're still around. Are there still? John Wanaker's a big one down in Philly we would go down to when I was young and uh they decorated Christmas, the big Wanamakers and uh took my family down there one time. John Wanamaker was a devout Christian. He made a statement in a speech one time. He was speaking to businessmen at a large business meeting, and he made this statement. He said, I've made large purchases in my life as the owner and founder of the Wanamaker franchise, the the Empire. He said, presently we have in our possession $20 billion worth of materials and properties. He said, but the biggest possession, the biggest purchase I ever made was as an 11-year-old boy when I bought from my Sunday school teacher A small red leather-bound Bible for $2. 75. He said I had to make payments week after week to my Sunday school teacher for that Bible. He said, but it has transformed and directed my life. John Wanamaker made that statement. I like what DL Moody. We have a portion in our program on Sunday Sunday night, Brother James portrays D. L. Moody. D. L. Moody made this statement. He said, the scriptures were not given for our information, but the scriptures were given for our transformation. In other words, God doesn't just want us to know the scriptures. He wants the scriptures to effectually work in us. God wants the scriptures to change us. He wants to use his word to make us into better people than what we are, to make us into more godly Christians. And what we are. He wants it to affect our lives. Now, here's the question that comes up in my mind as I was preparing this. And I've struggled with this and kind of dealt with this over the years Why is it you can have two people? They'll come to a revival service, very similar backgrounds, very similar positions in life And they'll sit and hear the preaching of the Word of God. And one person will come out of that meeting, or those series of meetings, perhaps. He'll come out of that and their life is completely transformed. I mean their life has changed. The word of God effectually works in them, and you have another person that sits there, hears the whole thing, walks out no different than what they came in. How do you have that? Why is that? How do you have two children grow up in the same home? And same background, same training, same education, same influence. And one gets a hold of the truths of the Word of God and really goes off for God, another one has no interests. What's the difference? Why is it in some cases the word of God effectually works in their life, has a profound impact, makes tremendous uh has tremendous influence in their life and direction, and others it doesn't seem to affect them at all. Why was it the church at Corinth who had the same gospel preached to them, had the same evangelist, apostle, Paul preaching it to them And yet they were so carnal, they so they had so many struggles, they were so influenced by the flesh that the Word of God had a very uh minimal impact. hack in their life. But here just uh uh another part of the same country, you have a town, Paul preaches, same gospel, same preacher, and man, they're complete Transformed. I want to suggest to you that in verse 13, the answer is given to that question. The Bible tells us here why in their lives In their situation, in their hearts, the Bible had an effect. In others, it had no effect. I notice four things I believe that make that show us the difference. First of all, if the Bible is going to work effectively in a person's life, number one, it must be received. Now look at verse 13 with me. For this cause also we thank God without ceasing. Now he's fired up about them. He's thanking God for these people. They stir his heart without ceasing, because when ye what? Received the Word of God. If the Bible's going to have any effect in my life, I've got to first of all receive it. Now that word receive there has the idea of listening to, of hearing it It has the idea of exposing, allowing myself to be exposed to the Word of God. Giving the Word of God a chance, you could say. He says, you guys, when I showed up preaching, you didn't plug your ears, you didn't run away, you didn't turn the music up, you didn't blot me out. You didn't get your uh your iPad out and just ignore it. You g you gave the Word of God a chance You listen to what God had to say. The word receive there is the opposite of the word to reject. Again, it has the idea of welcoming something. And so Paul says, the word of God had a powerful effect in your life. And let me tell you why. First of all, you received it. You welcomed it to it. You gave the Word of God a hearing. You listen to it. If God's word is going to have an impact on my life, I've got to hear it. I've got to welcome it. Remember the sower in the Gospels? The sower went forth to sow, and some of the seed fell on what? What's the first ground it fell on? The wayside. Some of it fell on the wayside. The idea wayside there means a well-traveled path. It's packed down, it's hard. And then some of it fell on stony ground, some of it fell on thorns, and some of it fell in good so in good soil. All of those soils produced At least temporary life, except one. Which one produced no results whatsoever? That fame had absolutely no influence, no impact on it whatsoever. Which one was it? The first one, the wayside Never took root. The ground, the soil, never even had gave it a chance. Now, of course, there's other factors. The birds came in and took it away, and the Lord explains all that. But this is the point I'm trying to make. That is indifference to the difference between the wayside seed and the church at Thessalonica. They received the Word of God. They welcomed it. They opened their doors, so to speak, to the Word of God. They didn't argue with it. They didn't try and dispute it. They didn't try and alter it and make it fit them. They just opened their doors, said, yes, we are willing to hear what God has to say That's the idea then there. Now, I'll tell you just from my perspective, Kobulitz probably relate to this One of the greatest joys in life as a preacher is to have an audience that receives the Word of God. What a blessing that is when you're preaching and you know the folks are with you. And you're preaching, and you know the people are taking in what you're saying. They're giving you their ear, they're giving you their attention, they're opening their doors to what you have to say. I tell you what, that'll stir your heart And you know when that's happening. There's been other times I preach, particularly when uh I was out uh traveling in youth evangelism stuff, and you get into a certain group, and man, you got a bunch there, and uh it's like you're preaching to a rock. You know, to a brick wall. And nobody's even giving you any bit of attention. There's no interest whatsoever in what you're saying. And you might as well just go slam your head against the telephone pole for 45 minutes But that's not the way they were. He says, first of all, he says, man, I'm thrilled. My heart is stirred. God's word had such an impact on me. Now let me tell you why that happened. First of all, you received it. You were open to it. You didn't cut me off. You didn't distract me, you didn't get distracted. You paid attention Then he gives a second reason. First of all, the word of God was received. Then second of all, if it's going to have an impact, it must be, and this is the word I use, I don't know if it's the best one, it must be incorporated Look at verse 13 again with me. For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because when ye received the word of God which ye heard of us, ye what? Oh, there's that word again. Twice he says you received it. I got my strongest concordance out, got looking at those things up like have for years. And uh lo and behold, those words have two different ideas behind them. Same word, right word, just two different ideas. The second word, the first word received means something like this. You opened your ear. The second received means this, has this idea, you opened your heart You incorporated what you heard, you incorporated into your life. You received it not just a welcoming giving it An ear, letting it have seeing what it has to say. But you went beyond that and you said, I am taking that and want that to be part of my life. I want to incorporate that into my understanding of what the truth is. I want to incorporate that into my spiritual being. It is not just something I am going to listen to. It is something I am going to make the very centerpiece of my life. It has the idea of personalizing, incorporating it into my life. There's a world of difference between opening your door and having someone come in and sit in your living room. receiving them, and opening your door and making somebody part of your family. And that's the difference between Between these two words. First of all, they listen, by the way, you'll never incorporate the Word of God into your life until you at least receive it. Listen to what it has to say say. It starts there. But then you've got to go beyond that. That's why I was opening my opening question. How can you have two people sit under the same teaching and preaching for the same amount of time, same uh influences as far as the Word of God is concerned. One walks out, no different, nothing changed. Another walks out, their life is complete. They may have both received it as far as giving it an ear, but one of them opened their heart and said, I want it to be part and true in my life. That's what the church in Thessalonica did. They assimilated God's word into their fat into their very being. God's word was embraced by them. They personalized it. I've said this often. A person can die and go to hell believing John 3. 16. You can believe God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believes in him. Should not perish but have everlasting life. You can believe that and die and go to hell. How do I get saved when I assimilate that, when I personalize it, and I say, for God so loved me. That he gave his only begotten Son, that if I believe in him, I will not perish, but I'll have everlasting life. World of difference. First one, uh, yeah, I hear that. I'll listen to it. One says, that's all I'm gonna do. I'm just gonna listen to it. It's not gonna have I'm not opening my heart to it. The other one says, you know, that's what I want for me. I want that to be true in my life. God's truth became their truth. The way God said the world was, they accepted. That's the way the world is to me The values in life that God had, they took to be their own. What God said about themselves, they took to be true about themselves. It was no longer their priorities and values, but now it was what God's Word says should be their values and priorities. And so, first of all, if the Bible is going to have an impact in my life, if it's going to change me, I've got to hear it. I've got to expose myself to it. I've got to give God a hearing. But I've got to go beyond that. It has to be more than just a curiosity. It has to be more than just a head knowledge. I've got to open my heart up to it and incorporate it into my life. But that's not enough. Notice verse 13. For this cause, thank we uh also thank we God without ceasing, because when you received the word of God which you heard of us, you received it, you incorporate into your life It not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the what? Word of God. The third thing I see here is it must be recognized It must be recognized as God's word. When Paul showed up and he preached them the gospel, in the Thessalonians' mind, this wasn't Paul's gospel, this was God's gospel. They recognized that the Word of God was that indeed, it was God's word. Their understanding of this book Was not that it was well there under they understood that this book is not of human origin. It was God's word. Now we use that term. We grow up, we've heard it since we were little kids. The Bible is the Word of God. The Bible is the Word of God. We used to have the little bus kids We'd say the Bible. We'd get in the bus and all be there downtown and go, uh the Bible is the Word of God. Say it! The Bible's the Word of God. Say it again. Bible's the Word of God And we hear this all the time, and it doesn't think, but stop with me for a moment and think about that. If this book is the Word of God That's pretty powerful. That's pretty significant. If this is more, if this is just a collection of man's writings and spiritual ideas and theories Then I can take it or leave it. But if this is really the very words of the creator of the universe, the only God that exists, then suddenly this this takes on tremendous amounts of If this is just written by men, then my ideas and theories are on equal authority with this book right here. Right? If it's just people. I had a guy some time ago, it's probably been a year ago, I was a witness to him, and I've known him off and on over the years, and he's been in it out here. But um I was talking to him and I don't remember what the situation was where we crossed paths or what. But I was going through the gospel with him again and trying to talk to him about the Lord. And he made this statement He goes, oh, the Bible's just written by men. I said, really? I said, how'd you come to that conclusion? He goes, I saw a program on TV about it. I said, really? That's what If all the Bible is is written by men, then the programs on T V have as much authority as the Bible does. By the way I said to him, I said, So you believe every program you see on T Well not really. Fact is, the Thessalonians recognized that this was the very Word of God. If the Bible is man's writing, I have equal authority. But if the Bible is God's word, then I need to submit to it. If it is God's word, then it is my final and supreme authority in my life. Now let me Let me drive this home a little bit. When I disregard the Bible, I'm disregarding God. Huh? If I'm neglecting my Bible, I'm neglecting God. If I'm disobeying the Word of God, I'm disobeying God. That's a serious charge. And he says the church at Thessalonica, he says, you know, one of the reasons the Word of God had such a powerful impact on change your life so much? Because You recognize this authority. You realized it was God telling you this, not my idea. And by the way, when the preacher is preaching the Bible, it's not his theories, it's God's word That's why I've tried very hard over the years. If I got my own theory or my opinion or my little uh supposition or something, I try and point it out. Say, now this is what I think But brother, when it's thus saith the Lord, it's God Almighty speaking to us. And the church at Thessalonica realized that. And it had a powerful impact. Let me give you the last one I noticed here. He says, without ceasing, we thank God, thank we God without ceasing, because when you received the word of God, which you heard of us, you received it And not as the word of man, but as it is in truth the word of God which effectually worketh also in you that what? Believe. The word believe is an interesting word. It's used all through scripture. It has this idea to commit myself to has this idea to put all of my confidence in. And you know what's going to change your life and my life? You know when the Bible's going to start changing our life. You say, oh preacher, I listened to it. Yeah, I want to try and live by it. Yeah, I know it's God's word. But when I just start stepping out in faith and saying, you know No, I'm putting all my hope and confidence and trust in what God says to be true. Boy, then things start changing. I got thinking when I was preparing this Message. And you and you're no doubt in the same situation I am. But thirty-two years ago, I decided to put my turn destiny to place the hope of my eternal destiny on what this book right here says. Now think about that. I'm putting where I am going to spend eternity, in heaven or hell, all of that hope of where I of escaping hell is going to heaven is based on one thing and one thing only is what God God says is true in this book. That's stepping out. That's believing. Now, the Bible says, well, that we not only are saved By faith, but we are to what? Walk by faith. That means that same act of faith in the Word of God, putting my hope of heaven and escaping hell into what this book says, I need to do that in every area of the world. of my life. I've got to get where I am completely convinced that when God says He's going to take care of me, I can step out in faith and trust Him to do that. That when God says, don't allow this into your life, you trust me to lead you and direct me. You uh don't lean on your own understanding, but all your ways acknowledge me, and I'll direct your paths I step out in faith and say, God, I don't see it. It looks to me that this is the way things ought to be, but your word says that I should not do this and I should do this, and I'm just going to step out and commit myself to this. You know what happens? God starts changing your life. God starts changing your life. You know, I found you know what I found out, particularly in America, this whole world knows a lot about that book You know, I mean it's probably getting less and less in America. But you get out there and talk to people. I say this often. We could go down uh we could um we could go with Jesse and stop by shorty's on the way home. No, I'm kidding. He didn't even hear me, I don't think. But um uh we go down here to Long Branch Saloon after church, and we're not, at least I'm not. Um and snuggle up to the bar there and get up beside some guy and say, uh Do you know any Bible verses? I if I was a betting man, I'd put money on that bar counter, I could find someone at that bar could quote Bible verses to me. Right or wrong? Sure they could. Do you know what the you know what? The word has no effect on them. We got people in churches You can sit and hear preaching and read and under Sunday school and teaching and hear all that and then walk out and just ha and be not affected in any way by what they heard. Why is that They don't incorporate in their lives. They may give lip service that it's the word of God, but they really don't see it that way. And the main thing is they just don't step out and trust it. God says this is the way it ought to be. Well, I don't know. Had a guy one time, he's telling me I was preaching against liquor something years ago. He says, you know, I just don't interpret it that way. I said, the problem isn't with the interpretation, the problem is with the authority. And so we just take God at His Word and just step out and believe it. Dale Moody said, God didn't give us the Bible for our information. He gave us the Bible for our transformation, to change our us, make us godly, Christian, uh, spirit-filled servants of the Lord. And that's what happened at Thessalonica. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us To not just read the Bible, but help us to submit to it. God help us not just to hear the word of God, but help us to take it and corporate it Lord, there's just so many areas where you very specifically use your word and you touch on issues in our life and you deal with uh situations. Help us Help us just to trust you. Help us just to take you at your word and step out and follow you and do what you say and let you have your way in our lives.