For us. But greater is he that is in us than he that is in the world. We don't have to dip the flag and we certainly don't have to abandon the ship. We are sailing on to greater, greater events. And we're looking forward to that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. He's able to do far more than what you and I could ever ask or think And our faith and our confidence needs to be anchored solidly in that unmovable rock, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm thankful for the privilege of being here today and for your involvement in Beacon of Truth Baptist Ministries. It's an outreach that is endeavoring to touch this world with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in printed form. Now, a missionary-minded church is able to see that there are three very important ingredients that every missionary needs. Number one, he needs support. He can't go without that. And as a sending church, as a church that is deeply involved in sending missionaries to the field and supporting them, you certainly do an amazing job. So every missionary needs support. That support enables them to have the bread that they need to eat. Right. Am I right? All right. So they need support in order to provide those physical elements of life in order to sustain them and keep them in the battle. Number two, they need seed. The seed is the Word of God. I don't know why a church can't see that. Why a church wouldn't want to be involved in seeding the mission fields of the world? The Bible says we're saved by the Word. The Word of God is the very seed that is planted. The Holy Spirit uses in order to draw a sinner to the saving knowledge. Of the Lord Jesus Christ, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God that liveth and abideth forever. So every missionary needs support. We're all in agreement on that. Number two, every missionary needs seed, the word of God, to distribute to the people. If it's the entrance of God's word that gives light. Gives light, so we need that seed to plant the light to draw them to Christ. The third thing a missionary needs is supplicators. Prayer warriors. That know that we can't do it without Him. Uh we can give our our our monies, uh we can provide the seed, but that all has to have the blessing and the power of God upon it, or it's not going anywhere. So a a mission-minded church is doing all three of those things. He's supporting the missionary. He is seeding the missionary. And he is supplicating on behalf of the missionary in order to fulfill this great commission that God has given to us. Now, this day is Bible Publishing Sunday. I'm thankful for the Bible that I have in my hand. I'm thankful for the privilege God has given us to supply the seed to the sower that he might be able to seed his community with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I left that note down there. I wanted to use that right now. Well I'm going to just go get it Make yourself at home, brother. Last year our ministry published one point four million scripture booklets. In addition to that we did Bibles and New Testaments. At a cost of 12 cents each, that booklet, like this, like you work on in your ministry here, your fingerprint ministry, that booklet costs 12 cents. Everything you see there, 12 cents. If you were to go into a bookstore and buy that, you'd pay much more than that. Our desire is to seed the mission field with the gospel. Twelve cents apiece. That cost us $168,000 in order to purchase the paper, the ink, the plates, and whatnot, not including the equipment. Not including the manpower, not including any of that, the electric that it costs to run that, not not including the the building that we're housed in, none of that. Just a raw cost of $168,000 in order to print 1. 4 million Bibles, scripture portions, to see the mission field. Alright? 7 to 10 people will read one of those booklets. So 1. 4 million times 7 to 10, we're talking between 7 and 10 million people. If my math is right. Close? Help me, Ed. You've already given seventy two hundred today, so you have big fingers in your head. We can make change for 'em. If ten percent of the one point four million Would trust Christ. That'd be 140,000 people. I feel the shout coming on right now. How many would like to see a hundred and forty thousand people come to Christ? I'd like to see all seven to ten million of them come to Christ. But nevertheless, if just ten percent and you say why ten percent? Well God asks ten percent of you. I'm asking ten percent of God. Huh? Are you with me If 10% of 1. 4 million would trust Christ, that would be a soul reached and saved at the cost of $1. 20. Yeah. That's not a bad investment, is it? You can't hardly get a cup of coffee for a dollar twenty anymore. It's books like this that is so important. This little book that I hold in my hand Is in the Urdu language, first time we've ever published in this language. It's a language that is spoken in the country of Pakistan. A country that is steeped in Muslim belief. And we're providing our our initial run was a small run to just see how we could do. And uh this is what we've come up with. And I'm very, very thankful for the opportunity that God has given to us in order to publish this book, and I believe we're going to be publishing many, many, many more in the days to come. We can publish this book for a dollar and a half, as you see it here. One dollar and fifty cents each. This has the leatherette cover on it. It's a little different than than the uh Bibles that we do, but we're going to be doing Bibles like that as well. But that's what this day is all about. Your investment, my investment I don't say this in any bragging way. God knows my heart. But we've never put a truckload of paper on our property that we've printed that I haven't made some sort of an investment in order for that to happen. I believe in what we're doing. I believe in reaching the world with the gospel, and one of the most powerful tools that we have at our disposal is the printed page. God has promised us that his word will not return to him void. Whatever investment we make. of individuals that need Christ as their personal Savior. I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to a familiar passage of Scripture, but before we do that, let's see the Bibles here today. Hold up your Bibles. I I would venture to say that we have a sea of Bibles in this building today. Do you know that over half of the world couldn't do that if we were in their country and asked them to raise their Bibles? Over half 50% of the people, over 7 billion people in the world, could not participate in what you and I just did in raising our Bibles in a church house because they've never had the Word of God. in their language. I say that to our shame. To our shame. My how we need to invest in reaching souls with the Word of God. The book of 2 Timothy, chapter 3. Would you stand with me, please, as we read this verse? Look at this verse. The book of 2 Timothy, chapter 3. I call your attention to verse number sixteen and verse number seventeen. All scriptures, say that together with me. All scriptures. We understand that that means from Genesis to Revelation, all sixty-six books of the Bible. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine. For reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. I want to bring a message from God's precious word today on the subject. Why is this so important? Why is it important to get the Bible into the hands of people in their language? Around the world. I want to talk to you about that this morning. Let's bow hearts together in prayer. Our loving Father, we thank you for the blessings that you have bestowed upon us and for the songs that we've been able to sing. And the prayers that have been offered, the challenges that have been given, and the special music that is rendered unto you. And now, Lord, as we come to thy precious, precious precious word, I pray the Holy Spirit will lead us and direct us and help us in all that we do and say, that it might glorify you, that it might honor you, that it might uplift the precious, precious Son of God. Save the lost, I pray. Encourage and bless your children. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, may be seated. When I think of my Bible and the privilege that we have of having the Word of God in the English language and being able to have multiple Bibles and be able to find one readily available to us and read that Bible, I can't help but think that the Bible indeed is an indestructible book. The Word of God tells us that not one jaunt or one tittle will ever pass from the Word of God. It's going to abide forever. When when you and I leave this world, when we're planted on heaven's soil and we're enjoying that great wonderful mansion that He is building for us, the Word of God will still be It will last throughout all eternity. There'll never be a time, there'll never be a time that God's word is not there. It's an indestructible book. It's an incorruptible book. The Bible tells us in First Peter being born again, not of corruptible seed, but incorruptible That means no flaws or discrepancies or shortcomings in the Word of God. Everything that you and I need to know about life and death, about heaven, about hell, and how to live for God is recorded in the Word of God. Everything that He wanted you and I to know has been given to us and is available to us to read and study and understand. Not only that, but I would say that the Bible is an indispensable book Matthew chapter 4, verse number 4, after Jesus was in the wilderness and faced those 40 days of fasting and then was confronted by the devil, he made this statement. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. If we spend as much time reading, Studying, memorizing, meditating on the Word of God as we do sitting at the dining table. Me included, all included, no one overlooked if we spend as much time in our Bibles as we do feeding our physical well being. My how much of God's word we'd know and understand and live. This book, the Bible, is an indispensable book. It's an infallible book. Infallible. It doesn't contradict itself. Everything that God wanted you to know, He's recorded it right here. And it has stood the test of time Not only that, but I would say that it's an inexhaustible book. There's nothing else to be added to it, there's nothing else to be taken from it The Bible, the precious word of God, all scripture, the Bible says all scripture is beautiful in its language It's incorruptible in its nature. It's loving in its message. It's enlightening in its purpose. It's blessed in its bestowments. The Bible Certainly is effective in its purpose. And the Bible, the Word of God, is wonderful in its accomplishments. Read it to be wise. Study it to be right. Memorize it to strengthen you. Meditate upon it to anchor you. That is the word of God. Amen. But why is it so important? Why should we make any sacrifice whatsoever in order to publish another Bible? In order to dispense in some foreign country a scripture book like you all put together, why is that so important? Why is it so valuable? It's the message. That it carries. The Bible is a message, it's the message of the Word of God, and that message is a message of deliverance You and I are bound and held in darkness until we come to Christ. And the Bible, the Word of God, is what enlightens us. and enables us to be delivered from the very darkness that we are in, from the very the very prison of despair that we are incarcerated in. It's the Bible, the Word of God, that is able to deliver us. Would you agree with me that the mind is dark and needs delivered? The Bible says that our understanding, we can't even comprehend the Word of God. He says that the Word, the Bible, we look upon it before Christ as foolish. We can't understand it and make sense out of it. But when we receive the message, when we believe the message of the Bible, we're delivered out of that darkness into the glorious light. If someone think about that, folks. If our gospel begin, it is said to them that are what's that next word? Lost. L-O-S-T. Lost And who is it that keeps us in that darkness? Who is it? Who's that one that is doing overtime work in order to darken and confuse and keep the gospel from getting there? It's the devil himself. He's the one that wants to keep people in that state. He's the one that works overtime in order to prevent the good things of God reaching the heart of mankind. He works at keeping people lost, and when we talk about lost, we're talking about being without God. Can you imagine going through life without God? In your times of hardship, you have God to turn to. In your times of greatest loss, you have God to turn to. In your times of deepest woe, you have God to turn to. When you have to wave the deep waters of despair, we have God. To turn to. But how many in this world are without God and have no one to turn to in their hour of need? What a dreadful condition to be in. I think Satan tries to work on people's minds and obscure their focus. The book of Romans, take your Bibles and go there. Romans chapter 1. I honestly believe that the fulfillment of of these verses in Romans chapter one are happening right now in our own country. In Romans chapter 1, and beginning with verse number 21, because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations. And their foolish heart was darkened, professing themselves to be wise, they become fools. Would you say that that's a pretty good description of what we are up against in these days in which we live? Outside the walls of this church is a humanity, a system, a movement that is engineered and led by the devil himself. that is trying to confuse the focus of individuals and get it away from God and get it onto the elements that are filled with vanity. They're useless. They're empty. They have nothing to help people with whatsoever. And the Bible says that there was a time that they had the privilege of knowing God. What greater privilege have we had in the freedoms that we've enjoyed in this country? to get up on a Sunday morning and to go to the house of God. No one tried to prevent us from doing so. There was not a Cestapo outside the doors of this church standing with their machetes or their machine guns saying you can't go in there. We have freedom in this country to come and to worship and sing songs of Zion and to praise the name of the Lord and to preach the truth and the unadulterated message of the Word of God. But many, many, many places in this world, that's not the case. And I believe and I see it happening in our own country where where the shades of darkness are beginning to prevail When we had an opportunity to believe God, to know God, to worship God, to follow God, it's being taken from us. And it's the devil. The devil himself is the one that is behind that all. And professing. Professing themselves to be wise to become fools. Become fools. Don't you think it's a foolish thing when we can't decide a woman goes to that bathroom and a man goes to that bathroom? Fools made that decision. We'll suffer the consequences of that. And it's happening because Satan is focusing the mind on the elements of the world. Rather than the truth of God Almighty. They deny God, they turn from God And they suffer the consequences of that decision. Would you say it's true that Satan inflames the desires of the flesh, the passions? He inflames that so that people will be fleshly rather than godly. I hate to see summer come. I kinda I I kinda like the the cold weather that we kind of experienced. Everybody kept clothes on. I I I don't think I've ever seen a a time when clothing was so skimpy and scanty as what we see in this day in which we live. Who's behind that? Well the devil himself. He's he works over time to Get us concerned about the world and the ways of the world and the direction that this world is going in. And he flames that passion of desire, the desires of the flesh. Because he knows it disappoints God. Satan certainly promotes false gods in this day in which we live. Listen, you don't have to go to the jungles of Africa to find idols. We've got idols here in our own country. It might be a lawn. Hello? Don't leave me now. The more you leave me, the more I want to plow and dig deeper. Because I know I'm hitting a sore spot. But people pay more attention sometimes to their lawn and manicuring their lawn, and that's their God. And they bowed down to that lawn and worship that lawn. I'm not saying you shouldn't mow your lawn. But there's some people that spend more time polishing their car. Keeping it spotless than they do keeping their own souls spotless. Who's behind that? The devil himself, raising up false gods that we bow down and we worship. Satan will give people a false hope of heaven, won't he? But the glory, oh I feel a shout coming on right now. The glorious gospel of Jesus Christ delivers us from that kingdom of darkness From that satanic system of evil and wickedness and sinfulness, the gospel of Jesus Christ liberates and delivers the soul, and that's the message of the Word of God. It's deliverance from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light. And that's why it's important to get the Word of God out there. It has a message for the world, and that message is the message of deliverance. You don't have to live that way. You don't have to suffer the consequences of that way. You don't have to be bound and shackled by that way. The gospel, the liberating gospel and truth of God's word, sets people free. Amen. It's a message of deliverance. But then could I go on to say to you this morning it's impossible because the ministry of God's Word is development God tells us that it's a map for direction. Psalms 119 and verse number 105. You want to know what road to take? Read the Bible. You want to know how to build a good marriage? Read the Bible. Fellas, you want to know how to love and care for your wife? Wife? R read the Bible. Ladies, you want to know the responsibility that you have to your husband? Read the Bible. You want to know how to raise kids? Read your Bible. Boy, we are living in such a spiritually ignorant time when the Word of God is so readily available to us. And we think we have to need this and that and the other thing in order to accomplish this. It's all in the book. It's a map for direction. A map for direction. Not only is it a map for direction, but let me hasten to say to you this morning that it's a mirror for discipline. This old book will get on you. That's why people squirm in church services like this. It's not because it's hot in here. Well, it's getting hot. The Spirit of God is starting to put the pressure on. You know, this book, it it will keep us away from sin. Or sin will keep us from the book. It'll strengthen you. It's a mirror that begins to unveil to us and show us what we really are. We're to receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save our souls. And the Bible says, don't just be a hearer of the word, but a doer of the word. And when you go to the perfect law of liberty and Look into it. It begins to reveal what you really are and what you really need. The more contact with the Word of God, the lower we go. The lower we go. Humbling ourselves before God Almighty. Do you really want blessed today? Then look to the book. Look to the book. Obey it. The psalmist said, I will run the way of thy commandments when thou shalt enlarge my heart. Are you running to the book, to the Word of God, and feasting on its treasures and enjoying its wonderful blessings? Let my word be sound, my heart be sound in thy statutes, that I may not be ashamed. So the Bible is a mirror for discipline. The Bible is a map for direction. The Bible is a manual for discernment. The Bible tells us in the book of Hebrews. Let's let's just go there. Hebrews. The book of Hebrews That's in the Old Testament, I believe. The book of Hebrews, what what what what am I looking for? Hebrews chapter four Verse 12. For the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrows, and is a discerner. The discerner, that word discern means to be able to distinguish between what's right and wrong. Preacher, have you ever had people come to you and say, I just don't know what to do about this? Would you help me? Shed some light on this. And you tell them they said, no, I don't like that. They've already made up their mind. They've already made their decision The Bible gives us the ability to discern between what is right, a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. When the Bible talks about being quick, it means that it's alive and living. It's a God-breathed book. A God-breathed book. God breathed life into this book. He talks about being powerful. The word of God is quick and powerful. He's talking about the Bible being energizing. It's sharp. It's able to cut and really get down to the necessities of life and Convict and penetrate. It's piercing. It's it gets down to the very real needs of our individual life. It convicts and discerns and judges and distinguishes between what is right and what is wrong. That's what the Bible is. So it's a mirror to guide us Do you allow it to guide your life? There's something else that this book is. The message of the book is deliverance. But another thing that I would say to you is that the material of this book is divine. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. The source of this book is God Himself. We are dealing with something God has produced. It's not generated by man. It's not the thoughts and opinions of man. It's what God wanted you and wanted me to know. He's put it in a book. He's God breathed that into the book. And you find out from 1 Peter 1 that it was the Holy Spirit That was used as the instrument to do the breathing. He breathed into men as they wrote the word of God. The author of this book is God Himself. Well, I'm I feel like a shouting right now. I I don't hold in my hand just a book. I hold the divine book of God Almighty. The word of God is certainly inspired. It's empowered. It's activated. And the authority of this book is the power of God. In the book of Romans, chapter 1, Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation, to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and then also to the Greek. The power of God. We're sending out sticks of dynamite around the world to explode and activate and reveal to individuals the truth that God wants them to know. And that explosion is is happening in in South America and in Mexico and in the Caribbean and over in Africa and and in Europe and Different places in New Zealand and different places of this world the the gospel is exploding, the dynamite, the sticks of dynamite are going off, and souls are getting saved as a result of that. The accuracy of this book is based on the character of God. Titus 1 and verse number 2 says that God can't lie. Not one misquote is in the book. Not one mistake has been recorded. Not one discrepancy can be found. Oh, I know that men tried to mutilate it, men tried to burn it, but the Bible still stands. Men have tried to poke fun of it, deny it. They've tried to reject it, but the Bible still stands It's a book that God has generated, God has breathed through the instrument of the Holy Spirit into the heart of man to record the words that we have in this book, and God has his stamp of approval on this. It is God inspired, it is God given, it is God empowered, and this book will not return to him void. Amen Why does he want it into the hands of people around the world? Because it has a message of deliverance. Why does he want it into the hands of people around the world? Because it promises development Why does he want it into the hands of people around the world? And why do we ask you this morning to make the biggest sacrifice that you've ever made in order to produce the Word of God into the languages of the world? Why? Because it is divine Divine. Read it to be wise, church. Believe it to be saved. Practice it to be holy and share it with others to be obedient. It is Every head is bowed and every eye is closed this morning. I wonder how many here today can say, Preacher, I I know I'm saved. I know I'm on my way to heaven. And here's my hand in testimony to that. I'm not asking if you joined the church. I'm not asking if you've been baptized. I'm asking you have been have you been born again? Do you have the absolute confidence that heaven is your home? Could I see your hand if that's your testimony this morning? morning. I know that. I know that. I know that, preacher. God bless you can put your hands down. Maybe you're here this morning and you couldn't raise your hands with the others and you'd say, Preacher, I I couldn't raise my hand I'm troubled by that. I need prayer. Could I pray for you this morning? Here's my hand, preacher. I couldn't I couldn't raise my hands with the others. Please pray for me. I'm not here to embarrass you or single you out. I genuinely want to pray for you. Is there someone like that here today? Couldn't raise my hands with the others, preacher. Please pray for me Maybe you're here this morning and you say as a Christian, I really haven't followed my Bible the way that I should. I've not been reading and studying my Bible the way that I should. And I know that doesn't please the Lord. And I really need to get into the Bible, get into the Word of God, and allow it to be the lamp to my feet that I need in these days in which I live. That's really the burden and desire of your heart. Could I see your hand all across this auditorium? Yes, God bless you. Many, many hands being raised here this morning. We'll never know the blessing, the reality of the blessing of God without following this book that He's given to us called the Bible. I challenge you this morning to make a conscious decision, to make a serious commitment. And to bend and bow knee and promise God to spend more time in the Word of God and allow it to be a lamp to your feet and a guide to your footsteps. And if that's truly the desire of your heart, I'm going to ask you to join me around this altar this morning for prayer. For a time of heart searching and calling upon the Lord, not not only to help us get into the Word. But could I challenge you also that we'd come and pray that we could get the Word of God to others in this world? I'm gonna pray and while our heads are bowed, I'm gonna ask the pianist to play. And you come if you would. Father. I pray your blessing upon this service this morning. You've seen the many hands that have been raised. Help us to make a conscious and significant decision here this morning, Lord. To personally get into the Word of God and to make that commitment to do what we can to share the Word of God with others. Bless this invitation. May you have your will and way in each of our hearts, and we'll thank you. While our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Pianist is playing if God spoke