Going to be these three verses, primarily verse 15, but I'd like for us to read these three altogether, just so we're all on the same page. We know uh where we're going at what we're looking at here. Verse number 15, altogether, ready Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of light, is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. I want to preach this morning on the Christian and the world. I'm preaching primarily this morning. I'm preaching to folks who have trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. You know you've accepted Christ, whether it's recently or you've been known the Lord for many, many years. And we want to talk about what the Bible says that our relationship with the world should be like With the Christians' relationship with the world. So let's pray together and ask the Lord to help us and speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, Lord, we're grateful to be able to come and Gather together with our open Bibles. We're looking at this passage of Scripture this morning, Lord. You've given it to us by inspiration. You've preserved it for us perfectly. I pray that you would speak our hearts and help us. To see this world and to see ourselves the way you see the world in ourselves. Help us to be wise in our interaction with the world, the years we have to live here in this world. Help us to be wise. And Lord, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and you would speak through me, your word, and apply it to our hearts and minds and lives as you know we have need. I present my body anew, yield my will. Have your way, Lord. Again, please fill me with your spirit as I preach. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you study 1 John very carefully, if you read through, there's only five chapters. It's not a long book, as far as a lot of the books of the Bible go. You look at 2 John, it's very brief. 3 John's even even briefer, more briefer. Um but if you study these three books, you'll find that there's nowhere in there a name given as to who the penmen of these three books are We know who the author is. Amen? The author is God Himself. This is the Word of God. God is the one that inspired the penmans to record what we have here in front of us in the Word of God. However, though there's no name given in there as to who the human penman is that recorded this down, and uh we're not really told who they're addressed to, it's kind of a general audience From right from when these the when these letters were first given, it was understood, it was clearly understood, everybody understood, that the that the Apostle John was the human penman that God had used to record these down. That's never been seriously questioned. We know that John, as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, uh was used of God mightily. The fourth book of the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke John was penned by the Apostle John. The last book of the Bible. New Testament, last book of the Bible, Revelation was penned by John. So John was a great man, a great disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, a great apostle in his lifetime. God used him to record for us five books of the New Testament. Now, what is the purpose? I always like when we look into a book maybe we've not preached from for a while, or whatever. I just kind of get a little background and kind of help us learn and understand what God has for us. Now, what was the purpose for him writing, him penning down the book of 1 John? Well, he makes it very, very clear. You don't have to go far into the book of 1 John, and he tells you right up, this is why I'm writing to you This is the purpose of this letter. This is the purpose of this book. If you would, go back to chapter number one, and I'd like for you to notice with me verse number four. Again, he's very upfront. He's very clear. This is why I'm writing to you. Look at verse 4 of chapter 1. And these things write we unto you. Alright, here he's saying it. This is the purpose. That your joy may be full. Now that's the purpose of the book. How many people here like to be joyful? Anyone? At all? Oh, about half the crowd. We'd like to be joyful. I don't know about you. I don't like being miserable, walking around. I don't want to be joyful. And John says, listen I am writing to you. Now I'm putting this in my own words, of course, but he said, I'm writing unto you, under the inspiration of God How you can live a joyful life. How you can live a joyful life. In other words, what he's saying is this: if you will trust God Listen, if you'll trust God and you'll do what he instructs you to, you can have joy, you can have meaning in life, you can have purpose, you can have fulfillment, that your joy may be full. Now, I don't like to be miserable, and I've been studying this book a long time. We're going on over 41 years. I've been studying this book. Now, I'm not a Bible scholar, but I am a Bible student. And I've learned something. God wants his people to have joy. God wants his people to have the joy of the Lord. Jesus told his disciples, he said, listen, and again I'm putting my own words, but he said, basically if you'll trust me, if you'll follow my instructions My joy can be in you. How many people here would like to have the joy that Jesus has? Wow If we'll just trust God, if we'll just follow His instructions, do what He says, we can have the joy of the Lord. Our joy can be full. God doesn't want his people walking around like miserable, grouchy, grumpy, uh, uh, grumbly mollywugs I just made that word up. I don't know, but it's I don't think God wants us to be a mollywog, do you, Chloe? I don't think so. He wants his pee I hope that's not a bad word in another language. I just thought of that'd be bad God wants his people, you have me. Do you ever see do you ever see a gru gr gloomy, grumpy old Christian walk around Grouchy, always mad about everything, nothing's right, chewing people's heads off all the time. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I can tell you right now, that's not God's will for your life, be that way That's not God's will. These things write we unto you that your joy may be full. You just trust God, follow his instructions, what he gives us here. You can have the joy of the Lord. You can wake up in the morning with a song in your heart. You can go to bed at night with peace and confidence that everything's all right in my Father's house. Well just trust God and do what he says. Amen? Isn't that good? So one of the reasons 1 John is penned to us, was given to us by God through the apostle John was so that our joy can be full. But if you'll go over to chapter number two, and I believe verse number one, he gives us a second purpose. Now these two actually tie together But in chapter 2 and verse number 1, notice what he says. My little children, and he's being very gracious and sweet to the believers he's writing to, my little children. These things write I unto you. Here we go. He's saying I got a second purpose. Now look what he says. These things write I unto you. Look at this. That ye what? Sin not He says, I'm writing to you under the inspiration of God so that you don't sin. How many people understand God does not want us to sin? Yeah, God doesn't want us to sin. God's not the author of sin, and he is not a promoter of sin. And one of the reasons God gave us not just the book of 1 John, but the entire Bible, one of the reasons God gave us the Bible, is so that we can have victory over sin. That ye sin not, that ye sin not. If we will trust God, now get this. This is what he's saying. If we will trust God And follow his instructions, do what he says. We can have victory over sin. Now that doesn't mean we'll be sinless in our life. We're going to have to deal with it. In fact, sooner or later, even the best of God's people, even the greatest men of God in the Bible, they failed, they came up short. David, Noah, Abraham, you just go down the list. And you and I, no different, we're going to struggle and deal with sin. But God gave us the Bible, He gave us 1 John, so that we can have victory, that you sin not There's instructions here, there's help here, there's promises here, there's warnings here in this book to help us avoid sin. Sin is bad. If you don't get anything out of the sermon today, I hope you get that. You say, preacher, you're talking to us like we're little boosters in Bible time. Well, we're just big boosters in Bible time. Listen, if you're six years old, sin is bad. If you're sixty years old, sin is bad. You know what gets I've just thought of this. Here we go. This is why my sermons grow. You know what gets me? They'll have some stupid show or they'll advertise a movie and they'll say this for mature audiences only You know what that means? This is bad. This is sinful. This is listen, if a kid shouldn't watch it, an adult shouldn't watch it. God says, I write the, I give in your Bible so that you sin not. You want to know why our society is such a mess called sin? Because we're sinning. If we will trust God and follow his instructions, and by the way, those two reasons for the book of 1 John tie together These things write we unto you that your joy may be full. These things write I unto you that you sin not. You know what I found out? The more I sin, the less happy I am. The less I sin, the more I trust God and follow Him and do what's right, the greater my joy is. Sin will steal your happiness. Sin will take away your peace of mind. It'll corrupt your conscience, walk around with a bad conscience, a dirty mind. And the joy is gone. You say, preacher, what happens if I do sin? What do I do? What do I do if I sin? I'm glad you asked. Go back to chapter number one. Look at verse nine. God makes provision. Even if we do sin, he makes provision. Verse 9 says, if we confessed our sins, he is, what's that next word? It's an important word. He is faithful and just to what? Forgive us our sins, and not just forgive us our sins, but to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we'll come and agree with God and see our sin the way God sees it and judge it the way God judges it, confess it to Him, God says, I'll forgive you. I'll cleanse it and restore the joy back to you. Look at verse 1 of chapter 2. It says, These things write I unto you, my little children, these things write I unto you that you sin not. But then he makes a follow-up statement And if any man sin, look at this, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. Who is the propitiation for our sins, not for ours only, but for the sins, but also for the sins of the whole world. What's that saying, what in the world, propitiation advocate? This is what he's saying. Listen, I've written that God's given us his word so that we don't sin. If we'll trust him, follow his instructions, heed his warnings, claim his promises, follow his instructions. I can have victory over sin. But if I do, if and when I do mess up and I sin, as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, we have an advocate with the Father. An advocate is simply somebody who stands on our behalf before God the Father. And that advocate is who? Jesus Christ the righteous. And at this very moment, while you and I are sitting here, well, you're sitting, I'm standing, while we're here in this auditorium, Jesus Christ literally, physically, is at the right hand of God the Father, at the throne of God the Father. And he stands there on your behalf and my behalf, us as believers, he stands on our behalf. And if and when we do sin We don't want to. We want to do right. We want the joy of the Lord. But we've got a sinful nature. We mess up. We confess that sin. Agree with God. Judge it the way God does. He forgives us. And we've got Jesus Christ standing before the Holy God. And basically, and I'm oversimplifying here, but he basically does this. God the Father, Dennis Leatherman just sinned. I am standing here on his behalf. I paid the price for his sins. I was already judged for him. I am his advocate. I am the propitiation. I am the one standing on his behalf, and I paid for his sin. Isn't that good? Jesus Christ stands for me. He's an advocate for me. He pleads my case. I don't know. The Bible doesn't say this, but I wonder if he doesn't have those pierced hands. By the way, the marks are still in Jesus' hands. The wounds are there. It's pierced. He says, that sin's been paid for. Don't send him to hell. I already was judged. I already suffered hell for it. Don't you send him to hell? I already paid for it. And God says, satisfied. That's what propitiation means. I'm satisfied. Then it sinned. Jesus Christ paid for it. I'm satisfied. The holiness of God is satisfied with the Lord Jesus Christ on my behalf for my sin. I tell you, that'll make a Presbyterian, that'll make a baby shout right there. That So uh John is writing under the inspiration of God. He says the um two reasons I'm writing first John. One is So you have the joy of the Lord. Your joy can be full. You can have a full, uh, have fulfillment in life, joy in your life, trust God, follow his instructions. Uh doesn't mean you won't have heartaches, doesn't mean there won't be tears But you know it's possible to have joy even when your heart's broken? It's possible to have joy even when your wallet's empty. We look to the world for all this joy. He says, that's not where it comes from. And then he says that you sin not. That you sin not. God doesn't want us to sin. Sin's bad for us. Sin hurts us. Sin messes us up. Sin sets us back. He said, if you'll trust me, follow my instructions, heed my warnings, claim my promises, you'll be fine. You'll be fine. Now we come to our text, John chapter 2, and verse 15 and 16 particularly, and I believe this is my opinion, all right? Let me just give you my opinion this morning. I think John chapter 2, verse 15 and 16, what we're going to talk about is some of the most neglected teachings in the churches, particularly in America, perhaps around the world. In our day and age, some of the most neglected teaching, and that is this. What is the Christian's relationship with the world? What does the Bible say About this world we live in, and you and I as a believer, again, I'm talking to believers now this morning. You and I as a believer, what is our relationship? How do we interact? In this world that we live in. The Bible's pretty clear about this. And here's the tragedy is I don't think there's a whole lot of teaching and preaching on that subject. You say, how do you come to that conclusion? I look at modern Christianity. And I don't see the effect that this teaching should be having on us as Christians. So what does the Bible say? What does the Bible teach about The Christian's relationship with the world or the church's relationship with the world. How do we fit into our society What's our role as a church and as individual believers? Well, let's look what the Bible says real quickly. My first point this morning: I want us to consider the definition of world When he says there love not the world, either things that are in the world, what does he mean by world? The term world is used in the Bible in three different ways. Three different definitions, I guess, you could use of the word world. Sometimes in the Bible, when it references the word, when it references the world It's talking about the created planet that you and I live on. The world, the planet, the earth It's talking about sometimes when the Bible refers to uh the word world, it's talking about the mountains and uh the rivers and the cliffs. It's talking about the snow uh that sets them out, it's talking about the plains. It's talking about uh rivers and um oceans and continents and rocks and and um um uh trees and uh rose bushes and azaleas And um song about different kinds of critters, raccoons that get in our trash bin and tear the trash and drag it out everywhere. It's talking about the created world. It's talking about uh fish, uh catfish and uh walleye and uh snook in the ocean and ha uh what do they have up in Alaska? Halibut And flounders. Anyone get the picture yet? Know what I'm talking about? It's talking about the physical planet that we live on in the world. trees and birds and deer and bears. 1 Timothy 6 verse 17 says this: that God has given us all things to enjoy. It's all about the material things. So the Bible nowhere forbids you and I, says don't love the physical world. The physical planet that we live in. That's not what he's talking about here. God's given us the mountains that we can enjoy them. Anybody here ever been out through the Rocky Mountains? Anybody? Man, if you haven't, you'll drive out there. It is just awe-inspiring. I can't get out there and see the Rocky Mountains and not think how great thou art, God Rocky Mountains or uh you get down the blue seas in the Caribbean. Um I just feel God leads me every January to go down and preach. in uh St. Lucia and for our missionaries down there. It's the leading of the Lord. And um I'm seriously I think it is, but anyway Whenever I go down and preach for Lewis Howe down in New Zealand, we go over to Sydney, Australia, preach there for a week or so. And then we fly over to Christchurch, New Zealand, you fly over what they call the Southern Alps And how the ocean, the Pacific Ocean and the Tasman Sea come in among those mountains there. And it's just an amazing thing. Oh Lord my God. When I in awesome wonder consider all the worlds thy hands have made. So sometimes the Bible talks about the physical planet as being the world. That is not what he's talking about here Now, we are given, and I wish I had more time, but in Romans chapter 1, we're given a very strong caution not to exalt created world above the Creator. This is a God has created an amazing world, astounding beauty just phenomenal world that we live in. And then you consider the universe and God spoke it into existence. And in Romans chapter 1, let me give you the verse. We won't turn there. I wanted to, but we don't have time. Romans chapter 1, verse 20 to 25. And you can read that sometime. And he says this That mankind worship and serve the creature, the created things, more than the creator. In other words, in mankind, the world becomes a higher priority, more treasured than the God that created the world That's bad. That's bad. You know you and I live in a society now that is exalting creation above the creator Now let me just say this. Much of this environmental movement is nothing more than worshiping the physical above the creator of the physical. Now don't misunderstand. I think we ought to take care of this place. Amen? We ought not to trash stuff. I go out fishing. I pick up trash if it's out in the lake. I'm all for that. I don't think we should pollute stuff. We ought to be good stewards of what God has given us. But this whole world is temporal. It's not going to last forever. God will. He's the creator. Keep him in his place. I was out in Boulder, Colorado, years ago. I was giving out gospel tracts in a park there. I've told this before. There was a lady sitting in uh, is it the Lotus position? Is that what it somehow she was sitting there all wrapped up and um And she's sitting there and uh and looking towards the Rocky Mountains boulders right up against the foothills she's looking up to the flat irons there, and she's all Like this. And uh I went by and said, Excuse me, uh can I give you a little gospel track? I said, Can I leave you one of my little gospel tracks? And she untangled herself and She said, what? I said, I'll just give you a little gospel tract that tells you about Jesus, how he died on the cross, rose again. We know we're going to heaven, not to hell. She said, no, thank you. I'm a Wicca. I I was ignorant at the time. I still am. But uh I said, okay And I walked away and I got about I got about ten steps away and I was thinking, Wicca, Wicca, what in the world's a wicca? So I turned around and come back. I said, Excuse me. She was getting all tangled up again I said, excuse me. I said, uh I'm sorry, I said, but I don't know what a Wicca is. What's a Wicca? She goes, I'm a witch. Woo. I don't know why I said it. I it just came out. I said, are you a good one or a bad one? You know, like Alice in Wonderland or was it not Alice in Wonderland, um Wizard of Oz? Are you uh w from the north or the east? Where you're from She goes, Well I'm not a good one or a bad one. I'm just neutral. I said, Oh. So I said, So who's your God? As the wicked, do you worship? Do you She goes, and listen to this, this is where I'm getting at I said, who do you pray to? She said, I'm praying. I said, who do you pray to? She goes, I pray to those mountains up there. I pray to that big old cottonwood tree over there. I pray this stream coming by and these rocks. And the aspens growing up in the, I pray to all of that. You know what she was doing? She was worshiping and serving the created thing, the creature, more than the creator. I tried my best to give the gospel to her, and she would not listen to me. She refused it. So he's not talking about the created world here when he says, love not the world. That's not what he's talking about. And we are given, but we are given a very stern warning in Romans there not to worship this world. We worship God Not the world. So one aspect, the word term world in the Bible is sometimes used to refer to the physical planet. Sometimes the word world is used in the Bible to refer to mankind To people, humanity. John 3, 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever In the world, it's talking about mankind. Believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. So sometimes God will use the term world in his word to refer to mankind as a whole, humanity. Human beings. In Mark chapter 16 and verse 15, we're told to go into all the world and preach the gospel. In other words, we're to go to all the people. In every neighborhood of our community, in the alleyways, and up in the hills and out in the valleys, on top of the mountains, and down along the rivers, wherever people live, we're supposed to go to those people and give them the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Our country, other countries, every continent, every city, every village. So when he's talking about world, he's not talking about the world of mankind. He's not talking about humanity. In fact, we're told over and over in the Bible that we are to love our fellow man. We're told to love those that are unkind to us. We are to love those who would be considered our enemies. So when John tells us, under the inspiration of God in chapter 2, verse 15, love not the world, he's not talking about human beings. We're supposed to love human beings. We're supposed to, the love of God is to be shed abroad in our hearts to human beings. Regardless of their past, regardless of their lifestyle, regardless of their nationality, regardless of their color of their skin. By the way, there is only one race I'm tired of hearing about these race, race, this and that race. No, there's only one race, it's the human race. And regardless of our background, regardless of our skin color, regardless of what we are, we are to love our fellow man. to be kind. So he's not talking about humanity here. So you say, well, good night, preacher. What's he talking about? Sometimes the word world talks about the physical planet. It's not what he's talking about. Sometimes it's about human beings, humanity. It's not what he's talking about. What's he talking about here? When he says love not the world He's talking about society. Now let me explain. He's talking about human society. Look over at chapter 5 of 1 John. Look at verse number 19. Chapter five and verse nineteen, all the way towards the end of the book It says, and we know that we are of God. Now look at the wording he has here. And the whole world lieth in wickedness. Now he's talking about the world as far as society is made up. Now I'm going to try and explain what he means here In 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 3 and 4, and again, for sake of time, we won't go there. The Bible tells us that Satan is the God of this world. He didn't create this world. Satan didn't. God did. God spoke it into existence. Jehovah. Satan is the God of society. He is the prince and the power of society. In uh come back to chapter two here again, he kind of describes what he means by the world. Describes what the world, what world he's speaking of. Love not the world, neither the things are in the world. Now look, come down to verse 16. For all that is in the world. Now he's describing here what he's talking about: the lust of the flesh. The lust of the eyes and the pride of life. Says that's not of the Father. That's what the world is. That's what we're talking about. Society Now, real quick, what does he mean by lust of the flesh? The flesh in the Bible over uh most of the time refers to our sinful nature. How many people understand what I mean by sinful nature? We have this tendency in us to do wrong. We have this down inside our very nature there is a dent to do wrong. In other words, there is an attraction within us to an extent towards that which God forbids. You're going through the TV or whatever, you go by and there's something on there and you know it's not right, and you know a Christian ought not to be looking at that, but something down inside wants to stop and look at it for a little bit. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Come on now. Something getting a situation really, you know, I could tell a lie here. I could lie. And that would help me. You know what that is? That's the flesh. Something wrong with there's that tendency, that desire, that bent towards doing wrong. We're born with it We're born with it. Nobody ever teaches their child how to tell a lie. We got two boys. Now this is going to shock you. The two preachers, two boys, you know what? They would tell lies sometimes. It's true. That's not a lie, it's true. You say, how'd they learn a lie in a preacher's house? Well, we didn't get them and say, all right, Sam, this is how you tell a lie. Daniel, this is the way you lie. You say your kids are liars? Yeah, and so are yours. Amen. They just it's incredible. These little kids just automatically know how to lie. We have Bible time, we have a little heart-shaped punch. You know why we have a little tiny heart-shaped punch that you can't order anywhere except in Bible time? Because the little kids are liars. They get one of their own. They would punch all their things out and get all the points and cheat, little cheaters. When they so when they come up and get registered, we say, did you do your Bible study? Yes. You know what our next statement is? Show it to me. You say, man, you guys are rough. Yeah, we know, we've done this before. So what I'm trying to say is this, he says the lust of the flesh is we have a nature within us, we have this tendency within us, we're born with, we've got it from Adam. Is to do wrong. And he says, society, now I don't know if I can communicate this the way I understand it. Society is the corporate Flesh. It's like all humanity's sinful tendency, and it's incorporated into society. Anybody have any idea what I'm talking about? Then he goes on, he says the lust of the flesh, and then he says the lust of the eyes. This is the way I understand it. Any visual pleasure Or he I think he's talking about what we would call today entertainment, visual entertainment, visual pleasure becomes greater, the lust of the eyes. It's when my visual entertainment, visual pleasure, is more important than the will of God My eyes want to see things that God says, listen, you're not designed to be looking at that. That's not the way you're made up. That's not the way you're not going to be able to function properly. The lust of the eyes. This would be the entertainment industry. When my physical desires are greater than God's will, and when my visual pleasures and entertainment is more important to me than God's will. And the world, society, is a corporate lust of the eyes of all individual mankind society, it's all incorporated. And then he says the pride of life. That's where self is more important than anything else. Self-exaltation, my self-importance, my self-will, even to the point of self-worship. What's the world say? World say, look out for number. What do they mean by that? Look out for who? Listen, I'm all for looking out for number one if by number one you mean the Lord Jesus Christ And so you have the lust of the flesh, the sinful nature, the lust of the eyes, this desire for visual pleasure and entertainment, and the pride of life. I'm the most important thing in the world, my will, my agenda And you take all of that of all the individuals, human beings, their simple nature, and that becomes incorporated, that becomes society. I'm going to suggest to you that the entertainment industry in the world, the world's entertainment industry, is more concerned about pleasure and entertainment than they are about the will of God. You say that's the understatement of the year. I don't have much time for Hollywood, to be very honest with you. I learned a long time ago Hollywood is not concerned about God's will for you and me. Uh the manufacturing industry. I want to suggest to you that this world, generally, this world's manufacturing industry is more concerned about making money than it is about doing the will of God. Amen or not? I mean, money's number one. God's not even in the picture. I want to suggest to you, with few exceptions, the political world. Is not concerned about the will of God. The political world is concerned about their own agenda, advancing themselves, gaining power. Power grab. We saw this we saw that in the last eighteen months, did we not? As much as I love my country, and as I vote, I write letters, I call, we go down to D. C. every year, we talk to the folks, we try to share the gospel. But I'm here to tell you, generally speaking, the politicians and the leaders in our country are not concerned about the will of God. Now there's some exceptions. I thank God for that. There's some good Christians are trying to do right down there. Thank God for it. But I'm talking about society. And John says, under the inspiration of God, don't you love this world? Don't love it. It's not concerned about the will of God. This world is not concerned about what God says is right and wrong This world, society, is concerned about its own will, its own desires, its own agenda, and God is not part of the picture. He says Satan is the God of this world. You say that's a pretty dark picture. Yeah, the Bible paints a real dark picture of society. It says, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Society in general is diametrically opposed to the Word of God. I'm telling you right now, this old world has little or no concern about what this old book has to say. Society is not concerned about God's will, the creator of all of us, is not concerned about God's will being done. So when he says love not the world, he's talking about society, the corporate fallen nature of man. You know how to tell? You know how to tell what the world loves? You know how to tell what the world treasures and highly values? Look at what they use for advertising. You look at the billboards. You look at the advertisements come up on your computer or your television. Or now they come up on your phone. Who in the world ever dreamed you'd get advertisements on your phone? What do they use to get the world's attention? What do they use to draw the society's attention to their product? Sin. Pleasure, lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh. I have a couple little fishing shows I like to watch of the evening sometimes and some outdoor shows and they bring and you know what I notice I didn't watch them for a long time. I just started a little while ago. And you know what I noticed? Just about every commercial is some sort of violation of the morals of that old King James Bible. Commercials are out there promoting things that God forbids. That's our society. That's society. Look at advertising. What do they use? They were sell the one commercial, this is ridiculous. The one commercial, they were selling uh dishwasher detergent And they were using fornication, sex, to sell dishwasher detergent. Don't tell me our society's not perverted. Don't tell me our society is concerned about the will of God. They use all these things that God says, you stay away from that. That's bad for you. That will hurt you. So when he says love not the world, he's talking about society, not individuals. We're to love people. Not the created planet. He made this for us to have dominion over and to enjoy and work and live in it. So, number one, the definition of the word world is, as I tried to explain, society. Real quickly, I've only got a couple minutes. Consider the despisement by this world. Now, this is an important thought. All right, society. The despisement. This world, what does the word despise mean? Everybody with me? Everybody alright Well help me out now. Talk to me. What does despise mean if you if you despise something you what? You hate it. You dislike it strongly. Loathe it. I despise broccoli. Actually I like it a lot, but I despise liver. Yuck. I reject it The Bible tells me, your Bible, my Bible, old Bible tells us that this world despises the people of God. It's what the Bible says. The despisement by the world, to hate, to reject, have nothing to do with Take your Bible now. Keep your place here. I hope you're with me. Going back to the Gospel of John, fourth book of the New Testament The Gospel of John chapter number 15, Jesus makes a strong statement in John chapter 15. Get Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. And look with me if you would at verse number 19. Jesus is speaking to his disciples. John 15 and verse 19. And he says this: look very carefully at the wording he uses, and notice he mentions the world, society. If ye were of the world, the world would love its own. But because ye are not of the world, He's talking to believers, his disciples. I have chosen you out of the world. Now look at that last statement. Look at it. Therefore, the world what? Hated you. Again, he says another place. He says, if they hated me, they'll hate you. They'll hate you. Listen, this world does not love the people of God. Now my question was this, why in the world would society hate disciples of Christ? Why in the world would this society, he says they hate us? Why would they hate people who are trying to follow the Lord Jesus Christ? I put a few reasons down. Again, real quickly. Number one, I think because of our makeup And by that I mean by our because of our nature. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. He's something different now. In his nature, in his makeup, than what the what the rest of the world is. We do not fit in. We are something different. Look at John chapter 15, the first part, verse 19, there. If ye were of the world, the world would love its own. But ye are not of the world. You're different than the world. A child of God, God saves us, He puts a new nature. Let me let me say something to say people. How many folks here, you're not the same after you got saved as you were before you got saved? Anybody know what I'm talking about? How many people see things differently after you got saved than you did before? Our values changed. When we got saved, our values are no longer the values of the world. We've adopted what God considers important. What God values now you and I value, and it is not the same as the world. We are different in our very nature. Not just we don't look different necessarily and physically, but our nature. We're different in our values, in our priorities, in the way we see things, our perspective on this world. Our uh focus is now not on the temporal things of this world, but we look that we see there's uh an eternity coming. We see there's life beyond this. And we don't fit into this world because we're different in our very nature, fundamentally different. Study the book of Acts Those people got saved and the world turned on them. They were different, fundamentally different I put down where the world hates the believers because of our makeup. I put this down, the world hates the believers because of our morals. We hold to the unchanging morals of God's word. Amen or not. Listen, what the Bible says is right is right And what God's Word says is wrong is wrong. And as a child of God, as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, I hold to the standards that this book has. Now, I don't live up to them. I fail. I'm going to be the first to admit that. But brother, what God says is right is right. And what God says is wrong is wrong. You know what? That does not fit into society. Am I right or wrong? I've had so many death threats in the last 15 years. By this whole world, just in the last 12 months, just in the last 10 months, a guy's going to come out and blow my head off with a shotgun Listen, we don't fit in. Our morals are not the same. You know why? Because we try to, imperfectly, but we try to preach what this old book says is right, and we preach what this old book says is wrong. And we don't fit in. In Isaiah chapter number 55, verse 20, the Bible says this: Woe unto him that calleth that which is good evil And that which is evil, good. And society, this whole world, has perfected the ability Of making that which is good appear so evil, and that which is evil seems so good, seems so good. In many people's minds, in much of society's mind, the Bible-believing Christians are the enemy of the state. We are a threat to society. Because of our makeup and because of our morals. Jesus says, if you were of the world, they'd love you. But I've chosen you out of the world. And because I've chosen the outer world, the world hates you. Study the life of the believers. Study the book of Acts. You see it played out. Study church history. Society has never loved the people of God. And then I put down because of our motives. We love the Lord. The world has a skewed understanding of love. The world has a self-centered understanding of love. The world's understanding of love is what the Bible refers to as lust. I love you because you make me happy, because you bring me pleasure. That is not biblical love. Study 1 Corinthians 13. Biblical love is nothing about me. It's about the object of the one being loved. The well-being of the one being loved, the health and spiritual well-being of the one being loved, not what they do for me Listen, don't do this, but you could watch Hollywood love movies. There's nothing biblical, there's no biblical love in any of them. It's lust. Listen to the love, don't do it, but you can listen to the love songs of society. It's all about me. Listen, uh read the no don't do it, but you could read the the romance novels. They're out, and to me they're just they're they're just They're just emotional pornography as far as I'm concerned. Because of our motives, we love the Lord. The disciples and the believers in the book of Acts loved the Lord more than life itself. They were willing to die. Paul said, I'm willing to die in Jerusalem. For the Lord Jesus Christ. He was so in love. Society doesn't love Jesus like that. So, number one, because of our makeup, number two, because of our morals Paul said in 2 Corinthians 12, 15, he said, The more I love, the less I be loved. I give myself and I love people and I want them to come to Christ, be saved from hell, and have eternal life. And he says, The less I be loved. And I put down the world hates us because of our message. I would like for you real quickly, and I want to wind down here, but come to the book of Acts. Real quickly. Jesus Christ ascended to heaven. Acts chapter 4. He ascended to heaven. He's given instructions to disciples. Take the message of the gospel out to every creature. You go everywhere. Tell them about Jesus Christ died for you, was buried, and rose again. Turn them in repentance of faith. Trust them. And they're going out and they're doing that. And in Acts chapter 4, verse 18, notice how the world, society, responds to their obedience to the Lord. Acts 4. 18. And they called them the disciples of Christ and commanded them, look at this, not to speak at all or teach. In the name of Jesus. You ever notice you can go out and work and you can talk about everything in the world, but you bring up the person Jesus Christ, suddenly it gets awkward. Right? Suddenly everybody's uncomfortable. Jesus. You go in there and say, man, Lord's been good to me. I've I've been trying to uh you know serve the Lord Jesus. Weirdo, weirdo, weirdo. Right or wrong. You go to Walmart, I like to go through there and they'll say something, Oh, that's uh that price is wrong, it's a dollar cheaper. I like to say, Well praise the Lord. They're like, uh where the hell, uh, where the hell Our message. This world doesn't like the message of Christ. And there's a whole still I could preach a series of sermons on why that is. Give a gospel track out to somebody. Can I give you gospel track? It's like it's got something on it. It does. It has the message of Christ. So because of our makeup, we're different than the world. We have different values, different perspectives, different priorities. We don't fit in. Because of our morals, we're trying to follow what God says is right. Society sees it totally different. Because of our motives, we love the Lord, though society loves itself Because of our message. Because of our message. All through Acts, the disciples were persecuted, killed, and hated because they preached Jesus. Because they preached the Bible. All through church history. By the way, let me throw this out real quick. The world should never hate us because of our meanness Don't go out and be mean. Some people are ignorant and they go out and they're hateful and they're self-righteous and judgmental and everything. And people turn on them and they say, well, they just hate me because I'm a Christian. No, they hate you because you're a meanie. It ought not to be because of our meanness. It ought not to be because of our mistreatment of others. I've seen Christians claim persecution when all they were was they were just being knuckleheads. They're just being rude and obnoxious. So, number one, the definition of the world is society. Number two, the despisement of the world. They hate the people of God. That's what Jesus said. And let me end with this. Our direction concerning the world. We're told two things as believers, our interaction with the world. Number one, we're forbidden to love the world. Do not love this world. Love not the world Love for the world will displace our love for God. In fact, James says: if you love the world, if you're friends with the world, you are committing spiritual adultery. I'm unfaithful to my Lord. Our love should be exclusively for the Lord. So we're forbidden to love the world, and we're forbidden to conform to the world, and we don't have time. Romans 12, 1 and 2. Be not conform to this world. It means be pressed into its mold. Too many Christians are concerned about being cool in this world. Well, I just want to be cool. I just want to look cool. I just want to be cool. You know what you're saying? You're saying, I just want to fit into society. I just want this society to think highly of me. No, you're being conformed to this world. He says, be transformed. By the renewing of your mind, there's something totally different than what this society is. So don't love the world and don't be conformed to the world. Do you know Christians can love the world? It's possible that a child of God can fall in love with society, what society loves. Demas did. Paul said, Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world. He got more concerned about what the society thought, about what society had to offer than what the God Almighty, eternal creator of the universe, than what he thought. And Demas left Paul and chased after the world. I've seen it. All these years of ministry, I've seen it. I've seen it. I'm thinking of folks right now. Fell in love with this world, went after the world's morals, the world's priorities, and they forsook the Lord. A Christian can fall in love with the world, but here's what I want to say. This world will never love the Christian. You can love this world, but they're never going to love this world's never going to love you, not as a child of God. Lot fell in love with Sodom. Oh, those well-watered plains. Ooh, maybe I can raise some sheep out there. I can make moolah. This is all in the Hebrew, if you study it. Ulala, I can make money down in Sodom. He got down there and man he got a position in the gate. He's a leader. I like my title. I'm making money, money, money, money, oil water planes. And if you go in Ezekiel, it says that Sodom was very wealthy. They were idle, just lay around the shack. Man, he loved that lifestyle. Lot fell in love with Sodom, the world. But Sodom never fell in love with Lot. And when push came to shove, they were ready to kill him. He said, Who are you to come in here and tell us? And Lot turned on Sodom like that. I mean Sodom turned on Lot like that. Love not the world, neither things that are in the world. Any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. I can't love this world and love God at the same time. It's one or the other. Only two choices on the shelf. Either I love this world or I love the Lord, and I've got to decide. What kind of Christian am I going to be? Now I'm telling you right now, I'll be honest with you, it's coming down. I think aren't days of ease and liberty. And freedom to do what that says in the United States of America are under grave threat. It's a very real possibility that you and I are going to face opposition and maybe outright persecution And you think, and listen, if you think that trying to fit into this world as a child of God is going to excuse you or excuse save you from persecution, you mark it down. You can love this world, but this world will never love you. It's not going to happen. It's not going to happen. So let's take our stand and say I'm going to love the Lord. I'm going to live by that book the best I can, humbly, graciously, trust in God, follow his instructions. I want to be out and out for Christ. That's the call. Tom Brady, quarterback for the whatever that team is up there in New England. Well, I don't even want to say it He won his third Super Bowl. Pretty impressive, huh? Athletic wise, huh? He was interviewed by I think it was CNN or somebody. They were talking about all his accomplishments, multimillionaire, beautiful model wife, cars, boats, three Super Bowls, popular You know what he said? He slipped. And he said, there has to be more to life than just this. He has everything a person could possibly want from this world. He has everything society has to offer him. And he said, there has to be more to life. And my answer is bingo. There is. There's the life of living for God, the fullness of joy. A pure heart, a clean mind, a clear conscience, and the presence and the blessings of God. Don't fall in love with this world. God have mercy on Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church if we start trying to appeal to the world. Be like society. We're to be like Christ. Father in heaven, help us. Donna, I pray you challenge us and help us to trust you, just trust you, and follow your instructions. Lord, as this old world just gets darker and darker and goes farther and farther, help us to stay true and close to you. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes posed, I wonder if there's any this morning say, preacher. I know I'm saved. I know God saved me. I trusted him. I called on him as my own personal Savior. And you say, preacher, I want to love the Lord and not the world. I want to get closer to Christ and walk close to him and be what he wants me to be. Is there any like that uplifted hand preacher? I don't care what this world does. I don't care where this world goes. I want to stay close to Christ. God bless you. Hands all around. We have to decide that. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I know I'm saved, and I want to learn to trust God. I want to follow his instructions. One of the instructions is after we trust Christ, the first thing is follow the Lord in baptism. You know what that is? That's stepping out, saying, no, I'm not a part of this world, I'm a follower of Christ. Not a disciple of society, I'm a disciple of Jesus, the Savior. And maybe you've been saved, you've not been baptized. And you say, preacher, I want to come out and out for Christ. I want to follow baptism. Let this old world. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand. I've been saved. I've not been baptized. And I want to come out for Christ. And you know, I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I've got some areas of my life I need to adjust. The world's crept in, be honest. Some things, the lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride. We say, preacher, I've got some areas there. I need to do some adjustment. I got some areas there. I need to work on any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you, hands all around. We're going to give the invitation. This old-fashioned altar is a good place. Just kneel and say, Lord, you're right. You spoke to my heart. I want to be right. I make this decision. I'm going to trust you. Turning here this morning, say, preacher, I've never been saved. I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. You say, preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. Any at all like that? I need to be saved. Father, bless our invitation time now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads up