Chapter four, Second Kings. I appreciate special Kathy. That's not easy. Play piano and sing. And uh so we appreciate that. And that was a blessing. Very true song. Signs of the times of the Lord's coming. Second Kings chapter four. We're looking at the life of Elisha. I don't know about you, but uh his uh this study has been a blessing and challenge to me. as uh looked in detail at uh the events of Elisha's life, what a great man of God uh he is. And we come to a unique thing. It's actually a continuation of event we began looking at two weeks ago. I'm going to begin reading in verse 4, or chapter 4, verse 13, and we're going to read down through verse 26. Now Let me just set the the stage here for what we're reading, the context of what's taken place here. Elisha is traveling back and forth to Mount Carmel. That was his kind of his retreat where he get alone with God, get refreshed. As he's going back and forth, there's a woman, we know her as the Shunammite woman, she notices this man going back and forth. She knows nothing about him She doesn't apparently we pick up she doesn't know that he's a man of God or who he is. He's just constantly going back and forth. And so she uh uh with her husband invite him to come in and have a meal. And they see he's continually doing this So they build a little what we call a prophet's chamber for him to stay in when he's traveling. As they're fellowshipping with him, she picks up The idea that this is a man of God, something about the way he conducts himself, his conversation, the subject of his conversation She picks up, I perceive she says, this is a man of God. And so they build him the prophet's chamber. In return, Elisha, through his assistant Gehazi, offers to her some something that he can do for her as an expression of his gratitude. He says, Would you like for me to speak to the king on your behalf? He has the ear of the king Would you like to meet me to talk to one of the hosts of the armies? Is there situation that the National Army could take care of for you? And he makes some profound offers to her that uh many of us, boy, wouldn't it be great to have a commander of the American military do something for you? Yeah, I got a couple neighborhoods I'd like for you to take care of Well she says uh she says oh no she goes I I I have my family. I dwell among my people. She goes, I got everything I want. Family takes care of me. I don't nothing the king could give me, I could want, there's nothing the army could give me. I'm completely satisfied. Then we pick up here in verse number 13, and he, Gehazah Elisha's. Assistant says to him, Elisha, say now unto her, behold, or Elijah is speaking to Gehazi, say now unto her, Behold, thou hast been careful for us with all this care. What is to be done for thee? Wouldest thou be spoken to for the spoken for to the king or to the captain of the host? She answered, I dwell among my own people, that's what we just said. Verse 14 And he said, What then is to be done for her? Elijah says, We've got to do something for this lady. She's been so good to us. And Gehazi answered, Verily she hath no child. And her husband is old. And he said, Call her. And when he had called her, she stood at the door. And he, Elisha, said, About this season, according to the time of life, thou shalt embrace a son. And her response is unusual. She says, Nay, my lord, thou man of God, do not lie unto thy handmaid. I don't know, I can't figure that out. And the woman conceived and bare a son at that season that Elisha had said unto her, according to the time of life. In other words, about nine months later, she bears a child. Verse 18, and when the child was grown, now it doesn't mean the child's grown up. He's just grown a little bit. Some time has gone by. He's still a young child. It fell on a day that he went out to his father to the reapers, and he said to his father, My head, my head. He's complaining, his head hurts. And he said to the lad, Carried him to his mother. So he's still a very small child. They carried him to his mother, and when he was taken, when he had taken him and brought him to his mother, he sat on her knees till noon. and then die. So it's a small child, sits on his father mother's lap, has to be carried, and the child dies And she went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God in the prophet's chamber, and shut the door upon him and went out And she called unto her husband and said, Send me, I pray thee, one of the young men, and one of the asses, that I may run to the man of God and come again. And he said, Wherefore wilt thou go to him today? It's neither new moon nor Sabbath. He doesn't figure it out. The child's sick, and she's wanting to get help. So she says, it shall be well. So she sat on an ass and said to her servant, Drive and go forward. Slack not thy riding for me, except I bid thee. So she went out and came to the man of God at to Mount Carmel. And it came to pass, when the man of God saw her afar off, That he said to Gehazi his servant, Behold, yonder is that Shunamite. Run now, I pray thee, go to meet her, and say to her, Is it well with thee? Is it well with thy husband? Is it well with the child? And she answered it as well. I'm entitled The Message Tonight, a little different. I don't know that I've ever preached an entire message on this before. But uh it's a truth I think is important for us to understand. And that is dealing with the death of an infant. When a young child dies. What's the story behind that? Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, I thank you for this portion of Scripture. Lord, It's encouraging to me that your word touches on all the issues of life. The hard issues, the difficult questions your word has an answer for And so now as we look at this uh heart-wrenching subject, I ask that you would give us solid answers from your word. God, I don't want to present as authority my speculation. Lord, I want to present as authority your statements. So I ask you to help me to do that tonight. I yield my mind and my will to you. I present my body anew. Please fill me with your Holy Spirit, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This woman, as we noticed a couple weeks ago, was an extraordinary woman We found that she was very kind, a total stranger. She went overboard to provide for him and expression and expressed her kindness in a in a very profound way She we noted that she was a very discerning woman. She picked up that this was a man of God. Apparently her husband didn't get it. My impression of her husband, as I implied in the previous message, he was pretty thick, you know, I mean this guy just doesn't get a lot of what's going on. And she picks up the fact that this is a man of God. We notice that she was very prudent. She uh was very careful in the very fact that she built a prophet's chamber outside of their home. It shows me that she was discerning and that she was wanted to be right. She wanted to be proper. And uh rather than having them stay in the house with them, there could be situations that would be inappropriate And so she put them outside in this prophet's chamber, had that built, and she wanted to be proper. And as I mentioned before, propriety is more important than convenience And it's important that we do right and we stay above board rather than necessarily it's a whole lot easier just keep him in the house, but she wanted to do right. Then we noticed she was very content She offered to speak to the king on her behalf. She goes, no, I'm fine. And then she was a woman of great faith, and we notice that here, and uh we'll pick this up again on the next message on this. So she appears to be, as I mentioned, stronger in her intelligence, I believe, in her character and in her spiritual wisdom than her husband was And yet she was a very sweet lady. Because of her kindness, Elisha, uh, because of her kindness to Elisha God miraculously blesses this woman and uh with a child in her at least her husband's old age, the implication here is that she's up there in years also God blesses her with a child. Now, there's another whole subject in itself, another whole message there. But the issue here is. For some reason, this child gets sick and dies. Verse 18, as we pointed out The child grows up a little bit and he's able to walk and somewhat mobile. He goes out to his father, the Reapers. Verse 18, he says, My head, my head. Something is seriously wrong with the child. Daddy says, take him to his mother. He sits on his mother's lap. I imagine her coddling the child and rocking it, and maybe he's fevered. And the next thing she knows, she's holding in her hands her dead baby, her dead child. I don't know why. The child died. We see God accomplishes a great thing through it. She approaches her husband about Finding the man of God and trying to find some help or an answer to the situation. Her husband, again, as I said, doesn't get it. And so she goes on her own. She finds the man of God at Mount Carmel. He's on his retreat, his getaway. He's alone with the Lord. He sees her coming. Now, this is where it gets interesting. This woman apparently is riding hard. She told the servant, you know, don't you let off that mule until uh uh I tell you to. You push him. Her baby's dead. And as Elisha sees her coming, he picks it up, it's her on a distance off. He sends Gehazi, his sister, out, and he tells him to ask her three questions. He tells her first of all, ask him, is it well with uh is it well with you? So Gehaza goes out, meets her, she comes up. I can imagine the doggies panting, the servants all worked up, and she hops off, and he says, Is it okay? Everything okay with you? And she goes, Yes, everything's fine with me. He goes, all right, um, is it your husband? Is everything alright with your husband? And she goes, yes, everything's well, everything's fine with my husband. Then he says, Is it well with the child? And I don't know how what her facial response is. I don't know what her countenance, if it revealed anything. But she answers back in the question: Is it well with your child? She says, It is well with the child. The baby's dead. And she says it's well with the child. Now, the question comes up Why would she say it is well with the child when the child was dead? The word well there means it means to be at peace. I like this definition. It's all in your strong concordance. The word well she is it means it is safe, it is peaceful. Is the baby okay? Oh yeah, the baby's safe. The baby's peaceful. The baby's okay. It's dead. Now what did she mean by that? I think there's one of two things she could have been saying to Gehazi. She could have been saying, Oh yeah, I believe it's going to be alright because I'm coming to the man of God, and by faith I'm believing that the man of God is going to make everything alright. By faith I'm believing God is going to use Elisha and make this child okay. That may or may not be what she was saying. But if that was what she was saying, if it was an expression of her confidence that God was going to raise the child up, that would be an incredible statement of faith. And that's very possible. I think, as I've studied this and read what other uh what other what some great Bible scholars have suggested, I've come to the conclusion. That what she is saying here, she's not expressing necessarily any hope that the child's going to live again. But she is simply stating her belief that the baby is okay. Though it has died, the child is safe in the hands of the Lord. Though the child has died, it is safe in heaven. There is no fear or concern for this child anymore. It is at peace. It is safe. It is well. Now every parent who has a child who has had a child die in infancy. Now this is my message tonight. Every parent that has had a child die in infancy, whether maybe at birth, maybe after birth, or as a miscarriage of some type Every parent can say with confidence, it is well with that child. It is well with that child. And I believe by way of application, we can say of perhaps a severely handicapped, mentally handicapped child or even adult. That has only developed the mind of an infant. And that one dies. I believe we can say of that Mental child, it is well with the child. Now that's that is my premise tonight The infant that dies, it is well. It's okay. They're safe in the hands of Jesus. Now, I want to give you some reasons for that. How, first of all, I want to talk about and quickly how infants are not saved. What is it that does not make an infant safe or well? Well, we know that infants are not well by infant baptism. We know that is not what makes a child, if they die as an infant, safe in the arms of Jesus. Let me be very brief blood with you and you may take offense at that and I don't mean to be offensive, although um it happens a lot when I don't mean to be But uh I don't mean to be offensive, but I want to be very blunt. I believe infant baptism is a wicked invention of man It has given many people a false hope. It has behind it so many false teachings that I believe is a very ungodly thing and ought to be spoken out against. So we know that children are not safe. If an infant dies, it is not safe because it was baptized as an infant. The Roman Catholic Church teaches, now I understand they've made some changes on this recently, but for thousands of years they taught. That if a baptized infant dies, or an unbaptized infant dies, they go to a hell, but that hell has no suffering. They say they go to hell without the suffering of hell, and their term for it has been over the years, goes to limbo. If you've heard that term. And that is what they taught for years. Now I understand I read a news article some months ago that they changed their doctrine on that, that they don't believe in limbo anymore. So I don't know how you just changed your doctrine, but that's what they did. So we know that children, an infant is not safe, is not well because of infant baptism. We know they do not go to any place called limbo. That place does not exist. We do know, we know that children are not safe in the arms of Jesus because they have been elected to be safe by God. And there is a teaching in some circles that the children of saved, an infant of saved parents, is elect by God, and that child will go to heaven because God has predetermined and elected that child to go to heaven. Now that has serious implications there that I have some serious problems with If God is simply choosing what children who die go to heaven and leaving the others to die and go to hell, that that gives I have a problem with a God that would do that Besides the fact it's unscriptural. So we don't believe that they're safe and they're well because God elected certain ones of them to go to heaven. Now here it gets a little theological, but I want to state this. We do not believe they're safe because they are innocent. The only humans that were ever innocent was Adam and Eve before the fall. Let me give you some scripture. 1 Corinthians 15, 22 teaches us that in Adam all died. All human beings. We are born spiritually dead. Psalm 51, 5, David says, In sin did my mother conceive me. Now he was not saying that the act that produced the conception was sin. He was saying, I was a sinner from the moment I was conceived. I was born with a sinful nature. I was born spiritually dead, alienated from God. So a little infant is not innocent. It's not that they're born with a clean slate. And at some point they do something wrong, and then suddenly they become a sinner. No. We're born a sinner, and that's why we eventually sin. And so it's not because they're innocent that we believe they're safe. And let me give another one, and this one's kind of bizarre, but believe it or not, I came across it in my studies. We do not believe infants are safe with Jesus because they are given a second chance in the afterlife. And apparently in some Christian circles there is a teaching that if an infant dies, that uh they are grow up in the afterlife, they're mature, and they are able to give it an opportunity to make a decision to be saved or not. I don't even know where that comes from So we understand, first of all, I want to clear the air why we're not saying a child is safe. Second of all, I want us to look as to why we believe that child is safe. It is not enough to just think that child's safe. Well I just think that way. That's not good enough. Amen? When I do a funeral, I always try and point out, hey, at a time like this, we're talking about eternity, life after death. Our thinking, our philosophies, our ideas aren't going to cut it. We need some definite answers. And we cannot simply say, well, you know, I just feel like that child would go to heaven. I mean, man You know, uh you're it's so cute and they're so in uh so uh helpless and so vulnerable and surely that child and I just feel like they would have to be in heaven. Now I feel that way, but that's not gonna cut it. If we want to know where that child is, we need some definite Bible answers. We need some solid scriptural foundation. Take your Bibles if you would, and we're gonna get moving along here, keep moving along here. 2 Samuel, not far away from where we're at, 2 Samuel chapter 11. I don't know why, it's just I assume the Lord leading. We've been looking at Daniel a good bit the recent weeks. David. You know this. David had a brother Daniel. Not really. We've been looking at David in recent weeks. And this again, we uh you talk about David, you always end up here, he's this tragic incident with Bathsheba. As a result of his adulterous relationship with Bathsheba, she conceives She has a child. The child is apparently about a year old, not quite a year old. He's confronted by Nathan. Nathan exposes his sin, and David comes clean. And as a result of his sin, God says the child that is conceived between David and uh David uh David and Bathsheba The very rarely known story of Daniel and Bathsheba, no, uh David and Bathsheba, that child conceived between the two is going to die. David fasts, he afflicts himself, he mourns, he pleads with God to spare the life of the child. The child dies as God said would happen, and David gets up and cleans himself off. And the servants say, this is in the Hebrew, yo, what's the deal? Man, while the child's alive, you're fasting and mourning and praying. Now the child's dead, you get up, clean yourself the knee And he makes a profound statement, and he makes a statement that gives us volumes of information about what happens to an infant. when they die. Look with me if you would at verse number twenty-three. Verse twenty-two, the servants say, While the child was yet alive, David says, While the child was yet alive, I passed away, for I said, Who can tell whether God will be gracious to me and the child may live? But now he is dead. Wherefore should I fast? Can I bring him back again? And the obvious answer is what? No, you can't But look what he says. I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me. Now, some suggest that David is simply talking about going to the grave. But we know from several Psalms and various other passages that David understood. That after death he would ultimately be with the Lord. And I do not, and I refuse to believe, based on other scripture. That David is simply saying here, oh yeah, someday I'm going to end up the grave just like the baby. David is saying this: that child is safe with the Lord. Now I can't get him back. But someday I will go and be where the child is. Let me ask you a question. Was David a saved man? Yes or no? Good grief, yes. When David died, did he ultimately end up with the Lord? Yes or no? So David is saying, wherever that child is. Wherever I end up after death, I will be wherever that child is. And we know that David went to be with the Lord. And so we can say with certainty that David's child, his infant, when it died, that child died and was safe with the Lord. We are not suggesting, are you listening? We are not suggesting that all infants are saved. We're not saying that. We are saying that we are only suggesting that all infants who die go to be with the Lord. There's a difference. Follow? Are you thinking? Now, we need survival. Why do we believe this? Number one. Jesus died for the sins of all people ever conceived. Second Corinthians 5, verse 14 through 15. I want to turn there, but for sake of time we won't. The Bible says Jesus died for all. Every the word all means each and every one. If any soul makes it to heaven They make it because Jesus shed his blood for that soul. Are you with me? Alright? Everybody okay? Everybody still with me? If anybody makes it to heaven, whether it's a little infant or a 95-year-old man, that person gets to heaven because Jesus Christ shed his blood for that person. Nobody ever gets to heaven without the blood of Jesus Christ. Nobody ever gets to heaven without Jesus dying for them personally. So, we understand Jesus died for the sins of all people ever conceived. Now, that doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven, but that is the basis of an infant getting to heaven Christ had to have died for them. Number two, souls are condemned by God. Let me put this in question. I'll make the statement. Does a person Go to hell because uh because they're a sinner. It's not a trick question. No. If people went to hell because they were sinners, everybody would go to hell. Right? Nobody goes to heaven because they didn't sin For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. So we are condemned. A person is condemned to hell, not because they're a sinner. But a person is condemned to hell for rejecting or refusing to trust Christ and Christ alone. That's what sends a person to hell. Here you have one sinner, when he dies, he's going to heaven. Here's another sinner, when he dies, he's going to hell. What's the difference? One trusted Christ Willingly freely trusted Christ, the other rejected Christ, refused to trust Christ, one sinner goes to heaven, one sinner goes to hell. Beside Jesus Christ were two thieves, condemned to die. One went to be with the Lord in paradise, one died and went to hell. What was the difference? Both sinners, both condemned, one believed and accepted, one didn't So people are condemned to hell for rejecting Christ. John 3. 18, John 5. 20, 2 Thessalonians 1. 8. The angel's gonna come in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that obeyed not the gospel No passages of Scripture. Now this is profound. There is no passage of Scripture that suggests that those who cannot trust Christ are excluded from heaven. John 3. 18, he that believeth not is condemned. So there's nowhere in scripture where it suggests if you have an individual where it is impossible for them to believe. They are mentally incapable of making a decision whether to accept or reject Christ. They are not capable of making that decision. There is no implication in Scripture anywhere that that person is refused heaven and rejected from heaven Sinful nature, yes. Christ died for him, yes, but they are incapable Of making the decision that must be made for a person to ever get to heaven. And Jesus said repeatedly that those who are condemned are those who refuse to believe. And if a person is incapable of believing, There's no indication, as I said, that they're refused a place of heaven. Now, that brings up the subject of age of accountability. At what point does a child become responsible? At what point is a child capable? Of accepting and receiving what Christ has done for him or rejecting it. As I said this morning, I believe it's much earlier, younger than most people give credit. A lot of denominations teach 12 years old. Across the board. I believe it's much before twelve. I mean a a mentally capable child. That is able to make that decision, I believe, is much, much earlier than 12. And if you wait till your child's twelve, till you start talking about salvation with them, you're making a grave mistake So the age of accountability, there's no age of accountability spelled out in Scripture. But reason tells us, common sense tells us. That an infant is not morally responsible for their spiritual condition They're not capable of making that decision. Number three, under why we believe they go to heaven. Jesus, because of Jesus' statement concerning infants. And again, for sake of time, we're not turning to a lot of these passages, but Matthew 19, 14, and it's repeated in Mark and Luke also. Matthew 14, 19, 19, 14, Jesus says, Suffer the little children to come unto me. That phrase little children, if you get your strong concordance out, look up the definition. It means infants. Suffer, permit the infants to come unto me. Hey, I believe it's a good thing to bring your babies to church. I think it's a good thing to put them in a nursery, personally. But uh bring 'em to church. And uh the we got good nursery workers, they pray and they sing songs back there to little kids and have scripture up around. It's a good thing. But Jesus said, suffer, permit the infants, the little children, to come unto me. Then he makes this statement, for of such is the kingdom of God. Now there's a lot of applications from that passage, but this. Among other things, this is one thing I believe the Lord is saying. You allow these infants to come unto me. Because of such, that phrase of such means of this kind. These little infants, this is what makes up the kingdom of God. I think the Lord is at very least implying there that young infants are part. If they die at that age, they are part of the family of God. They're innocent. Or not innocent. They are safe and well in the arms of the Lord. Number four. And this is an interesting thought. The judgment of God is ultimately based on sins committed in the body. Now we call that works. And for sake of time again, I wish we had an hour to do this, but we don't. In Revelation chapter 20, verse 11 and 12, the judge, the great white throne judgment is described. And God says, at that judgment, and this is for the unsaved, he says, the books are opened. And he says, every man was judged out of the books according to the deeds done in his body. Now, we have our sin nature because we inherited from Adam. Right? We're a little theological tonight, but I think you can handle this. We've inherited our sinful nature from Adam. And because we have a sinful nature, we deserve hell. But it is the final judgment is based upon our works as a sinner. Therefore, we believe and teach, and the Bible's pretty clear on this, there are degrees of judgment in hell. Jesus made reference to certain people if they had had the preaching, if Sodom had had the preaching that uh whatever the uh what was the city? Bethesda Thanks are walking concordance over here. Bethesda would have had if Sodom would have heard the things that Bethesda heard, Sodom would have repented But Bethesda had heard Christ himself and had the gospel, and they rejected it. And they're going to suffer greater judgment than Sodom and Gomorrah, even. So, though we're all sinners, we all deserve hell, our ultimate judgment is based upon our deeds as individuals Of course, an infant is incapable of performing any type of spiritual deeds, good or bad. It's incapable of being judged. It's preposterous to think of an infant being judged on their deeds as an infant. And number five, the fifth reason we believe that infants who die go in heaven are safe with the Lord, and to me it's the nature of God tells me. That infants of who die are safe. decisions or comprehending spiritual things, the very nature of God tells me that they're safe in the arms of Jesus. Our God is a good God. He is not cruel. He has done everything short of forcing our free will to keep man out of hell. To the extent he crucified his own son. Don't turn around and Tell me then that that same God is going to send an infant who has no moral capabilities. He's going to send that infant to hell. After his own son already paid the price for that infant's sin, sinful nature. So the goodness of God. Flies in the face of a thought of an infant being sent to hell. The graciousness of God. Anyone that gets to heaven gets to heaven because of God's grace. And how can you say a God is gracious that would send a helpless child to hell? Had no capabilities of doing anything about its spiritual condition To me, that falls in the same rank categories as Calvinism, saying God has elected some people to hell. There's nothing they can do about it. That flies in the face of the goodness of God, the graciousness of God. The justice of God, how unjust that would be to condemn someone who had no option. Revelation says that around the throne there was an innumerable Number of saints worshiping God redeemed. In other words, John, when he had the vision and revelation and he saw the heaven the throne of heaven, and he saw the multitudes of people who were redeemed out of every nation. He says it was more than it's possible to count. My thinking goes, the only way you can come up with those numbers Would be if millions and millions of little infants that have died through the years would be included in those numbers David said, I can't bring my child back. There's nothing I can do. But someday I'm going to go and I'll see my child again I don't know, maybe you're here tonight and you've had a child or grandchild or someone dear, a little infant, maybe before it was even born, miscarriage or whatnot, that baby's body died. Listen, we can't bring that baby back, can we? But thank God if we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, we can go see that baby again. Someday, someday a child will be reunited With his parents. What does this mean? It means, first of all, great comfort to a grieving parent. I've stood by the graveside of a number of parents over the years in the ministry. Where they placed the little baby. And I saw the mothers cry. Put my arms around the daddies. I have one I did where the family had to dig the own their own grave. How they wept I'm so glad I could take my Bible and say, it is well with your child. It is well. That peace, they're safe. I did a funeral a couple years ago for a twenty-some-year-old boy that choked on some food and I didn't know him, I never met him before, but all the workers and all the family told me, they assured me, he had the mental capabilities of about a two or three year old. I said, on what you're telling me is true, then according to the Bible, it is well with a child. It is well. So we find comfort in that. And we're able to comfort others in that type of situation. Regardless of what the circumstances are, it's well with the child. The second thing I glean from this is this. We have a great responsibility to win as many souls to Christ as we can. Once they reach that age of accountability, we have a grave responsibility to bring people to the Lord Jesus Christ. Because heaven is real, hell is real, and Jesus is the only way to be saved. Though the infants are safe Those that are able need Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that somehow you would use this message tonight to comfort, maybe answer some questions that people would have. Maybe reassure and bring some peace to our heart. I pray your Holy Spirit would take this and secure it in the hearts of people And Lord, those of us that perhaps have not lost love, and all of us that know you, I pray, Lord, that our hearts would be stirred concerning the unsaved. That you would give us a greater burden, a greater urgency in our witness. Lord, I need that. I pray you'd stir our hearts to get after this day Search us, Lord, before we come to the Lord's Supper. God, if there's something in our hearts and life that is displeasing to you, if there's a stain, Of this world or pride in our heart. I pray that before we come to Lord's Supper, you'd help us to get alone with you, confess and forsake, and find real peace. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. The Lord spoke to your heart tonight. A moment the piano is going to play, and as it does. Maybe you need to slip on out, find a place to altar, and just say, Lord, search my heart, try me, and test me.