First Peter chapter four and uh verse number seven is all I want to look at. I was going to try and preach down because this comes in a section I believe a passage here, verse seven, probably down through verse nine But all I want to look at is the first phrase of verse number seven tonight, where Peter writing to these believers who under intense persecution say that. We want to keep that in mind, who he's writing to. And he says this, but the end of all things is at hand. He's writing to these believers that are lost their jobs, run out of their homes, paid heavy price For their faith in Christ. And as he's writing this, he says in here, the end of all things is at hand. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father. And we thank you again for a good day. It's been a blessing. Fellowship together, the singing. Lord, the report here this evening on Henrietta, this great missionary wife. And now I pray as we finish out the Lord's Day and go into a new week, that you would just prepare our hearts to be a good witness this week, to be an effective witness for you, to walk with you. And to be a blessing to people and glorify you in our lives. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And Lord, in the few moments we have, I pray that you would speak through me. And challenge us to be ready. We know not what hour your son will come back again. So again, fill me with your spirit. I yield myself to you and pray you'd speak through me. In Jesus' name, amen. I think in the last two years, I've been asked about the second coming And the end days more than any other time in my life. The global pandemic and shutdowns and government overreach mandates has people thinking about the end times. Um I have uh there's some members and I'm very grateful for this. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying, but I got some that will send me messages, you know, on the computer, on text me on the phone. And just ask me the hardest questions I've ever had in my life. And so the way I do I shouldn't say this, but what I do is I don't answer them right away. I go and look and find the answer, then come back and answer them like I knew it right off the top of my head. And they're very impressed. They just say, Man, Pastor, you're very very smart. But uh nevertheless, and I'm I mean this, I don't think I've had I don't think there's ever been a time in my ministry in my Christian life where people have been as concerned about the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ and even outside of the church I have people in the community calling up and asking about the tribulation, about the Antichrist, mark of the beast, and all of these things. I think there's been more conversation about the last days and about the second of Christ than perhaps there's ever been before. Peter says the end of all things. is at hand. The end of all things is at hand. I once wanna I I think an interest in the second coming And uh an anticipation of the second coming and an interest in end times and in anticipation of the return of Christ, uh, I think that's a good thing And I want to give you three things tonight. Now, in your bulletins, I don't know if you ever noticed that, there's a sheet in there that has a place for sermon notes. How many people ever notice that? You know that's not for doodling, right? That's for taking notes. I want to encourage you to maybe jot a few thoughts down, just some practical things about anticipating The return of the Lord Jesus Christ. I've been blessed by how many folks this past week have either greeted me or sent a note on the computer or a message, a text, and they said this, maybe today, preacher. Maybe today. And I want to say a few words about that. Number one, I believe having an and I believe anticipating the return of the Lord Jesus Christ is number one, I believe it's healthy. Spiritually healthy. A spiritually healthy Christian anticipates the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. I think it's a weak. I think it's an immature Christian that gives no thought to the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now maybe they've not been taught Maybe they haven't learned the things that the Bible teaches about the return of Christ, but I tell you, a spiritually strong, healthy, intelligent Christian anticipates Jesus Christ coming again. Can I tell you what I found in over 35 years of being in the ministry, preaching, some in evangelism, pastoring most of that time? You know what I found? People respond to preaching on the second coming of Jesus Christ. There's something about it that touches the heart and soul of a believer when they hear about Jesus Christ coming back again. So my first thought is this, uh anticipating the return of Christ, the end of all things is at hand, Peter said. The person that anticipates that is number one, that's a sign. of a healthy Christian, spiritually healthy. Number two, I put this down. Now I hope you have your Bibles handy because we're going to look at a bunch of verses here real quick. But number two, I think anticipating the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ is biblical. Is biblical. The early church lived in anticipation of Jesus' return. If you would take your Bibles with me and turn with me to the book of Romans, chapter 13. Now I just want to buzz through our New Testament and I want to show you, and I want us to notice, verses telling us that that New Testament church had a strong anticipation of the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, I want to suggest to you, it was in the forefront of their minds. 24-7. They were expecting Jesus Christ to come back at any moment. Now, I want to be quick to point out, and I try to do this every time, I want to be quick to point out, we don't know when Jesus is coming back. We don't know that. We don't know the day nor the hour. It may be a hundred years from now. Now, personally, I can't imagine it's that far off. But we don't know But we do know he's coming. And we don't know when. And we are to live in anticipation. And that's exactly what that New Testament church did. Look with me At Romans chapter 13 and verse number 12. Romans 13 and verse number 12. Notice what Paul writes to uh the church there at Rome. He says, the night is far spent The day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of night. Did you notice the night is far spent? And the day is at hand. Can I suggest to you, he's making reference to the day of our Lord's return. The day of our Lord's return. Come with me, if you would, to Philippians chapter number four. Philippians chapter 4 and verse number 5. Just make your way back through the New Testament there. Philippians chapter 4 and verse 5. Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians chapter 4. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 5. This is Paul writing to the church at Philippi, another church, different church, same penman Different church. He says, verse 4, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. Look at verse 5. Let your moderation be known unto all men. Look at this: the Lord is at hand. Paul was expecting the Lord Jesus Christ at any moment. At any moment. Take your Bible, turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter number 4. 1 Thessalonians chapter number 4. We read this passage often at a funeral because it's so encouraging. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. The whole second half of this chapter is one of the most detailed instructions and information we're given about the rapture of the church, which of course is part of the Lord's return. And notice it says there in chapter 4, verse 16 is where I want to start reading. The Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout. The voice of the archangel and the trump of God and the dead in Christ shall rise first. You could put in the margin of the Bible the rapture of the church. That's what he's talking about. Now look at verse 17 Now notice the wording here very carefully. Then we which are alive And remain, shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore, comfort one another with these words. Did you notice in the first part of verse 14? Did you notice the wording there? He says, then what? We. He's including himself. Then we which are alive and remain. He's writing to the church at Thessalonica, a good church, a strong church. a soul-winning church, a missions church. And he's writing to them and says, hey, when we then w w those of us that are alive When the Lord's return will get be caught up. What does that tell us about Paul? He was anticipating the Lord's return when? In his lifetime. He says, hey, we which are alive and remain should be caught up together with the Lords in the air. He fully anticipated. What I'm trying to say is this is anticipating the coming of Christ, the second coming of Christ, anticipating it is a biblical thing to do. Turn with me, if you would, to James chapter number five. Back to Hebrews. Work your way back through your New Testament there, James chapter 5. And notice with me, if you would, verse number 8. James chapter 5, verse number 8. He says, Be ye also patient. How many people are working on that instruction there? Be patient. Goodness. Be ye also patient. Stablish your hearts. Now this is James writing under the inspiration of God to Jews that are scattered abroad. And he says this, for the coming of the Lord, what's the last two words? What was James expecting? He thought the Lord's coming is pretty soon, huh? He was anticipating the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Listen, you be patient. You get established in your faith. The Lord's coming is drawing nigh. Drawing nigh. Take your Bibles again and go to 1 John. Got James, 1 Peter, 2 Peter come to 1 John chapter 5. I'm sorry, 1 John chapter 2. And notice with me verse number 18. 1 John chapter 2, verse 18. Little children, now he's writing to believers. He's calling them little children here. Little children, it is the last time, last days, the end ages. And as you have heard, and as ye have heard that Antichrist shall come, how many people have heard there's an Antichrist coming? Anybody heard that? Yeah, they did too. He says, you've heard that. Antichrist shall come. And even now are there, are even now are there many Antichrists? They had that whole attitude. There was people they weren't the Antichrist, but there was Antichrist around. Did you know there's people in our world that are not the Antichrist? We don't know, but there are Antichrists People who are against Christ, people who are against God, they're in all levels of society. Um I was sold one in uh a number of years ago and they had the there used to be an apartment down over a garage There's, man, they had more apartments squeezed in above that three-car garage. There's about four or five squeezed up there, and I mean just as ratty as can be And that was a good soul winning hole hole because every other month there was somebody else living in there. Ranking came due, they'd move out. And uh but anyway, I'd like to go soul win up there. One time went up there And I got there and man there was just smoke pouring out. They opened the door, smoke pouring out, rock music blaring. I mean just rough. This guy came had hair down to his waist. And uh all strung out. And I said, um, I said, hey, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Baptist Church. I want to invite you out to church. Oh, I'm not interested, man. I said, well, let me ask you a question. You know for sure if you're going to heaven when you die and not go to hell, you know for sure your sins are forgiven. And he looked at me and he says, I'm an ambassador of the devil. I said, really? And he said, yeah. I said, wow. I thought later, I think the devil can come up with a little better ambassador than that. It wasn't a very good representative But he was anti-Christ in his whole mentality, his whole attitude, his whole thinking. I never got anywhere with the guy. I'd see him around, try and witness to him, never got anywhere with him. And so we have anti-Christ in society at all levels, from ratty apartments all the way up into government positions, behind pulpits. And so he's saying, he says, listen, there are antichrists. This is way back. Now look what he says. Even now are there many Antichrists whereby we know that it is what? The last time they were expecting the Lord in his lifetime. James Writing said, hey, listen, we're in the last days. This is it. There's Antichrist here. Fully expect the Lord to come down. Can I get you to turn to one more? Last book of the Bible. Revelation. Last chapter of the last book of the Bible. Revelation 22. And look with me if you would at verse 20. This is John, the Apostle John, he's writing from the Isla Patmos, his final revelation of God. The Bible will be complete, the canon will be completed, and he's paid a heavy price for his commitment to Christ. He's been, they've tried to kill him, he's been boiled in oil, he's banished to this horrific island. And there he records down the final book of the Bible. And notice how he ends the book of the Bible. He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly. He's quoting the Lord Jesus. Amen. Now he puts in here, again, under the inspiration of God, but he injects here a little statement, a desire of his heart In anticipation in his heart and soul. Look what he says. Even so, what? Come Lord Jesus. Even so, come, Lord Jesus. John was looking for the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul was looking and anticipating the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. James writing to believe Jewish believers anticipated at any moment the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ Peter expected, anticipated the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, the end draweth nigh. The end of all things. It's right here. John, the Apostle John, anticipated the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. What I'm trying to say is this: when you and I anticipate the coming of Jesus Christ, and we get up in the morning and we say, maybe today. Anybody here wake up singing that song? I've taught myself more and more. Maybe today the Lord will come for me. Maybe today, my Savior, I shall see. Maybe today from sin I shall be free. Jesus will come, and I will go home maybe today. You don't get to hear me sing that often, so you ought to appreciate that. But you know, we think that way. We wake up in the morning with that thought, that song. We go through the day, maybe today, maybe today. You know, we're not being fanatical. We're not some off-the-wall nutcase. You know what we are? We're biblical in our thinking. The Lord may come today. The coming of the Lord Jesus Christ is what we call eminent return. It could happen at any moment. Any moment. Wouldn't it be something the rapture took place while the preacher is preaching on the rapture? That'd be exciting. That'd be a real illustration right there. Boom. We're biblical when we think that way. Never has the Church of Jesus Christ been as pure Or as powerful as it was in the New Testament days. You read the book of Acts, you can't help but notice the power of God resting. Upon that church and its ministries. I love Acts chapter two. Peter gets up and preaches. Three thousand people saved and baptized, added to the church. How many people agree that'd be a big day at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? Good heavens. I'd love that. And then it's multiplied. 5,000. And then multiplied and multiplied and multiplied. And all Jerusalem's turned upside down, and they filled all the city with their doctrine, and people are getting saved, and uh false gods are being burned And uh people repenting and demonic people are being delivered, and drunkards are being sober, and lives are being changed by the power of God. You read it all through the book of Acts And I read that and think, God, just give us a little bit of that. Power. Never has the church had the power of God upon it like it did in the book of Acts. I think never has the church been as fervent in prayer as they were in the book of Acts. I challenge you this year, read through the book of Acts. Read it two, three, four times. And you pay attention how often they prayed. They prayed and they preached. And they prayed and they preached. In that order, by the way. They prayed and they preached. I thank God for our soul winning class coming up, Pastor Matt's teaching. I hope you get in on that. If you're not signed up, I would encourage you to get in on that But I'll tell you this, we can learn all the techniques in the world. We can have all the answers to every question. We can memorize every verse. But if we don't have the power of God upon us, we're just tinkling brass and sounding cymbals We gotta have God's power. We gotta have the love of God uh uh shed abroad in our hearts. We got and the only way that happens It's by prayer, prayer, prayer. We ought to pray as much for souls to be saved as we do preaching that souls to be saved And so never before in the history of the church had they been as powerful as they were in the book of Acts. Have they been as prayerful as they were in the book of Acts? And here's what I'm getting at. Never before, I don't believe, never since. The Book of Acts has the church of Jesus Christ anticipated the return as they did in the book of Acts. You read it, they were looking for Christ to come back He resurrected from the dead, he was alive from the dead, and he's coming back again. And he rose from the dead, and he's coming back again. He rose from the dead. He's coming back again. Everywhere they went, Jesus died, was buried, rose again. He's coming back again. That was the mentality of the New Testament church. And God help us get a bit of that. When we anticipate the return of Christ, we're being biblical. Let me give you a third one quickly. Number three, it's comforting. When we anticipate the return of Christ brings great comfort to our hearts. Peter was writing to persecuted believers, and he's trying to encourage them. Hey, listen, the end of all things is at hand. Jesus coming back again. You stay the course. Don't you back up. Don't you walk away. Don't you quit on God. He's coming back again. He's coming back, I thought, uh, you know, with everything going on, so many people sick, and then the weather hits And you know the numbers are down some and you know we're working hard. I was out yesterday going door to door and making some visits and tried to visit Ed, he's never home, and uh try to go out and visit I was trying out there and I was hoping to lead them to the Lord, but uh no. And uh work hard, and then the numbers are down a little bit, and um uh this morning I was praying a little bit, getting ready for the day, prepare my heart and mind. And this thought came to mind. Just stay the course. The numbers are up, stay right at it. Numbers are down, stay right at it. Sunday school teacher, don't you quit your class if the numbers are down. You just pray and work harder and stay at it. Amen Bus routes. Say, oh, we only brought one in today. You get out there next week and get after again, stay out. Why? Jesus is coming again. We've got to be found faithful, and he's encouraging them. Don't you quit. And uh don't you when the funds of the bills are high and the funds are low and you want to rest but you gotta go, I forget how that poem goes, but uh nevertheless uh it's comforting Anticipating the Lord Jesus Christ encourages us. The return of Jesus Christ will be a great comfort. 1 Thessalonians 4, remember? Comfort ye one another with these words. Tell you we're gonna have uh the funeral for Doreen this Tuesday. I don't know about you, but that hit me like that hit hit me like a two by four on the side of the head when we found out she passed away. Anybody else? I didn't see that coming at all. And um I'm so glad that this Tuesday I'll be able to stand behind this pulpit. And tell whoever gathers together, I'll be able to tell, hey, someday Jesus is coming again. That old body will come up out of the grave. We be reunited again. What a wonderful truth. We don't sorrow like those who have no hope. We do sorrow. We miss there. There's an empty spot. Someday Jesus come back again, and what a day that will be when Jesus we shall see. Great comfort, uh great comfort and uh anticipating the Lord coming in. Uh great blessings When the Lord comes again. All sorrows will be passed. Won't that be something? Don't raise your hand. I wonder how many I'm talking to tonight. Have some sorrow in your heart. You're sad tonight Maybe something happened. You're fearful of something coming. Listen, Jesus comes back again. All that's going to be in the past. No more sorrow, no more tears. Maybe some folks I'm preaching to wept yourself to sleep last night. All wrongs are made right. Glorified body. Boy, won't that be great. How many people are excited about getting a glorified body? How about that? And all you guys with hair, you'll be bald just like me. That glorified body. Now I got a theory. This is my theory. Alright. So don't don't don't go nuts. This is a leathermanism But I got this theory that all glorified bodies, for men particularly, are bald. And it's a sign of spiritual perfection. And some are a little closer to that point than others are. But nevertheless, disregard that. But won't that be something, a glorified body? No more aches and pains No more medicine, no more shots, no more vaccinations and boosters and all that stuff. Just a good body the way God intended it for it to be. Jesus coming back again. We anticipate that and think, uh, one day these old arthritis, that's not going to be there A glorified body, here's what I'm looking forward to, is a purified nature. That old sinful nature taken away. Anybody here get discouraged with yourself? Man, what an idiot. What's wrong with me? I tell you what's wrong with you, same thing wrong with me. We got a sinful nature And it drags us down. And we end up doing things that we don't want to do, and we don't do things we know we should do and we want to, and we have this, oh wretched man that I am Who shall deliver me from this body of death? I'll tell you who, Jesus Christ, he's coming back again one of these days, maybe today. And this old sinful nature would be going, every desire will be holy, every thought will be pure, every motive will be godly. What a day that will be. So it's comforting. Let me give you the last one. And uh anticipating the coming of Christ. Number one, we said it's a healthy thing. It's good, strong Christians to anticipate the coming. Number two, it's biblical all through the Bible they did. Number three, it's very comforting. It's encouraging. That's why Peter's writing this to them. And number four, it's inspiring. And this is what I mean by that. It motivates us. Come back to Peter, and I end with this. Come back to 1 Peter chapter 4. And this is what I'm going to build on in future messages. He says there, but the end of all things is at hand, 1 Peter 4, 7. Look at it there. The end of all things is at hand. Then it says this: be ye therefore. And he goes on and he lists a number of things that ought to be true because the end of all things is at hand. This is what I take away from that. That when we anticipate the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, it's not going to just make us lay around and daydream about, oh, no more arthritis, oh, it's going to be wonderful, oh, just all this. Don't just lay around and daydream about it. But therefore, we get out and we get working and get serving the Lord. The fact that Jesus Christ is coming again, when we anticipate that, genuinely, sincerely anticipate it, it motivates us Get out and win souls and serve the Lord and we'll look at what the how it motivates us the different areas here in a little in a future message But I put this down. The reality of Christ's return has a profound effect upon the sincere believer. It motivates us to live for God. It motivates us to reach others. How many people here know someone you would hate it for them to be left behind if the rapture took place? Anyone here? It would kill me almost to think of that That motivates us. Get out and get after them. Try and win people to Christ. Win people to Christ. To live for God, to reach others, to keep ourselves pure. Tell you, we live in a wicked world, right or wrong. And in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, that Lord comes back. We're caught up out of here, and we're in the very presence of Jesus Christ. I tell you what, I think there's some Christians going to be awfully ashamed when that takes place and they go from one activity And into the presence of Jesus Christ. What was I doing? I tell you, now this is me, alright? I'm just telling you, this is me I got saved May 7, 1979, just one day old, one day after my 19th birthday. God saved me, changed my life so dramatically. Everything, my values, everything. That summer, uh now we used to, before I got saved, every Sunday night we went to the movie theater. That was Sunday night. We'd party all day. Sunday night we'd go to the movie theater and then Monday started the work week. So every whatever movie's out, Sunday night we went and watched it. Partying all day, go to the movie theater. Well, I got saved Parting and all that was taken away. Oh, several months went by and a couple of the people I hadn't been to the movie theater or none of that. A couple months went by. And a couple of the young c uh young college-age kids, that's the group I was in, it was a pretty good-sized group, they said, Oh, we're going, they got a movie about Jesus in the movie theater. Let's go watch a movie in the movie theater. I didn't think much of it. I went there and um I got sitting in that movie theater. This is me I got set in that movie theater. And it was a fine show. It wasn't bad, nothing bad at all about it. I thought of all those shows. They watched that movie there, and I would go to that same place and all the nasty, filthy, terrible things, God's name in vain, violence, perverse stuff. And I'm sitting in that same building That thought came to my mind, what if that rapture took place right now? I'm telling you, I felt so ashamed I walked out of there and I this is now this is just me, okay? But I walked out of there and I said, by God's grace, I don't care what the movie is, I'm never setting foot in a movie theater again I don't want nothing to do with that. By his grace, I never have. Now you say, preacher, you're against watching movies? No, I think there's some nice things, but I tell you, just me, I got a problem with movie theaters. I would hate to be raptured out of a movie theater into the presence of Jesus Christ. You say, all right, well, I'll just watch a nasty movie at home. Well, you're a knucklehead if you think that way. You're missing the whole point I don't want to be raptured watching any nasty thing anywhere. But what I'm trying to say is this: when we keep that in the forefront of our mind. Any moment, Jesus could come back again. It helps us keep our life pure. You know what I'm talking about? Do you ever notice your kids behave themselves a whole lot better when you're there? Than when you're they don't see you around. If you keep that in mind, Jesus coming back. Jesus coming back. Dr. Lee Robertson uh was pastor, I got in the last preacher boy class that he taught down at Tennessee Temple, and he said, he told us preacher boys, he said That the teaching and preaching on the second coming of Christ will revive the church, will embolden our witness, and will bring sinners to Christ. The end, the end of all things is at hand, Peter said. I got saved in 1979. I am with this. By the way, my son sent me a little thing. Did you ever see those on social media? It says this is false information. Anybody ever see that little thing come up? Anybody know what I'm talking about? False information. This has been checked by fact checkers. This is false information. He sent one. It said at the top. The preacher says, I'm about done. This is false information. This has been checked by fact checkers. This is not true But I will end with this. I guess say 1979, May, that summer, just in sometime during that summer, our church had a prophecy conference I never heard of a prophecy conference before in my life. I knew nothing. Zero about prophecy, the return. I didn't know nothing This guy got up there and he was multimedia. He had pictures. Anyone remember back the old slide shows they had? That's what he had. He'd show these slides up there And he had this big chart up there, gigantic chart he set up, end time events. I'm telling you, I was captivated. I never heard anything like this before in my life. I was amazed. The rapture. Boom! Out of here. I was thinking about that happening. And the tribulation period and uh man these beasts coming up and these vials being poured out and earthquakes and And I was just overwhelmed. And so I'd go to work Monday night they told I'd go into work Tuesday. Guys, you won't believe what's gonna happen I told all those dope heads and ex-cons all about the everything I heard the night before, I'd tell those guys and they're like, oh yeah, right, Leatherman Next day I'd tell them whatever I learned that next day. And we learned all about the those guys had a college course in prophecy. They didn't even know it. I just repeated whatever the guy said. I was so amazed. Friday came by, we finished up, I went finished up the meeting that night. Monday morning, I never did this. But that next Monday morning I overslept at work. I overslept. I've been telling them about the rapture and the second coming left behind, tribulation period. This is the truth. And I can't I woke up, ah, it's like an hour after work started, it's like 7 o'clock, and I just woke up, man, I'm flying around. I can't believe this I went flying down there, came busting into the boning floor there where they cut the meat up, come busted in there, and those guys looked at me and uh the whole road where I work, they all looked at me and they went like this Oh shh tall Jimmy he came over he says he says Leatherman I'm so glad to see you I said, what in the world's going on? I'm sorry I'm late. And he said, we thought that rapture thing happened. We thought we were left behind. I tell you what, that was so real to me. And we need to make sure that stays real to us. That Jesus come back anytime. Jesus come back anytime. Maybe today. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. The end of all things is at hand. Lord, you might be coming back. We've been in the last days for 2,000 years now. Lord, it looks to me like the stage is being set. I just can't help but think that. I pray you'd help us be ready. We have no Christ as Savior. That we live for you, be motivated to serve you, be distinct, an effective witness in this world, not to be caught up in the affairs of this world and sins, entertainment, all that. Help us stay focused, Lord. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many tonight would say, Preacher, I'm going to ask God to help me. Live my life in light of the fact that Jesus could come back today. Live every day in light of that. Any like that, preacher, I need to keep this in my mind. I need to not let myself forget that Maybe today. Maybe today. It's not a fearful thing. It's a comforting thing. It's encouraging. But it motivates us. What we're going to do for the Lord, we better do. Because maybe today the Lord will come back. Let's finish out the Lord's day, maybe on our knees at an altar saying, God, I give myself this week. Help me be faithful. Help me to point people to Christ. Father, bless irritation. Now I ask in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand against