Times uh women were often considered property and were bought typically for a hundred shekels, particularly in the Old Testament period. Now I'm not saying this was right or or that God approved of such an approach. I um just that's what that's what they did. Uh, just as God didn't approve of polygamy in the Old Testament either. So uh the purchaser would save up his shekels to be able to purchase his bride and Uh and that's the way that they they did things. And and in a sense this had a practical aspect to it as as the as a lady, she was a member of the household, she did certain tasks and chores and etcetera that of course were very valuable to the family and So if she was gonna be taken away, if she was gonna marry someone, obviously the father was gonna uh gonna lose a lot, uh but particularly and some help and so forth, so the family would have to pick up the slack for her loss. So this was So the groom had to save up enough money. And once he had that money saved up, then he would go to the bride's house and negotiate with the father uh the price that he'd have to pay. Now typically she was not party to this negotiation process. So once the once the prescription prescriptive uh groom and father had ri made a deal, they they were then treated as though they were married. Uh in the Old Testament and even in up into the New Testament. They were treated as being married even though the relationship had not been consummated yet. Many of you are familiar with the title for this type of uh engagement called betrothal. Alright, I think you probably all heard of that. So that's what's going on here. So the father then informed the daughter that she was indeed married And of course, and many times she was fully aware of this and she knew what was going on. This wouldn't come as a big shock to her necessarily. They had to go through the formality of the negotiations though. Then typically what would happen is the bride and groom would then share a cup of wine, and this symbolized the acceptance of the covenant that had already been made. So after now after they would do this, after they would have this cup of wine, it was customary for the groom to say something like this. I must go now to prepare a place for you, but I will come again to receive you unto myself. When I do, you will be with me forever and always. The groom would then return, typically to his father's house, because that's where he's grown up, spent all his life. He would return to the father's house. You can think heaven. to begin building a dwelling place for her and him to live in, when he had then come and received her into himself This was prime this was the primary responsibility of the groom during the betrothal period. During that period it was his responsibility to start and have a pre-place prepared ready so that when he went to get his bride and bring her back, they had a place to live. The bride had a responsibility also She was to keep herself pure during this time and always be in a state of readiness for the groom to come and get her, not knowing exactly when that would be Now, this is the thought that's brought out in the parable of the ten virgins from Matthew 25. I hope you're a little bit familiar with that. Alright, they had five who were ready and had oil in their lamps and they were ready for the return, five who didn't. Alright, so this idea uh and Jewish uh history of being ready, not knowing when he would come. So if the bride, if she committed adultery during the betrothal time, everyone would look on her with disgrace, of course This helps us understand a little bit the situation between Joseph and Mary in Matthew chapter 1. So I think you're familiar with that. Joseph finds out she's pregnant, and that's of course a great shock to him During that period when they're espoused, as the text says there in chapter one. Of course we know Mary wasn't unfaithful, and Joseph was pretty confident she wasn't either That's why he was so perplexed. But in the Bible, in Bible times, when a woman committed adultery, her family, even her village, was negatively affected by that act And this is why Joseph he wanted to put her away privately or privily. He didn't want to see her disgraced, he didn't want to see her family disgraced, he didn't want to see the town she was in disgrace That's why the text says he put her wanted to put her away privately. He didn't want to see anything bad happen to her, even though he was in greatly perplexed as to how she could have been with child. But he loved her, understandably confused about what was going on until the angel, of course, came and revealed to him what was going on So typically the betrothal period would last one year, although that was never set in stone. That was what it was. So, but this the key point to this She did not know when he was coming back. Like this wedding that I'm going to be part of here on Friday night between this man named Alex and a young lady named Haley. I think they got engaged uh I can't remember exactly, I think it was January or February or whatever. And so the date was set, right? It's that time. So they they've known all along exactly when the wedding is gonna happen. And all these months It's very typical the way that we do things today. But in the Bible, you've got to remember this not knowing was very important. Let's turn over there. Song of Solomon, chapter 3 Alright, and I'm not going to go through the whole Song of Solomon tonight to set all the context up for this. You'll just have to kind of go along with me that what this is what's going on here Song of Solomon 3. And this is uh this is basically what's being described to us here. Solomon is coming to get uh his bride Song of Psalm three and verse six, who is this that cometh out of the wilderness, or cometh out of the wilderness like pillars of smoke Perfumed with myrrh and frankincense with all the powders of the merchant. So basically what he's doing is she is seeing him coming from a long ways off. She's seeing him coming with an entourage of many men, and he's basically coming. I know this might sound strange to you, but he's basically coming with a fireworks show Uh so that sh they can see him coming afar off, all the pomp that's going on here. Behold his bed, which is Solomon's three-score valiant men are about it of the valiant of Israel. They all hold swords, being expert in war, every man hath his sword upon his thigh because of fear in the night. So this is his entourage, he has coming with him. King Solomon made himself a chariot of the wood of Lebanon. That's what he's riding in He made the pillars thereof of silver, the bottom thereof of gold, the covering of it purple, the midst thereof being paved with love for the daughters of Jerusalem. Go forth, O ye daughters of Zion, and behold King Solomon with the crown Wherewith his mother crowned him in the day of his espousals and the day of the gladness of his heart. What's being described to you here is Solomon coming suddenly out of the wilderness in his chariot with all his entourage with all this pomp and circumstance to get his bride. This is unexpected, but she was supposed to be ready and waiting. And she was, and we know that, which is good. Oh, ye daughters of Zion is a reference to her bridesmaids. So, the bride would go to bed every night with the hope of expectation that her groom would come tomorrow. What do you think about that? Any of you maybe got married recently. What do you think about waiting and not having any idea until the day of and okay I'm getting married today All right, Sally did it. She knew that it would be a disgrace if she were not ready for him to come at any moment. Therefore, she lived in a constant state of readiness and expectation. Tradition relates to us that many times maybe a little warning message would be sent ahead by one of the groomsmen or something like that, so the there would be some aspect of preparation. But even then that would be only a a a day or so at the most. Uh sometimes it would be just as sudden as this So the house or the dwelling place that the groom was to go away and prepare was called a chupa. That's what they called it. So uh in ancient times, even in the time of Christ, what this typically would be, this chupa would simply be another addition onto the father's house. He didn't have a lot of money back then. Most families didn't have uh the ability to go out and have a standalone house. So the groom, he would build attachment Basically, on to his father's house many times, and once they would actually go but get married, they would go back there and live. Alright, so they called this a dwelling place that would be built onto the house, because that's exactly what it would be So today, Jewish couples and a traditional wedding ceremony will recite their vows underneath a four-posted structure. with a little you know, some sort of a ceiling on top of it. It was not complete of course. And this uh this is called their chupa and this is a symbolic of the old That the husband and wife would go to. So they still do this even to this very day. They'll take their vows under this structure. And it serves as a historical reminder for them of the fact that this used to be the part that was attached to the father's house, which they would go and take up residence in. So if the groom wanted to have a wife, he was responsible to go and prepare this dwelling place for her. Because they could not consummate the marriage, they could not have the actual ceremony until he had done this. Guess who decided when that was ready? Guess who decided when the structure was ready? Wasn't the bride? Wasn't the groom? It was the father of the groom. He's the one who decided when the marriage chamber was ready. He's the one who decided when it was time and when you the when his son was prepared And when he thought his son was prepared, he called his son and he said, Okay, you're ready now, you can go get her. And I I assume that you can speculate there probably wasn't a whole lot of dilly-dallying about that Alright. So finally the big moment would come, the day would come when the father would say to his son, Go get your bride, I believe you're now ready. You have my blessing to go ahead So the groom would typically quickly gather his attendants together, and they would hastily travel to the bride's house to get her for the ceremony. She'd better be ready. And she wanted to be ready. They would travel immediately to the groom's father's house. They'd find the wedding guests already assembled. This is another great thing, by the way. The wedding guests had to be prepared at almost like a moment's notice for this. None of the way that we do things today. Alright, so they had to be, and they wanted to be ready, and they were anticipating this, and they were had more they were more than happy to throw whatever they were doing aside so they could be there for this event Some uh believe that this picture of these wedding guests already assembled is perhaps a picture of the Old Testament saints and the twenty-four elders before the ro throne and Revelation chapter four. And we're not sure about that, but there's some there's some good uh ties there that make that very likely. So after the ceremony, so the ceremony would be very short, the groom and and uh this is another strange thing that they did which would be almost unheard of today, but the bride and groom would immediately enter into the wedding chamber, the chupa, to consummate the union. In the interim, the guests are all just out partying outside. I mean they're still out there having enjoying the the festival and they're just taking it easy and they're waiting for the couple to come back up. So however long that takes, I mean they're just celebrating the wedding, this is very normal for them. The groom would then later come out and announce that the marriage had fully been realized, and when that happened, that would then commence a seven day celebration. A seven day celebration that's still today acknowledged as Shavakra Okay, I don't even know if I'm pronouncing that right, but I think I am. So now, today, uh and Jewish couples to try to keep that going, that seven day festival, and of course they don't do that, but what they do is the bride and groom for the next seven nights will go visit uh relatives or friends or whatever of the of the wedding that they're close to and they'll have a meal together for seven nights in a row to carry on this ancient tradition uh from historical biblical times. Now I want to make some ties here with this wedding customs, Jewish wedding customs Clearly, I mean the tie is pretty obvious there with I think John chapter 14, 1 through 3, to some pre-tribulational eschatology. Dr. Craig Hartman writes, the only eschatological view that lines up with Jewish customs is the pre-tribulational view. Alright, and so that's very interesting here. He's saying that the the Christ said in John 14 that I go to prepare a place for you and if I go I'll come again and receive you to myself. The only thing that lines up with this historical aspect of Jewish marriage customs The Bible's clear that Jesus the Messiah is the bridegroom. I don't think anybody would have a problem with that. That's further obvious. Believers in Christ are the bride. The Lord is went to prepare a place for the bride, has he not? That's exactly what he's saying That's what he's saying there in John chapter 14. I think sometimes we wonder, well, why did he do that? Why didn't he have it already ready and all those things? Well, if you were a if you were a Jewish person, if you're one of those twelve disciples Hearing the Lord's statement in John 14, you heard those three verses, you would knew exactly what he was talking about. You would have heard that before. Sometimes us Gentiles, we don't see it as fast. So the Lord has gone to prepare a place for the bride who will come again when the father says it's time. Right? Sounds like something that the Lord said when he is here upon this earth No man knoweth the day of hour, not even the Son of Man, but the Father in Heaven. Alright? So at his return, he will take the bride to the Father's house To the Father's house. That would be heaven at this point anyway, not earth. So it would be to be taken. Right? The bride must be taken to the father's house for the seven-day festival Seven-day festival. I don't think it's a stretch to see this as being symbolic of the seven-year tribulation period. So this is a fundamental point. The post-tribulation view says that we meet the Lord Jesus in the air and then immediately return back to earth for the millennium. Well that's not the Father's house. That doesn't line up with Jewish Mary's customs and doesn't line up with whole lots of other scripture as well. But It's something very interesting to think about. So the challenge to the bride, the challenge to the bride, be always ready for the return of the groom. Always be ready for the return of the groom. James chapter 4, verse 4 says, The adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity with God. Now, James, Jewish guy obviously, and if you know anything about the book of James, you know it's written to the diaspora. It's written to the Jewish people scattered around, scattered about. So it's a it's a very strong Jewish emphasis in that book. And he calls he says he adulters and adulteresses, and then he compares that to being friendship with the world. So that's obviously the spiritual uh adultery that he's talking about is friendship with the world or worldliness. The Christian has the great privilege and honor of being the bride of Messiah. As with most privileges comes responsibility To remain pure and chaste from the corruption of the world. The book of James here is written to these twelve tribes scattered abroad. What did he say was spiritual adultery? What did he say was breaking or being unfaithful during the betrothal period for the believer? Worldliness. From the Lord's perspective, worldliness, which is unseparated living, secular lifestyles, these all equate to a spiritual adultery. For the believers who are supposed to be living in a state of readiness any moment for the groom to come. For the groom to come. How can we be rubbing shoulders with the world, with the secular lifestyle? How can our our Christian lives, our walk with the Lord, our separation standards, our lack thereof, we look so much just like a total secular family or secular individual. What does that say about Our purity, our remaining pure and chaste as we wait, not knowing when the Lord will come back. If you're thinking about it from a bride and groom perspective, and you are greatly desirous and loving, I think as Paul said, loving his appearing. And we know what it means to be committing spiritual adultery against him in worldliness, and we continue to do that. What does it say about our love and our desire for the bridegroom to come? Paul reminds the local church at Corinth that the Lord's Supper is an ordinance to call to memory the new covenant and Jesus' blood. Alright, so I'm going to take it for granted. You're kind of familiar with that. That he's calling them to remembrance about the new covenant in his blood is what Paul would call it. 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Now remember back to the upper room. Remember the upper room The night before the crucifixion, the Lord is really observing a Passover, think about it, and then He's taking this Passover and turning it into what I like to call the First Supper. I can't stand that phrase last supper. It's really the first one And so he's there with them. And remember he's there's several cups that he raises up during that time. And I think really one of the things that he was trying to get across them and they would have recognized is when he's raising up those cups. There's four cups in that ceremony. He says, I'm the bridegroom, I'm lifting up the cup with my bride. I accept my obligations of the covenant, but the price that I'm going to pay for her is not in shekels. The price that I'm going to pay for her is my own blood, the very next day, by the way. Very next day. See the price didn't didn't buy us with m any money Peter was very clear about that. You've not been redeemed with corruptible things such as silver and gold after the vain conversation of your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. First Corinthians chapter six verse twenty says, For we are bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are God's. And we know what that price is, it makes it all the more powerful. It wasn't money. So in 1 Corinthians eleven, Paul was trying to remind the Corinthian assembly of this great truth in the Lord's table Paul was saying that to he was saying to them, he said, the average lifestyle of the Corinthian believer evidenced that they were not living in any type of expectation of his return. That was a great problem. That's why the Corinthian church was rife with all kinds of unseparated living, all kinds of ungodliness. They weren't living in light of his return at all. He's trying to bring that out to them. That was the point of examining themselves. To repent and cleanse their lives of sin, primarily the sins of worldliness and unseparated, secular living. Lord's Supper is a cleansing ordinance for the believer. When we observe the Lord's Supper, we should seriously examine ourselves and And diligently seek to cleanse our hearts of any sin. Don't don't just get in the habit of of of it going through it's like some sort of ritual or ritualistic thing. It's time for the Lord's Supper, we're gonna go through the motions here and get this to get this thing done and and act like we've done something. That won't have any value. It won't have any help to you. It won't have any help to your church. We need to do this. Anything less puts us in an unworthy position before God. That's what he said. Drinketh of this cup unworthily. He said. This is a position of spiritual adultery. The Lord's Supper and its antecedent Passover are all about redemption and cleansing. So every time you come to this passage of John 14, probably one of the most encouraging passages in the Scripture. I mean it how many times have you been to a funeral, hopefully for a believer and you've heard this passage listed? It is so rife with encouragement. It's hard to read those two verses and walk away discouraged or sad. But he's saying here, I go to prepare a place for you. Just like the bridegroom is going to go away to prepare a place for the Jewish bride, he's coming again. She doesn't know when it is, she needs to be ready. and expecting, hoping, looking forward to it, like it's the most important thing to her and her distance I ask you tonight, is there anything that you would like to happen first before the Lord would return? Anything in your life that you just Lord, could you just hold off a little bit longer? So I really want to have this happen. I really want to experience this before you come back. I hope not. That wouldn't even matter if you're supposed to get married tomorrow, this weekend. It's your desire to see the Lord return, your Lord return. He's so powerful in your life. There's nothing you would rather happen than have him come. He is coming. He says, if I go, I will come again. He went. He's coming again. Let's not forget that here tonight. Our Heavenly Father, as we look here at this passage, I I know it's easy to sit back and fall into the pattern of this world, be conformed into its image, be conformed into its pattern of living. We're bombarded with it constantly, all the time. One of the great reasons why we need to be here. Need to be here as many times as uh the Bible is being opened, as the truth is being preached and presented, so that we're constantly reminded of the truth of life contained in the scriptures. Because we're bombarded every day of the week with secularism, atheistic philosophies, a world without God, or a world just trying to act like God isn't real, it doesn't exist, and let alone his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you for churches like this who are still having Wednesday night services, Bible studies, prayer times, encouraging their people to be a part of it for we need it. Let us uh remember that worldliness is spiritual adultery. Being unfaithful The great bridegroom, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, as we wait for His return. May we be like those five wise virgins who had oil in their lamp. They were ready. So when you showed up, they didn't have to go find any, they didn't have to go borrow any, they were ready to go. And we live that type of attitude tonight. I pray these things in Jesus' name. Aid no, Pastor. Steve made a couple statements there I jotted down