You guys are dead tonight. All right. First Peter chapter number three. And you would notice with me, verse number eight. I'm going to read eight and nine to keep it together in context, but we're going to look at the last Two words of verse number eight. We've been working our way through this verse, word by word almost, and I want us to look at these last two, but notice what it says. Verse 8. Finally Be ye all of one mind. How many people should be of one mind? All. Be ye all of one mind. Having compassion one of another, how many should have compassion one of another All. This whole list is all. Love as brethren, all. Finally, y'all love as brethren. All be pitiful. All be courteous Then verse 9 he adds on, if you notice the end of verse number 8, there's a cola. That means the following statement is a consequence of what was said before it All the others are a commas. Yet the end of verse 8 there's a call in there. Not rendering evil for evil Railing or railing for railing, but contrary-wise, blessing, knowing that ye are thereunto called. God has called us To be a blessing, not to be rail on those that rail on us, or uh contrary or uh evil for evil, knowing there, knowing that ye are thereunto called, that ye should inherit a blessing. Let's pray. Father, we ask you to bless now as we've been dissecting this verse here, statement by statement, through this list that Peter's given. I pray you'd help us, oh Holy Spirit. I pray you'd speak our hearts. I pray you'd grip us and help us, Lord. To be the submissive Christian that you intend for us to be, that you designed us to be. Help us to function the way you designed us spiritually, mentally. A function. And I ask, Lord, with all my heart, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit tonight. Lord, you're the author of this book, and you can teach us. You can apply to our lives. Particularly this one truth here in ways that I am unable to. So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew just as an instrument, a vessel. For you to fill and speak through me. And so please have your way. Help us to be responsive, Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. Peter is listing in verse number eight here. He has five characteristics Of a submissive Christian. And we've been pointing out, as we've spent a good bit of time here on this section and back into chapter 2, that he is addressing this matter of submission in life. Submitting to the government authorities, he talks there at the end of chapter two. Submitting to our employers, to use our terminology Submission in the whole. Submission, he used Jesus Christ as an example of Jesus' submission to God the Father, even to the point of being crucified, and then the blessings that that produced, the salvation. That came out of Christ's submission to his father. And he comes down here and he's carrying on the subject and he says, f again, verse 8, finally, my brethren, finally, and he goes through this list, and we get here uh to verse the last part of the verse and he says this be courteous be courteous Interesting that he would put that statement in the list. Now I want to remind you who he's writing to. He's writing to Christians, but Christians that are in a particular circumstance. They're under intense persecution. They are being treated about as hatefully as you can imagine. Some of them have lost loved ones who have been martyred, killed for no other reason than they were disciples of Jesus Christ. They've been lied about, they've been lied to, they've been stolen from, they've been run out of their homes They've been maligned and reviled. They've been treated about as badly as a person can possibly be treated. I doubt seriously, I doubt seriously that any of us here have been treated by anybody The way these disciples were treated that Peter's writing to. Now that helps put it in a little context. That helps us see this, what he's instructing them to do. And how he's instructing them to behave to people that have treated them so unkindly, literally murdered their loved ones and run them out and persecuted them He says, be courteous. Be courteous. I looked up the word courteous in Noah Webster's dictionary, probably the greatest dictionary ever put together. And it says this, to be courteous means to be polite, be civil, graceful. I looked it up in Miriam Webster Dictionary, a little more contemporary dictionary. It said this: to have polished manners. Be courteous, have polished manners. And then I looked it up in dictionary. com And it said this, having good manners. Having good manners. Be courteous. Be courteous. I got studying the Bible. The Bible says, and what Peter's talking about here, and I found out what Peter's talking about, biblical courtesy, goes much farther than what these dictionaries describe courtesy as. Biblical courtesy goes much deeper than what these secular dictionaries are suggesting. Biblical courtesy, let me put it this way, biblical courtesy is much more than just being polite. Anybody can be polite. The most hardened criminal, murder, can be polite Talking about something much, much deeper than that. Something that goes much, much farther than that. I've got three thoughts about Christian courtesy, biblical Christian courtesy tonight. Number one, here's my first thought I put this down. Christian courtesy is an unnatural trait. It's unnatural. And by that I simply mean this: it's a supernatural ability that God gives us. To have to be courteous. Um it's not something that our flesh can work up. In fact, I want to go so far as to suggest what he's talking about here, and I think you'll see here in a few minutes. I want to go so far as to suggest to you that what he's talking about, biblical courtesy, be courteous, the flesh is unable. To manifest that, to exhibit biblical courtesy. It's a supernatural trait. It's a supernatural characteristic. Now as I got studying this, always, as I say so often, I like to look, see how it's used other places in the Bible. I look up the definition, look at the word it comes from. I try to learn everything I can about that statement. You know what I found out? That word and the word it comes from is used nowhere else in the New Testament. It's the only time the New Testament uses that phrase, be courteous, or even the word that it's translated from is used nowhere else. in the New Testament. This is the only place. However, there are two times that are very similar term is used, comes from a similar word. If you would, keep your place here and come back with me to the book of Acts. And the two places in the book of Acts. First is Acts chapter 27. I want you to look and see this I'm going to ask you some questions about that. How many people love it when you go to church and the pastor asks you questions about that? Anybody love it? Nobody. Alright, we're going to do it anyway. Acts chapter 7, 27. And look with me in verse number 3. Paul is being shipped up, I mean literally shipped up to Rome as a prisoner. And verse number two, it says, entering into a ship, and note of the name there, we launched, meaning to sail by the coast of Asia. And when Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us, and uh the next day, look at this, the next day we touched at Sidon And Julius, now if you go up to verse number one, you find that Julius was a Roman centurion. Now I want to stop. Well, I'm not going to stop. And Julius, this Roman centurion, courteously, courteously entreated Paul. And gave him liberty to go into his friends to refresh himself. Now here you have this centurion, Julius. Paul is a Roman prisoner How many people understand the Roman centurions did not generally treat their prisoners very kindly? Everybody understand that, right? This isn't a formal party. This is a prisoner, along with murderers and others, along with it. He's just another one of them. But Julius, the Bible says here, treated Paul courteously. Now here's what I want well let me show you the next one, then I'll tell you what I observed here. Go over to chapter 28 And verse number seven. Paul's on the way, a storm hit, they get stranded on an island. And on that island there are savages, barbarians, verse 4 says. And verse 7 of Acts 28 says, In the same quarters were possessions of the chief men of the island, the chief man of the island, whose name was Publius. Who received us, now this is a barbarian savage. He received us and lodged us three days. What's the last word? Courteously. So here you have Publius. He's a barbarian savage, not known for their Christian graces. Not known for their kindness. But yet he treats Paul and his others, he treats them courteously. Now, here we have, it's not the exact same word, it's similar, comes from a similar word, but here's what I noticed about this. Here you have two very unsaved men Pagan, hardened, Roman centuriate, hateful, have no problems mistreating people And yet these two treated Paul courteously. You know what's a sad truth? I wish I don't want to say this. I wish what I'm about to say was not true. But you know what's tragic? Sometimes the unsaved world treats people kinder than Christians treat people. It's true. True. I've said over the years, I learned, my ministry over the years, two classifications of people that treat me most hatefully. That treat me most unkindly, most disrespectfully, and not that I deserve respect or anything, one is homosexuals. That class, I'm just a fact. I've had more threats and more hateful things said to me by that class of people than anyone, any others. You know what the second closest is? Christians Christians. I've had Christians threaten my life. I've had church members threaten to beat me to a pulp. Now, why is that that sometimes an unsaved the unsaved people will treat people more kindly Than professing Christians do. Anybody ever wonder that? Anybody ever wonder that? And as I'm studying this, be courteous. I noticed that the only other time a word that's even close to the word courteous is used in the Bible, it is unsaved people treating Paul with courtesy. Treating Paul kindly, graciously. So one word is not used anywhere else in the Bible That Peter uses here. Now you have a very similar word used here, but here's something else I found that as I study the Bible, and that is this. This concept of being courteous is taught all through the Bible. Though the word may not be used, the concept is all through the Bible, all through the Bible. Again, keep your place there in Peter. Would you come back to Matthew chapter number 5? Matthew chapter number five. Here's a sermon on the mound, the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached. The Lord Jesus Christ, he's discipling his disciples. He's not preaching to unsaved at this point. He's got his disciples. Not just the twelve, a good number of them. Great multitude of folks that have trusted in the Savior and they've committed themselves to be followers of Him. And He's discipling them. And in chapter five, in chapter five of Matthew If you come over to verse 43, notice a statement the Lord makes, and he's making a statement that I believe fall within the same category that Peter is telling us uh recipients of his letter to be courteous. Notice verse 43. Ye have heard that it hath been said, thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. Notice the first words of verse 44, but I say unto you, love your who? Enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you. And pray for them. Look at this, which what? to spitefully use you, and persecute you, that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven, for he maketh the sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the on the unjust. In other words, God's good to people that are not good to Him. If ye love them which love you, what other reward have you? And the answer to that question is what? You don't get any reward if you just love those that love you. Do not even the publicans the same? That's what we pointed out. The unsaved treating people kind. And if you salute your brethren only, what do you mourn than others? Do not even publicans so? Be ye therefore perfect, or that has the idea of being complete. Even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. Come over, if you would, to Ephesians chapter number 4. We're talking about this concept of being courteous In Ephesians chapter four, this we run into this concept again And uh I want to begin reading in verse number 29. This is a very familiar passage for many of us, Ephesians 4, verse 29. Notice carefully. Now we're thinking about being courteous. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. How much corrupt communication should proceed out of our mouth? None I just thought a little song we used to teach uh kids on the bus when I was young, oh be careful little Eyes what you see. Anybody ever hear that song? For your father. There's a verse on that would say this, oh, be careful, little tongue, what you say. For the father up above is looking down in love, so be careful, little tongue, what you say. That's what he's talking about. Let no evil communication proceed out of your mouth. Corrupt communication But that which is good to the use of edifying, building up, that it may minister what? Grace to the hearers And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby years healed unto the day of redemption, but all bitterness. Now I circle the word awe. Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. Now look at this. Here it is And be ye kind one to another. Tender-hearted. Forgiving one another. Now here he puts the standard down. Even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. Be courteous, Peter says I can't find that exact praise or even the word it comes from anywhere else in the Bible. I find two places that are very similar They were treated courteously by unsaved people of all folks. But I find that concept, and I just gave two verses, we can look at dozens Passages that teach us that we are to be courteous as disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to give you a definition. Here's my definition of biblical courtesy. I said Noah Webster, Miriam Webster, DuckDictionary. com. They said be polite and be nice. Have manners, but it's far more than that. You'll study it very carefully. Here's my definition of biblical courtesy. To make myself small. To make myself a servant to another. If you study the word it comes from, the root of that word, be courteous, the root of that word. is to be humble. It has this idea to humble myself before others. To have a lowly servant attitude about myself. In other words, Peter is telling these Christians who are under intense persecution are treated so unjustly, are lied about, lied to, treated so hatefully. And he says, you view yourself as just a servant. You view yourself as just a small, humble yourself with a servant attitude. Philippians chapter 2 and verse 3 says this, listen, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. That word esteem means to value. Say, preacher, you think he's telling us as disciples of Christ that if somebody mistreats me? If somebody says hateful things to me and about me, and somebody doesn't live up to my expectation and my demands That I'm to treat and value them as somebody more important than myself and better than myself? That I'm to humble myself and view myself as a servant to them? Is that what he's saying? Yeah. That's what he's saying. Say, preacher, that's tough. Say, preacher, I don't think I can do that. That's my point. It's supernatural. The flesh can't work this up. My flesh wants to react. Somebody says something, somebody does something, somebody doesn't meet my expectations. Ah! Be a snake and strike at him. God says, no, don't be a snake. You'd be a worm. Humble yourself. Be courteous. It's a supernatural thing. This does not come naturally. It's not something that our sinful flesh can work up. It's something God has to enable us to do. Another passage, would you turn to Galatians with me or Ephesians, just back towards the front of your Bible, page or two? Galatians chapter number five. I tell you, I go to this passage so often when dealing with the Christian life, I think Verse number 20, verse number 19 down through the end of the chapter is a key passage on living the Christ-like life. On living the spirit-filled life. Look at verse number 19. Now, the works of the flesh, that's that old sinful nature. That's what you and I naturally are. Are manifest, which are these. And he gives this list: adultery, fornication Uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred Variance, that means strife, fussing, fighting. Emulations, that's a form of envy, fierce envy, wrath. Strife, seditions, that means dividing up, taking sides, heresies, envying, murders, drunkenness Revelings, that's just carrying well, going wild. And the such like, of the which I tell you before, as I have told you in time past, they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. That's a work of the flesh. That's the old sinful nature. And look at verse 22. But the fruit of the Spirit, capital S, Holy Spirit. Is what? Love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness Goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law You know what's being taught there? He's teaching us that this courteousness, this humbling myself And viewing myself as a servant and others, steeming others better than myself, is something the Holy Spirit produces. Not the flesh. It's something God's Holy Spirit, who dwells within every believer, enables us to do. So my first thought is this. Being courteous is a unnatural trait. It doesn't come naturally. What he's talking about. Now, we can be polite. That flesh can be polite Flesh can be mannerly. You know, you can be polite to someone and hate their guts in your heart, right? You can open the door for somebody and be cussing them under your breath No, I've never done that, but I've heard that people do that. You follow what I'm saying? The world's definition of being courteous, the flesh can do that. But what Peter's talking about, what God's talking about, is a whole nother level. That's where I die to self. That's where I yield myself to God and say, Lord, I want you to fill me with your spirit. I want you to manifest this fruit in my life. Biblical Christian courtesy is something the Holy Spirit enables us to do as we die to self and then we yield ourselves to Him. Number one. It's an unnatural quit uh trait. Number two, I put down real quickly, it's an unqualified trait. Now let me explain what I mean by that. I come back to 1 Peter here, if you would, chapter 3, verse number 8. I look at this and I studied it and I read it over and over and over and I looked around and looked around. You know what I can find out? I find no qualifications on this. I find no exceptions on who I'm to be courteous to. I got looking at there and I thought, surely that hateful boss, God wouldn't expect me to be courteous to a hateful boss. And I looked up the meaning, I looked up the Greek behind it, I cross-referenced everything, and you know what I found out? It doesn't exempt the hateful boss. There's no qualifications on this. There's no criteria that has to be met before I'm to be courteous to somebody. It's to be practiced by all Christians. We pointed that out early in the message. Finally, be ye all courteous. It's to be extended to all people. All Christians are to be courteous to everybody. That's all I'm trying to say. That's what he's saying. He says, surely there's some exemption. Surely there's a loophole here somewhere. And I don't have to be courteous to that person. Ah, no loopholes. By the way, God's Word doesn't have any loopholes anywhere. I can find no exceptions, I can find no one exempt. You say, preacher, if you knew my wife You know why I can't be courteous to her. I don't see an exemption for the wife there. Amen, ladies Well, if you knew what my parents were like, then I wouldn't be so courteous to them. Doesn't matter. I don't see an exemption. Remember who Peter's writing to. These are people that are not just killing them, but are torturing them out of enjoyment, hatred for them. And he says, you be courteous to them. You humble yourself. You esteem others better than yourself. If you knew what my boss was like If you knew my neighbor, how hateful he is, if you knew how sinful those people are. No. Doesn't matter how sinful they are. Doesn't matter how hateful they are. Doesn't matter how unkind or unjust they treat us. The Bible says there's no qualifications on this. Be courteous. Period. All y'all be courteous to everybody. So, number one, it's unnatural. The Holy Spirit has to enable us to do this. Number two, it's unqualified. It's to everybody. I think there's uh two tremendous examples in the Bible. Of this being played out, somebody doing exactly what Peter's talking about here. One, anybody familiar with Stephen in the Bible, in the book of Acts? What happened to Stephen? Somebody help me. He was stoned for no other reason than preaching the gospel. Now, I I don't want to die. I want to live my life as long as the Lord have me live. But if somebody's going to kill me I guess I'd rather they just go ahead and shoot me in the head, right? Just get it over with. Boom. Done with. Can you imagine put yourself in the shoes of Stephen? And dying by stoning. You talk about horrific I saw a video. I hate it. I wished I hadn't watched it. I can't get out of my head. Years ago, they had a video of a woman in the Middle East, one of the Muslim countries. And they buried her to her waist, and there must have been fifty, seventy-five, a hundred people, and they all had stones about the size of my fist And they videotaped that woman being stoned to death. For real, not Hollywood. It was horrific. Peter or Stephen is being stoned to death. And he says, Lord, lay not this sin against their charge. He loved them. He was courteous. He would rather die and then not be held responsible. Lord, please don't hold them responsible. You see what I'm saying? Being courteous is a whole lot more than just being polite. It's dying to self. It's something the Holy Spirit of God enables me to do. I'll tell you what I think is the greatest illustration of being courteous in the Bible. When the Lord Jesus Christ had his twelve disciples around him, the Bible says he laid aside his garb and he took up a, and I'm not quoting this exactly right, but he took up a towel. And got a bowl of water. And he went around to his twelve disciples, and he took that water and kneeled down in front of them like he was some kind of slave. Some servant in the house, the creator of the universe, the God of glory, whom the angels adored and worshiped for eternity past He laid aside his garb and knelt down like a slave. He poured water over the feet of his disciples. He washed the dust off their feet and wiped it dry. You say, well that's that's pretty humble. We ain't done yet. Here's the Peter, John, James, Thaddeus. Comes to Judas. Judas washes his feet. Wipes it dry, looks him in the eye. He says, Judas, what you've got to do, go do it. Go do it A devil possessed, lying thief acting like he loves Jesus. Jesus washed his feet. Be courteous. That's what Peter's talking about. You know when later on when Jesus is in the Garden of Gethsemane and Judas shows up. Betraying him has all these Roman soldiers with him. You know what Jesus' words are, the Judas? Friend? Friend, be courteous. You say Judas didn't deserve to be treated that way. Nah. You and I don't deserve to be treated the way God treats us. Say he was a demon-possessed, lying thief. The Lord should have spit on his feet. That's what the flesh would do, right? That's what the sinful nature would do. But Peter says you don't do that. You're a disciple of Jesus Christ. You're indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. We live by a different standard. We have different morals we operate by. Be courteous. Be courteous. Number one, it's unnatural. The Lord has to enable us to do this. The Holy Spirit has to fill us. We've got to die to self. Say, Lord, I'm yielded to you. You enable me to do this. It's unqualified. Even Judas It's to be treated courteously. And then last of all I end with this. It's an unusual treat. And by that I mean this. It's rarely seen. This is unusual to have somebody be courteous in the biblical sense. Stands out in this old sinful world. I can see, I guess If an unsaved person is under the wrath of God, and they are, they could be wrathful, right? You follow what I'm saying? They're under the wrath of God and they're angry. God's angry at them for their sin. It's unforgiven. They're held responsible. And man, they're just angry. Or somebody is unforgiven by God, and I can see where they might be unforgiving to others They're still in their sins. They only experience the forgiveness of God. Thus they might be unforgiving. But I'll tell you what is foreign The scripture, I'll tell you what is foreign to the spirit-filled Christian is somebody who is so forgiven by God and will not forgive. Somebody that has experienced such mercy from our God and is merciless to others. Someone that has experienced such grace in the salvation of our soul in the full forgiveness to be ungracious to others. That's foreign. That's foreign to the biblical Christian life. This is an unusual thing. Someone who was uh has received God's patience And yet is impatient with others. Those who have received God's kindness ought to show kindness to others Peter's writing to New Testament believers who are intensely persecuted, you and I can't comprehend what they're dealing with, what they're living like And he's saying to them, You be courteous. Only the Holy Spirit of God can enable you to do that. You have to die to self, you have to be filled with the Holy Spirit. There's no qualification. Hey guys You're out there in Asia Minor. They're running you through the fields, town to town, hunting you down. You be courteous. No qualification. Don't just be nice to those who are nice to you. You be nice to those who are unkind to you. And he said, this it's not normal. It's unusual. Not many people are going to be that way. I have a book I read, try to every day, very seldom do I miss. I read one little chapter out of it a day. It's a book about that thick, and it's full of the testimonies of people around the world, past and present, who are being martyred and persecuted for their faith in Christ. Thailand, Cambodia, Romania back under Chai Cheskal. Is that right? Did I say her name right? Communist leader And there's a little just brief testimonies, events in there. And I read one the other day. Actually, I read several the other day. And they made this statement. This shook me They said, if I wasn't a Christian witness to the person torturing me, if I wasn't gracious and Christ-like to them, they might never get saved. If I would get bitter and angry to those that mistreat me, they might never come to know Christ. And the whole point on the number of these testimonies was this: we have got to be forgiving and kind and courteous, biblical, to those that treat us so wrongly. Because we might never influence them to come to Christ or to know the Lord. Isn't that something Courteous. Be courteous. And the the people he's writing it to is what boggles my mind. That's what makes it so striking. I read about a gal. I don't know anything more about it than this article I read about her. Rose Rosie Rosaria. Rosaria Butterfield. He was a professor, she taught, I think, in a college or university. She wrote a memoir. of how she became a Christian. This Miss Butterfield was a devout lesbian. She was a hardened atheist. She hated Christians, she hated Christianity. And she wrote a lengthy article for a local newspaper blasting Christianity. And she made this statement. She said in the article, she said her impression of Bible-believing Christians was that they are poor thinkers Judgmental, scornful, and afraid of diversity. She wrote that in the newspaper. She said in her memoirs that she received tons of mail in response to this article she wrote. She said, blambasting her, calling her names, condemning her And she said about the most hateful things you can possibly imagine coming from the Christian world. She said, I cleared my desk off and I put two boxes. One said hateful and the other was kind. And she said, every letter I got, I divided them. Occasionally she got and she got one letter and it was from a pastor and his wife, Christian pastor and his wife. And she said, I read that. And she said, he disagreed strongly with me. He questioned me, many of my positions and my attitudes, but he was gracious and kind. And respectful in everything he said. She said, I didn't know what to do with the letter. Wasn't hateful, but it wasn't supportive either. She just let it lay there. She said time went by and it ate at her, it ate at her. That this man that she thought would be so judgmental and so hateful, and now all the others were He was gracious and he was courteous. Finally, she made contact. She goes, I need to talk to this guy. She contacted the pastor. And they engaged in conversation, and he challenged her positions and her lifestyle from Scripture, but in a respectful, he spoke the truth, but in love. And she said the Spirit of God began working on her. And she came to know Jesus Christ, her personal Savior, and her entire lifestyle and worldview was completely altered. Isn't that something? You know what happened? Somebody was courteous to a very sinful person. Peter's writing says, be courteous. Here's my invitation tonight. This is what the Lord spoke to my heart about. We're finished up the Lord's day. We're going out into a new work week. I wonder if we might not be good for us to kneel at an old altar and say, Holy Spirit of God, fill me with your Holy Spirit. Help me die to self. Lord, help me be courteous. You be courteous and loving and gracious through me. I want you to bear the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Anybody and everybody. At home, in the community, at work, in the neighborhood, just be courteous. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I ask you to help us to follow the instructions that God gives us here. Help us to trust you by faith and put ourselves aside. Mortify the deeds of the flesh, and you'd fill us with your spirit. And this world would see Christians who are courteous and kind, not compromising. The courteous. Lesser imitation I pray now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James playing the hint