Psalm 29, I'd like first to notice verse number two. Now you're going to recognize verse number two is our memory verse for the month of February. And of course, today being the last Sunday of the month, that means you can say your verses. We're set up in the lobby. And if you can come by and quote your verse, word perfect. And we'll have a special prize for you there, so you can do that after the service this morning or this evening. But it's verse number two, again, our memory verse, says this: Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Now here's my message. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. I've entitled the message, The Beauty of Holiness. Let's pray and ask the Lord to uh speak to our hearts this morning. Father in heaven, uh we come to you this morning very grateful for just the sunshine and uh just the pleasant weather and picked up a little bit. We're so thankful for that I thank you for the facilities you've given us where we have plenty of room to park and fellowship together, a nice comfortable uh building. Uh and we're so grateful all of this, Lord, you've given us and all paid for. Just Lord, you're so good. And we ask now that you would use your word to challenge us, encourage, Lord, correct us where we need that. You promised us in your word that if two or three would gather together in your name, that you would be here in the midst of us, in our presence. And we believe by faith, Lord, that you are here right here and now. God, we can't see you, we can't feel you, we can't hear you. But God, we know you're just here just as real as the person beside us. And so I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, who is the author of this text. I pray that you would speak through me your word and apply to each of our hearts and lives As you know we have need. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Our theme for 2025 is worship the Lord. And all our scripture verses, as we memorize throughout the year, are going to be about worshiping the Lord. And of course, with that theme, I've been studying. more so than normal, maybe targeting my study would be the way to say it, on what does the Bible teach about worshiping the Lord? And um, of course I've studied it over the years in various uh levels, but um the more I'm focusing on this matter of worshiping the Lord, the more important I'm realizing it is for a Christian to actually worship God as the Bible explains worship. The more I'm studying it, the more important it is for a church, for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Not just us as individuals, but us as a body of believers, us as a body of Christ. I see in how important it is that we worship God, worship the Lord as a congregation, as individuals, in our individual lives, in our homes But also here together as believers. All through Scripture, there's an emphasis upon worshiping the Lord Uh the book of Leviticus. I just finished up about earlier in the week the book of Leviticus. And um the book of Leviticus is uh mm the majority of the book of Leviticus, just about the whole thing is instructions for Israel on their worship of God, Jehovah, as a nation and as individuals. Of course, there's very specific ceremonies for various applications, but that's the context, the theme of Leviticus is worshiping God, Israel, how to worship God. The book of Psalms, the longest book in the Bible, largest book in the Bible. The underlying theme of the book of Psalms is worshiping God. And so, as I said, I'm starting to see more so than maybe I did ever before realize the importance of us worshiping God as the people of God. Now it's important to understand, and we've touched on this in a message back in January, and we'll be preaching throughout the year on worshiping. But worshiping God is much more than simply attending church. Sometimes people get the idea, well, you know what a when you're going to worship God, you have to go to church. And that's how you worship God. Worshiping God is a whole lot more than just going to church. Worshiping God is much more than simply singing hymns. Some churches will have what they call a worship team. And I'm not trying to be critical, don't misunderstand me. I'm not trying to be critical, but generally if somebody says they have a worship team That team's primary focus is what? Singing. Worship, but singing. Our worship team, it's singing, it's singing. And as I'm studying Scripture, I'm coming to the conclusion, worship is not simply just going to church. It's not just singing hymns Although it certainly includes that, that would be part of our worship, but that's not what worship is biblically at its core. Worship, as we had mentioned again in a previous message, is more of a frame of mind Worshiping God is more of a an attitude almost that I have, a way of seeing God and myself and my circumstances This is what the understanding I come of what worship is. Worship is recognizing God's supreme authority. Over myself, over all of his creation, God has supreme, ultimate, unchallenged authority over all of that And I respond to that recognition of his authority. I respond by humbling myself. And I trust him and I express adoration to him. And uh I submit to him in humility. And I say, Yes, Lord, I'll trust you, I'll do what you say. And I'm probably being maybe a little repetitious here, but If you would study sometime Abraham when God instructs Abraham to take his son Isaac and offer him up for a sacrifice, which is unthinkable in our minds And Abraham, rather than arguing with God, rather than debating with God, rather than getting up in a huff and saying, What are you talking about? A sacrifice my son? Are you crazy? He doesn't do any of that The Bible says he told his assistants, his servants there, we're going to go up on the mountain and we're going to worship God. You know what it was? Abraham said, God, I don't understand it, it doesn't make a bit of sense to me. But your authority, I trust you, I have faith in you, I'm going to do what you say, and just trust you. That's worship. That's worship. Again, I think there's many many, many illustrations throughout scripture. I'm just pulling these through because in my mind they're they're the most obvious. Is uh uh Job. We all know Job's experience. And when he first lost everything, all his property, his family, his health is gone. The Bible says in the opening chapters of Job, excuse me, it says that he worshiped God. Wow. Basically, this is what he was doing. Job was saying, God, I don't understand this. This is overwhelming. But God, you're in charge. You're God. And God, I trust you. I recognize you have the authority to allow this to happen. I trust you. And I'll do what you say. Later on in the book, he makes a statement. He says, Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. I'm here to tell you, that's worship. That's worship. It's much more than just singing a song, going to a church service. It's recognizing God's authority and with adoration and with humility Lord, I trust you and I submit to you, and I exalt your name. Worship is more of a lifestyle than it is an act of a moment. It's a men it's a it's an attitude, it's a frame of mind, but it's a lifestyle, it's how I live my life. You've heard me say this many times. I'm I know I'm being repetitious here a bit, but I have never, when I came here as pastor, we never called our church services worship services. Now, do we worship God in our services? Sure, absolutely, I'd like to think so. But if all if this is all worship is, then what happens when we leave? Do we stop worshiping God? No, that ought to carry on, that mentality, that attitude. That recognition of God, who he is, and what he is, and my trust in him, my submission to him, my humility before him, that ought to carry on in our homes I'm saying God ought to be worshipped in our homes just as much as He's worshipped in the church service. He ought to be worshiped in our recreation, on vacation, as much as he is when we're in church. It's a lifestyle. It's a lifestyle of faith. Trusting God. It's a lifestyle of praise. Having gratitude for God's goodness and God's holiness. An attitude, it's a lifestyle of submission to the Lord. I don't believe worship is an act of a moment, although there are moments when that worship is expressed. But it's as much an attitude as it is a lifestyle The more I'm studying Scripture, the more I'm coming to that conclusion. The more I'm studying Scripture, the more I'm seeing how important it is for you and I as individuals to establish that frame of mind. And that attitude established that type of lifestyle as individuals and us as a church. Not like Independent Baptist Church, we ought to recognize that God is the ultimate authority. And we ought to be adore him and ought to submit to that authority and trust him and obey him, follow his instructions because he is who he is, and we worship him. Psalm 29 gives us some insights on worshiping God. Psalm 29 emphasizes God's majesty and God's power. And I just want to make this statement right now. God is majestic. God is all powerful. And Psalm 29 emphasizes that, that majesty of God, that power of God. Now if we look at Psalm 29, you have your Bibles there. Look Above verse number one, we're given very little information as to the background of the book or anything outside of the chapter, I should say, anything outside of this psalm, other than we're told that it was penned by David. A Psalm of David. So there's no question there. We see that very clearly. I would say David knew something about worshiping God. We studied his life some time ago on Wednesday nights, and I was fascinated, I still am fascinated by the life of David. And David knew how to worship God. And I don't know if I mean I guess I can say it this way, but I'm studying it, we're studied his life. I come to the conclusion David is one of the great worshipers of God in all scripture God used him to pen scores of psalms, many of them preserved, inspired by God, preserved for us. He wrote many, many others that we've never read, we know nothing of. So David knew something about worshiping God. He's one of the greatest examples of a worshiper of God in all of Scripture. So other than the fact that David penned Psalm 29, other than that we know very little about the background of it, the context. We have no idea what the circumstances were when David penned this, when God moved on David to write this psalm down. We don't know what the circumstances were. We're not told If we look at the 11 verses that make up the psalm very carefully, we see some things that give us some insight. It appears that this psalm was penned either during a tremendous thunderstorm or it was influenced by a tremendous thunderstorm. There's a phrase repeated from verse number 3 down through verse 9. There's a phrase repeated over and over and over and over. Anyone notice that phrase? The voice of the Lord. The voice of the Lord is upon the waters. Look at this. The God of glory thundereth. And he goes down, and if you look at it, it sounds like he's describing a horrific thunderstorm that blows through. Verse 5: the voice of the Lord breaketh the cedars. Yea, the Lord breaketh the cedars of Lebanon. He causeth them to skip like a calf. Now, how does a cedar tree skip like a calf? It's being blown across the field. Ah, to me, I'm looking at this and I think he's describing a thunderstorm, a horrific thunderstorm. And so we don't know. We're supposing, it appears, that David saw this storm And God stirred his heart. And that storm prompted David to think of God's power, the thunder. It was the voice of God. Anybody here ever been in a storm where it out absolutely shook your bones, the thunder? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean the window pane rattle and the thunder. You know what I'm talking about? David experienced that and he said That's like the voice of the Lord. He's not saying the thunder was the voice of the Lord, but he says that impact. Anybody here ever have a thunder or lightning strike so strong it's a little intimidating You know what I'm talking about? Bo! Whoa! He says that's the voice of the Lord. Back in these days when David was, many of them would consider these powerful storms to be a display of God's power. And I, to be honest with you, to me, some of these storms are a display of God's power. We see what this can do. The power behind some of these storms. And so, David, we don't know what the context was. And by the way, we don't know when he wrote this. Maybe And again, this is total speculation on my part. Perhaps David is a young teenage boy watching the sheep. Functioning as a shepherd up on the backside of a mountain in the wilderness with his flock of sheep and a storm comes rolling in. Anybody here ever been somewhere and a storm comes out of nowhere and bolt And the storm comes blowing in, and they're running for cover, and he gets maybe in a cave, gets the sheep in, and as he s witnesses this, and God stirs the heart to write it down. Maybe as a young young man, maybe that's The the context of him pending this, I don't know. Maybe later f fleeing from King Saul uh and hiding in the wilderness. He spent a long time out in the wilderness hiding from from King Saul, and no doubt storms would come through. And so again, we know nothing about the background here of this psalm other than it was penned by David, of course God being the author. Verse 1 and 2 is what I want to give attention to this morning. I think he gives us, as I said, a little insight on worshiping God in verse 1 and 2. He doesn't really explain what worshiping God is. We study the teaching of Scripture, we come to a conclusion what worshiping God is. And I tried to describe my understanding a a few moments ago. So he's not talking about what it means to worship God, but he's talking a little bit. He just gives a little insight on how to worship God, what it entails. Now, I don't know about you, but if worshiping God is important for us and I'm absolutely convinced from Scripture that it is important for you and I as individuals to worship God and us as a church to worship God. It's in vitally important for us. It's vital to our Christian life. And not just on Sunday mornings, but throughout the week, as we said. So if it with it being that important, and now I come across the passage and it tells me a little bit Gives me a little insight on how to do that. I'm paying attention. It's something I need to do, something that's important for me and my family, my spiritual well-being, our church And here's a little tidbit, a little something. This is what it consists of. Ah, I want to pay attention to that. I want to learn from that. I noticed too. Ingredients listed here in worshiping God, two aspects. These aren't comprehensive. There's many, many others we find in Scripture, but David, under the inspiration of God, touches on two The first one I notice is the giving of worship. The giving of worship. Look at verse 1. Very first word. What's it say? Give. Give unto the Lord, O ye mighty. Give unto the Lord. There it is again, two times. Glory and strength. Look at verse 2. What's the opening phrase? Give unto the Lord The glory due unto his name. Three times. Now we know he's talking about worship because the last part of verse 2 tells us. Dealing with worship. And when he's talking about worship, David, under the inspiration of God, uses this phrase three times, given to the Lord, given to the Lord, given to the Lord. And that tells me that there is a giving aspect in our worship, the giving of worship. Now, giving isn't the most popular topic for a preacher to preach on. I thank God for our church. I believe Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is a very giving church. And I uh I just praise the Lord. The faithfulness, our missionaries, a church our size, support 90 missionaries at the level we do. That's of course God gets the glory But there must be some people who worship God in giving. That doesn't just happen, right? But the m money, we're not the government. It doesn't just appear People give, people give, people give. Um and again, I uh I please don't misunderstand my motive and what I'm saying right now This is all for the glory of God. God's done it, but all our facilities, all our properties, we don't owe a penny. No debt. Zero. None whatsoever. Praise the Lord for that. But that tells you something about the church. There are people in the church who believe in giving. Right? You you follow what I'm saying? You don't misunderstand what I'm saying, I hope. Praise God for that. And that, David says, that is an aspect of our worship of God. To give. Giving is an essential part of the Christian faith. Giving is an act of worship. I put this down. We are a lot like God when we give. Think with me, John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. God gave us his son. For our sins. Wow. Right there. Boy, right there. Shoo Acts 17, 25, the Bible says God gives all of us life. He gives us his life. I don't know about you. I thank God for the gift of life. I got several years ago in the morning and then particularly in the evening devotions, my wife and I, and we pray together. I just got stirred to thank God every day for the gift of life. The gift of life. 1 Corinthians 3, verse 7 says that God gives us spiritual growth. I hope you're growing in the Lord. I want to grow in the Lord. The Bible tells us that spiritual growth isn't because I'm some great guy. Boy, what a great guy he's wrote. No, the Bible says God gives us that spiritual growth. So we trust him and let him lead us. He grows us spiritually. It's a gift. He gives. God gives. God gives. Every one of these passages uses the term give. God gives. 1 Corinthians 15, 57 tells us that God gives us victory in our life. It is God that gives us victory. First Timothy six, seventeen says that God gives us all richly all things to enjoy. James 1:5 says that God gives us wisdom. James 4, 6 says God gives us more grace. 1 Peter 4:11, God gives us abilities. The gifts and abilities, the talents, the skills. That every one of us have, we need to understand, those are gifts to us by God. Sometimes people miss that. I say, oh, I did this, and I'm the best at this and I'm good at this and I can do that and I'm talented here. Listen, that may be true, but you need to understand it's nothing of me, it's a gift that God has given to us. We have gifted people in our church, gifted singers. Wasn't that a blessing? We have gifted folks that are gifted at organization and and administration and keeping records and books and thank God that's a gift of God. We have people in our church that are very gifted at uh building and making things and I always think of Bezalel in the Old Testament. God gave him wisdom to build and make something. We have people in our church. That's a gift of God to us. He gives that ability. Some of us are very good at eating, and um we're all gifted in various ways The point I'm trying to make is God gives and he gives and he gives and he gives and he gives and he gives and he gives to us. And when you and I respond to that by giving. Worshiping God by giving of ourselves. We're being like God in a sense. It's godly. We are a lot like God when we give. When we sincerely and humbly give to our Lord the glory to His name We give to the Lord our honor and our respect and our love and our admonition. We give that to God. It's an act of worship. We talked about worship is not just singing a hymn or singing a song, although it certainly includes that. And when we sing, if we from our hearts sincerely and humbly are singing as unto the Lord, It's part of that worship. It's giving God the glory. We sing the song Glory to His Name. All praise to him who reigns above in majesty supreme. Now we can just lip that Or we can from our hearts give glory and honor to his name. You follow what I'm saying? Humbly and sincerely Um we give up our offerings. We take the offering up, oh brother offering. Or God's given so much. God has done so much for me. Unbelievable. Overwhelming. How much, God, I just want to give back. I just want to give him my tithe is minimum. I want to give my faith promise. Lord, I want others to know what you've done for me. I want others to experience this salvation that you've allowed me. I want others to have that. It's all part of worship. The giving of worship. The giving of worship. We're not merely obligated. Uh obligated to give. Now to be honest with you, I I think there is a sense of obligation. God's done so much But worship is not doing it out of obligation. Worship is doing it out of adoration. All God has done for me. Are you with me? You follow? Give unto the Lord. Give unto the Lord. O ye mighty, give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory to his name. The underlying motive of all our giving, whether it's the giving of our praise off our lips, the giving of our abilities and the gifts that God has given to us, then we use them for the Lord, we give that back to the Lord. A giving of the resources he's entrusted us with, and we give all of that. The underlying motive is gratitude and worship to God for what he's done for us. I think it's important in in Christian service. Whether it's teaching a Sunday school or working a bus route, singing in the choir, working in the nursery, sound room, uh children's church going on downstairs now. Whatever we're doing for the Lord, we need to understand our motive for doing that is not some sort of obligation or well there's a need, I've got to do it. And you know, that's that's surface need. But the underlying motive for all of it ought to be: God has done so much for me. I just want to give of myself back to Him. That's the motive behind it. We had years ago a person sang special. I had asked the person, hey, would you sing a special? This was early on, uh in the b early years, and um They did, and they did very good. They're a very good singer. And then later they said, listen, you owe me. I sang one for you. Now you owe me a favor. You know, they missed the point completely. Listen, uh anybody's singing, and it's and and and it's not just music, it's anything. If all we're doing it is for someone else, it's for for somebody, then we're missing the point. We're serving the Lord Because of what he's done for us out of motive out of a love and adoration for him. God, I want to serve you. I want to sing to your Lord, you've given me the ability to sing. I want to use it, give it back to you in my song. Now, I don't know, nobody's ever accused me of having the gift of singing. I've never been accused of that, but I like to sing. And Lord, uh here's the thing, I like what Lester Owald said. He said, the Lord Jesus never complained about my singing And I say amen. Others have, but the Lord never has. Our songs, our tithes, our faith promise, our service And serving around the church here in various ministries that God allows us to be a part of, we give all that to the Lord because of what He's given to us. That's worship. Sunday school teacher down there with a classroom full of little kids. Some of them are naughty, and some of them aren't. Most a lot of them are, but some of them aren't. Some are nice and neat and come from uh, you know, fairly wealthy homes. Others don't have much and they're not don't dress as nice. That teacher stands up and takes the eternal word of God and teaches those children what the Bible says and what God wants them to know. And that teacher, not out of obligation, or the preacher asked me to do. No, no, no. Because God's been so good to me, and I want Him to use me. I want to give of myself to reach these people. That's worship. I like to believe that downstairs, the last hour, during the Sunday school hour, there was a lot of worship going on. Up here, worship. Worship, the giving of worship. Giving of our abilities, our voice, our talents, our resources, our service. Giving is an act of worship. Giving advances our faith. John chapter 6, and we don't have time to look at all these, they're just tremendous. The Bible's full of it. But in John chapter 6, Jesus was teaching, and the day got long, and there was a crowd, 5,000 men, generally in a crowd of something like that. There's more women than men, generally, in a religious type setting. So there's 5,000 men. We could probably safely assume there's at least that many women. So there's 10,000 people. Then there's kids. We know there's at least one kid there. There's probably a slew of them So what, maybe a thousand kids? Size that two thousand? So let's say there was ten thousand people. Jesus teached them, the day gets long, you got away from them, they're so caught up And Jesus' teaching and the atmosphere there, they're taken in, they lose track of time. And finally the Lord looks out and he says, These people are hungry. They're faint. And and something has to be done. They need some sort of nourishment. It's been a w all day long. They haven't eaten a bite. They've been so captivated And he says to the disciples, and by the way, Jesus always knows what he's doing. But to make a point and teach a lesson, he asks the disciples, What are we going to do? You know the story, most of you Disciples say, good night. That's in the Greek. Good night. Look at the crowd. There's nothing we can do. You gotta send them away. One of the other disciples speaks up. Good night. If we had 200 pennies worth, we couldn't feed all them. We don't have enough money to buy food for all these people. Send them away. I think it was Andrew. Says, there's a little boy here who's got a lunch. But what's that? I mean, good night. Well how there's no way. But he's got a lunch here. And that little boy takes what he has, which wasn't hardly anything. But it was what he had, and he gives it to Jesus Christ. And what does Jesus do? Feeds 10,000 people with that little boy's lunch. Let me ask you a question. Do you think that little boy's faith in Jesus grew through that? I can see him going home to his friends that next week. They're out in the neighborhood and I says uh do you guys hear about my lunch with Jesus? What happened? I had I had uh what was it five loaves and two fishes Or five fishes and two loaves. Five loaves and two fishes. Wilbur's my Bible scholar here. And uh he fed 10,000 people. I can hear the little boy saying this: Jesus can do anything. Can't you hear a little boy saying that? He can do anything. You know what happens? We learn to give our praise, our service. Our time, our abilities, our resources we give to the Lord in worship, God always honors that. And our faith grows And we see even farther what God can do. My daddy taught me to give. I'm talking about finances now in this. He taught me to give. And I tell you, it's one of the great lessons that Daddy taught me. It's to give. Faith promise. I learned that God is faithful through the giving of the faith promise. Now, God honors that, not out of obligation, but out of an adoration for the Lord. I want others to experience what you've done for me, Lord, and I want to help people get there. And God has proven faithful. What I'm saying this is giving is an act of worship. And we're like God. We're mimicking God when we give. And God advances our faith and strengthens our faith. Nobody has ever grown spiritually by being stingy. Nobody has ever strengthened their faith by being stingy. I tell you, we trust God. God, I want you to ha I want to give of my time to you. Well, I just don't have time to serve God. I don't have time to do all that stuff at church. Listen, I understand that we got lives to live, but I've never regretted giving to the Lord. Whether it's time, uh-huh, I am extremely limited in abilities. But whatever I have, I've never regretted doing it for the Lord. I've never regretted giving to the Lord. And so it's an act of worship. Give unto the Lord. Give unto the Lord. Give unto He says three times And again, giving is honored by God. We don't have time. Luke 6. 38 give, and it shall be given unto you good measure and pressed down and shaken together and running over shall men give. Now he's not saying you give $100 and you'll get $10,000 back. He's not talking about investing in a spiritual stock market. But he is saying this, you give and the blessings will pour in. I tell you, some some of the biggest givers I know are some not very wealthy people. Percentage-wise. Remember the widow's might? Man, what a blessing. How God honored her and blessed her. And not just in finances, but in all my all of my being, all of Of what I am, I give to the Lord in worship. The most best people I know are generous in giving their praise to God. Man, I could just give the illustration illustration of people over the years I've known and here in our church. That in the midst of heartache, in the midst of difficulty, yet in the midst of all that, they gave God praise. And they gave God glory. And God blessed them with a peace of heart and a joy of the Lord that this world cannot give. And we give God the honor and glory due to his name. And God honors that. God honors that. And then, second of all, just two thoughts. I'll end with this next one. The giving of worship, and then second of all, the godliness of worship. Again, look at verse number two. It says, Give unto the Lord to glory to his name. Now look at this last statement: Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. What a tremendous phrase. God has a way with words, the beauty of holiness. My first thought is the importance of holiness. Both the Old and New Testament emphasize the importance of holiness on the part of God's people. What does it mean to be holy? Say some someone or something is holy. What does that mean? The word itself, holy, comes from the same word we get our word sanctification. It means to be set apart. Set apart for a specific purpose, a specific uh uh uh uh reason, specific purpose. This pulpit is set apart for the teaching and preaching of the Word of God. We don't use it to write letters on or do correspondence. It's set apart. It is holy for that purpose. It's sanctified for that purpose. Follow what I'm saying? So holiness, if I am holy, it means I am set apart, sanctified for the Lord. I'm the Lord's. I give myself to him. I'm his. My life is dedicated or sanctified, set apart for the Lord. That's what holiness is. The importance of holiness. Now there's two aspects of that idea of holiness being set apart. Well generally We think of being set apart as being separated for something that is wrong or sinful or evil. And I've illustrated this before And so we have this idea, well, if you're holy, you don't do this, and you don't do that, and you don't do this, and you don't do that. And then you're holy. That's not biblical holiness. Now I believe a Christian ought to be separated from sin. Amen. We ought to be separated from the things of this world, the wicked, simple things of this world. Amen or not. And by the way, that's probably one of the most neglected doctrines in Scripture is separation from sin. We live in a day and age, and I'm just get this off my chest, but we live in a day and age where modern Christianity, much of modern Christianity, doesn't separate from sin, it embraces it. Christianity, so-called. But what I'm trying to say is this holiness is not just not doing things. It's not just separating from the sinful, the evil, the wrong, the wicked. In fact, that's not what holiness is. Holiness is being separated unto the Lord. Unto God Himself, my life is committed. And by default, are you with me? I hope you follow my thinking here, because this is so important. By default, if I separate myself to the Lord, that will separate me from the things of the world. The closer I get to the Lord, the more I walk with God and seek to please Him and submit to His instructions in the Word. the farther I get from the sinful, wicked things of this world and my flesh. You follow what I'm saying? It is possible to be completely separated from the sinful things, wrong things but never really be separated to the Lord. Well I don't do this and I don't do that. I don't smoke and I don't chew and I don't hang around with girls that do Well, whoop dee do. That doesn't make you holy. Make you godly. You can separate from all that stuff. But I tell you, you get somebody that Says I want to be all I want my whole life to be the Lord's. I want to resent my body, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable in the Lord. It's my reasonable service. Brother, by default, you'll separate from that other stuff. Right? So the beauty of holiness separated unto the Lord. David was a classic example. The Bible says that David was a man after God's own heart. But God loved, David loved. What God's values were, those were David's values. What God's priorities were, those were David's priorities. What God hated, David hated. He's a man after God's own heart. That to me is holiness. The beauty of holiness. Holiness. Now, was David perfect? No. Obviously, we know his story. He made a heap of mistakes, some of them horrendous. But his heart. God had his heart. What God loved, David loved. What God hated, David hated. What God valued, David valued. That is holiness. And God says, I want to be worshiped by people who are holy. That is beautiful to me. That is attractive to me. Holiness. Holiness. The importance of holiness and the place of holiness, and I am with this. Holiness is not just an outward performance. It's an inward purity of heart, and that's what I've been trying to emphasize. It's inward devotion Jesus said in Matthew chapter 5, I think it's verse number 8, he said, Blessed are the pure in heart. The beauty of holiness isn't some outward stuff I do. It's the condition of a heart. That is holy the Lord's. In Proverbs, Solomon said to his son, he's speaking on the behalf of God, and he says, son, give me thine heart Give me your awe. Give me your heart, your devotion, your abomination. And God said, that's attractive to me. I tell you, every man in here, his wife gives herself, her heart to him. Oh, that's a beautiful thing. She gives herself to me. And vice versa. And God says, worship in the beauty, the attractiveness. Of holiness, which is in the heart. In the heart. Blessed are the pure in heart. The world emphasizes outward beauty. The world makes hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars promoting outward beauty. Makeup and hairspray. I heard about hairspray on You know, and cologne uh man they make and and don't misunderstand I I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that. It has its place. Dr. Lee Robertson used to say an old barn needs a coat of paint every now and then, you know But the world emphasizes that. The world's beauty is external, is outward beauty. And God says, no. I look for the beauty of holiness, what's in the heart. You may be the homeliest-looking guy in the county. But if you have a holy heart, God says you're beautiful to me Holiness is in the heart. In the heart. Not just external. A holy heart begins with trusting Jesus Christ as personal Savior. Bible is very clear, my heart is deceitful and desperately left to itself. My heart is anything but holy It is wicked. It is sorry. I just think sometimes in my devotion time, I think how corrupt my own heart and mind is. Anybody Anybody I'm not talking about you agreeing with me about my mind. I'm talking about anybody know what I'm talking about? It's like man But when I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior, the holiness and the righteousness of Jesus Christ is put to my account. Jeremiah says he gives us a new heart. And I can be holy in my heart and life, not because I'm some great God. But because of Jesus Christ and what he did for me when he saved my soul. You follow? The holiness of Jesus is put in my heart. And God looks for that. It's not something we work up. It begins with our faith in Jesus Christ. That holy heart is developed by my daily walk with God, my prayer, my Bible study, my serving Him, living by faith. God develops a holy heart in us. David was a man after God's own heart. Why? Because David's heart was in tune with God's heart. We come and worship God, we come not just outward facade, just doing stuff outly, but in our hearts are clean and pure. David said in Psalm 51:10, create in me a clean heart, O God. I want a clean heart. I want a pure mind. I come to a holy God and I worship him. I adore him. He's the ultimate authority. I submit to him. And I want to come with a holy heart. Jesus rebuked the Pharisees. They completely missed this. The Pharisees had everything outward. Man, you the people would look at them and say, they're the most holy people in our community. And Jesus saw right through that facade. And he saw right through that phoniness, that his term hypocrisy. Because outwardly they were just so wonderful, but inwardly They were dead man's bone, corrupt and nasty. Vern and I were talking this morning. I guess a tree, or Nathan and I, a tree fell on Penny's house. And they said outwardly the tree looked fine, but inside, the inside of that tree that came down was all just rotten and nasty. All that. Outwardly two people look at it, look beautiful. But inwardly it was nasty. I'm telling you, man looks on the outward appearance, but God looks on the heart. What's your heart? What's your heart? God says, someone that worships me in the beauty of holiness with a holy heart separated unto me, oh, that's what attracts me. That's what's attractive to me I got my cup here. Anybody notice that cup setting up here? Isn't that beautiful? What do you say when you see something beautiful? Ooh la la, that's pretty, Pastor Leatherman Wow. I mean that's beautiful. Courtney Treesice gave that to my wife. That's probably one of, if not the most beautiful, cups she had. How many people would love to walk around and drink out of this beautiful cup? Come up here, Evan. You want to drink? Looks beautiful outside, doesn't it? Man, that's beautiful. Tell me, how's it look inside? Disgusting. Say it real loud. Disgusting, terrible, gross, evil. It's all kinds of yuck in there. If anybody wants to see it, see me afterward, I'll show you. Tell you it looks beautiful outward, but I wouldn't want to drink out of it. You look inside and it's uh that's anything. But beautiful. That's anything but attractive. I mean just nasty. Here let me no, never mind. And I wonder, now please, I uh don't misunderstand, I'm not trying to be critical or judgmental. But I wonder how many of us in churches ours and churches like ours Are sitting in the pews, singing the psalms, going through the forms of worship. And outwardly, oh, it's so wonderful. But God sees our heart. And I wonder if he says yuck. He says, a pure heart, a holy heart. A heart given over to the Lord. Not perfect. None of us are ever going to attain that. But sincerely, Lord, my heart is yours. God says that's what I want to look for. My point is this. Worship is vitally important. It's necessary in our life. God wants it. But it has to be from our heart clean and pure. Amen. Father, I pray you'd help us. Lord, help us to walk with you. Help us make sure we know that we've been saved. And then Lord, help us to develop that new life you've given us, that new creature you've made us into. And Lord, we can worship you not just external form, but from a real, sincere heart of love and praise and purity and clean. God, if there's some sins that we've covered and we've suppressed, I pray this morning, Holy Spirit of God, deal with us, convict us. And we can confess and forsake that and come to you with a clean heart, like David prayed. Lord, some of us are wanting to serve you, and Lord, we uh no doubt many have a pure heart, the holiness. Help us maintain that and guard that and remain humble before you, never holier than others, but humble before you. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I need God to help me have a clean heart? A holy heart. I need anything like that. Now it creeps in all of us. It's a lifelong thing. And the thing, we just got to come honest with God Be transparent. Say, Lord, here I am. This is what I am. Take me, break me, make me, mold me. Make me what I need to be so I can worship you. In the beauty of wholeness. Is there some this morning say, Preacher, uh, I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven? And I need to get that settled. I need to know for sure my sins are again. I'm saved on my way to heaven. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Any at all. Anyro Father bless our imitation now have your way in Jesus name