Samuel chapter number three, 1 Samuel chapter 3. When you get there, if you would, then turn to Matthew chapter 21. I'm going to be using both those passages this morning. Primarily First Samuel. So 1 Samuel chapter 3 and then also Matthew chapter 21 I read about three fathers that were in the remember back in the days when dads used to wait outside in the waiting area while the ladies had the babies I'm all for that, to be honest with you. But um uh there was three fathers that were out waiting and their wives were back having the babies, and um Finally, a doctor comes out and calls the one father aside and he says, I want to tell you you are the proud father of twins. He said, twins, he says, that's amazing. He says, you know what's really strange is I'm a manager for the Minnesota twins And I had twins. I said, well, that's incredible. So a few moments later, and another doctor comes out, comes the second fella, and he says, uh, I've got news. He says, you're the father of triplets And he says, you've got to be kidding. He says, this is really strange. He says, I uh uh I'm one of the executives at the 3M Corporation and I had triplets. About that time the third guy falls over unconscious And they came over and said, Are you alright? Are you alright? He goes, Yeah I'm fine. He goes, Well why did you pass out? He says I work for seven up So uh praise the Lord for babies, huh? Look at First Samuel chapter three. And uh the Bible says, and the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli. If you come over a little later on, James read it And the last part of verse 10, Samuel answered, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. I'm entitled the message, The Prayer of a Little Child. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Now, Father, we are so grateful for how you blessed our nursery with these dear precious little children. Lord, we're thankful for the parents that have come and brought them to the house of God. I pray that you would help us to see children as you do. Help us to learn from them. And I pray these statements in Scripture concerning children that your Holy Spirit would apply these statements to our lives, that we could be, our lives can be enriched, that we can be a little bit more what you intend for us to be. I yield myself to you now. I present my body anew. Fill me, I plead, dear Lord, with your Holy Spirit, and speak through me. Again, apply these truths to our hearts, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. If you would keep your place here in 1 Samuel And turn with me back to Matthew chapter 21. When we're done here in Matthew, keep your place because I believe we're going to end up at this text at the end of the message. About two or three this afternoon. Not really. Matthew chapter 21, verse number 15. Now pay close attention to what's being said here, if you would. And when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, he being Jesus. And they saw the wonderful things that he did, and they saw something else. And the children crying in the temple and saying, Hosanna to the son of David. They, the chief priests and scribes, were sore displeased. They saw children in the temple, and the children were crying out, Hosanna to the son of David. And it displeased the chief priests and Pharisees. Now look how the Lord responded. And said unto him, Hearst thou what these say, these referring to the children. Do you hear what these children are saying? And Jesus saith unto them, Yea, have ye never read? Now what's the Lord doing here? He's appealing to Scripture He's appealing to authority. He says, yea, have ye never read, look at this, out of the mouth of babes and sucklings, thou hast perfected praise. In 1 Samuel, we had a baby, we had a small child praying. In Matthew, we have small children praising. And the Lord re appeals to Scripture in defense of the children. And he says, out of the mouths of babes and sucklings. Now that phrase captured my curiosity. And so I got digging here and did a little research, and I found that the word babes there means exactly what you would imagine it to mean. It means infants. It means small, little children. It's not just a child. That could entail many different age groups But it is an infant, a very small child. And then he goes on and says, sucklings Now we don't use that term, but this refers to a small child that is still nursing, an unweaned child. So God says that out of the mouth of babies, out of infants and children who are not yet weaned God has perfected praise. Prayer and praise of little children. There is something about a small child that draws our Lord's praise. You find Jesus over and over again praising little children. You find there's something about a small child that draws our Lord's affection, our Lord's attention. Anytime you find Jesus in contact with small children, he ends up holding them. He ends up touching them. He ends up blessing them. Hugging them. You put Jesus in a room with children, they end up together. There's something about a small child that draws out our Lord's affection, our Lord's tenderness. There's something about a small child that prompts our Lord to use them as examples. Throughout the Gospels, the Lord Jesus will use a little child and set them there as an example for how adults are to behave. He uses the small children often to illustrate what our relationship with our heavenly father ought to be, what our trust in our heavenly father ought to be. Now I do need to throw a disqualific out here for a moment. There are some places in Scripture where we are told not to be as children. Later on in the New Testament, he says we're not to be as children when it comes to understanding the Word of God. We are to grow up. We're not to be baby Christians. And so there are references in Scripture where he does he uses the child not in a positive sense, but in the sense that as far as our understanding, as far as our maturity is concerned, we're to grow up. But whenever he's talking about our faith in God Whenever he is referencing our trusting God, he will often use Man, my wife is strong. I can't She turned that thing. And um now you know why I have black and blue bruises all the time. And whenever our Lord is referencing children as far as faith is concerned, he praises them. Do you ever think about it? We are supposed to trust God like a child trusts. Not the other way around. Children get saved. I've been situations over the years, not very often and not recently, but I've been situations where children over the years And somebody will come and be critical of that child's profession of faith. And I'll always say, listen, that child's not supposed to have the faith of an adult. The adult is supposed to have the faith of a child. There's something about these little children that attracts our Lord, that draws out his praise and his affection, his tenderness. If you'll look carefully throughout Scripture, and I challenge you to do this, when you're reading through your Bible, pay attention. You'll find that it is always the proud, the self-righteous, the cruel, are the ones that condemn little children. And without exception, I went through my Bible this week. Without exception, it is the proud, the self-righteous, and the cruel that belittle children, and even take it to the extent of murdering. Children. The Egyptians. Remember the Jews were slaves in Egypt, and uh they were reproducing and multiplying tremendously And what was the Egyptian solution to the problem? Kill their children. Slaughter them. As soon as they're born, kill them. Throw them in the river. It was basically a government mandated abortion, is really what it was The Egyptians were cruel. They had no problem holding people in slavery unjustly. They had no problem making unreasonable demands from the God's people and uh working them practically to death with little or no reimbursement. They had no problem with simply killing their little babes. Cruel. Hard. Um you read through the Kings, the Book of Kings and the Chronicles and You find that as you would have ungodly kings, the influence of the surrounding nations upon Israel, you would find the practice of offering little children to the god of Molech as a sacrifice. And what that entailed, and there's various theories as to what all it was the most reliable uh as we understand was they would uh one of the uh pr rituals in this pagan worship was to try and appease this god of Molech, and they had what was uh understood to be a brass type altar. And they would build a fire in and underneath that, and that fire would, the coals would get hotter, and they would stoke that fire, the brass altar would begin to glow red hot And their sacrifice to their false, non-existent pagan God was to take a little child and place him on that scalding altar. They called it passing through the fire. It's always the hard, the cruel, the self-righteous that View children as insignificant, of little or no value. The Pharisees, self-righteous, proud, they would belittle children Sad thing is the disciples even got caught up in it. And there was parents that brought their little ones, just like we had parents today brought their children to church. There was parents brought their little ones and they wanted to bring them to Lord Jesus. They wanted him to bless them. And the disciples got caught up in this mentality. That these children are of no significance. They're a bother. They're not to be a part of our service to the Lord And Jesus rebuked them severely. He says, you suffer those little children to come to me. The word suffer means permit. And it was a hard, harsh rebuke by the Lord Jesus to his disciples. And you can put it in paraphrase it, he said something to this effect. Don't you dare Forbid those children from coming unto me. So there's something about a small child. There's something about children and infants that has our Lord's special attention, that draws out his affection And his praise. Now, keep your place here if you would. We're going to end up back here at Matthew in a few moments, but if you would, come back to 1 Samuel. Samuel uh as Tammy Burdock Barrett Barnett sang We actually do know her. She is very well. But um Samuel is given as a uh given to Hannah and her husband as a as an answer to prayer. Uh very almost you'd call them a miracle child in the sense that she was barren and she prayed and God answered her prayer and gave her child. Later he gave her many more children. And so in in Response to the Lord's blessing Hannah with a child, she gave her child to Eli, the priest, to be raised up for the Lord. She gave her child to the Lord. Now, you may be tempted sometimes when the baby's screaming all night, whatever, bring him over to church and give him to Kathy and I. Don't do that. Preacher, I want to give my child. Don't do that. This is a unique situation, one-time event. Alright, so everybody knows that, right? Okay, thank you. But um she wants to raise her child, and so she brings it to the temple, and of course, this is all under the blessing of God, the leadership of the Lord. And uh Samuel is a beautiful illustration and example of some of these statements we made previously about God's attitude towards children The thing that caught my attention, and I'll be honest with you, I was tempted to preach this morning on the prayer of Hannah. Hey, thank God for praying mothers. And my challenge would be, every mother here ought to pray earnestly and often and continually for your children. Pray over them. I think a and we don't do this for show, but a wonderful memory for a child in the years ahead to look back would be to remember my mother's prayers. And a child to hear their mother praying for them. Maybe see her on her knees by the bed. That'd be a good thing. So I was tempted to talk about his mother prayers. I was tempted to preach about his godly parents. He actually had a godly daddy. And by the way, every child needs a godly daddy Ought to have a godly daddy. And a daddy ought to pray for his children. A daddy ought to bring his children to church. Let me say that again. A daddy ought to bring his children to church. We thank God for the bus ministry. Thank God for the bus ministry and our workers. We need more. But um ideally our goal, ideally our goal is not just to bring the child, we want to see mom and dad Bring the child to church. So I was tempted to preach about that and whatnot, but I'll tell you what caught my attention was Samuel, this little child's prayers. His prayers. I noticed several things here. First of all, this is my first thought. Small children, I notice here in the experience of Samuel, small children are capable of great devotion to the Lord. Look at verse uh look at chapter two with me, 1 Samuel chapter 2, and look with me at verse 21. Notice it says, and the Lord visited Hannah so that she conceived and bare three sons and two daughters. And notice it says, and the child Samuel grew before the Lord. That is a reference to his, as a small child, he was growing In the Lord. A child is capable of great devotion to the Lord I put this statement down. In their simplicity, a child is capable of devotion rarely found in adults. You can find a child absolutely devoted to their mother or father in a degree and a level you very seldom find in adults Um, when when our children are small, Daddy is the most genius man in all the earth. When they're five or six, right? Daddy knows everything. My dad knows everything. Uh I I had a lot of fun with that. When our boys are growing up, you could tell them the most ridiculous stuff, they'd believe you, no matter what you did. Oh yeah, dad's right, you're kidding. Wow, that's incredible. Yeah, that's what it is, son But they get in their teens, late teens, suddenly daddy's the biggest idiot that's ever walked the earth. He don't know nothing But you know what I'm finding out? We're getting to that stage where it's coming back around. Daddy's not as big an idiot as I thought he was. I'm at the point with my father where I think he o he knows everything again, you know. So a child is capable of tremendous devotion. Here you have Samuel, and his whole childhood is devoted to the worship of the Lord You compare Samuel here with Eli, who was the priest, and you find that Eli lost his devotion to the Lord. He had gotten old, he had gotten cold, he had gotten indifferent. But you compare that to Samuel, and Samuel's on fire for God If God said it, he believes it no matter what. He is intensely devoted to the Lord. So a child is capable of tremendous devotion to the Lord. I put this down. Second of all, a small child is capable of performing great duties for the Lord. Don't underestimate what our children, our young people, can do for God. Look with me if you would at chapter two of 1 Samuel and verse 11. Chapter 2, verse 11. It says, and Elkinah, his father, went to Ramah, to his house, and the child did one Minister unto the Lord before Eli the priest. That word minister means to serve. It is an active word. Samuel, as a small child, is actively involved in the service of God. If you would come over and look at chapter 3 and verse 1. We noted this in our text reading. And the child, that word child there, the Hebrew word is a small child, not not it's not talking about teenager, a small child. And the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli. Look at this. And the word of the Lord was precious in those days. Now you need to understand what there's being said here When he says the word of the Lord is precious, it means it was very rare. There wasn't much of God's word available to people And if you had some of the word of God, what had been revealed up to that point, boy, it was very precious. By the way, we could use a little bit of that attitude towards God's Word in our churches today. It's not rare. We've got the Word of God everywhere. We've got shelves full of it. We've got cases of it here at church to give out. But nevertheless, it is still very precious. So the Word of God, there wasn't a whole lot of it then in those days. There was no open vision. In other words, God wasn't really communicating publicly with His people at that point in time. He was dealing with individuals, as we notice later on with Samuel. God spoke directly to Samuel. It is interesting that God bypassed Eli And spoke to Samuel, and Samuel actually became a spokesman for the Lord as a child. Out of the mouths of babes. You know, as I said, touched on earlier, we can learn a lot from our children. They understand things sometimes in ways we don't. They have us understanding of what it is to trust God that we lose sometimes as we grow older. So a child is capable of performing great duties for the Lord. I got thinking about this and think with me uh with this. Everybody okay? Everybody glad you came to church? Amen. Everybody alright? Praise the Lord. Comfortable? Good deal. Um good. Bill's comfortable. My preaching is not to make you comfortable, it's to But anyway. I got thinking about this. Think with me about this for a moment. A small child, take a little small child, they have everything. That is necessary to serve God effectively. They have it all. They have no experience They have no self-reliance. They have no self understanding. You say, preacher, how in the world does that qualify you for serving God? That's exactly what God is looking for. God is looking for someone to serve him that's not going to trust in themselves, doesn't lean on their own understanding and their own experience, but leans and trusts completely on God I got a passage, one of the most encouraging portions of Scripture, to me at least, that I find in the Bible, if you would, turn with me to 1 Corinthians. Now don't leave Samuel here, keep your place marked, but come back to 1 Corinthians. And verse twenty-seven. First chapter one, verse twenty-seven. First Corinthians one verse twenty seven I love this passage. If I get discouraged or I think man I'm blowing it, I'm really uh I'm I'm not good, uh read this. Look what it says. 1 Corinthians 1 verse 27. Everybody there Got it? Okay, look what it says. But God hath chosen what? The foolish things of the world to confound the wise. I read that and I think, praise the Lord. Look what it says. And God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. The base things of the world, and things which are despised hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not to bring to naught the things that are What's he saying here? He's saying God chooses weak, uh base, uh uh foolish as far as the world concerned. God just chooses weak, little weaklings. To confound the things that are why would God choose somebody that's really not very competent, really not very uh intelligent, really not very experienced? Why would God choose someone for that? Look at the very next verse. Look, notice what it says, verse number 29, that no flesh should glory in his presence. God wants us to basically be like a child in the sense that we don't lean on ourselves and don't trust in ourselves. We don't rely on our own experience or our own uh confidence, but we lean totally on the Lord. Now I made the statement: a child is in a position where they are perfectly equipped to serve God. And that is this: they are totally dependent upon another. And when you and I get to the point as Christians, now I'm talking to believers, when you and I get to the point where we are totally dependent upon God. Then God can use us. Then God can take us and do some great things. I've said this many times over the years. God has blessed Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. God has done some wonderful things through this church body. But he does not do it because we are wonderful. He does it because he is wonderful. And the more we understand our own lack of strength, our own inability, and we lean more on God's strength and God's ability, the more we'll see God do great things. And that child is perfectly equipped for that. They lead on daddy for everything. They lead on mama for everything. You gotta lead them, you gotta provide for them, direct them, uh uh protect them And we get that place with God, then God can use us. So a child is capable of doing some great things, performing great duties for the Lord. What does a child do best? I mean, as far as the context of our message is concerned, a child does best is trust and obey. That's what a child is capable of doing best. Now they don't always do that. But that's what they are gifted at. In fact, there's only one thing that God expects a child to do. Ephesians chapter six, verse one children, obey your parents Why is that? That's all we expect. He says, honor them, but as far as activity, as far as action is concerned, he says, you just obey your parents. Hey, young people, your responsibility for God is very simple: just obey your parents. And all the parents said, Amen, preach it, preacher. But that's the truth Just obey your parents. That's what you're qualified to do. That's what you're designed to do best, is trust and obey. And what God wants from us as adults is the exact same thing: to trust Him and obey Him. Let Him lead us, let Him provide for us, let Him protect us. Just trust Him, do what He says. How many how many of you guys ever said this to your kids? They say, why do I have to do that? And you said, because I'm dad. Anybody you ever say that? Yeah, you guys are afraid to raise your hand Or like this. Because I said so. There, now we're s getting close to home. Because I said so. You don't I don't have to explain to you. You just trust me. You obey me. You know what? We ought to get to the point. Why do you do that? Because God said so. Huh? Why don't you go to those sort of places? Because God told us not to A child is capable of performing great duties for the Lord, and we can learn that and apply it to our lives. I put this third and last thought down. A small child is capable of bringing great delight to the Lord. Now come back to 1 Samuel, if you would. I hope you kept your place there. Chapter 3. And verse nineteen. First Samuel three nineteen Bible says, and Samuel grew. Look at this. And the Lord was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground. Now, Paul, what exactly is the Lord saying there? Can I just summarize it the way I understand this here? I believe what he's saying here is that God was pleased with Samuel. God delighted in this child. This child trusted him, was serving him, and God was delighted in him. Um now I said we were going to end with this. Matthew chapter 21. See if you kept your place there. And verse number 16. Remember, the Pharisees are condemning these little children. They're in the temple and they're singing out, Hosanna to the Son of David, all these children. are crying out, Hosanna to the Son of David. Hosanna to the Son of David. And the Pharisees says, Ah, that made them unhappy. They're mad about what are all these kids in here singing Hosanna to the Son It I just thought of this. It reminds me of a Bible time rally almost. Notice what and they rebuked Jesus, saying, You hear what these kids are saying? That's my words Jesus says, yea, have you never read, out of the mouths of babes and sucklings thou hast perfected praise. God's delighted when little children praise him and sing songs. I think God's delighted when little children sing, Jesus loves me, this I know. Or the Bible tells me so. I think the Lord's delighted when little children sing, the B-I-B-L-E. Yes, that's the book for me. I stand alone on the Word of God, the B-I-B-O-E spells, Bible. I don't know. I don't want to be irreverent in any way. The Lord knows. But I can't help but think that God looks down and smiles. He sees little children carrying their Bible. Singing their songs. I I can't help but think that God looks down at the at the dinner table. Little children go like this, you know. Isn't it cute? Thank you, Jesus, for our food. I can't help but think God looks down and smiles. They get beside their bed, and mommy or daddy or somebody comes in, kneels beside them. Thank you, Jesus, for taking care of us today and bless Aunt Margaret and Uncle Fred and then they go down through the whole list When um I was younger, um I was about I guess twelve or fourteen and uh my parents had split up, my mom had left and My sisters were staying at a friend of my dad's house for a little while, and he was a good, godly Christian man. He lives out in Wyoming now. And we were there of the evening. And I just remember this. I wouldn't even say the time, I was just a 14-year-old boy. But I remember they were upstairs, we were sitting down, and the family had gone up and And Bob, my dad's friend, was still downstairs and one of his little girls comes to the top of the steps and she yells down. Hey daddy, we're gonna pray. Is there anything you need? I can't help but think up in heaven God just smiled. A fellow by the name of Charles Francis Adams was a politician of some sort back in the 1800s. He kept a diary. Somebody somehow came across one of the entries he had put in his diary. If I remember correctly, it was a Saturday. And he wrote, oh, this is all he wrote for the whole day. Went fishing with my son today. A wasted day. He didn't know it, but his son also kept a diary. And his son's entry for that day was this. Went fishing with father today, most wonderful day of my life That said, the father saw it as a total wasted day, went fishing with my son. But the son saw it as the greatest day of his life. Let's not despise these little children. God loves them. Let's learn from them. Let's learn to have faith in God and trust him. Let him lead us and direct us. We always, when I grew up, we always had a swimming pool. We just always did. My mom loved to swim and just every house we lived in we had swimming pools. And at a very young young age, very early age, uh my mom had taught us to swim. And I still remember as a little child she would stand there and she would try and get us to go off the diving board or she'd take us down to the high dive. You talk about terrified. Come on, you can do it, I'll get you. And then we need to learn from that. And sometimes God will say, come on, jump. Let's go, jump. I want you to do this. I want you to step out. But God, how do I do that? God, what? God says, no, no, trust me. Obey me. Trust me. Obey me. You know what we need to do? We need to look at a little child and say, all right, just like that child trusts and jumps out, scared to death, I need to trust God. Whatever he leads me do, director, I don't know how this can be. What are you doing? God, you don't even know what you're doing. He says, trust me. And we jump out. That makes sense. My wife was we were in Indianapolis for four years working with teens and a young girl she was probably early teens, so she wasn't a small child, but I think she was twelve or thirteen, had ridden the bus and came to church and uh been coming for a little while and she needed to be saved. So uh on our Thursday night visitation I was somewhere visiting and my wife had gone, she says, I'm gonna go visit that girl. And if I remember correctly, Kathy was by herself. She goes, I'm gonna go visit that girl. So she went over, is outside of Indianapolis, somewhere. They're visiting. The girl was there, and uh Gappy's going through the plan of salvation. The girl was with her, understood, and the girl said, Yeah, I'd like to be saved. Her mother interrupted. And her mother says, I don't want her to do that. And Kathy went through and showed her some other scriptures, and mother says, She's too young, I don't think she understands. I don't want her to do that. And the girl says, I do understand, Mom. I want to be saved. I want to accept Jesus as my Savior. And so it's kind of going back and forth. And Kathy just threw a little word of warning out to her. She says, You know, the Bible says, Let the little children come to the Lord Don't forbid them. And lo and behold, at that very moment, the only time in our lives we've ever been in one, there was an earthquake. I mean, at that very moment. And the uh uh pictures on the wall began shaking and the China was uh rattling and uh they're they're just whoa And the lady said, was that what I thought it was? And Kathy says that that was an earthquake. And the lady said, she can go ahead and get saved if she wants to. Now somebody might say that's just coincidence, but I'm convinced God wanted that girl saved. And he would shake the earth if that's what it took to get that little kid saved. Now You're here this morning if you're not saved, if you never trust Christ, if you don't know for sure you're you die, you're going to heaven. I'm here to tell you God wants you to be saved Whether you're a child or a senior citizen, God wants you to know that your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven. The rest of us that know the Lord, He wants us to learn from these children to trust Him and obey Him. Just like a child, have faith of a child. And he will lead us, he'll protect us, he'll take care of us, he will just trust him and obey him. Father, please bless now. Thank you for baby day. Thank you for the challenge that your word gives us concerning these little children. I pray you'd help us to have faith in you. Some of us, Lord, are struggling With uh different issues, some of us things we're afraid of. Lord, I think some of us you're directing us and we're a little apprehensive about it. God, I pray that you would help us to trust you, to step out in faith, to know that you're a good father. You'll take care of us. And just like a child, we can put ourselves in your arts. And know that we're everything's okay. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many Christians this morning you'd say, preacher, there are some issues in my life that are issues And you say, I'm very concerned, and I just want to trust God. I want to be like a child and I just want to have faith in God that He's