First Peter chapter four. Are you there? You got it? I'm going to begin reading in verse three. We've already preached through three and four. We're going to look at five tonight, but I want to begin reading in verse three. But the time past of our life might suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. What he's saying is he lived in the will of the world long enough. You live for the world long enough. That's suffice, you're done. We're done with that. Then he describes it. When we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, excessive wine, revelings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries. Wherein they, those that are in the will of the Gentiles, those that are in the world, wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excessive riot, speaking evil of you. They speak evil of those who don't do evil. And then verse 5, he ends the sentence with this Who shall give an account to him? That is ready to judge the quick and the dead. My message tonight is the judgment of the unsaved The judgment of the unsaved. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our study of your word tonight. Just have a little time. But we do ask that you would take the truth that's given here in this verse And Lord, I pray in my own heart and mind and in all of us, our church, that you would instill this truth of a coming judgment deeply in our hearts and minds. And that uh, Lord, it would affect us. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body, ask for the filling of your Holy Spirit, O Lord, that you would speak through me and revive our church. Lord, help us to uh to function in light of the coming judgment. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Hebrews chapter 9, verse 27. It's a pretty familiar verse. Some of us maybe have it memorized. Says this, it is appointed unto man once to die, and help me with the last part of that verse. And after this The judgment. It's pointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. There are two judgments coming. You mark it down. As sure as the sun's coming up tomorrow As sure as you and I are sitting here, there is coming a day when there's going to be two judgments of all mankind. The first judgment is what we refer to as the judgment seat of Christ. How many people are familiar with that term? The judgment seat of Christ. I want us to, we're going to look at a number of verses here, so keep your Bibles handy. If you would, come with me over to Romans chapter 14. Romans chapter 14. The judgment seat of Christ is referred to in Romans Chapter 14. Now keep your place here in Peter. We're going to go back and forth to Peter. Judgment for uh Romans Chapter 14, and look with me if you would at chapter at verse number 10. Romans 14, verse 10. But why dost thou judge thy brother? Or why dost thou set it not, thy brother? Now look at this next statement. For we shall all, I circled the word all in my Bible For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, every tongue shall confess to God. So that every one of us shall give an account of himself to God. That's a reference to the judgment seat of Christ. Now notice in verse 10 he says, for we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. If you would come over to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. If you would, a few pages towards the back of your Bible. You have Romans, 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, chapter number 5. And if you would, notice with me verse number 10 2 Corinthians 5. 10. By the way, these verses wouldn't be a bad idea to highlight or underscore these in one way or another, that they would stand out a bit in your Bible. Verse number 10, for we must, what's that word? Oh, I circled it in my Bible again. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ That every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that which he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Now Paul goes on and makes this statement in verse 11, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord The terror of the Lord he's referring to is this judgment seat of Christ. What a fearful thing it is to stand before the Lord Jesus Christ, give an account of my life as a Christian. And he says, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. I try and win others to Christ. I try and I'm going to have to give an account to God someday. Knowing that, I do all I can to persuade others to come to Christ. The judgment seat of Christ. Let me give you a couple statements about the judgment seat of Christ, real quick. First of all, only saved people will be at the judgment seat of Christ. This is for the people of God. Only saved people will be at the judgment seat of Christ. There will be no unsaved people at the judgment seat of Christ. Only saved people there. The second statement is this: all saved people will be there. No Christians exempt from this judgment. There is coming a day, as sure as today showed up, we anticipated today and previous days, and today showed up, there is coming a day that is going to show up And you and I, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we will stand before the judgment seat of Christ and give an account of ourselves for the works for the Christian life we lived in our service to the Lord. So one, it's for only saved people. Two, it's for all saved people. And the judgment seat of Christ, number three, is a reward judgment. It's not a judgment for sin. You and I have already been judged for our sins. How many people knew that? Where did that take place? The old rugged cross. Jesus was judged in our place. Every one of my sins have already been judged. Sentenced, condemned, and paid for by the Lord Jesus Christ. But this is a judgment of rewards. Where how I live for the Lord, because of all he's done for me, the tremendous gift of God, eternal life, and the opportunity to serve Him. And then how I respond to that, then it's rewarded accordingly. And so the judgment seat of Christ is for believers. The second judgment coming, so we said all saved people are going to be at the judgment seat of Christ. Just an aside, real quick, somebody uh can somebody tell me when will that judgment take place? Yep, we're immediately following the rapture. It's going to be in heaven with the Lord. We're raptured out of here. So the judgment seat of Christ. The second judgment that mankind faces is the great white throne judgment. How many people are familiar with that term? The great white throne. Take your Bible if you would. Turn to Revelation chapter number 20 Here we are given a very detailed, fairly detailed, I should say, description of this event. Apostle John saw it when he was on the Isle of Patmos. The vision God revealed to him, this future event that I'm telling you is as sure of happening as we are sure the sun's coming up tomorrow. is as certain of taking place as you and I are setting here right now. Just like we anticipate a day coming, that day finally arrives. This day will eventually come upon mankind. Look at Revelation chapter 20 and verse number 11. And I saw a great white throne And him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away. Man, what a what a judge this is. And there was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were opened. And another book was opened, which is the book of life And the dead were judged out of those things which were wit written in the books according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them And they were judged, every man, look at this, according to their works. Death and hell were cast in the lake of fire This is the second death. Now note verse 15. And whosoever was not found written in the book of light was cast into the lake of fire. Do you agree with me? This is a fearful event Good heavens, the great white throne judgment. All let me make a few statements about the great white throne judgment. Only unsaved people will be at that judgment. No Christians will be judged at this judgment. No Christians will stand before the great white throne judgment. I think we'll observe it But we will not be part of the folks being judged. Only unsaved. Let me say this all unsaved people Will be at the great white throne judgment. I'm telling you, there's no not one single person that rejects the truth of God's word, rejects the gospel of Jesus Christ, will escape the great white throne judgment Every unsaved will be there. Every single one will stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And a third statement about the great white throne judgment is this: it's a sentencing judgment And by that, by that I mean this. It's not a determination whether the person is guilty of sins. It's a sentencing of that. We're born guilty, right? The Bible says we're condemned already, Jesus said. We're already under the wrath of God. The unsaved are already under the wrath of God, already condemned. So the great white throne is not a judgment to condemn the sinners, the unsaved. That's already a fact. This is a sentencing judgment And the sentence is, of course, eternity in the lake of fire. The most horrific, the most horrific truth, I believe, in all Scripture. To be separated from God for all eternity, hell, and ultimately the lake of fire. I just can't fathom that. For the life of me, for the life of me, I cannot understand why Every news, every media outlet does not broadcast on a regular basis the fact that there is a coming judgment for all of mankind. Every, I can't, for the life of me, I can't figure out why every government in the world does not have a department that helps people prepare For something that is inevitable, that every single person is going to have to stand before God, and yet the governments don't say a word about it. The media says not a peep about it And yet it's as sure as the sun coming up tomorrow. You know why? The world just disregards it. The world just blindly marches in step on that broad way that leads to destruction. And one the and between them and that destruction is the judgment of God. For the life of me, I can't figure out why every church, Bible, I can't figure out why every Christian quote unquote church in the world Don't preach and warn people of the coming judgment of God. Why in the world, why in the world would a church be silent on something as devastating as the judgment of mankind? The judgment, two judgments. They're as sure of coming happening as the sun coming up tomorrow. I keep saying that, but I'm telling you it's the truth Two judgments facing mankind. Now notice if you would come back here. Peter is referencing one of these two judgments. In chapter 4 and verse number 3, now if you would take note at the punctuation of the verses that I read. It's one sentence. Verse 3, 4, and 5 is all one sentence. Beginning in verse number 3. Verse number 3, he mentions And it's time is up. Don't live for the world anymore. You're a child of God. You're saved. You live for the world long enough. And then he describes those who live according to the will of the Gentiles. In other words, what the world does. And he describes this horrific list there. And he says, don't live that way. You're a Christian. Don't live that way. And in verse 4, we looked at last week and he says Wherein to they, the people living in the world, the world, they think it's strange that we don't run with them. And uh they speak evil of us. They mock us, they criticize those who are trying to live in the will of God, they slander and abuse those who are trying to live for God. And then the sentence continues into verse number five, and he says, Who, these people that think it's strange, these people that speak evil and revile you as a believer, look at this. They shall give account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead. Don't ever think, listen, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, you and I are in this, we must never allow ourselves to think that those who mock God and God's people have the upper hand on us. Don't ever think that. Don't ever there's no reason in the world for a child of God, a Christian, who is trying to live for God, whether it's a young person in the public school school or it's a man or woman out in the workforce or an older person retired and working in the community, don't ever be intimidated by this world ridicule and mocking of us because there's a day of accounting coming for every one of them. We must not be intimidated. We must not seek revenge Oh, they speak evil of me. They do these hateful things. They abuse and slander and do all this. I need a straight back. No, no, no. Revenge is mine, saith who The Lord. God takes care of that. God takes care of that. And that's what Peter's telling them. These are believers who have been incredibly abused. These are young believers who have been persecuted and reviled and not just speak evil or treated evil. And he says they'll give an account to God They'll give an account to God. Don't you live for this world. Don't you live out in the will of the Gentiles that leads to this perverse lifestyle You trust God. You stay in the will of God. And those that mock you and speak evil of you and abuse you, oh, don't give an account to God for that. There's no reason to be intimidated. There's no reason to seek revenge. Don't think that somehow, uh, oh boy, all these people are saying, No, no, no, don't think that. They don't have the upper hand. God is not mocked. What so a man soweth, he'll also reap. And so, uh stay faithful to the Lord. Let's stay faithful. I don't know what 2022 holds. Well if it continues the way it has been, the the speaking evil will increase, the abuse will increase, the opposition will increase. Hey, let's just remember, there's judgment day coming. Let's just stay faithful. Let's just be compassionate. Let's bless those who curse us. Let's do good to those that revile us. Let's pray for them. Let's just stay faithful. Just stay faithful. Stay the course Because God is in control. I want to give us real quick, I got a couple minutes. Let me just give you a few quick observations of verse number five. I want us to notice, first of all, those who are judged Who shall give an account? That who reverts back to verse number four. Those who think we're strange, those who think we're weirdos. Those who make fun of us and speak evil about us, those who mock and slander God's people, those who sit in judgment Of God's people. It's funny. The world says, don't judge me. Anybody ever hear anybody say this? Don't judge me. Right? Anybody ever hear that? Don't judge me. Don't judge me. You You know what my experience has been? Those it Those that are so worried about not being judged are some of the most judgmental people I've ever met in my life. You don't accept my lifestyle, and you're wicked. You should hear some of the stuff I've been told over the years. Good night. And these very people, these are people who sit in judgment on God's people, those are the very same ones. That are going to have to answer to God. Those who judge and condemn believers for their faith and commitment to Jesus Christ will one day be judged by God. You and I don't have to deal with that. You and I don't have to try and judge them and condemn them. God will take care of that. God will take care of that. So those who are judged are those who mock and ridicule abuse the people of God. Number two, I want us to notice the judgment itself. Who shall give an account to him that is ready to judge. Give an account. That phrase shall give an account is actually a bookkeeping term A record-keeping term. It means has this idea to audit the books. Anybody here ever had the IRS show up and audit you? We haven't yet, praise the Lord And uh but it's it's the idea of um being held responsible for. Uh Jackie is our, is it Sec Financial Treasure. Jackie is our treasure. She keeps the books. And I'll tell you, she is a hard taskmaster. Every penny is a count. I'm telling you the truth right now. If I ever tell the truth, I'll point it out. This is the truth right now. Am I right, Pastor Matt? Every penny accounted for. Where's that receipt? She's got a big whip back there. You wouldn't believe it. It's true, that's true. She scares me, I'll tell you that right now. And I tell you, as pastor, there's a little church business here, but as pastor, I thank God for it I want to be held accountable, particularly in that area. And I'm grateful for her tenacity and her detail and persistence on that. But I tell you, the judgment of God, you think that's tough? The judgment of God is very thorough. That shall give an account, it's a bookkeeping term. Be held accountable for every dime, held accountable for every deed, every action, to audit, to hold responsible for, to give a reckoning for, or to answer for. I tell you, the judgment is very detailed, very specific. In fact, Jesus referenced it. Keep your place here quick. If you would, turn with me to Matthew. Chapter number 12. Jesus used that same term. And you talk about being specific, you talk about a detailed, thorough judgment. Jesus brought it home in Matthew chapter 12 and verse number 34. Look at what the Lord said. I have this underscored in my Bible. O generation of vipers, wow, how can ye, being evil, speak good things Look at this. For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. A good man, out of the good treasure of heart, bringeth forth good things. And an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things. Now look at verse 36. But I say unto you, now pay attention here. Think about this. That every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof. in the day of judgment. They'll be held responsible. There's going to be an audit of every single word spoken, even the idle words. Even the words that seem to be of no significance to you and I, yet God pays attention and he keeps a record of. I don't know about you, but that's a little intimidating. Anybody here have some words you wish you'd give your right arm take back? Anybody? Thank God for the blood of Jesus Christ. Thank God for the forgiveness that is found when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior. But think about those that are outside of Christ. No blood cleansing. No propitiation. No. The wrath of God has not been appeased. Every word they say, every mocking of a child of God is recorded down, recorded down, recorded down. That great white throne judgment. Did you notice in Revelation? We don't have time. Did you notice in Revelation it says the books were opened? That's an accounting term. That's a record-keeping. Words, deeds, thoughts, action. None of it covered by the blood of Christ. You talk about a judgment They shall give an account. They shall give an account to him. So those who are judged are those who are outside of Christ. Those who mock and condemn the people of God. The judgment itself is incredibly thorough. Even our very idle words we say. The unsaved say. And then last of all I notice the judge. If you would look with me back there in Peter again, who shall give an account to him That is ready to judge the quick and the dead. Who is that hymn? I'll tell you who that hymn is. It's Jesus Christ You say, how do you know it's Jesus Christ? It doesn't say it's Jesus Christ there. You're right, but John chapter 5, verse 22 says this: the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son. Unto the Son. It's Jesus Christ on that great white throne. It's Jesus Christ the one that paid for every one of their sins, that died for every one of their idle words. Now he's the judge. The Savior becomes the judge. Now it's bad enough to stand before a judge and give an account. That would be as intimidating as that would be before God Almighty. But they look up there and they see on that judge's hands the wounds of the nails. They see a wound in his side They realize he already paid for these sins I'm about to be judged for. And I rejected it. I rejected it. The judge is Jesus Christ. Real quickly, a couple observations about this judge. This judge is very capable. Look there in verse number five. Who shall give an account to him that is ready? I looked up the word ready. It means prepared, well equipped. Oh, all records are in place. The sentence is ready to be declared. The decision has been made He's ready to judge. Listen, they don't have to get up there and the sinner stands before Jesus Christ, the great white throne, and they say, alright, what are we going to do here? No, no, no, but it's all set. It's all taken place. Judgment is ready. And so it's the judge is capable, he's ready, it's uh prepared, and uh this judge is comprehensive. Notice he adds on there, is ready to judge the quick and the dead The word quick means living. It's the living and the dead. No, he's saying no unsaved person is going to escape this. No unsaved person is going to escape this. The one they mocked is now the one they face. And by the way, when someone mocks a disciple of Christ, they're mocking Christ You mark it down. Say, oh, they hate me because I'm a Christian. No, they hate Christ. Because you're a follower of Christ, they take their anger out on you. I'm telling you. The one they mocked is now the one they face. When you mock a disciple of Christ, you're mocking Christ. Best thing for an unsaved person. I know we've got pretty much a home crowd here tonight. I don't know who's listening online Here's the thing, with this technology, you don't know where these messages end up. You don't know who ends up listening to these. And I know this: God is in control And again, for the life of me, I don't understand why churches and Christians don't preach and teach the coming judgment of God as important as it is. Every Christian ought to be aware of this. Every news broadcast ought to be blaring this. Every government ought to have a huge department and finance a department that prepares people for the coming judgment of God. We do it for everything else. Weather, all that, pandemics, but we don't lift a, we don't say a peep about something not one person can escape. Did you ever hear somebody settling out of court? You ever hear that term? You go to court and they settle out of court. It's generally preferable to settle out of court if you can Now I learned a little bit about this. I'm not a lawyer. I learned a little bit that when they settle out of court, generally this is how it goes down. This is how it plays out. Two parties get whatever their argument is. One is the prosecutor, maybe, one's making the accusations, the other's defending themselves. They both do their research, they get their evidence supporting their side, they present it to each other, they each analyze it, then they go back and Come up with their arguments. This is before they get to court. This is all leading up. Then they present their arguments to each other and they bring them back and they analyze it. And what happens often is before they even go before the judge. One side says I don't have an argument. The evidence on the other side is overwhelming. Maybe it's the one accusing. Maybe it's the prosecutor or the one making the accusation. They realize Our accusations, our uh charges are have no argument, and their defense is flawless, we'll never win this, and they will settle out of court Maybe it's the one defending themselves, it's being charged, being accused. And they realize the accusation, the charges against them are so solid, are so clear, there's no way I can win this in court. So they will settle out of court. And I say to every lost person, the charges against you are solid. You have no defense. You have no hope Of winning this case at the judgment at the Great White Throne judgment, the best thing for every sinner to do is to settle out of court. You come to Jesus Christ and you say, guilty, I am a sinner condemned by a holy God, and I have no hope Outside of the Lord Jesus Christ, who is my advocate, my lawyer, that will stand before God and take responsibility for my actions. That's what every lost sinner ought to do. Settle out of court. What about us that know Christ? I think we ought to be out there trying to get every sinner we meet to settle out of court. Because there's judgment coming and the judge is ready. It's all in place. I'm really praying that the year 2022 will be a year of a great harvest of souls. For Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, doing all we can to bring people and get them to settle out of court. Amen? You understand what I'm saying? Let's pray together. Father in heaven. We thank you for giving us a heads up about coming judgment. Judgment seat of Christ is very sober. Every one of us as believers will face it. We understand that, Lord. But Lord, the judgment of the damned, of the unsaved, I pray you'd help us to have compassion. Give us an urgency and a boldness, like they prayed in Acts. We can point people to Christ. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many say, preacher, I want to give myself Be a soul winner, to be someone that brings people to Christ. I want my whole life, I want it to be fully used of God, to bring unsaved folks to Christ. Any like that here tonight? I just want my life to be that. God bless you Now it's easy to raise our hands, easy to say what I want. That that's what I want. But how about we come and say, Lord, here I am. Make it so, Lord, make it so. Make it true in my life That's what God wants. I know He does. Is there by chance anyone that's not saved, you say, preacher, I've got to get this settled. This is crazy. I can't go on unsaved anymore. Is there any like that? If there's anybody online, you hear this. Please contact us. We can't save you, but we can introduce you to Jesus Christ and He can and will. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.