And uh I know we're we're running a little behind here on time, so I'm just gonna try and abbreviate my thoughts tonight. And I'd really like to just rear back and preach on this, but um uh we got a busy week and I'm gonna try to uh Uh just kind of summarize what I was going to say tonight. Might come back preach this another time. Let me get hooked up here, Dave. And I learned something. Do we have any lefties here? Any Southpaws One, two, couple around here. I learned don't don't ever argue with left-handed people. They just aren't right. You know. They ain't great. Verse number nine of 2 Peter 2. Peter has just referenced three Old Testament events where he's illustrating that God doesn't play around with rebellion and apostasy. And uh if those who deliberately rebel against him, uh they pay a heavy price. And he's just used three illustrations there uh from the Old Testament, the angels that sin. the world before Noah, before the flood, and then Sodom and Gomorrah. As he referenced Sodom and Gomorrah, he referred to uh uh Lot, uh Abraham's nephew And he points out the fact that though Lot had a sorry, sorry testimony would you agree with me? Lot's testimony was pitiful In fact, you wouldn't even know the guy was saved until you get here to Peter says his he says just Lot and his righteous man, his righteous soul. I would have never used those terms to describe Lot knowing what I knew of him. But here the guy was a saved man. And God delivered him from his judgment and wrath on Sodom and Gomorrah. He would not pour out his judgment on the cities until Lot got out of there. And he makes the statement in verse 9, the first part. He says, God knoweth how to deliver the godly, and he's referencing Lot, really, out of temptation, out of the trial, out of the judgment of God. And so he's pointing out the fact that uh every saved person uh in other words let me put it this way, if a person is saved They will never, ever, ever face the condemnation and wrath of God for their sins. It's covered. Christ paid that, even though they have a pitiful testimony Now that is not an excuse to live a sorry Christian life. Don't say, well, Lot did that, so uh he paid a heavy price. He lost his family. He had a sorry testimony for all eternity, and it cost him dearly. But God will not judge the sins of a believer because they've already been judged in Christ. And he says, I'm going to deliver the godly out of that. Now notice what he says here on the last part of verse 9. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. Now look at this. Here's the other side. And to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. God will deliver the saved. God's going to deliver the saved. And by the way, these fellows that teach and preach that if you don't live the Christian life, you're going to lose your salvation, they are dead wrong. Now, either they're being dishonest or they're ignorant of what the Bible teaches. But to me, it's very, very clear: if a person saved, you're secure. Any salvation that can be lost is no salvation at all. And so God knows how to deliver the saved. When the rapture takes place, every Christian is going to be raptured, whether they're living for God or not. They're going to be caught up out of here. We're not going to go into the tribulation period. And you say, well, I take issue with that. I can sit down, show you, I can take hours, just show you all through scripture, God's God keeps his his people But then he says, and to reserve the unjust, those who are unsaved. Unto the day of judgment to be punished. I want to talk in a little bit of time I have. I just want to touch on this day of judgment. This day of judgment. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now and help me to be right to the point, Lord. And I pray you take this truth, this sobering truth, and burn it in our hearts and minds. And that as we go into this week of sharing the good news of Christ, the gospel Help us keep this in mind the coming day of judgment on the unsaved, and maybe that you can stir us to give our all To reach everybody we possibly can with the gospel and see people saved. And fill me with your Spirit. As always, my prayer, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. The day of judgment for the unsaved, the day of judgment Notice he says, and he knows how to deliver the godly out of temptation and to reserve the unjust. That word reserve means to carefully keep or detain A person is unsaved, they are lost. They're duped. And God reserves them. And the unjust is talking about a person who is unsaved, those who are still in their sins. They are unjustified They are separated from God. They're in their sin. They're still under the judgment of God for their sins. And he says that he has reserved them for the day of judgment. Now, where are the unsaved detained? The unjust? Where are they reserved? Where are they detained until the day of judgment? A person dies in their sins, they're unsaved, they're lost, unforgiven, and they are reserved until the day of judgment. Where is that detaining? Where is that reserved? Hell. He's referencing the hell. A person that saved. If a person is unsaved and still alive, they can still be saved. Amen? They're still alive. They can still be saved. Don't come around and tell me that somebody can't be saved, that God didn't choose them to be saved. That is a lie of the devil. I don't believe that for one minute. Whosoever shall call upon the Lord. Every lost person can be saved. But The moment that heart stops beating, that moment their spirit leaves their body, they are detained, they are reserved In hell until the day of judgment. Now that's a whole nother subject we could spend time studying. But I want to look at the day of judgment, that the unsaved, the person that dies in their sins Person that's in hell now, right now as I'm speaking, the people that will die in the coming days and months and years as the Lord tarries, that will end up in hell. This day of judgment that awaits them is what I'm jumping well down through this. Uh by the way, that day of judgment is described very vividly In Revelation chapter number 20. And so keep your place here. Peter's referring to this coming day of judgment for the unjust, the unsaved. And uh go over to Revelation chapter 20, and here we have A very, very, as I said, a very vivid description of what this day of judgment for the unjust is. And you mark it down. If God says something's going to happen, you mark it down. It's going to happen. Every single person that dies in their sins, unsaved, no matter where they're at, around the world, they are reserved, detained until this day of judgment. They will be here. Look at verse number 11. Chapter 20 of Revelation. And I saw Paul, or John is on the Isle of Patmos. God gives him this vision, this prophetic vision. And he sees down the years of prophecy. He sees this event, this day of judgment that Peter's referring to. And this is what he describes. This is what he sees. I saw a great white throne. And him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were open. And another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it Death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. It's what Peter referred to, those who are reserved unto the day of judgment. That's what he's talking about there. Death and those in death and hell And they were judged every man according to their works. And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. The day of judgment God showed to John through inspired revelation what this day of judgment is like. Very vividly declared described here. Number one, I want us to notice uh uh the people at this day of judgment. Who are these people being judged? Who are these people standing before God and the books are open? See if their name is in the book of life. Who are these people? Well, Peter described them as the unjust, as we mentioned. These are people who are not justified with God. They are not in standing with God. They are not saved. They are separated from God. Their sins have separated them from God. And they are still unforgiven. And they died in that state. And they go immediately to hell. Luke chapter 16, Jesus described the rich man in hell. He died in his sins, unsaved. And so that's these are the people here. Now notice how John describes them. Look at verse number 12. He says, I saw the dead. Now he's talking about the spiritually dead, the unsaved. Ephesians chapter 2, Paul writing the church at Ephesus referring to them back before they were saved. He says, You were dead in your trespasses and sins. They weren't dead physically, they were very much alive physically, but they were dead spiritually. Until a person trusts Christ, they are spiritually dead. They're spiritually separated from God. That's why Jesus referred to salvation as being born again or born anew, born from above. When I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, I am born spiritually. I become alive spiritually. I am a child of God. Lord willing, this week in the rally time in the mornings and the teens at night, we're hoping and working and praying towards many, many young people being born again. Becoming alive spiritually as a child of God. The people at this day of judgment, this that's described here, are dead. They're spiritually dead. They died in their sins. They're unjust. Look at verse number 15. It says, and it says, and the seed gave up the dead. Not talking about physically dead, although obviously they are physically dead. He's talking about they who died uh physically, but they were dead spiritually. They're separated from God. How many people follow what I'm saying? You got it? You understand? Spiritually unsafe. No no eternal life. Look at verse 15. He says, Whosoever was not found written in the book of life. These are folks that have never been saved. So this day of judgment that Peter is referring to in his letter here, and this judgment that John is describing by uh by uh God revealed to him through inspiration This judgment is for people who are unsaved. All unsaved people will end up at this judgment. All of them. None except. All unsaved people, people that die in their sins. Only unsaved people will be at this judgment. We refer to this as the great white throne judgment. That's how we describe it from verse number 11 there. Um there will be n uh uh there would be um uh only unsaved people at that judgment They're brought up out of hell, their bodies are resurrected, they stand before God to be judged as an unsaved person. All unsaved people will be for their every unsaved person Is one heartbeat away from eternal doom. I tell you, I get burdened Wednesday nights, Brother Wilbur and I pray together. He's my Wednesday night midweek prayer meetings, prayer partner And we pray up here, and I always try to pray down through that list on our prayer list. We have a long list of unsaved people. Every time I go down through those names and I pray, I say, oh God, send somebody by to witness to them, send somebody by to tell them of Christ. somehow get a track in their hand, somehow help them come to Christ, work on them, convict them, draw them to yourself. Because every one of those persons, listen to this, every one of those people are one heartbeat away from eternal separation from God. Every unsaved person, one heartbeat. Hear now in hell tomorrow. Hear now one minute in hell the next. I was so glad Loretta's brother last Sunday prayed, trusted Christ as Savior. Forty-eight hours later, he's in heaven and not in hell. So the unsaved, that's who's at this judgment, one heartbeat away from eternal doom. We must never, ever forget that. Let's never forget that. Question All unsaved are there. Only unsaved people are at this judgment, stand before God at this judgment, not saved people. Now here it's possible, now let me throw this out. It is possible at this day of judgment for the unsaved, it is possible That you and I, as believers, though we will not stand before God being judged, but it is very possible that we will observe. It's very possible that we will be there witnessing the unsaved stand before God. Judgment is announced, the sentence is pronounced They're cast in a lake of fire. We'll stand there observing that. I think it's very possible that we'll see that. We'll observe that. Would you agree with me? That would be heart-wrenching. I can't imagine. I've tried to put myself in those shoes and imagine what that would be like to observe this. And of course we can't, it's beyond But to see that I can't imagine seeing God's pronouncing judgment maybe on a co-worker or somebody I knew, a family member. And see them condemned and cast in the lake of fire. I can't imagine watching that without tears streaming down my eyes, a broken heart. You say, preacher, nobody would cry in heaven Would you notice something with me? Come over to chapter 21 of Revelation. Look with me at verse number four. Notice what it says. Now, this is people in heaven. This is saved people in heaven. And God shall wipe away all what? Tears from their eyes. You mean to say, preacher, there are tears in heaven? That's what it sounds like to me You say, preacher, what are those tears? Why would there be tears in heaven? Here's Leatherman's take on this. This is my opinion. I don't know. I could be wrong. I think we as believers will observe this event. I think it will be so heart-wrenching. I think we'll be so brokenhearted what we observe that we'll be weeping. And when this judgment is all over, I think God's going to come. He's going to wipe those tears from our eyes. And He'll comfort us and put it behind us. And we'll never remember it again. Erased from our memory. You say, you think that's what's going to happen? I think. Now I I can't say for certain, but that's what it looks like to me So the people at this judgment are unsaved, all unsaved people, only unsaved people, with the possibility that we as believers may observe it. Maybe we won't, but it's possible we will Number two, the place of this day of judgment. By the way, if our hearts are broken, if our hearts will be broken when we observe this judgment taking place Don't you think it'd be good for us to have broken hearts now before people go there and maybe be able to win them to Christ before that happens? I think a good thing for a Christian would be pray and ask God to give us a broken heart for the loss. Truth of the matter is, your average Christian, this is maybe cynical on my part. But the truth of the matter is your average Christian has little concern for the salvation of the unsaved. Oh, we talk about it. We say, oh yeah. But when it comes down to actually practically displaying a concern for the unsaved, so often it's not there. It's not there. I hate to say this, but I'm afraid your average church in America has little concern for the unsaved. Do little or nothing to reach the lowest. I'm grateful for Mountain Lake. Our church works hard to try and reach people with the gospel. But I'm saying I'm not comparing us, we're not better than anybody, certainly not, but I'm simply saying your average church I could tell you Independent Baptist Church that I know personally never one time go out and knock on doors. Give out few, if any, tracts, nothing. Missions non-existent God have mercy. A church that doesn't have a heart for reaching the lost. And so the people here. Number two, let me quickly uh I notice the place of this judgment Bible, where where does this take place, preacher? This day of judgment. Where does it take place? Bible doesn't say. I looked all over. I can't find anywhere. It doesn't say. It's not in Jerusalem It's not in Geneva? It's not in Washington, D. C. Where does this judgment take place? The Bible doesn't say. I don't think it's possible that this judgment is on earth. Look at verse 11 of chapter 20. I saw a great white throne and him that sat on it, look at this, from whose face the earth and heaven fled away. So it's not on earth. Earth, whatever that means, has fled away. And so this judgment cannot be on earth. Heaven and earth fled away. It can't be in the third heaven, the presence of God, because Revelation chapter 21, verse 27 says that nothing that defiles enter in Enters into the heaven where God is. And so these unsaved people, the unjust, they wouldn't be in heaven. They can't enter into the presence of God in the third heaven. So where is it? It's not on earth. It's not taking place in heaven. Say, well, preacher, where is it? Here's my answer. I don't know. I don't know where it is. Some have suggested maybe some far-off planet, some part of the universe. This universe is a big place. Do you know that? There could be regions where God has set up, I have no idea I kind of speculate maybe somewhere out in this universe, God will take this judgment will take place, but we don't know where the place is. It's unknown. Number three, the presiding judge on this day of judgment. Who is the one judging? Notice again, verse 12. I saw the dead and dead, small and great, stand before who? God. Now our immediate assumption is that it's God the Father. This is God the Father judging the unsaved. However, if you keep your place here and come with me to John chapter number 5. We're given a little bit of information who this judge is, who God means. When it says God there, who he means. John chapter 5. Gospel of John, chapter 5. And when you get there, find verse 22. And we're told who the judge is, who God is. This God that is on this throne that is pronouncing judgment is the judge here. Look at verse 22, John 5. For the Father judgeth no man. So it's not God the Father. He doesn't judge, he judges no man. The Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto who? The Son, Jesus Christ. That all men should honor the Son even as they honor the Father. We worship Jesus Christ the Son just equally as we worship God the Father. We honor the Son on the same degree we honor the Father. He that honoreth not the Son honoreth not the Father which has sent him. Say, preacher, you shouldn't speak so highly of Jesus. You shouldn't speak of Jesus higher than God the Father. It's impossible. They're both equal Verily, verily I say unto you. Then come down, if you would, notice verse 27. Jesus speaking, he hath given him, the Son, authority to execute what? Judgment. Judgment. Because he is the Son of Man. So who is this judge? Who's the presiding judge on this day of judgment? It's Jesus Christ. Romans chapter 2 and verse 16. Notice Romans chapter 2, verse 16. Again, he refers to the judge on this day of judgment, Romans two sixteen. He says In the day when God shall judge the secrets of men. That's talking about the day of judgments, Revelation chapter 20. The day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the judge. In Acts chapter 10, verse 42, the Bible says, he says, and he hath com he commanded us to preach unto the people and to testify That it is he, Jesus, which was ordained of God to be the judge of the quick and the dead. Every unsaved person is going to stand before the judgment of God. And on that judgment throne, on that judgment seat, is going to be God the Son, Jesus Christ, with the wounds in his hands and his feet, and the whole and the wound in his side. And he pronounces judgment. I believe Jesus Christ is the most qualified one to judge the unsaved. He has authority as God. He created us. He has authority to judge. He is perfectly holy. He has the moral authority to pronounce judgment. He has the creator's authority. To pronounce judgment. But yet he's the Son of Man. And he suffered what he is sentencing these people to. When the Bible says that he they uh that whoever is not found written in a book of life is cast in a lake of fire, that experience in the lake of fire, what they experience In the lake of fire is exactly what Jesus Christ experienced on the cross. The eternal wrath and separation from God. He's empathetic. He is condemning them. He's judging them to suffer exactly what he suffered for them, and they rejected it. They rejected it. So the presiding judge is Jesus Christ. He's the most qualified man to judge. By the way, he's the standard. He is the standard by which they are judged. We've come short. They come short of that. And then last of all, I am with this, the pronouncement on this day of judgment, what takes place. Come back here if you would to Revelation. Verse number fifteen, and whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. That's the pronouncement. That's the judgment. In Matthew chapter 7, verse 23, Jesus is referring to folks that came to him and said, Lord, Lord! We've done many wonderful things in your name. We cast out the sick and we raised the dead and we did many wonderful works. We, we did, we did, we did, we did These are people coming to be accepted by God based upon their works, based upon their merit, the things they did. And Jesus makes a sobering statement. He says, depart from me. I never knew you. That's what's taking place, verse fifteen. They come and say, you were trusting in all your works. You did this, you never put your faith and trust in Christ. I never knew you. And they're cast in the lake of fire. Yes, the lake of fire. By the way, when he made that statement, I never knew you, that tells me that these are people who weren't saved and lost their salvation. These are people who never were saved in the first place I never knew you. I never knew you. I never knew you. The only way to escape this day of judgment that Peter refers to is to be justified, and the only way to be justified is through faith in Christ. Faith in Christ. This week we're going to do our dead level best. We're going to pray. We've been praying We've been preparing. We got teachers working hard, learning their lessons, learning the Word of God. The evangelists are here. We're going to do everything we can to Point boys and girls, teenagers, moms and dads Friday night, all through the week. We're going to do everything we can to point people to the only Savior of mankind, Jesus Christ. Not our church Not our baptistry, but Jesus Christ. Because we don't want anybody. I'm telling you, God forbid that somebody come through those doors And leave and never hear about the only way to be saved. We do everything we can to point people to Christ. We don't want anybody to end up at this judgment. We don't want anybody. Will you pray with me Well we let's pray as a church that God's power be upon our efforts to win people to Christ. I I I want to see boys and girls saved. I want to see teenagers I'm praying Friday night, when this is all said and done, I'm praying moms and dads come to Christ and Christian homes be established. Amen. Let's pray. Father, as we go into this week, help us be stirred. We're stirred by the love of God, but Lord, we're also stirred by the wrath of God. And the coming judgment on the unsaved. Help us never lose sight of that. Help us never lose sight of that. And stir us to do what we can Wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, say, preacher, I'm going to pray. I'm going to give myself as best I can for God to use me and hear my prayers. To win lost people to Christ. Any like that uplifted hand, sure. Who in the world wouldn't feel that way? Father, bless our invitation as we pray in Jesus' name.