Three I'm going to read uh verse thirty three down through thirty-five. Verse thirty-three says, The curse of the Lord is in the house of the wicked. But he blesseth the habitation of the just. Surely he scorneth the scorners, but he giveth grace unto the lowly. The wise shall inherit glory, but shame shall be the promotion of fools. Keep your Bibles handy, keep your Bibles open. We're going to be going back and forth to some other passages here. Most of the time will be here in Proverbs. But um I'm going to speak to you for just a few minutes on the the contrast, the subject of um the contrast, and you'll see that here in in just a moment. First let's let's pray and then the message. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you for just a good day that you've given us, Lord. It's evident that uh you've been here with us. Lord, I ask now that you would uh meet with us as we look at your word. Lord, uh this is your word to us Help us to take seriously um the Bible, Lord, as we look at uh what it is you have for us. Help me, Lord, as I uh convey your word and help the Lord I just want you to be the the preacher tonight. Just hide me behind the cross, Lord. So That you're the one in control, Lord. I just want to yield myself over to you and bless this service in Jesus' name. Amen. For the past few months in Sunday school, we've been systematically going through Proverbs, and I've loved it. It's been a lot of fun. It took about a week to get through chapter 1, about 3 weeks to get through chapter 2, and about 5 months to get through chapter 3. Now I'm just kidding, it wasn't that much, but there's a lot that we're getting out of Proverbs, and I really like it Just to sum up the first three chapters here, just so you can see a little bit of a background, in chapter one, we see the basic reason the book was written there in the first few verses. And it encouraged us to seek after wisdom, God's wisdom, and and gives um a few proverbs there towards the end of the chapter. Chapter 2 discusses the fact that we need to fill our minds with godly wisdom, to seek for it and things like that. Pretty much we just need to saturate our minds with the Word of God. And that is one thing that we've really been trying to drill into the young people is just saturate your mind with the Word of God. Listen to it, read it, sing it, and so on. Just saturate your mind with the Word of God. And then chapter 3 discusses a lot of different benefits and also consequences of whether or not we're going to apply God's wisdom, read it and apply it, or whether we're going to reject it. We get to the end of chapter 3 here, verse 33 through 35. Let me read these again very quickly. It says, The curse of the Lord is in the house of the wicked. But he blesseth the habitation of the just. Cursing and a blessing, those are two very opposite things. Surely he scorneth the scorners, but he giveth grace unto the lowly. Again, two very opposite things, scorning and grace. The wise shall inherit glory, but shame shall be the promotion of fools. Again, two very opposite things. In verse 33, we see the curse of the Lord in contrasting with the blessing of the Lord. In verse 34, we see the scorning of the Lord versus the grace of the Lord. And in verse 35, we see glory versus shame. These are very, very opposite things from one another. They contrast. And when I mean contrast, I mean they they oppose each other. They clash Um have you ever guys ever decided to get dressed on your own one day and then your wife said that those uh colors contrast or they clash? It means they don't go together. They don't match up. Alright? They're opposing one to the other. They contrast. And I was thinking about this, and you'll see here where I'm going in just a second. But our entire Christian life is really one big contrast. It's really a major issue between two opposing forces, our entire Christian life, while we're living here on this earth. It's just one big contrast. Now if you'll go to Galatians with me, you'll see here what I'm talking about. And the word contrast of Is the uh state of being strikingly different from something else. Strikingly different Batteries. Can I just use the holder one, the green one? Galatians. Like I said, now I need to turn there myself. Of course, this time I'm blaming on technical difficulties. Galatians chapter 5. Really kind of sums this up. Our entire Christian life is a battle between two different things, both wanting to take control over us. Galatians chapter 5, verse 17 says, the flesh Lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are what? Contrary The one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things that ye would. The flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary, they contrast, they clash, they oppose each other, they don't go together We know this. Before we were saved, before we accepted Christ as our Savior, we did not have the Holy Spirit dwelling inside of us. So we only had one of these two personalities, the flesh. And we that was the way that we thought, that's the way our thought process was, the flesh. And we did things after the flesh. But then, of course, the contrast to that is once we accept Christ as our Savior, we now have the Holy Spirit inside of us and guiding us. So the Holy Spirit wants to guide our life, wants to direct our life But also the flesh wants to guide our life and wants to direct our life. These oppose each other. They contrast. They don't go together. So now that we are as Christians have the Holy Spirit indwelling us and guiding us as we make decisions, or as circumstances arise, the Holy Spirit wants to guide us through decisions. I heard someone put it this way, um When so you accept Christ as your Savior, or let me start over, before you accepted Christ as your savior, you had a wanter. You wanted to do certain things But now once you're saved, once you've accepted Christ as your Savior, you now have a new wanter. You want to do different things now because the Holy Spirit lives inside of you and guides you and directs you. It's a big contrast. Excuse me. So that means we have a problem. We're bipolar. We have two different personalities that want to take over and want to control us And can I just say right up front, this is a decision that we are faced with every single day. One of these personalities, if you want to use that for lack of a better term, is going to take over. And there is the flesh that wants to control Matt Treze, but also the spirit wants to control Matt Treze, and I have the option as to who I'm going to let control Matt trees ice. And so do you. Well, for yourself, not for Matt Trees. But we all have this choice as to who we're gonna let control us. And this is our entire Christian life. There is this struggle. The flesh lusteth against the Spirit, the Spirit against the flesh. These are contrary one to the other. I think Paul understood this very well. You'll recognize the scripture, Romans chapter 7. In verses 19 through 21, you need not turn there, but I wrote it down here and I'll read it so I don't misquote it. Paul said, For the good that I would do not, but the evil which I would not, that I do Now, if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do, but sin that dwelleth in me, I find then a law that when I would do good, evil is present with me. What Paul is saying, and we've heard it summed up this way, the things I want to do, I don't do, and the things I don't want to do, I do. Why? Because he's got two different things trying to control him. The flesh and the spirit. Now understand this. We're here in Galatians. This is where it gets kind of scary, and I've heard people disagree with me on this. But this is Bible, so we're going to look at it. Galatians chapter 5, we see in verse 17 about the flesh lesson against the Spirit. Verse 19 names the works of the Spirit. I mean the works of the flesh, excuse me. The works of the flesh. Now, if we still live in this body, that means that we still have the flesh wanting to control us. They're still against each other. We're still living here on this earth in this old fleshly body, and this is the things that the flesh wants to do. The works of the flesh are manifest, which are these adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry Witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murderers, drunkenness, revelings, and such like these are things our flesh wants to do. Oh, I'm a Christian. I don't have these temptations. Baloney. We have these temptations because we live in the flesh. Understand this. Our flesh wants to be hateful sometimes. We get in the flesh sometimes and we want to have strife we want to cause, create strife, or we go along with strife. Understand this, because we live in the flesh, we have this thing we call rebellion. And we want to rebel. As young people, but as adults as well, we want to rebel. Idolatry, putting anything above God Yeah, we want to do these things. And we could look at every single one of these, starting from adultery all the way down to revelings, which is kind of like wild partying there. But here's the thing: we all want to do these things. Maybe not every single one of us wants to do every single one of those, but the point is we live in the flesh, and if the flesh takes over, one of these things are going to come out Whether it be strife, whether it be anger, whether it be fornication, adultery, or whatever, that is the works of the flesh, and that is the personality that wants to take over. But yes, we're saved. Hallelujah. Because now we have the Holy Spirit that says, no, we don't want to do that anymore. We want to do this now. And man, I'm glad that that's there. I'm glad the Holy Spirit is in us, and I'm glad that He is guiding us because If all we have was the flesh, these are the th one one of these things, if not many or all of them, would come out. So, Paul understood this very well in Romans when he said, the things I want to do, I don't do, and the things I don't want to do, I do. So now go back to Proverbs. Go back to Proverbs chapter 3. What do these have to do with each other? The contrast we see in Proverbs 3 in the last three verses here are a result of which personality you're going to let take control. And I'm using that person term personality. Kind of um very vaguely just to uh make a point here as to who you are going to let control, let me put it that way. Whether you're gonna let the spirit take control or whether you're gonna let your old flesh take control The results are what we find here in Proverbs chapter 3, 33 through 35. So we're going to look through these real quick. The first contrast in 33, verse 33. The curse of the Lord versus the blessing of the Lord. Look at it. The curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked. The house of the wicked, but he blesseth the habitation of the just. The curse of the Lord versus the blessing of the Lord. I see a blessed home versus a cursed home. A peaceful home or a home full of strife. A blessed family or family is cursed with the sin that they brought on by allowing the flesh to take over. It's a very big contrast. And I was beginning to think about this. We have a choice. We either let the spirit of the flesh take control, and yes, it will affect us, but not just us, but our home. If I choose to let the flesh control me, and I choose to get in the flesh for the term that we use. Then yeah, it's gonna affect me, but I'm not just gonna sin in this box. It's gonna affect my wife. It's gonna affect you all. It's gonna affect my parents, her parents. Lord willing one day we'll have children, it will affect them. And the choice you make whether or not you're gonna let the spirit take over or the flesh take over will not just affect you. We don't make decisions in a vacuum. It affects our family very much so. And this is something we need to keep in mind because we don't sin in a box, as they say. I wonder how many children, how many young people are affected by their parents who decide to let the flesh control them. Because of the parents deciding to let the flesh take over and one of these works of the flesh come out, the children are hurt. How many times have we seen this when a parent ends up being brokenhearted because their son or their daughter gets in the flesh and allows the flesh to take over? One of these works of the flesh come out and it brings a curse of on their sin and it affects the entire home. I thought there's probably many, many, many people who have loved ones that have messed up bad because they got in the flesh. Maybe some strife came out. Maybe some harsh words came out because of the wrath that the flesh brought out. Or the hatred. The hatred that mom and dad have for each other doesn't just affect mom and dad, it affects the children. The hatred that brothers and sisters have for each other doesn't just affect the brothers and sisters, it affects the parents. And so on. Sometimes I think we can make uh we think that we make choices and you know this is fine and it's only affecting me. No no no it it it affects. Those around you. I thought about this uh maybe just because um I I deal with young people so much. But The choices that you guys make now is going to affect your family in the future You think, oh, I'm fourteen, I'm fifteen, I don't have the family, I'm not, you know, I don't I don't have a no, it's gonna affect your future family One day you're going to have a husband, you're going to have a wife, you're going to be holding hands walking through the mall, got your kids following behind you, and you'll see someone From when you got in the flesh and one of the works of the flesh came out, and now you'll have to run from that person across them all. You understand what I'm saying? And what's going to happen is it's going to affect your family in the future because of your actions now. Does this make sense? I hope it does. And with that being said, rather than this all being negative, what if we let the other personality take over? What if we decide we're going to let the Holy Spirit take over and control us and guide us? Yes, that affects your family as well. You want to have a peaceful home. Man, just let the Holy Spirit take over You want to have a home that rather than full of strife, it's full of happiness and joy? Man, let the Holy Spirit take over. Let Him control you rather than your flesh. You see, the the works that we do now, whether good or bad, will affect our family of the future. And it will also affect our family now, but also when we do the the works of the Spirit and our led of the Spirit Um that will affect our family in a good way. Because we see here, the curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked, but the He blesseth the habitation of the just. I love you, but I want God's blessings on our home. And if I let the flesh control my actions and the works of the flesh come out, we're not going to have a blessed home. We won't. So who we let control your life will determine whether or not the blessing or the cursing of the Lord will be on your home. The second one I see is in verse 34 of Proverbs chapter 3, the scorning of the Lord versus the grace of the Lord. Look at it. Surely he scorneth the scorners, but he giveth grace unto the lowly. The word scorning there, I kind of looked it up just to make sure I was right, um and I was a little wrong, so that's okay. But anyway, the word scorning means this. It means basically getting in trouble or getting Getting God after. Getting uh chastened even, scorned. Have you ever been scorned? Oh absolutely. Yes, I've been scorned many times. But anyway. I don't want God to scorn me. I don't want that. I don't want to get uh chastened. I don't want to get corrected. I don't want to I don't want to get scorned by the L But that's what he'll do. Because what happens is we get in the flesh when one of the works of the flesh come out, whether wrath, hatred, uh fornication, idolatry, whatever, one of those will come out, and he's gonna scorn us I don't want to be scorned by God. But if we contrast that, verse 34, he gives us grace. I don't know about you, but the grace of God and the scorning of God. I won't spend too much time on this one. I think we see it pretty plainly. The last one, uh in the verse thirty-five. The wise shall inherit glory But shame shall be the promotion of fools. The wise shall inherit glory, but shame shall be the promotion of fools. Now, as Christians, we know this. We want to live a life that glorifies God. That's what our goal is. To live a life that brings glory and honor to God, whether therefore you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. Now, we see here, excuse me, we see here that the wise shall inherit glory. Now, we do not seek glory for ourselves. I understand this. Although we do not seek a life that brings glory to ourselves, sometimes God allows us to be recognized for things you might say. But the bottom line is it's not so that we can say we're somebody, because we're not. It's so we can say he's somebody. The reason God allows people to be given praise from time to time is so we can direct it back to Him. For those people to give glory back to God. So to sum it up this way When we allow the spirit to have control of our life rather than the flesh, then we will end up living a life that brings honor and glory to God. That's what we want to do. Live a life that glorifies God. Whatever you do, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, all of the glory of God, then we had better let the Holy Spirit take control of us rather than the flesh. We had better do that. Now, when uh we love the flip side of this, when we allow the flesh to take control, we will inherit a life that brings shame. How many of you like to be shamed? No, we don't like shame. Shame is not a good thing. Um it can't. We went to um Who's your hills? Man, that place was awesome. One of the things they had every night was the walk of shame. And when a cabin counselor or or a cabin member lost their flag It was taken to the tabernacle, put up on the platform, and the camp or the cabin counselor had to walk down the middle aisle to get his flag back. And they called it the walk of shame. They played the music, they were throwing water on them, they were turning their backs, going, Oh boo, it was it was the walk of shame. And it was not something that those counselors looked forward to, the walk of shame. Nobody likes to be shamed. They had another flag. What was the name of that? What what did they call that? What was it? The Spizurynctum flag. I have no idea what that means. Basically Matt team spirit, and whoever earned that flag received glory. That's the flag that everyone wanted. They didn't want to be the one that lost their flag and got shamed. It's natural to want glory and to not want shame. So, in order for us to live a life that brings glory to God and does not bring shame to God or shame to us, then we must live a life that is controlled by the Spirit. And we will get to how to do that here in just a second. But I don't know about you. I don't want to live a life that brings shame to me. We're my God. I I I don't want to die one day and say people looking over my uh tombstone or over my casket saying, Mm-mm, he did the best he could. But he messed up. I don't want that. I want to live a life that brings glory to God, not shame to God. One thing that bothers me is a lot of times We'll claim Christianity and then we go live it a different way and we get in the flesh. People will look at us But not only that but look at our God and it brings shame to our God by the way we live our lives when we allow the flesh to take over I don't want to do that. I want to live a life that brings shame to my God. I want to live a life that brings glory to him. So, go back to Galatians. Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter five, as I turn there. Every time. So like I said, we see here the consequences of who we allow to take over. And you might be thinking, man, I I uh after seeing all this, I really want to make sure I let the Spirit take control of my life, but not and not the flesh What do I need to do to do that? How am I gonna keep from letting the flesh take over? Because sometimes I do these things I don't want to do, and then later on I say, man, I wish I wouldn't have done that What's the key? This is the key. Glad you asked. Galatians 5:16 says this: this I say then: walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Basically, it's saying this: Walk in the Spirit, and you won't fulfill the lust of the flesh. Here's the thing. When we decide, you know what, I'm going to let the spirit take over, then the flesh doesn't have room to get in. If we decide we're going to let the flesh take over, then the spirit isn't in control. The way we keep the flesh from having control is by letting the spirit have control. And how do we do that? Well, we're going to look. Kind of two things I have here for this. First one is go to Ephesians. Galatians Ephesians chapter five The way we keep this big green monster called the flesh from taking control of us Is by making sure that we have the spirit control of us. And this is what we do. Galatians, or not Galatians, excuse me. I get all my uh Galatians, Ephesians, and Philippians. I always got those three mixed up for some reason. But uh Ephesians chapter five, verse eighteen says, and be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with this spirit. The analogy here is given to someone who is drunk. And we frown on that around here, obviously. Amen. Now, when you are drunk, the liquor is what is controlling you You drink too much wine, the wine's going to control you. You drink too much liquor, the liquor's going to control you. And have you ever heard someone say the a phrase maybe like this Oh, that was the liquor talking, that was the alcohol talking. That's not really who they were. They were being controlled. Or they were under the influence, more like they were under control. But um That is what was controlling them. Was that substance? I think it's sometimes it's like that with drugs too. People will get will get um um they'll they'll take drugs and it completely changes the personality and they're not even the same type of person anymore. Now let me ask you a question. How does a drunk person get drunk? A drink. Huh. They fill themselves with drink and get drunk. So if the way a person is controlled by alcohol is to be filled with alcohol, then the way someone is controlled by The Spirit is to be filled with the Spirit. That's what it's saying here. Be not drunk with wine, wearing his excess, but be filled with the Spirit. He's filled with the Spirit. What he's saying here is we shouldn't let the this anything control us. Alcohol, sure, of course, obviously, but there's so many things we could let control us Rather than letting someone else control us, we need to let the Spirit control us. And the way we do that is by getting a good dose of the Spirit. By getting filled with the Spirit. Now how are we going to do that? What is it how how are we going to get filled with the Spirit? Well, there's a lot of ways we could do it. But really, I mean it boils down to this. What you feed is what's gonna live. What you feed is what's is what's gonna live. If you have a pet and you feed it well, it'll grow. If you have a plant and you feed it, it'll grow. If you starve it, it dies. Go to um with this in mind, go to Romans chapter um thirteen, verse fourteen. We in order to walk in the Spirit and let the Spirit control us, we need to fill ourselves up with the Spirit. We need to read God's word, come to church, all that kind of stuff, pray. Be filled with the Spirit. Feed ourselves on spiritual food. I think this is what I'm trying to get at. But then in Romans chapter 13, verse 14, it says this. But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. Make no provision for the flesh. Now, provisions, that's what you're giving it to survive. It's provisions. It's nutrients. It's food. Don't feed it. Make no provision. Make no ability Make no opportunity, even, for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. You feed it, and the flesh is what's going to take over. You feed the flesh, it'll take over. And it'll control you. You feed the spirit, and it'll take over, it'll control you. This is kind of more of a Bible study than anything else tonight, but Basically, we have two really big contrasting things here: the spirit and the flesh. These are contrary one to another. They oppose each other. We understand this. But the choice we make to either let the Spirit control us or the flesh, man, the consequences are huge. And the consequences contrast. The blessings of God on your home, on your life, versus the curse because of sin Proverbs chapter three, thirty-three through thirty-five, w we those are pretty much the outcomes of what who we're going to let take over. The outcome of the curse or the blessing of God, and so on. Basically, it comes down to this: whichever one we feed is what's going to take over and control us. Are you making provision for your flesh? Are you feeding it? What w by the things you watch on TV, by the things you watch on the internet, by the things you listen to on the radio, by the the conversation by the company you keep, are you feeding your flesh? By the things you take in, um, via any of the senses, are you feeding the flesh or are you feeding the spirit? Are you listening to the good preaching or are you listening to garbage on the radio? And I can make that analogy so many different ways. But what is it that you're feeding yourself? The spirit? Are you feeding the spirit or are you feeding the flesh? Uh whichever one of those you're feeding is the one that's gonna take over. And um, I don't know about you, but I don't want the flesh to take over, and the way we keep it from taking over is by starving it. Make no provision for the flesh. Make no provision for the flesh. This I say then, walk in the Spirit. Why don't we make up our minds that we want the Spirit to control us? We want the Holy Spirit to control us, that He'll do a better job, I promise. This I say then, walk in the spirit, and you won't fulfill the lust of the flesh. You want to have God's blessing on your home? You want God's grace on your life? Do you want to have a life that glorifies God? Then walk in the spirit. Walk in the spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Now at the beginning I made this comment and I'm done. I made this comment that if um or once you're saved and the Holy Spirit is inside of you um and he's the one that's guiding you and that that's the Spirit, the Holy Spirit But if you're here and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, you don't have that. You don't you don't have that. You you only have this flesh that wants to do fleshly things. And you might say, Oh, I don't commit some of those. Yeah, but some of them you want to You do. And you don't have anything to oppose that sinful nature you have And if you're here and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, please do not put that off. More importantly than what personality or what who's going to control you. is where you're gonna end up when you die. That's a that's man, that's the main thing right there. So uh heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looked around for just a moment. Um a lot of different scripture we looked at and stuff tonight. I said maybe it was more like a Bible study than than a sermon, but that's I don't that's that's okay I guess but if there is someone here This is so very serious. If there is someone here and you have never trusted Christ as your Savior. You say, Pastor Matt, if something happened to me and I died right now, I walked outside Then got in my car, drove down the road, someone ran a stop sign, and I died. I'm not one hundred percent certain I'd go to heaven. Pretty sure it doesn't cut it. Maybe doesn't cut it. I hope so it doesn't cut it. You say, you know what, Pastor Matt, I'm not a hundred percent certain I'm going to heaven. Will you pray for me? If that's you, will you raise your hand? I'm not a hundred percent certain I'm going to heaven, but I sh I'm concerned about that. Would you raise your hand? I won't call you out, I won't embarrass you, I won't make you give a speech or anything like that. I just want to pray for you. Okay, I didn't see any hands. Now how many of you would say this, you know what? And and and let me tell you, this is my prayer. I mean you would say, Pastor Matt, I just want the Holy Spirit to control me, and I don't want the flesh to take over. I want to walk in the Spirit. If that's you, could you raise your hand? Got my hands up, absolutely. I want the spirit to control me. I don't want this old flesh to control me. You may put your hands down. It's easy to uh raise your hands, no one's looking. And it's easy to it's even pretty easy to come up here and pray about it at an altar. But what makes it hard is when we walk out the doors And we starve our flesh. That's hard to do. We make changes, we get rid of things, we get rid of the provisions that we've been giving to the flesh. That's hard to do. In just a minute, she's gonna start playing the piano, and when she does, if God has dealt with you about some there might be something I haven't even mentioned tonight, I don't know. But if God's dealt with your heart about anything I've said tonight, or just anything at all, if she starts playing, please don't mess around with God. Don't play around. This is serious. Get get it right. Uh the altar's open.