Let me ask you to turn in your Bibles tonight to uh Psalms chapter one hundred nineteen. Psalms one hundred nineteen I want to look at um a verse that you probably already have memorized and comes to your mind often, but uh in one uh verse one hundred and sixty-five Psalm one hundred and nineteen verse one hundred sixty five Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. How many of you have that verse memorized? Yes. Let's read it together. Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Now, it's just two parts Great peace have they which love thy law, and then the second part, and nothing shall offend them. So let's say it without looking at it. And you recite it, can you look up two parts? Number one, great peace have they which love thy law. And nothing shall offend them. These are like oil and water. You can't have the peace he's talking about here and be offended at the same time. And uh you can't mix these two. And the amazing thing, there's a choice between them You and I, as a child of God, we choose if we're going to enjoy the peace that we have promised us. a peace that we have indwelling us, or if we're going to let something rob us of that peace Now, the word peace here has the thought of just to rest. One word that describes this word is the word safe Feeling safe. It is wonderful to feel safe, isn't it? That's what he's talking about here in this word peace. But the word offended is is not, you know, we think about a feeling. Somebody made me feel bad. Somebody did something that made me feel bad. That's part of it. But really, the thought of the word is that it's a trap. It's a stumbling block. In other words, when we are offended, it robs us of the peace, that safe feeling That rest. And so we need to realize how we're affected by this Um think about this peace. I want just I want to just look at that this word peace. I want you to I want you to to grasp the thought of peace here. Let's pray, and then we'll uh we'll get into these two these two thoughts. Father, bless now, as we uh just sort of Let you open this verse of Scripture to us. I pray that you would bless these folks who have come tonight, their faithfulness to come to church on a night like this. They desire to hear from you. They desire to get something that would bless their lives and strengthen them in their relationship with you, I pray that you would give them that tonight. I pray that you would speak to our hearts in a special way. In Christ's name. Amen. I want to share some verses with you that have this thought of peace. Now, this peace is something that you and I have. If you're saved, Then you are indwelt by this peace. Whether you accept it or not That's up to us. Whether we let God give us this, that's up to us. But think of some other verses that sort of bring this out. And you'll not have to turn to these, but just listen, they're familiar. Isaiah 26, 3. Thou wilt keep him. In perfect peace. Those two words are the same word. Perfect peace. And they have that that same thought. Whose mind is stayed on thee because he trusteth in thee. So you see The thought is, if you're going to if you're going to enjoy the rest that we have Then you're going to have to keep your mind stayed on Christ and His presence Is worked. Psalm 119, 165 says, Great peace have they that do what? Love thy law. Love's not a passive word, it's an active word. It's not just a feeling, uh fuzzy, fuzzy feeling. It is Something that is produced in our lives. If you love your spouse, you desire to be with them. You enjoy them. They are a protection, they're a provision. They are uh I'm not just talking about uh providing finances or material things, but I'm talking about just uh a feeling of, hey, everything's okay when I'm with them. If you love that person. This is talking about loving the Word of God. This is talking about having a relationship with the Word of God. And it's not only reading it and studying it, but it is Letting God apply it to our lives every day. And he said, You can have great peace if you have that love relationship. with God's word. Now we choose to do that, right? Or not to do it. And so in verse, in Psalm or in Isaiah 26, 3, he says, Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind, whose mind. Is stayed on thee. How is our mind going to be uh going to uh be stayed on Christ if we're in his word? If our mind has been affected, infected, changed by God's word, his promises, his principles And his presence is ever with us because his word is constantly reminding us of him. Hey, I belong to him. This is what he's promised me. Hey, I can go through whatever I'm going through because he is in control. Nothing happens without his permission. He is my safe feeling. And so that peace comes in that relationship with the Lord. Let me give you another one. In uh, well, Philippians 4, 6 and 7, you know that. John 14, 27. Listen to this. Peace, Christ speaking to his apostles just before Calvary. Peace I leave with you, my peace. My peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Christ's peace versus what the world promises. And what the world wants to do is rob you of the peace. That Christ has given you. Amen? And we have to make a decision. We have to choose. To not let that happen. And then he does the same thing in John 16, 33. These things I have spoken unto you that What are the next words? In me. Christ said, in me. Ye might have peace. In the world, ye shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. So I want you to think about that thought of peace. Enjoying the peace of God. Where do we get it? How do we get it? How do we keep it? By walking with Christ, living His Word Now, if you want to make it simple, peace comes as a child of God when we simply do what we're supposed to do. That's the bottom line. Peace comes when we do what God tells us to do. If you're saved tonight, God lives within you. That's the change that was made when you received Christ as Savior. He think about Almighty God, the creator of the universe, the sustainer of everything, the all-knowing, all-powerful God The Holy One lives within you. God And he wants to tell us when we're doing right and we're doing wrong. And when we do right, as we listen to him, there's a peace that comes. And when we do not listen to him, that peace is not there You know what I'm talking about, right? Huh? We've been there. And he simply wants to say to us, hey, this is what I want you to do And if we do it, an amazing peace, great peace, a feeling of safeness. Everything's going to be okay. You say, how in the world do we get that? He gives it to us. He puts it there. He does something that the world cannot do. He does something that we cannot produce in our flesh. You and I can enjoy a peace that is beyond understanding We have that. Great peace have they which love thy law. I mean simple things Simple things. I uh the other day, and I was thinking about this, uh, my wife's car, uh, she has an O1 Toyota that she loves. And something was loose in the front. I didn't I couldn't figure it out. And I took it to the to a place there in Clinton and I told him, I said, I've got this looseness I can't figure. I said, would you just check the front end And so they checked it, called me, said, hey, everything's okay, said it wasn't anything to front end, said one tire had lost uh a lead weight and it was out of balance a little bit, and then we fixed it, and so I went up And uh went in, got my keys, and she said, I said, what I owe you, and she said, You don't know us anything, said you bought the tires here. Well I got my keys and started out, and then I thought, I didn't buy my tires here Now when that happened, when I thought of that, God said, You need to pay for that Huh? You have that happen? You need to pay for that. Now I could have walked on and said, man, I just made a few bucks. They make plenty. Right? The devil gives you the thought, ah, that's a little thing, don't worry about it. But you see, if we listen to our flesh instead of God. We lose that peace. It'll stay. You'll be reminded of it. And so I went back in and I said, hey, I didn't buy those tires here. Oh yeah, I've got it right on the paper. I said, I'm sorry, I didn't buy those tires here. And there was a guy standing there working with her and he said uh said it'll be $14. 95. So I paid him and left. But that's what I'm talking about You and I cannot take for granted. We cannot lose that personal relationship That we have with God within us telling us, you need do this. You need do that. I was at church uh a few weeks back, and uh you probably never do this, but I say things that uh I get home and wonder, I wonder if they misunderstood me, or I wonder if I uh or I get home and say I should never have said that. Now you never have that problem, right? And I said something to this fellow, and I got home and I got to thinking. I said, I had no right to say that. What he had done He had texted me, I don't know, about 4. 30 or 5 o'clock in the morning. He was going to work. And uh he just texted me, praying for you. God bless you. And I heard the phone, you know how and the noise it makes. And I got up and and so since I was up I just said, okay, thank you. He texted back and said, What are you doing up this time of morning? I said, I'm answering your text. So uh we were having prayer requests or something and And I just told the whole church about it. Well, I got home and I got thinking I shouldn't never have said that. And God said, You shouldn't have. You had no business saying that. So I had to get on the phone and call him and say, hey, listen, I'm sorry if I offended you or if I got out of out of order. He said, Oh, I didn't even think anything about it. But that cleared it. Right? That cleared it. That's what I'm talking about here. You see, the Bible tells us how we're to talk, our to walk. How we're to live, how we're to treat each other. And when we have that, when we have those feelings of something's wrong, it's It's God saying, as a Christian, you're not to live that way, you're not to talk that way, you're not to do that. And you and I, think about this. If we would, if we would become sensitive, so sensitive to God That when he speaks about what we might consider the smallest thing, if we would become so sensitive that we stop and take care of it. We could enjoy a safe feeling, a peace that um We wouldn't recognize because it would be so wonderful. It would make life so great. Now you say, preacher, why in the world are you talking about this? On a missions and emphasis tonight, because God has some plans for each and every one in the matter of missions. God has a plan for each of us He has provided for you to give, he's provided for you to serve, he's provided for you to be personally involved with missionaries. God has a purpose for each one. And if you want a peace that is really wonderful and enjoyable, just agree with it. He's not going to mislead us, right? He's not going to take advantage of us. But I'll tell you what he desires to do. He desires to give us Just a calmness. And it might be a difficult thing when we make the commitment. It might be difficult to agree with God When we have our own plans, but once we make the right decision, that peace comes. Now, here's the other thing I want you to think about. What he's saying in this verse is that great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. What he's saying is. Nothing is going to trap them and cause them to stumble In that situation. Because you see, when God speaks to you and me, when God when God reaches down and touches us In his desire, his pleasure for us, we will always have something trying to lead us the other way. As long as you live in that flesh that you live in, as long as you have that old man that you have the long that old nature you have, then it's going to be a constant battle to rest in him And so what we've got to do is become totally aware of God's presence, of God's speaking. And of the trap that is set to keep us from that peace that God has for us. Hey, isn't it nice to go home at night and put your head on your pillow and nothing come to mind That you may have done that you shouldn't have done. Huh? Isn't it great to see everybody in church And have a positive feeling and attitude instead of conviction about something you may have said or may have done God gives us that. So we've got to become so aware of it that we learn how to recognize the trap. Learn how to recognize the stumbling block that comes to rob us of that peace. Let me give you some suggestions just uh just to help you uh to recognize that. First of all, we've got to come to a place that we're never offended by God. You say, oh, I'm never offended by God. God would never offend me. Isn't it true that nothing can happen in our lives except God cause it or permit it? Huh? Isn't it true that He has a protection around us that keeps us from anything that He does not want to touch us? But there are times that he pulls back and says, Okay, you can touch them because they need to learn this or that. And yet Knowing that you and I are often offended by the difficulty we go through. We are offended At things that happen in our lives that take away our comfort zone, that take away what we think ought to be happening. And when we do that, we've got to mature, we've got to grow to the place in our uh Christian life and our relationship with God that we realize when I get upset because something's taking place in my life and it's not conviction because of something I've done But it's something that's happening because God's permitting it. I am being offended by what God's doing. I am upset at God When I have those feelings. Let me show you a portion of Scripture. Turn with me in your Bible to Matthew chapter 11. Do you remember when John the Baptist, well when when Herodia, when Herod had that uh drunken party? And got all drunk, and Herodias' daughter danced, and he got all excited and promised her whatever she wanted up to half the kingdom. Uh look in, this is this is an account of that. In uh Matthew chapter eleven, look at verse one. It says, and it came to pass when Jesus had made an end of commanding his twelve disciples, he departed thence to teach and to preach in their cities. Now when John, John the Baptist, he's in prison. He's in jail now because Herodias told her daughter You ask for the head of John the Baptist on a charger. And she did. And so John's in prison. Now, when John heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples and said unto him, Art, look at this now. Think about this. He said unto him, Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another? John the Baptist, hey, this is the same John the Baptist that just a few days ago said the Messiah. The one that has come to take away the sins of the world. Pointed to Christ. He's the one that started the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ by identifying him. And now he's saying to Jesus, are you really the Messiah? Or do we look for him? Notice how Jesus responded. Verse 4. Jesus answered and said unto them, Go and show John again those things which he do hear and see. The blind receive their sight, the men uh the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up. And the poor have the gospel preached unto them. Look at verse 6. And blessed is he whosoever shall not be offended in me. Hey John, I know exactly what's happening. I haven't lost control. I'm the Messiah. And if you're going to enjoy your relationship, then you're going to have to come to a place that you're not offended by what I permit in your life. And if you and I are going to enjoy the peace, the safeness that we can enjoy that we have Then we're going to have to come to a place that we're not offended when God puts something in our lives to make us what He wants us to be, to move us the way He wants us to go. God is not going to make a mistake in directing our lives. Amen. We had missionaries in Africa a number of years ago. Rhoda and Robert Smith. They spent 20 years in Nigeria, did a great job, but Rhoda came down with some physical problems and they could not stay in Nigeria. And they had to come back to the States. And she got treatment and and they could not go back to Nigeria because of a particular weather or whatever And so they they've determined we are not going to stop serving God in missions. God has something for us And so they started looking for a place. They went down to Barbados, located a place that had no independent Baptist church. Didn't know did not know anybody. They met some people, moved to Barbados, and started a church, and they've been there at least 15 years now. I've had people saved, church started, wonderful work. I say that to say this. A lot of people, when that would have happened in Nigeria, they would have said, hey, if that's the way it is, we'll just stay home. They didn't stay home. They didn't get upset because God disturbed them a little bit there They just took they just looked to God and said, now what do you want from here? Why is this happening What's next? Hey, you and I need to grow to the place that we are not offended by God And if we're going to do it, we're going to have to recognize His work in our lives. Amen. Second thought. We cannot be offended by others. Oh boy. That's a big problem, isn't it? I heard a preacher say, if it wasn't for these people, I could be a good pastor I'll tell you what, if you're going to be around people, you're going to be around problems. And you're going to hear things that hurt your feelings. You're going to have things done that upset you. But we've got to come to a place that we are not offended by other people. Why? No one comes into our life that God doesn't permit And God brings people into our lives for a purpose. Hey, they may not be everything you want, but it may be that He just wants them to see you And you need to be everything they want and everything they need. You may need to be a good influence on them and not expect them to be a good influence on you Hebrews 10, verses 24 and 25 tell us that we are to look at people in the church that we're drawn to, that we might provoke them unto love and to good works. We have a responsibility to look at people that God puts us with, sort of a kindred spirit, that he does that for a reason. He has people he wants us to influence. God has somebody that he wants to use you in their lives And we've got to make up our mind, I'm not going to let piddly little things that happen in other people's lives affect me in a negative way. Huh? We cannot be offended by people. Let me ask you to turn with me to 1 John First John chapter two, first John chapter two, and verse nine The Bible says, he that saith he is in the light and hateth his brother is in darkness even until now. Say you're saved and you can carry hatred for your brother, may not be so. Verse 10: He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there's none occasion of stumbling in him. Same thought as that word being offended. You love your brother, you're not going to stumble. In other words, if you love your brother, He's not going to offend you by saying some little something and hurt your feelings, or is not what you would like to hear, or what you would like to see done. You can't let other people affect you. We had a man come to our church years ago. He uh Came, made a public profession of faith, and supposedly got saved. Hope he did. And started coming regularly, got involved in our bus ministry And after he was in the bus ministry for a couple of months, he came to me one day and he said, Pastor, he said, uh, I've got a problem. I need help. He said, before I got saved, my life was rotten. He said I I didn't handle my money right, didn't do things right. He said I have no credit. He said that my life was a disaster. And I need a car. He said, I can't work the bus ministry until I get something that's reliable. Said, do you know how I could get another car? Because I can't get it with my credit. Well, I prayed with him about it, waited a while, now I'm going to ask you not to laugh at me I don't think you will. You're a smart bunch. I co signed for him Thank you. Can you believe that? That's one of the dumbest things I have ever done. I co-signed for him. He paid three payments on that car, left the church, and never paid another payment. He didn't care. He didn't have any credit anyway. My name was on that loan. And every month I had to write a check. And send the payment in for the car that I could not even use. He had living the way the way he wanted to live. You think I didn't get mad? I tried to figure a way I could kill him, but I was afraid they'd catch me and it'd hurt my ministry. In DC at that time you could have gotten a hitman for fifty dollars. I tried to convince myself that that was okay. I mean I was bitter, angry, that a place that started to affect my preaching I mean here I've got people there that came to church wanting to hear from God, and man, I was on them because I was bad at them. And I had to God dealt with me, and I had to come to a place one day That I got rid of that. I had to come to a place that I just finally said, hey, you did something dumb God let you do it. Hey, we'd do a lot of more dumb things if God didn't protect us from it. But I had to come to a place that I realized God let me do that. And he did it, he let me do that because there was a lesson I needed to learn. And buddy, I learned a big one. You and I cannot let someone else rob us of our relationship with God. Do you know no one else can affect your relationship with God? Only you can do that. They can do anything they want. That doesn't affect your relationship, how we respond. Affects our relationship. Amen. Number three, let me go say this quickly and we're finished. We cannot let ourselves offend us. You say, oh, no problem there. I am no problem with me. We are our biggest problem. Huh? We know what God got when he got us, and we know he didn't get much. And we know what we're capable of now. We know if God didn't protect us, our lives would be a mess. Huh? And often we are not able to be used by God because we dwell on what we could be, what we could have been. Instead of dwelling on what God can do with us. We cannot be offended. Peter, imagine Peter going through what he went through. What he did. Can you imagine standing and having to look right in the eyes of Christ and knowing what you said about him, what you did? And then yet he was used in such a great way to even pin part of the scriptures. You and I should not be guilty of being offended by dwelling on what we could be instead of uh the cause of our flesh instead of what God wants us to be. Amen Let's make up our minds. I want to enjoy the peace. I'm going to do right. I'm going to make the commitment God wants me to make. I'm going to c I'm going to get things right because I'm going to make mistakes. I mean that's that's part of it. We're going to make mistakes, we're going to do wrong, but there's a way to get them right. There's a way to correct them. Amen? Let's just make up our minds. We're not going to let anything rob us of the peace that God has given us. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the privilege we have to enjoy you And just enjoy that relationship every day because of what you've done in our lives. God, you have blessed this church in such a marvelous way. I pray that you would help folks to take this thought and just move. Another step in their relationship with you, their involvement in serving you, living for you. Especially in this matter of reaching people with the gospel around the world, bless as commitments are made, we pray. It's about either closed. I have no doubt God has spoken to our hearts individually. I'm confident of that tonight, this message. Maybe we just come to an altar, just say, Lord, help me to be sensitive to your spirit speaking in my heart, and help me to be submissive and allow you to lead me and trusting you, agreeing with you. And direct me, not just in mission and faith promise, but every aspect of my life, my relationship with others, my walk with the Lord. Maybe you want to find someone to pray with tonight. I don't know why, it was on my heart. husband and wife, brother, sister in Christ or something, just praying together. Lord, give us sensitive heart. Help us to be submissive.