Number six, I'd like for us to read the first four verses together in unison, if you would. Isaiah six We'll begin in verse number one. Read down through verse number four, if you would join me. If you have it there, uh let's read together beginning in verse one. Here we go. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up. and his train filled the temple. Above it stood the seraphims. Each one had six wings. With twain, he covered his face. With twain, he covered his feet, and with twain, he did fly And one cried to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts The whole earth is full of his glory. And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. Wow, what a seat. What a vision Isaiah had. I want to take just a little phrase from that first verse, the Lord high and lifted up. High and lifted up. I read this passage. I'm reading through Isaiah and my devotions. I read this earlier this week, and this whole passage down through verse 8 just stuck out in my mind. The Lord stir my heart. So I want to try and preach on this this morning. So let's pray together. Ask the Lord to teach us, speak to our hearts, and challenge us in our faith. Father in heaven, we come to you again on another Lord's Day morning. We're so grateful for the opportunity we have to assemble together in your name and what you've done in so many of our hearts and lives throughout the years. And you stir us to assemble and sing these hymns and these praise to your name, to speak of you and pray. And now we look into your word and we're asking you, Father, to please speak to our hearts. Teach us things from this passage that could help us in our Christian life. Our faith would be stronger, our witness more effective, our understanding clearer. And Lord, I have nothing to offer of myself. I know that, Lord. I admit that publicly. And so I come to you asking that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, that you would speak through me. So I yield my will, present my body anew, and pray you'd have your way. In Jesus' name I ask. Amen. As I said, I read this Monday morning, I think, in my devotions, and I just read it over and over and over. This great vision that Isaiah had of the Lord and how it impacted Isaiah when he saw the Lord high and lifted up. Now I don't know if you know much about the book of Isaiah. It's hard to say. It's hard for me to say that one book of the Bible is more important than another book of the Bible. You understand what I'm saying They're all important. They're all given by inspiration of God. They're equally inspired. They're equally necessary. But the book of Isaiah is very significant in a number of ways. It's part of what we call It's part of the Bible that we call the major prophets. And by that we mean not that it's major in that it's more important than others, like I just said, but we're referring to the length of the book. It's a major prophet. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, these are all considered major prophets because of the the the volume of the of the book itself. Then you have in the Old Testament, the end of the Old Testament, you have what we call the minor prophets. And anybody want to guess why would we refer to them of the minor prophets? Because of their what? They're size, they're smaller than the than the major prophets. And again, it has nothing to do with value or importance or significance. It simply has to do with the size of them. Isaiah is the largest prophetic book in all the Bible. 66 books. and a very, very strong prophetic book. It is what we refer to as the most messianic book in the Bible In other words, there are more prophecies of the coming Messiah in the book of Isaiah than any other book in the Bible, particularly Old Testament. We call it a messianic book of the Bible, the most messianic book of the Bible. The prophecies and Isaiah of the coming Messiah, who of course would be the Lord Jesus Christ are some of the most thorough um prophecies on the coming of Christ you're going to find anywhere else in the Bible. It's very significant. Some of the clearest prophecies For instance, and this isn't my message, but just a little background of the book of Isaiah here. For instance, John the Baptist's ministry is prophesied In Isaiah and chapter 40, where he says, the voice of one crying in the wilderness. And so Isaiah was given information by God to be recorded in his book about the the forerunner of the Lord Jesus Christ. The virgin birth is prophesied in uh in the book of uh Isaiah. Uh the message of the gospel In chapter 61, verse 1, talks about good tidings of the Messiah, the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. The sacrificial death of the Lord Jesus Christ is prophesied. Isaiah 53, one of the most clearest teachings on the crucifixion of Jesus Christ in all the Old Testament. In fact, a lot of folks that have Jewish ministries, trying to reach the Jewish folks with the gospel, will often use Isaiah chapter 53 to point our Jewish friends to their Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. They'll use Isaiah 53. Isaiah 53 also mentions the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so it's a very significant book in that it's a very messianic book. By the way, the second coming of Jesus Christ is referenced throughout the book of Isaiah. And so the book of Isaiah is a, as I said, very significant in that it's a messianic book. Some have called it, H. A. Ironside and several others have called the book of Isaiah a miniature Bible. Now, this is some this could be just coincidental, but the Bible has how many books are in the Bible? 66 books in the Bible. The book of Isaiah has 66 chapters. The Bible is divided into two portions, you Old Testament. The Old Covenant sometimes refer to it, or the New Testament, the New Covenant. The book of Isaiah can and often is divided into two. Now the Old Testament has uh thirty-nine books in it, the Old Testament The first part of Isaiah, where they usually divide the book into two sections, is 39 chapters. The New Testament has 27 books, and the second portion of Isaiah, where they often divide the book, has 27 chapters. Now, again, I say that's a bit coincidental in that the chapters, divisions, are man-made. Those aren't given by inspiration of God. Those were added years later. But nevertheless, it's kind of interesting. The theme of the Bible, the twofold theme of all scripture, is the judgment of God upon man's sin and God's salvation to be uh to available to be saved from God's judgment on sin. Anybody want to guess what the themes of Isaiah are? God's judgment and God's salvation What I'm trying to say is this: Isaiah is a significant book. I believe we ought to be familiar with Isaiah. We ought to read it Now I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand or respond, but it would be interesting how many folks again, don't don't respond, but it'd be interesting to just out of curiosity on my part, I wonder how many folks have never read the book of Isaiah Probably more folks than I might guess. And I want to challenge you. The book of Isaiah is given by inspiration of God. It is profitable for doctrine, reproof, for correction, instruction of righteousness, so that people of God can be thoroughly furnished. And ready for all good work. So it's a very, very important book in Scripture. The book of Isaiah was penned. Anybody want to guess who the penman of the book of Isaiah is? Man, brilliant crowd here this morning, I tell you. And uh you're right. And like many other books, uh prophetic books, I you know, Jeremiah, Ezekiel. They are named after the man God used to pin them. The name Isaiah itself, Isaiah's name means salvation is of Jehovah. Man, that's the theme of his book, the meaning of his name. Some give the net the little variation definition. Jehovah is salvation. The book of Isaiah was penned 700 years before the Lord Jesus Christ. It was penned in the final days of Judah. They were just The years of Judah, the southern kingdom, and Israel actually are winding down. They're about to be taken off into captivity Jeremiah, Ezekiel address that, the captivity of Israel, because of their idolatry, because of their rebellion, because of their self-worship and self-love And self-will, and God finally says, all right, uh you're uh we're gonna have to deal with this, and they're taken off into captivity for seventy years Just an aside, it's interesting, before the captivity of Israel, they constantly dealt with idolatry. They were constantly getting caught up in idolatry. After the 70-year captivity, you never read about Israel having an issue with idolatry anymore. God dealt with it very thoroughly. Now Isaiah is penned just before those awful days when Babylon and Assyria come in and slaughter the people and ravage the land. Take them captives back to their land. Isaiah is prophesying. That's when this book was penned. Isaiah was very involved in the government, we could put it that way. If you would, keep your place here. Come back to chapter 1. We're not far off. But come back to chapter 1. And look with me at verse 1. It kind of tells us what his ministry was, the focus of his ministry in many ways. Verse number one: the vision of Isaiah, the son of Amos. That's not Amos from the other book of the Bible. This is a different fellow. The son of Amos, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem. Look at this, in the days of Uzziah Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. And you find through the book, Isaiah, much of his ministry was to these kings. Much of his ministry was counseling them, advising them, warning them. And uh among other nations, he God used him to tell warn them of coming judgment and call them to repentance. But Isaiah's ministry very much involved the kings of Judah. He interacted with them. It was a big part of his life and ministry there. Now we come back to chapter 6, and we have our text. And I believe in chapter 6, verses 1 through 8, I believe what we have here is Isaiah's salvation and his call to ministry. He has it and it comes in a form of a vision. God reveals himself to Isaiah in a vision of sorts. To be honest, I'm not sure where this took place. It was the middle of the night, middle of the day. We're not giving that information But God opened Isaiah's spiritual eyes, and he saw a vision that I'm telling you is one of the most profound visions of God given in all of Scripture. You get to the book of Revelation, you have some visions of God and the temple and the throne of God that are mind-boggling And here Isaiah has this vision, and as a result of it, he comes to salvation, he finds forgiveness of his sins, and he's called into the ministry Now look here at verse number one if you would. It says, in the year that King Uzziah died This was uh uh Uzziah was a very, very popular king in the southern kingdom of Judah. He reigned over Judah for 52 years. Would you agree with me? That's a pretty good length of reigning, uh a pretty good long time to s uh to serve as king. That's that's exceptional. Um uh Uzziah was uh uh get this, he began to reign when he was sixteen years old. How about that? How many anybody here 16 years old? How many people 16? Ebon here. Can you imagine Evan being our king? That'd be exciting. And uh actually Uzziah did a good job. In fact, he was a tremendous king. It suggests in scripture there, for whatever reason, Uzziah's daddy was still living when he became king. He kind of made him like co-king. For about, and I'm and I'm I'm going off the top of my head here, I think it was about 24 years. They reigned. His daddy would just kind of travel a bunch and pretty much left the responsibilities to run the country with Uzziah. Starting at sixteen years old. Twenty-four years later, his daddy's murdered. And uh Uzziah becomes the sole king of Israel for the rest of his term, the rest of the fifty-two years. He was a good king, even as a young man. He was a tremendous king. The Bible says he walked with God He loved the Lord. He strengthened the spiritual well-being of the nation of Israel. He was uh the Bible says God prospered him because he walked with God. Now let me just stop here and say, uh I'm not saying you'll be rich and you'll have a mansion and drive a m uh uh uh um what's a fancy car? Um Chevy. Um no. A Lex or uh we need fancier than Lexus. Rolls-Royce, there you go. Lamborghini Now, I'm not saying if you walk with God and you live for God, God's going to give you a mansion and a Lamborghini and make you a millionaire. But I will say this: if you walk with God, God will bless you. God will bless you in ways this world can never bless us. Let me ask you a question. Can this world bless someone with a Lamborghini? That's some kind of sausage. I'm not sure what that is. A Lamborghini. No, it's a card. Can the world bless people with money? Yeah. I just heard recently there's a hundred billionaires in America. This world can give you money. This world can give you possessions. But I'm telling you, there are some things only God can give us. That's peace of mind, the presence of God in our life and purpose and meaning, the joy of the Lord in ways this world will never understand. Uzziah walked with God and God prospered him and blessed him. He's a very effective king. He developed an irrigation system in Judah. Of course, it's kind of an arid part of the world. He developed, early on, 700 years before Christ, he developed this irrigation system that expanded their agricultural abilities. They were able to grow more crops because of uh this water system he developed. Uh he had uh uh he expanded their territories Into the Philistine areas. He extended out. There's more place for Israel to live. He developed a large and powerful army They invented, I'm not quoting this verbatim what the Bible says, but they invented engines. I was reading what these quote-unquote engines were. They're not combustible engines, gas engines like we are But they were contraptions that they devised for weaponry. And I believe if I understood the one uh the one article correctly Uh the some of these were these huge slings where they would counter uh the sling with a weight and they'd uh loose a string and it would sling a big ball or a large cannonball into the enemy. He was He was very creative, very developable uh developed these great inventions for his military. He was a good king. He was a king you and I would vote for He loved God. He loved his country. He wanted to defend his country. He wanted his people to be safe. He wanted his people to know the blessings of God. Would you agree with me? That makes a good ruler right there. I'd vote for him. I'd vote for him. That's Uzziah that dies here in verse number one. However He had a great advisor, the high priest, was very close. And when the high priest died When the high priest died, something happened to Uzziah, his thinking. Something happened in his heart. And the Bible says he got proud And he started exalting himself. And God said, I'm not going to have any of that. And he overstepped his boundaries. He got so full of himself. He got so in love with himself. So proud. I did this and I did that. Finally, one day he overstepped his boundaries and he came into the temple and he came into the holies. And he took it upon himself to offer a sacrifice to God. You see, he was a king. He was not a priest. And the king had no authority in the temple of God. And when he crossed that boundary and he took upon himself more authority than God had given him, and he thought more highly of himself than he ought to have. The Bible says God struck him with leprosy. He was driven from the palace, and he had to live the rest of his years outside the city of Jerusalem as a leper, which eventually took his life. Uzziah, a great man, in every sense of the word, a great man, a great king. Do you know what I found out? Even the greatest of men are still men. Just still men. We were talking, Dave and I were talking about this before. Some of the people God used in the Bible were just people at their very best. And so Isaiah says, the Bible says here, in the year that King Uzziah died, died somewhat of a shameful death, a result of his own pride. His own self-will, his own self-promotion. That's the year that Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up. And lift it up. Three thoughts I want to give you real quick in the time we have left. I want us to notice, first of all, the context of Isaiah's vision. He has this vision in the year that King Uzziah died. Now Uzziah was the only king that Isaiah had ever known. Isaiah grew up under King Uzziah. Isaiah was the only, up to this point, he was the only king that he had ever known. He, as a boy, grew up uh Uzziah, and the nation loved him. And he was a national hero in many ways. Now no doubt in my mind, Isaiah looked up to Uzziah with admiration and respect and great honor. Now he's dead. And he dies a somewhat shameful death. I'm no doubt that when King Uzziah died, these are the two, as I studied this, These are the two emotions I believe Isaiah may have had when he got word that Uzziah died. The king is dead I think one emotion may have already been dealing with was disappointment. That this man he sought thought so highly of had gotten so proud. And so so in love with himself that he took it upon himself to walk into the temple. Um, disappointment. Anybody here, you ever have someone you look up to? You just think the world of them Man, they disappointed you so badly. Anybody like that? Have you been around any length of time? I would imagine Isaiah thought, man, this was my king. This was the one that I admired, and we looked to for leadership, political leadership, and to make our nation strong. And now he's done this. He's acted this way. Disappointment, disappointment. I would encourage you. Love people. Honor those to whom honor is due. But never think more highly of anyone than we ought to. So there may have been some disappointment in Isaiah's mind, I believe there was, and then there had to have been grief. When Isaiah heard that his king was dead. Uzziah was dead. The throne is empty. I can't help but imagine there was a time of great grief. Uh disappointment. A good king gone bad. If you would, I kinda got ahead of myself there a little bit, if you would Come over to keep your place here, but notice 2 Chronicles chapter 26 with me. Just real quick. Go back towards the front of your Bible. And we have the account of Uzziah. And we have an account, we we have an account of the point where he in his life when he makes an awful decision That he was bigger than what he really was. Notice 2 Chronicles. I'll give you a moment to find it. Verse number, chapter 26 And uh verse number 15, let's start there. You got it there. 2 Chronicles 26, verse 15. And he made the speaking of Uzziah. Come up verse 14. Uzziah prepared for them his military throughout all the hosts, shields and spears and helmets. and Habergions and bows and slings to cast stones. I mean he's ramped up the military budget here. He's making sure they got the weapons they need. How many people think our military ought to have the weapons they need I know we get political here, but I think we should defend ourselves. That's what he's doing. Notice the next verse. He made in Jerusalem engines. That's what I was talking about. Invented by cunning men to be on the towers and upon the bulwarks, to shoot arrow arrows and great stones withal. And his name spread far abroad, for he was marvelously helped, that's by God. Till he was strong. Agree? Good man. Good man. Now look at the next verse. But When he was strong, his heart was lifted up to his what? His destruction. For he transgressed against the Lord his God And went into the temple of the Lord to burn incense upon the altar of incense. And it goes on down there, and it says how the Lord stroke uh smit him. He was smitten with leprosy by God. Can you see Isaiah? He's a young prophet, maybe 30, 40 years old at this point, maybe a little older, I don't know. And his king that he so admired, everybody thought so highly of. And Isaiah gets word, somebody shows up. Isaiah, did you hear what the king's done? He said, What did he do? He went into the temple. I can imagine Isaiah's heart sinking. No, why would he do that? Not only that, Isaiah, God struck him with leprosy. He's been driven from the city. He can't be in the palace. He can't rule from the throne anymore. Talk about disappointment in a man. Luke chapter 14, verse 11 says, He that exalteth himself shall be abased. But he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. I'm telling you, we are one of our greatest enemies. Listen to me, one of our greatest enemies is this: pride. We as an individual start getting proud. We as a church get proud, think we're something. Listen, we ought never to compare ourselves with others. We answer to God and God alone. We have no place for pride in the Christian life. There is no place for pride in the Christian life. Uzziah got proud. And I'm telling you, it broke Isaiah's heart. There's no doubt about it. We're disappointed with the failures of those we know and those we look up to. So he had disappointment. Then he had heartache The tragic and shameful death of Uzziah. Now here's what I want to get at. Come back to Isaiah with me if you would. Here's what I'm wanting to get at. God often uses, and if you don't get anything out of this message, I hope you'll get this. God often uses times of trials and heartaches to get our attention. God will use disappointments. God will use pain. God will use heartaches sometimes to redirect our lives. To get us and shake us up. Something comes in our lives and turns our world upside down. Something that we never saw we get broadsided with. Where did that come from? And God will use that many times if we respond. God will use that to redirect our life. God will use it to transform our lives. Charles Spurgeon, one of my favorite preachers, I really enjoy Charles Spurgeon. He said this. I bear, now listen carefully, I bear my willing witness. That I owe more to the fire and the hammer and the file to anything else in my Lord's workshop I sometimes question if I have ever learned anything except through the rod, the rod of God's chastisement. When my schoolroom is darkened, I see the most. You know what he was saying? He was saying, I've grown the most spiritually when I went through the most difficult times in life. When the trials came in and my understanding was dark, and I didn't know what was happening, I didn't know what God was doing, and God and my world was upside down, he said, that's when I learned the most from God. And I'm suggesting to you when Isaiah's quote-unquote hero, this great man of Judah died. That was a changing point. That was a turning point in Isaiah's life. He said, I saw the Lord high and lifted up. It was a time of fear and grief. And one of the greatest visions of God in all of Scripture was given to Isaiah in this time of fear and grief. Um, I don't know about you, but I'm glad we have somewhere we can go when when things go wrong. I don't know about you, but I'm glad we have somewhere to go when our heart is broken, when our world falls apart, when our dreams are shattered And we think this is not the way I planned. This is not what I anticipated. I don't know what God is doing in my life. I'm glad we can come to God and find answers and find help and find assurance. I'm here to tell you, this old world, when they when their lives fall apart, they have nowhere to go The evolutionary atheists that say there is no God and use their term there is no higher power, there's nothing but you and I, where do they go to when their world falls apart? They have nowhere to go I'm here to tell you there's a God in heaven that you and I can come to even in the years that Uzziah dies. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? You say, preacher, I don't understand. I I uh I something awful is happening to me. You know, this this is not the way I saw it, this is not what I envisioned, this is not what my dreams are I'm glad I can come to a God that's high and lifted up. I'm glad I can come to God. Um Ron Hamilton to be referenced. Just goes in for a checkup. He's got some problems with his eye. Goes in for a checkup. They look, they say, we there's cancer. Goes into surgery. Said, we don't know if we can get it. We might have to take the eye out. We might be able to uh uh uh keep your eyesight, we may lose it. He goes in surgery not knowing if he's going to have an eyeball there in that socket when he comes out or not. And he comes out and he doesn't. It's gone. Where's patch the rest of his life? He could have done one of two things. He could have turned inward. Said, this isn't fair. This isn't right. Trying to live for God. Takes my eyes from me, blinds me, half blind. Could have got bitter. Could have angry. Could have withdrawn. I'm glad he didn't. He says I looked to the Lord instead. And God gave him a song. God used him. He took that thing that could have crushed some people. He came to the Lord with his situation. And God turned that around and used him to reach millions and millions of people. I'm glad that we have a God in heaven that can take our worst setbacks and turn that around and bring good out of it. Isaiah came to the Lord when his heart was broken, when he was disappointed. I like what Paul said in 2 Corinthians chapter 12. He said, When I am weak, Then I'm strong. He said, God, God's strength is made perfect in my weakness. I'm glad I got a strong God I can come to when I'm weak. That's what Isaiah did. That's what Isaiah did. Look for God in your trials. Look for God doing something. Watch for God's hand when that unexpected trial shows up. All right, what God, what are you doing here? I had a little thing struggled with this week a little bit, just personal, a little thing I struggled with, and my my f and you some of y'all understand what I mean. My flesh wanted to react. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Come on now. Somebody help me. You got a witness? Something comes up and it's like my flesh. You know what I mean? It's right there. Anybody that's you you count the ten. One, two, three, four, five, ten. I just count by five. Five, ten. And uh And I'm telling you, I had to come and say, Lord, I understand this, but I believe you want to teach me something. And I decided to change my whole perspective. And I want to look and see what God is teaching me. What is God showing me? Um to use biblical terminology now, don't I don't mean this in a in a wrong way, but what vision Is God gonna give me through this? You follow what I'm saying? I don't mean a vision, vision like Isaiah. But what is God gonna show me? How is God gonna I'm telling you, when you face trials and difficulties and setbacks and unanswered questions, look for God Look to his temple, look to the Lord and say, God, what are you doing? What are you showing me? What are you teaching me? Then you keep watching, keep watching. So the context of this vision was the death. Of a man the nation looked up to or disappointed in in the last years, but man, they looked up to him. No doubt a dear friend of Isaiah's. And he's heartbroken. He comes to God's temple and God shows him something. I thought about when I was preparing this, I thought about Sandy Schofield. In a hospital, how many years ago? Twelve years ago. And she sees the nurse the the not the nursery, what is where the babies are? The nursery. She sees the nursery. I thought it was like a more doctor uh more just the nur anyway She sees these little babies. God stirs her heart. And you didn't know what was going to happen physically And God stirred her heart and said, I'd like to have a ministry to these little newborns and their mothers. Blankets for babies is born. In her heart and mind. In a time of fear, uncertainty, but God revealed something to her. And how many hundreds and hundreds, maybe thousands, of newborns and young mothers and fathers have been impacted because of blankets for babies. You follow what I'm saying? There's a time of difficulty and heartache that God revealed him. That was the context of this vision. I thought about my uh Dr. Lee Robertson. I was under his ministry for a number of years down China, a great man of God. He was preaching up, they were in Chattanooga, is up in northeast Tennessee somewhere, preaching Knoxville, up in that area, I believe. He's preaching revival meaning, pastoring the church, and then he'd be out just about every week preaching somewhere and got a phone call late in the evening and said, Your daughter Joy, you're just a year or so old Has suddenly died. I don't know what the reason was. His heart's broken, his heart's shattered Went to the pastor and said, I gotta get home. I can't finish this meeting. Middle of the night, he's driving down through the this is before interstates and all of that. He's driving down through Tennessee and he said he came to a place in the road and it had a big sign-up detour. And put him way out of his way. And he said at first he was so angry for that detour. I need to get home. I need to be with my wife. He said, God stirred his heart as he went around that detour and he thought about life is full of detours. By the time he got back to Chattanooga, God had put on his heart to open a start a camp. For boys and girls called Camp Joy. That was the name of their daughter. And tens of thousands of boys and girls went to that camp outside Chattanooga, out in Harrison, Tennessee. And came to Christ, and tens of thousands were saved. And God used a heartache, a trial in the life of Dr. Lee Robertson to open up a ministry, to give him a quote-unquote vision What God could do if he would just trust him, if he would just put his faith in him. That's the context of Isaiah chapter 6, the death of Uzziah. A time of grief and heartache. The communication of his vision, and I've got to just give this quickly. I think God communicates three things to Isaiah in this vision. Number one, he's still on the throne. Look with me at verse 1. He says, The year the king is died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, his train filled the temple. And above it stood the seraphims. Each had six swings. Twain he covered his face, twain he covered his feet, twain he fly. God saying to Isaiah, Listen, that throne of Uzziah is empty. The throne of Judah is empty. The king is dead. But the throne of heaven is not empty. The king of kings is still alive. He's reminding him God is still on the throne. Listen, it may look like this world's falling apart. It may look like everything's going to pot. But I'm here to tell you, our God is still on the throne. He is still in control. We can still trust him. Isaiah, I believe, needed to hear that. The future of Israel was uncertain. But God was still in control. Judah's king was dead, and the throne of Judah was empty. But God was still very much alive and is still on heaven's throne. In times of uncertainty, we can have a heavenly confidence. God is still God, even in the midst of trials We can trust them. We can trust them. All through Scripture we're told that God is in control. Read the life of Joseph. God was in control. He says to his brothers, You meant it to me for evil, but God meant it for good. God's in control. God's in control. All the way through from Genesis to Revelation. We think about the Apostle John in Revelation on the Isle of Patmos boiled in in boiling oil, yet he survives, and God used him to give us that great book, Revelation of the future events. God is in control. I don't know what's going on in your life, but I know this. There's a throne in heaven, and there's a king sitting on that throne, and he's always been there, and he's always going to be there, and we can trust him. So one thing the Lord communicates to Isaiah, he's still on the throne. A second thing that he communicates to Isaiah is that God is holy. Verse number three, and one cried unto another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. Holy, holy, holy. God wanted Isaiah to understand that his God is a holy God in Psalms 99 And verse number three says, Our God is holy. In verse number five of that same chapter, he says again, God is holy. In verse number nine of that same chapter, he says again, God is holy. In Revelation chapter 4 and verse 8, the Bible says, God, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. Our God is a holy God. There is nothing worldly about our God. There is nothing sinful about our God. There is nothing sensual or impure about our God God is holy. Jesus said in his Lord's Prayer. He said, pray after this fashion. Our Father who art in heaven Hallowed be thy name. Holy is your name. Listen, the God of Israel is a holy God The God of creation is a holy God. The God of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is a holy God. Today we've assembled to sing and worship and praise and hear the preaching about a holy God. Our singing ought to reflect the fact that God is holy. Amen. Now I listen, I I got my hands full pastoring Mount Lake Independent Church. I'm not trying to pastor any other churches, but I will say this. Some of the music that's coming into our churches is nothing holy about it at all. Sounds more like rolling stones and Z Z top than it does about a holy, holy, holy God. Our music ought to reflect the fact that we worship a holy God. By the way, our behavior ought to reflect the fact that we worship a holy God. A holy God. It's giving out tracts. Down in Brenda, we were down in Barton the other day. We were a couple of us down giving out tracts. I was walking up the steps. uh to his little house there. And right as I came up on the porch, I was just going to track on his door handle there at the house. Right as I got up on the porch, the door opened The guy stepped out, uh older than me, and uh he stepped out and before I could say anything, before anything, he just instantly came out of his mouth, are you a Democrat? If you are, get the blankety blank blank off of my property. I said, Whoa I said, I ain't a Democrat, I'm a Baptist. He said, Oh, in that case, come on up I told Pastor Matt, I got back, I told him that story. I said, I'm gonna preach about cussing Baptist. Told me you got saved. He said, Yeah, I got saved. 19 I tell you what, the way we talk ought to reflect the fact that our God's holy There are some words that ought not to come off the lips of a Christian, some behavior One thing Isaiah learned when he saw this vision, God is holy. There's nothing sinful or impure in any way. He's perfectly godly. And the worship of God ought to be holy. Nothing we do in the name of our God ought to smack of this world, even slightly. On our behavior, not our dress, not our music. We ought to dress and act and sing and behave honorably Our God is holy. God is not cool. He's holy. God is not hip. He's not modern. He's holy. Isaiah saw God lifted up and his train filled the temple. The overwhelming awe of this blindingly holy God brought him to his knees. The God of the Bible is a holy God. The God of the true and living God is a holy God. And I want our community to know. I want it to be very clear. and our hearts and minds, and I want our community to know the God that we worship here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is a holy God. Holy, holy, holy. God communicated to Isaiah, number one, he's still on the throne. Number two, he is holy. And number three, God is all powerful. Look at there at verse number four. And the post of the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. I don't know about you, but that to me that communicates power. Power of our God. Four times in the Gospels, Jesus said very clearly, very pointedly, He said, With God nothing shall be impossible. King Uzziah was a powerful God. There's no doubt of it. Let me tell you back. King Uzziah was a powerful king. No doubt about it. He was a powerful king. But I'm telling you, no man is as powerful as God. No man can do for you and I what God can do for us. God is powerful. Psalms 18, verse 6. David said, In my distress, I called upon the Lord. I cried unto my God. And he heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came before him, even unto his ears. Isaiah came to the temple. No doubt his heart was broken. No doubt tears on his eyes. God revealed himself. God said, I am still on the throne. I am holy and I am all powerful. You can trust me. We don't have time to read on Isaiah, get saved. He says, I'm a man of unclean lips. And the angel took coal from off the altar, touched his lips. He says, Your sins are forgiven. Then he says, Hear my Lord, send me. God, send me. I tell you, when we see God for who and what he is, I think the natural reaction is Lord, I'll just submit to you. Whatever your will is. He didn't say, Lord, make me a hero. He didn't say, Lord, make me popular. He didn't say Lord make me a famous evangelist. He just said, Lord, here am I, wherever you can use me. Whatever you can do with me, here am I. Send me wherever. Just use me. What a privilege it is to serve a king that is holy and all powerful. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I pray. That you would give us a glimpse of you, of who you are and what you are. I know the devil hates you. I know this world wants to distort you and discredit you. But Lord, we want to worship you. Lord, we want to submit to you and we want your will to be done in our lives. We want you to use us however you see fit. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder, if there's any this morning, say, preacher, I need to get a new vision of God and remember who he is. It's what the choir sang. I see the Lord lifted up, I bow my knee. I bow my knee. So anything like that, say, preacher, I just need to get back, remember who God is And what he's like. Any like that this morning? We get so wrapped up, our problems become bigger than God. And our disappointments, our fear becomes bigger than God. And we gotta remember, nothing's bigger than God. I wonder if there's some say this morning, say, preacher, I just want to be totally surrendered to the Lord. Whatever his will is for me, however he wants to use me I want the Lord to have his way in my life. Maybe you've been holding out some areas. Maybe you've been in a contrary to the Lord. This morning you say I want God to have his way. Anything like that by the uplifted hand, I want the Lord to have his way in my life completely. God bless you. Hands all around. Let me ask this, is there something this morning you say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved I want to know that God has forgiven my sins and given me eternal life. I need to get that settled in my heart and life. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, say, preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled. Any at all? And you don't Father bless our invitation time now I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stay