Verse I'm going to read verse thirty-seven, thirty-eight, and thirty-nine. But I'd like for us to read together, if you would, verse thirty-seven of Matthew twenty-two. We'll read verse thirty-seven together, and then I'll read verse thirty-eight and thirty-nine. Ready? Let's read verse 37 together. Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. Jesus went on and said, This is the first and great commandment, and the second is like unto it. Would you read that last phrase with me here? He says, the second is like unto it. Let's read that last phrase together. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself Verse number 38, Jesus said, This is the first, and this is the great commandment. And I want to speak this morning on the great commandment. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we thank you. For the Word of God. Lord, my heart's been blessed just to be with your people this morning, fellowshipping together, laughing and talking. Lord, it's sure been a blessing to sing these hymns. My heart has been stirred as we sung about heaven, about the blood of Jesus, our great Savior. Now, Lord, we have our Bibles open before us. And Father in heaven, I'm asking that you would please speak to our hearts. I pray that you would help us to Have a genuine relationship with you. God, not just a facade, not just a show, not just a talk. But Lord, a real and genuine love relationship with you as our Creator, and as believers, as our Heavenly Father. We need your Holy Spirit to provoke this in our hearts and minds. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body at this hour. I pray with all my heart. If you fill me with your Spirit, dear Lord, and that you speak through me, and that our hearts and minds would be open, that we would receive what your word has for us. And I pray it would affect our lives. I pray it would affect our attitudes, our behavior, that we would be what you intend for us to be. So bless now our message, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Jesus began his earthly ministry about 30 years old. His ministry, his earthly ministry, as we call it, lasted about three and a half years. In that three and a half year period of time, Jesus called to himself twelve disciples. And he took that time and he missed little or no opportunities to train These twelve men on what it means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. What they should do, what they should not do. He would send them out on journeys, on missions to different parts of the regions of Israel and surrounding areas. And he would give them instructions. He would say, go to this area, not to that area. When you go, say this, don't do this. Do that and don't do this. He was training them. He was mentoring them. Because one day he was going to use them to turn the world upside down with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And any time we're used of God, there must be a time of preparation. And Jesus prepared these men for what He had called them to do, for what their purpose in life was. As he called these disciples, began to train them and teach them, and they began serving and assisting him as he preached and did miracles and taught. Wasn't long until there was enemies rose up against the Lord Jesus Christ And I'll just throw this out. Anytime you take a stand for what's right, and anytime you preach the truth of God's word, there are going to be enemies. People are going to raise their head. There's going to be opposition. We, you and I are in a spiritual warfare, whether we realize it or not. We are in a conflict between right and wrong, good and evil, heaven and hell, God and the devil. That warfare is just as real as the war going on over in Ukraine. Far more intense. Consequences are eternal. And there are enemies of the gospel, and there are enemies of the Lord Jesus Christ. And it didn't take long for them to rise their heads and begin opposing Jesus Christ and his message and his mission. They had a lot of issues with Jesus, but I think primarily they had the enemies of Jesus had two issues with him. One of their issues was his authority. Jesus spoke with the authority of God himself. You know why Jesus spoke with the authority of God himself? Because he is God Himself, God in the flesh. And the enemies of the Lord hated that. If you would, keep your place here, but come over just a chapter before, chapter 21. And notice with me, if you would, verse number 23. This is the previous chapter. And verse 23. It says, and when he was come into the temple, now this is later on in Jesus' ministry, this is towards the end of his earthly ministry. I mean, we're within days of his crucifixion. Verse number 23. And when he was come into the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people, these are the religious leaders, these are his enemies. They came unto him as he was teaching and said, Look at their question here. By what authority doest thou these things? And who gave thee this authority? I put in the margin of my Bible there, they had a problem with authority. And I'm here to tell you: self-righteous people have a problem with authority. Proud, self-centered people have a problem with authority. Rebels have a problem with the authority, and these Scribes and Pharisees, these proud self-righteous uh leaders, religious leaders, and they had conflict with Jesus all through his earthly ministry, and finally they say, you know Uh this is basically what they're saying. Let me put it in my lingo. Who made you the boss? You ever hear a little kid say that? You're not the boss of me anymore. Gabe Br Gabe Bringer one time he was one we did fingerprints and there was some leftover donuts I think And um he was wanting some of these donuts we were cleaning up at the end of the evening, and grandma said, Gabe had enough donuts. And he said to me, he said, Pastor, you're the boss, you could let me eat some. I said, I ain't the boss of you. But these Pharisees, these scribes, these elders, what authority do you have? I'll tell you what authority Jesus has. He is the authority of God Almighty. He's a creator of heaven and earth, and by the way, as creator, he has ultimate authority. And these enemies hated that, these self-righteous, proud, religious rebels. Not against their system of religion. They weren't rebelling against that. They're rebelling against God. And they said, What authority do you have? So the enemies of Jesus Christ had a problem with authority. Proud people always have a problem with authority. Second issue they took with the Lord Jesus Christ, two primarily, they had a lot of them, but two primarily. One his authority. Number two, it was his doctrine. They did not like what he was saying. If you would, again, keep your place here in Matthew, but come over to the book of Mark, next book in line, second of the Gospels here, Mark chapter number 11. And we won't look at the whole passage, but just verse number 18. Mark 11 and verse number 18. It says, and the scribes and the chief priests, here's his enemies, when they heard it, he was he was He had run them out of the of the uh temple. They were ripping people off, money changers. And by the way, that wasn't, they weren't just selling you know, little things there. It wasn't at all. They were ripping people off. People would come and trade you know, they couldn't bring a sheep from fifty miles away, so they come and buy one there. And they're ripping the people off here for the sacrifice is what they were doing. And Jesus rebuked him. He taught him that my house should be a house of prayer, not a place of merchandise, not a place of thieves. And he rebuked them shortly. And now look how they respond in verse number 18. And the scribes and the chief Pharisees heard it and sought how they might destroy him. Why? For they feared him because all the people were astonished at his what? His doctrine. They hated what he was teaching the people. Jesus, in his teaching and preaching, was exposing the hypocrisy of the Pharisees and the scribes and those self-proclaimed religious leaders And he was exposing their hypocrisy. And what Jesus was saying, if you want to boil it down, what he was saying to them is they Relationship with God is not simply some external rituals that we go through, not just coming and doing this and doing that and not doing this and not doing that. But it was a heart, personal, heart relationship with God Himself. These Pharisees and these scribes and these elders had this facade, this religious facade they put up And they appeared to men to be righteous, but inwardly they were wicked He said they were like whited sepulchres. You have that they white at the outside, but inside is just full of dead man's bones. Brother, they were they were like some Baptists. They can put on a good show. Huh? Right or wrong? Come on now. We get awfully good at putting on that religious show, that Christian show. But inwardly, and that's where Jesus preached. The inward man, the heart. Not the show, not the the uh image we present, but what we really are By the way, that's what God's concerned about. He's not impressed with your show or my show. He wants to know what is our heart like A few a month or so ago a storm came through here in Mountain Lake Park, knocked a bunch of trees down. Anybody remember that Sunday afternoon? I mean it was like whoa All down through here, there's big old trees, big trees. And Monday I drove down, I had to take my car to the shop. I drove down by some of them and one big tree right down here, not far was laying over. And I'll tell you that tree been there for a long time, long longer than I've been here. And man it looked like healthy, it looked like uh I think it was an oak tree. It looked like the epitome of a good, strong, healthy oak tree. But I noticed something. That thing laying over. They had cut off the stump. I noticed something. The whole inside of that trunk was eat up and rotten. Uh ants had been in there and maggots and termites and Cockroaches. It was awful. And that that tree fell. I think as the wind of course was a factor, but that tree fell because inwardly it was rotten. It was rotten. And that's the way these religious leaders were. Outwardly, man, they had their long robes and they had their prayer books. If you put it in our vernacular, they carried their King James Bible and had their wingtip shoes, their fundamental haircuts. Huh? But inwardly, they were rotten. And they hated Jesus for exposing that. They hated him for it. It humiliated them. They looked bad in the eyes of the people. And they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God. They were determined to shut Jesus up. He's exposing them. Now here's the interesting thing: the common people responded. That everyday people, just working work-a-day people, I believe there was a hunger for a relationship with God. There was a desire that in my heart I want to be right with God in my heart and soul, not just look like I'm right with God, but actually be right with God. That's the roll-off of one of my favorite preachers. He's with the Lord now many years, but he he made the statement, he says, we He says, our problem is we want to be cleaner than what we are and not really be clean. Follow what he's saying? I want to be a better Christian what I am, but not necessarily a good Christian. I just want to be better than what I am. But these people following Jesus, they wanted to be right with God. They responded by the tens of thousands. Multitudes came to hear them And man, he's exposing his teaching, his preaching to the heart, he's preaching about being genuine in your faith, about being right with God internally for real And these Pharisees and these scribes and these elders hated him for it. We got to destroy him. They became envious. In fact, they became so envious of people responding to what Jesus was, that was one of their motives in killing them. In fact, the Bible tells us even Pilate recognized the envy of these leaders when they brought Jesus to him to be crucified. The Bible says, for he knew that for envy they wanted him killed. So it wasn't long Jesus in the ministry has some enemies. They start speaking up, they start becoming active. As that three and a half years progressed, they became more aggressive in their opposition to the Lord Jesus Christ. And they hated his authority and they hated his doctrine. We are come back if you would to Matthew chapter 22. This is our passage for our message this morning. And we're right in the middle of a series of questions that the enemies of Jesus Christ have approached Jesus about. We're right in the middle of this back and forth Between these proud, self-righteous, hypocritical religious leaders and the Son of God And so there's this back and forth here. They're confronting him, they're questioning him. In fact, if you would, look with me there at verse number 15 of Matthew 22. It said, then went the Pharisees and took counsel how they might, look at the last part there, entangle him with his talk. Entangle him in his talk. You know what they're wanting to do? They're wanting to discredit Jesus Christ. They can't argue against his message because it's true. We need to be uh uh our our relationship with God begins in our heart, needs to be genuine. They couldn't refute that But if they could just get him to say something that they can twist around and discredit him. You know what the tactic is of a loser? The tactic of a loser is if I can't refute the truth, then I'll try and smear the messenger of the truth. Happens in politics all along, all the time. And by the way, it happens in the religious world. And that's what they're trying to do to Jesus Christ. They're trying to smear him, they're trying to entangle him in their talk, and they can do this. See, this is what they want to say. Ah, gotcha. You can't listen to this guy. Don't pay any attention to him. Listen to what he said. That's their objective. And so they come to Jesus with a series of questions. They're not wanting answers. They're not wanting the truth. They're not concerned about being right with God They just want to catch him in his words. And so they have these series of questions. Notice in verse 16, their first question is political in nature. Verse 16 says, and they sent out to him their disciples with Herodians saying, Master We know that thou art true and teacheth the way of God in truth. Neither carest thou for any man, for thou regardest not the person of men. I put in the margin of my Bible, flattery. Now what they said about Jesus is true, but they didn't mean that. They're just flattering them. If somebody walks up to you and the first thing they start telling you is how wonderful you are and how great you are and what a tremendous person you are, you better put your guard up. So they're flattering them here. Then they go on and they say this, tell us, therefore, you're so smart. What thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar or not? That's a political question. They're trying to tangle him up, get him in a political quandary And turned people against him. I love verse 18. But Jesus perceived their wickedness I tell you, let me if you don't get anything else out of the message, I hope you get this. You ain't pouring nothing over on Jesus. He saw right through that. So why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites? Brother, it's open hostility now. Show me the tribute money. So one of them reaches in her pocket, they grab some coins, they bring it to them. Verse 20 says, Whose image and superscription? Well, it's Caesar. All right, you give the render therefore unto Caesar, verse 21, the things which are Caesar's unto God, the things which are God. Things that are God's. When they heard these words, they marveled and left them and went their way. He shut that argument down, huh? Then they bring another question. They send someone else And look with me at verse 23, and they ask a doctrinal question. They used to say, they used to tell me years ago, when you go to family gatherings, don't talk about politics or religion. Why? Because you're going to end up in an argument. And everybody's going to get mad. You're going to say something you wish you hadn't said. You're going to do say or do something stupid. Anybody here ever get mad and say something stupid? Five of us. So that's what they're trying to do. They're provoking this. They're they're prodding, trying to get him to say or s say or do something that can smear him. And so they come to him, verse number uh twenty-three, and the same day came to him the Sadducees, which say there is no resurrection. That's why they're sad, you see. Um they didn't believe in the resurrection. And they asked him, saying, Master, Moses said, if a man die, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife and raise up seed unto his brother. Now there were with us seven brethren And the first, when he had married a wife, deceased, and having no issue, left his wife to his brother, likewise the second also, and the third unto the seventh. Now, at some point in there, I'm thinking, these boys are dumb. Every guy that married this gal died. Looks like the seventh one would say, wait a minute. And last of all, the woman died also, verse 27. Now here's their question. Here's their doctrinal question. Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife shall she be of the seven, if they all had her? And he gives a phen tremendous answer here. We get some good information about the afterlife. He said, you do err not knowing the scriptures nor the power of God. That's the reason for most scriptural errors we don't realize what God can do or what God has said. For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven. I had a fellow say one time, he says, If I get to heaven and I can't have my wife, that's going to be miserable I said, well, I can't tell you exactly what the arrangement is, but I know this. It's not going to be worse in heaven than it is here. Whatever our relationship is with our spouse, it's going to be better than whatever it is here, amen or not. It's not going to be worse. Nobody's going to get to heaven and say, oh boy, I wish we'd be back on earth Sorry, it ain't happening. So he says, you guys, you you don't even you don't know God's power. You don't know what God's capable of. You don't know what the scriptures teach. But as touching the resurrection, verse 31, of the dead, have you not read that which was spoken unto you of God saying? In other words, this don't you guys read your Bible? Don't you know what God says? He said, I am the God of Abraham, God of Isaac, God of Jacob. God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. He's saying, listen, they're alive, they're fine. You guys missed the whole point. And then their last question is they bring this religious question. Verse 34, and when the Pharisees had heard that he had put the Sadducees to silence, they were gathered together. They are bound and determined to catch him in his words. Then one of them, which was a lawyer. Now, when the Bible uses the term lawyer, it's not talking like a lawyer in the sense that we understand. A lawyer in this context was a lawyer of the law of God. These people were experts in the commands of God. What God had commanded to do and what God had commanded not to do. They were experts in it. Brother, they could argue the law of God to the T. And so this guy is an expert on the commands of God. He knows them inside and out. So they send him to Jesus Christ. Now remember, they're trying to catch him in his words, entangle him in his words. One of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, saying, Master, which is the great commandment in the law? And Jesus answers, and he says, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. The second, like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. Now we don't have time, it's not the purpose of the message, but then Jesus throws his own question back at him. And I love this. Jesus is not intimidated. How many people are glad? Jesus does not get intimidated. That'd be tough following a Savior who gets intimidated by man's questions. He fires right back at him. While the Pharisees were gathered together, verse 41, Jesus asked them, What think ye of Christ? This Messiah, the Christ, the anointed one, the one promised to come and be the Savior of the world. What do you think about him? Whose son is he? They said him, well, he's the son of David. All they saw was a physical Savior, a physical line down from David, the lineage of David. That of course would be part of it, but Jesus says, you're wrong, he's much more than that. The Savior is much more than just the Son of David. He's the Son of God. Look what he says. He saith unto them, he peels the scripture, he said, How then doth David in spirit call him Lord? David called him Lord. Saying, the Lord, Jehovah, said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool. If David then called him Lord, how is he his son? Jesus saying, listen, the Savior, me, I'm more than just the offspring of David, I'm the Son of God. And no man was able to answer him a word. Neither durst any man ask that that day forth, ask him any more questions. Did you notice Jesus answered their questions, but they couldn't answer his question. So you have these questions, and this third question is what I'm interested in this morning. When the lawyer comes and says, what is the great first and great commandment? That catches my attention. I would like to know, would you would you not? I would like to know what is God's main request, what is God's main demand from me? Above everything else, what does God want from me? I think that's a good question to ask. I think we ought to know that. And so Jesus answers that question, which is the first and great commandment. He answers it. I think Jesus' answer to this lawyer's question is one of the most significant statements in all of Scripture. He's actually quoting Deuteronomy chapter 6 and verse 5. And notice, if you would, verse number 40. He says, On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. You know what he's saying? He's saying this, this is what it's all about. This is what the this is what all of life is about This first and great command, and the second, which is like unto it, this is what everything is about. This is what your whole purpose of creation is about This is what salvation is all about. This is what the cross and every aspect of life This is what it's about. Everything in life hangs on this one issue He says, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. That's everything. On that hang all the other commands, everything else. That's the first and great command. I want us to notice the priority of this great command. Notice with me, if you would, verse 38. This is the first and great command. There's plenty of commands in Scripture. Anybody here ever any of the folks anybody here ever read the Bible? Good. Pretty good number. Anybody ever get reading through the Bible? And I recommend, I really do. I recommend at some point in your Christian life you ought to read the Bible all the way through Genesis Revelation, read them all. You say, oh, some of them are hard to understand. I know, read it anyway. Anybody here ever get reading through the Bible and you notice, man, there's a lot of commands in here Anybody ever notice that? And by the way, it's not just the Old Testament, New Testament. Read Ephesians. Do this, don't do that. If you stole, don't steal anymore. Stuff like that. There's a lot of commands in Scripture. In fact, there are, according to Jewish, ancient Jewish rabbis, 613 commands in just the Old Testament. And they broke them down and they said that there are 248 positive commands. In other words, thou shalt. Do this or do that. Thou shalt, thou shalt, thou shalt. 248 positive commands in the Old Testament. Thou shalt. Things you should do. 365 negative commands, thou shalt not. That's just the Old Testament. So there's a heap of commands in the scripture. There's plenty of commands there. In fact, the scribes and the Pharisees and these lawyers. They got to where they took all these commands. Like I said, this guy is an expert in the law of God. He knows these commands inside out. He knows the positive one. He knows the negative ones. And then they divided them up. They took it upon themselves to bide up all these commandments to the ones that were heavy, their word, or most important. And then ones that were light or less important. In fact, some of the terms they used were the greater commands and the lesser commands The heavy commands and the light commands. And so they had some figured out, well, these are commands, these are really, really important. You need to pay attention. These here, eh, if you get to it, it's fine Now they took it upon themselves to make this determination, to categorize them this way. But here's the interesting thing, and this is the root of his question. These Jewish scriptural experts could not figure out which was the greatest one. Now here's a whole these are important. These aren't as important. These are heavy, those are light. These are greater, those are lesser. Well, which is the greatest? Well we're trying to work on that And so when he comes to Jesus with this question, he's asking a question that they did not have an answer to. They didn't know what the greatest was. If Jesus said one of their lesser commands, well then he's an idiot. Don't listen to him. And Jesus, as I said, quotes Deuteronomy. And he said, this is the first and the greatest command. He said that there, listen to this, this is what we need to get here. He said that there is one command that is superior To all other commands. There is one command that is far superior Then everything else you're told to do and not to do. That's what he's saying. This is the first and the great. That word first means first in rank, first on the list. In other words, he's saying, listen, if you're making a list of commands by order of significance, by order of importance, this one's the top of the list. If this one isn't in place, then nothing else matters. That's what he's saying. First in rank, first in On the list. Then he said, he doesn't just say this is the first command. He said this is the first and what? Great command. That word great there has the idea of preeminent. Can I say it this way? Most important. It has the idea of above all others carrying the greatest weight. The number one per what he's saying is this this is what are the Son of God was saying to this man and says to you and I through scriptures, the number one thing God wants from you and from me is for us to love him with our whole heart, with our whole mind, with our whole soul, all our strength. That's what God wants more than anything else. Say, preacher, I'm going to put my tithe in the offering. Well, I'm glad you do. Seriously, I'm glad you do. But you know what God wants before your tithe? He wants your love. Say, preacher, I'm going to give out tracts this week. Praise the Lord. We're told to do that. But more than he wants you to give out tracts, he wants you to love him with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. That's the first, the great commandment of God. Priority number one If you and I don't do anything else in our Christian life, we need to love God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, with all our strength. You say, well preacher, doesn't it matter if I do if I uh if I don't do those other things then? I'm suggesting you, if you love God, if I love God with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength, I'm gonna have no problem doing all the others. I had a lady tell me she sat down here one Sunday and I preached on something I don't remember. It's in the Bible. I mean people are glad for that. And she came as soon as we gave the invitation, for some reason I was up front here, I normally go to the back, and she came up to me, and I was standing here, and she came around, came up to me, she goes, Pastor Leatherman. I said, hi. And she said, uh, as long as you love God, it doesn't matter what you do. That's about as unscriptural as you can get. Imagine me saying to my wife, as long as I love you, it doesn't matter what I do. How many people think I would be still be here next week this time? Because I love her, it immensely matters what I do. And what he's saying is the most important issue in life. Number one, top command, top of the list, superior to all else, is loving God with all my heart, soul, mind, strength. And the implication is if that's in place, then I'll have no problem doing all the others. So the priority of this great command, it's first and it's great. It's above all others. Second of all, in a little bit of time I have, I want us to notice the passion of this great commandment. In other words, we're not just to love God. But we're to love him passionately. How many people know what I mean by passionately? Anyone know? I mean intensely. All out. I mean, every bit of me is in love with my God. Every bit of me Every aspect of my being, every part of my personhood is in love with God, my Savior and my Creator, my Heavenly Father I love him. That's what he's saying. There's a passion. It's not just this, yeah, oh yeah, oh, oh, oh, how I love Jesus Yeah, that's obvious. Huh? Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. I think it's interesting, verse 37, Jesus didn't say, admire the Lord thy God. Is it good to admire God? Yeah. I look at creation, I stand in admiration. Good heavens, this God is incredible. But that's not what he says. God doesn't want our admiration first and foremost. It doesn't say wonder at the Lord of God. Anybody here ever look at the night sky and think, good night? I mean I say it when I go to bed. Good night. I I I I've been I've been saying this a lot lately, but I've been fascinated by this James Webb telescope, out outer space telescope. I don't know if anybody's seen that or followed that, these pictures. And they've probably known this, I probably knew it, but I and I've said this before, but it has absolutely Overwhelmed my mind and my comprehension that this universe is most likely infinite No end. Up, down, this way, this way. It just goes And I look at the sky and I think, the heavens, the Bible says the heaven of the heavens cannot contain God. What is this God? And I stand in awe and wonder of the immensity and the power, the infiniteness of God. And he loves me. That God became a man and took my my silky sin And he bored in his body on the cross and suffered the judgment of his own holiness. A wonder. But God doesn't say, Thou shalt wonder At the Lord thy God. He doesn't say admire. He said, that's not what I'm looking for. That's not number one on the list. He says, what I want more than anything else, number one, I demand. That you love me passionately. That word all is used three times in that verse: all thy heart, all thy soul, all thy mind. Completely, every part of my being. God wants me to love Him supremely, superior to everything else. Say, well, I shouldn't love God more than my family. I'm saying you can't love your family the way you should until you love God supremely. In fact, Jesus said in Luke 14, he said, Except a man hate his father, mother, brother, sister, his wife, and his own life also, he can't be my disciple. Say what? God wants me to hate my family? No, he's not talking about hostility, he's not talking about uh adversity, he's not talking about um uh animosity towards my family. In fact, he tells me in Ephesians I'm to love my wife the way Christ loved the church. He's not saying don't love your family when he uses that term hate. He's talking relative. Compared to my love for God is so superior, so supreme to my love for myself and my possessions and my family. Say man, it looks like you don't even love your family, you love them so much. You follow what uh you follow what I'm trying to communicate We have a missionary, we have a lot of missionaries, and it's true for all of them, but some is more obvious than others. We have a missionary down in Mexico. Um Brother Sam East, down in Mexico City. He's actually out of the city right now. I was down there a few years ago with him. And he said when he was in Mexico City, they were in the most dangerous part of Mexico City. Do you know Mexico City is one of the most dangerous cities in the world? And they were in the most dangerous part of the city And somebody says, if Sam Estep loves his family so much, what in the world is he doing taking them to a place like that? I'm here to tell you, I know Sam E said, he loves his family dearly. But he loves his Lord supremely. God called him there. And by the way, he didn't take his family against their will. They loved the Lord supremely also and wanted God's will to be done. So the Lord is saying, I want you to love me superior to everything else. This great commandment, God's calling us to love Him supremely. He's calling us to love Him sincerely. He says, with all thine heart. In other words, what he's saying is not a show. Not a facade, not a hypocritical just saying I love them, but really, really loving them. How many times? I I guarantee, and I I'm not please don't misunderstand what I'm trying to illustrate here. But if I and don't do this, but if I said how many people here love God Very mu with all your heart. I guarantee you probably every one of us would raise our hand. Yeah, I love God with all our heart. God says, I'm not talking about you loving me just with your lips or with your hand. I mean genuinely, sincerely, in your heart you're in love with me. That's what he's saying. Not just a show. So it's to be supremely, it's to be sincerely. And then he says we should love the Lord seriously. He says, with all thy soul. My soul is my life. When he says all your soul, he's talking about every area of your life all the time. He says, more than just your lips, I want you to love me with your life. In other words, God wants my love on Tuesday afternoon as much as He does on Sunday morning. Right? Come to church. Oh, I just love the Lord. Tuesday afternoon I'm at work. Nothing's going right. The boss is jumping all over me. It's like, man, I hate everything. Because no, love the Lord just as much on Tuesday afternoon as I do Sunday morning. Are you with me? All your soul, all your soul. Saturday afternoon, Saturday night. Get out with the others, get out with the guys. Because I want you to love me Friday night and Saturday night just as much as you do Sunday morning He said, I want you to love me everywhere. I want you to love me at home. I want you to love me at church. I want you to love me at work. We're funny, aren't we? I like to stand it back and greet people when they come in, and then I stand aback afterwards and I greet people when they leave. I just want to make sure all the kids get taken home, some don't get left behind. I'm just making sure everybody's got their And uh don't tell me this don't happen, alright? Getting ready late in the morning, the way that old flesh works up. Are you ready yet? What are you gonna get done? Husband's out in the car. Wife comes out, don't you be beeping at me. Well you said you were ready. Kids are in the back. Shut up, kids Huh? You're driving to this and I'm not stupid. Pull in the car, get out of the car, I say, hey, oh hey preacher. We love the Lord Come on, the reason we're laughing is because you know it's truth in that The Lord saying When he says, thou shalt love me with all your soul, he's saying, I want you to love me Sunday morning on the way to church as much as you love me sitting in the pew at church. All your soul, the whole life, every aspect. When things are going well, when things are going bad, when your dreams are all fulfilled, and when your dreams are all shattered. When you got money in the bank and when you don't have money in the bank. When the doctor says you're an epitome of health, and when the doctor says you're a mess. I still love the Lord. He wants me to love him in sickness and in health, for richer or for poorer. That's all my soul. All my soul. So I need to love the Lord supremely. He wants us to love him sincerely. He wants us to love him seriously. We used to sing a little song, More Than Life I love the Lord. More than this world can afford. That's what he's saying. That's what the martyrs displayed. When they were told, deny the Lord Jesus Christ, or we burn you at the stake. They say, get the Kinlan, because I love the Lord even more than life. All my soul. How many people are glad you and I don't live in that environment now? That could change. That could change. And so we have to ask ourselves, do I love the Lord to that degree? Or then life? Then we're to love the Lord smartly. Look what he says. Thou shalt love the Lord of God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. That's intelligently. I don't love the Lord according to my own understanding. Well, I think God would like this. Well, this is how I love the Lord. You know what the problem is with a lot of contemporary Christianity? It is take it is man deciding how to love God, not God deciding how we love God. It's hoping for a few more amens there than that. But I can't come and say, well, this is how I'm going to love God. No, I love the Lord the way He tells me He wants me to love Him A lot of this contemporary stuff is people bringing the world in and trying to love God in the world's methods. That is not intelligent. My wife wants me to love her the way she needs to be loved. Not the way I to me I think loving her is shooting a deer, dragging it in, let her cook it for me. And she would love that. Choose some squirrels? Bring a pot in. Oh, I love you. I brought these squirrels. Smack! Huh? God doesn't, oh I want you to love me the way you think. No, he says you use your mind, use your head, think about it. Is this the way a God would want to be loved? Worldly rock and roll music and modesty. Coming in and saying, oh, we're worshiping God. We're we're loving God. Hey, use your head. Come on now. Says all your mind, you think this through. You love the Lord. You think it through. How does He need to be loved? How is this love expressed? A lot of this stuff, worldly Christianity is not smart. Excuse me. God wants to be loved the way He Expresses it, not the way we come up with. I didn't mean to turn anybody off. I didn't mean to do that, but I I want to be honest. God wants us to use our head and not just go running after every little fad and every little thing that comes along, everything that moves my foot and shakes my other parts. Huh? Love the Lord supremely, love the Lord sincerely, love the Lord seriously, love the Lord smartly. And then last of all, I am with this. I notice the product of this great Command. Number one, the priority. More than anything else, God wants us to love Him, love Him. And He wants us to love Him passionately with all of our being. And then he says, when you do that, that'll produce something. Look at verse number 39. And the second, not the first. Not the greatest, but the second greatest is like unto it, thou shalt love thy what? Neighbor as thyself. Now, the fact of the matter is, we might not admit this, but we love ourselves pretty good. Well, I just don't think very highly of yourself. Well, you probably do. That's why you're saying that Because you want I there was about one time he always come he'd always come up to me, Oh, I'm just nothing. I'm no good, I'm just nothing. Uh you know what he was wanting? He was wanting me to tell him how great he is How wonderful he is. And he was a fine fellow, but he never mind. He says, I want you, if you love the Lord supremely, then you're going to love your neighbors just like you love yourself. As much as you're concerned for your well-being, you'll be concerned for your neighbor's well-being. As much as you're concerned for your happiness, you'll be concerned for your neighbor's happiness. Oh you gotta look out for number one. You know what? If I'm looking out for number one, the Lord, then I'm gonna be looking out for number two, the people around me. You with me? And a love for God never, ever, ever produces an unlove for my neighbor. Never. If I don't can I put it this way, can I be very just blunt? If I don't love my neighbor, I don't love God. Don't try and tell me, I love the Lord, but I can't stand that guy. Then you don't love the Lord. How can you say you love your neighbor who How can you say you love God who you don't see when you don't love your neighbor who you do see? John asked that question. So God wants us to love Him and love our neighbor. I had an old preacher when I got ordained An old evangelist, uh, B. M. Page. He had two hip replaced, and they both went bad. This is back in the late eighties And he had two walkers he walked on. And that guy would get up, and I mean he would s you you think I'd preach? You he would skin you alive. And he preached my ordination. And afterward he was getting in his car. He always had a fellow drove him and helped him. And he was getting in his car. I mean he was in his he was old. He was more than 60 No, he was up there in his late 80s probably. He's getting in his car and I said, Brother Page, thank you for preaching my ordination. He goes, Brother Leatherman, I'm proud of you. God's going to use you. I said, I hope so I said, what's any last word of you can give me advice? He said this. He says, you love God. He said a couple other things, and he said, you love God with all your heart, and you love your people just like you love yourself. I tell you what, that's not the best advice I think I've ever gotten. That's what Jesus is telling us If we can get that one thing down, more than he's concerned about how great we can sing Or how much we give, or how hard we work, or how many scriptures we put together. Those are all good things. But you know, I can I can do all that stuff and not love God. In fact, I can love my neighbor and not love God. But I can't love God and not love my neighbor. You follow? Follow. So that's what God wants from Mount Lake Independent Pastor Church. We're praying for revival this year. And I'll tell you where revival will begin. When we fall passionately in love with our God again. His rebuke to the church there in Revelation was, Thou hast left thy first love. We need to come back to that. We need to fall back in love with God. Father, bless and help us to take very seriously this first and great command. To love you with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind. And then love our neighbors. Just like we love ourselves. Heads bowed, eyes closed. Let me just ask it this way, invitation. Heads are bowed, eyes closed. How many would say Preacher, pray for me. I need to fall back in love with with God again. Any like that? I need to fall in love with him again. The things of this world and myself and people and stuff Climb up that list and the Lord goes down the list. I need to put him back up on the top of the list. Any others, preach or pray for me, I need to put that back. I need to put the Lord back where he needs to be. Sure. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I've got some folks that I need to get my heart right about and love these neighbors. The neighbor is anybody that's involved in my life. It might be my spouse, it might be my parents, it might be my literal neighbor. I wonder if some say, preacher, pray with me. God will help me love some folks that I really struggle with. Any like that? Sure, come on, let's be honest. I need to love them. Love them. The greatest expression of love, I think, is coming as an old sinner to Jesus Christ, trusting him as our personal Savior. That's where it begins. That's where it begins. If you're here and you've never trusted Christ, I urge you. Come to Christ, turn to Him, trust Him for forgiveness. Believe what He's done for you. Call on Him. He'll come in your life, He'll forgive you, He'll save you, He'll give you a new life. He'll do it. But you need to respond in faith. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Have your way. In Jesus' name. Let's stand