Read, if you'll stay in Mark, I'm going to read Luke's account of this widow giving her two little mites into the offering. Luke and Luke 21. You don't need to turn there. I'll just read it. But just so we have the, these are the only two accounts in Scripture of this event. And so I thought I would read the Luke one, then we'll come back and look at the Mark account of this event. Luke says, Luke puts it this way, again, this is all under the inspiration of God, but he puts it this way, and he says, and he looked up, speaking of Jesus. and saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury. And he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites. And he said, Of a truth I say unto you, that this poor widow hath cast in more than they all. For all these have of their abundance cast into the offering of God But she of her penury, that word penury, uh we would define it this way, extreme poverty. It's not just poor, it's extremely poor. So he says, she, but she of her penury has cast in all the living that she had. Everything she had, she put in that. Now Mark's account, as we noted, Pastor Matt read from, let me just read it real quickly. It's just a few verses. His account goes like this And Jesus sat over against the treasury. Mark gives us a little bit more information, a little bit more detail here. And he beheld how the people cast money into the treasury. And many that were rich cast in much. There came a certain poor widow, and she threw in two mites, which make a farthing. So he gives us a little more information there. And he called unto him his disciples and said unto them, Verily I say unto you, that whenever the Lord says, verily, he's saying, Listen, this is important, you need to pay attention. That's what he has the idea there. Verily I say unto you, that this poor widow hath cast more in than all they which have cast into the treasury I think the idea here is you combined all that they have, and she gave more than they did all theirs combined. It's kind of the idea. Verse 44. For all they did, for all they did cast in of their abundance, but she of her one did cast in all that she had, even all her living. I want to speak this morning on the widow's mites. The widow's mites. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to teach us and speak our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you this morning very grateful for your blessings on us. And Lord, um I think we just considering the subject this morning, Father, I feel obligated to express gratitude for the tremendous abundance that you have blessed us with, the prosperity that we experience is um almost unprecedented. And so we are in great debt, Lord, and uh we are very, very grateful. For what you have blessed us with. And I pray you would use this dear widow in such poverty that you would use her as the Lord did to challenge us Uh in our relationship to you and our relationship with our possessions, our finances. Lord, we want to be right. We want to do right, Lord. And so I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I yield my will to you, and I pray that you would speak through me the truths in this passage To each of our hearts and lives. Help us to trust you, Lord. Help us to obey you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Um our text here takes place what we just read, this widow bringing her two little mites and putting them in the offering there. It actually takes place just a few days before our Lord is betrayed and crucified. He's entered the city of Jerusalem. He's had what they call the triumphal entry Everybody's singing Hosanna to the Lord, the Son of God. And he just has few hours, few days. And he's going to be betrayed. He's going to be taken by the soldiers down into the court. He's going to be unjustly judged, unjustly beaten, viciously. He's going to be nailed to a cross and crucified. He had just, if you go back in the previous passages, previous chapters, he had just been scorching the Pharisees and the scribes for their hypocrisy. I mean he's at a point. He's coming he's coming to the end of his earthly ministry and he there are no holds. And he never really did hold back. But he is letting loose on the hypocrisy of these scribes and Pharisees as they profess to be great spiritual leaders. present themselves as tremendous uh religious leaders and spiritual men of God and Jesus is just he has the flamethrower out and he's burning them up for their hypocrisy He is revealing their unbelief, their self-righteousness, which I think is one of the most abhorrent sins in the eyes of God Is the self-righteousness of man. And the Lord Jesus confronts these fellows. And he doesn't hold back. He says, You hypocrites! Whoa unto you hypocrites, he says stuff like that. Um by the way, this this This image of Jesus Christ as some effeminate weakling walking around just peace and love, that's of the devil, to be very honest with you. Jesus was a hellfire and brimstone preacher. Now he he had the love of God, don't misunderstand. But brother, when it was necessary, he lit it up. And he has been laying into these Pharisees. He confronts them with their rejection of John the Baptist. And the Lord brings that up. They challenge his authority. He turns it right around on them. And he confronts their rejection of the greatest prophet ever born. They've rejected him. He confronts them over their pride. So focused on themselves, so caught up on themselves. Everything was about them. Everything was me, mine, look at me, it's all about me. And man, he just takes it to them. And they're at Jesus and the Pharisees are at a point of no reconciliation. They have hardened their hearts. Their mind is set. They've made their decision. We are not trusting Christ. We are not following him. We are not accepting him. And there's no turning back on their part. Jesus' heart and mind is set towards the cross. His mind is focused right now, is set like a flint. to the cross. He's about to take on the sins of the world. He's expo he's about to express the greatest love of God ever expressed in all of human history. When he dies on that cross for you and I and rises again. There's no reconciliation. I think it's kind of interesting, and I really don't have this part of the sermon, but if you would look there In verse number 40, as he's uh rebuking these Pharisees very strongly. And notice he says in verse 40, he's speaking of uh well, let's back up. Look at uh verse 38. He says unto them In his doctrine, beware of the scribes. He's talking to his disciples now. They love to go in long clothing. Oh, they love to look the part. And love salutations in the marketplace. They love people tell them how great they are, how wonderful they are. Oh, they just love that And the chief seats in the synagogues and the uppermost rooms and the uppermost rooms at feasts. Now look at verse 40. Look at the first statement he makes in verse 40. And devour whose houses? Widows' houses. Now, here are these great religious leaders, here are these great spiritual leaders. Here are these great quote-unquote men of God And they're devouring widows' houses. They're eating them up. You know what I think it is? In our context today, I think it would be something like this. They're scamming the widows. Would you agree with me? It's a low-down sorry dog that rips off widows Takes advantage of older folk, call them up on the phone, send them an email, and lie to them and scam them out of what they have. Anybody agree with me? That just gets under my skin That's what these Pharisees were doing. That's what these scribes were doing. They're not helping widows. They're not encouraging them. They're not trying to make sure they're taken care of. They're ripping them off. Taking advantage of and devouring them. And I find it ironic that the very next verse Jesus watches a widow put her mites and he praises her over against the rich. Isn't that something? I'm glad. I'm so grateful for our church's widows ministry. Courtney and Trish putting that together. What a blessing. I hope it's a blessing to our widows. We want it to be. I'm glad God loves widows. I'm glad God loves folks that are in need. God cares about us. And so he has this widow here. He makes his way. He's been in the spiritual conflict, in the trenches, spiritual warfare with these Pharisees and scribes for days now. No doubt he's weary. These were long days and short nights leading up to his crucifixion. And he makes his way over to the treasury. That is in one of the courtyards there of the temple. You had the temple, and you had the wall around, and inside you had these different courts. And the treasury was located in what they called the court of women for whatever reason. And uh he sets down there. Perhaps there's a little bench or something there, and he sets himself down. He says verse 41, he sat over against the treasury. And he begins to watch folks put their offerings into the treasury So, however the setup was, they had the treasury here, and Jesus finds a place to sit down, and it uses the word behold He beheld there in verse number. Says Jesus sat over against three and beheld how the people uh cast money in the treasury. So he finds a place to sit down. Perhaps he's just tired from the intensity of it all. And he sits down And it says he beheld them putting the offerings in the treasury, casting their money in the treasury. That word beholds an interesting word. It means to observe with great intensity. It means to look to look with tremendous interest. In other words, Jesus is paying very, very close attention to people putting their offerings in the treasury. Now two things he was paying attention to, if I see here. He's watching who's putting money in. Did you notice he references the rich? And he references the widow. So he's not just looking at the money that's going in, but he's looking who is putting that money in. Would you agree with me? Jesus is God. As God, he is omniscient. Now by that we mean he knows everything. There's nothing God doesn't know. So when he sees these people putting their m casting their money in the treasury, he knows everything about that person. You follow what I'm saying? He knows their background, their upbringing. He knows their bank account. He knows how much money they've got in the purse. He knows their motives. He knows their plans. He knows everything about it. So he's paying attention, very close attention. to who is putting money in the offering. But then also, notice it says how they put in. He beheld how the people cast their money in I believe giving is a vital part of the Christian life. Giving, I believe, is a vital part of Christian growth. If I want to grow as a Christian, now there's a lot of factors. This isn't the only factor, but if I want to grow as a Christian, I must learn to give. Because an ungiving Christian is an ungrowing Christian. In fact, I would say a stingy, selfish, ungiving Christian Is a very poor Christian. I'm just being honest this morning. A stingy, selfish Christian is an immature Christian. Jesus was paying very close attention to who gave and how they gave, how much, what their motives were. I believe a man's attitude towards giving to the Lord and others is a pretty clear indicator as to his character, what kind of person he is, what kind of person she is. Shortly after my salvation, my daddy pulled me aside He had a we we were in at like a split uh what do you call it split level house. We had the where you come in from the garage Then there was the next level up was the living area and dining area and kitchen. Then there was the next level up was the uh bedrooms and b major main bathroom. and bedrooms. And then the next level up was the attic. That's where I that's where they put me up there. I still remembered Dad had a desk down in that first entry level where you come in, he had a desk in his little study area And uh I come in one time and he said, son, come over here, sit down. And he says, Let me teach you how Christians give. And he had a certain system he did where he got paid on Friday. He's a truck driver, so he got his paid. And um he had what we call, you some of you might be familiar with this, uh an envelope system. He would cash his check and certain money went into envelopes. And he said, let me teach you something. Let me teach you how Christians give. And he told me how he did his tithe first off, right off the top. Tithe goes in the tithe envelope. Missions goes in the missions envelope. Then there was uh you know the rest of the bills But he says you start with your giving to the Lord. That's what he taught me. All these years coming up next week will be 44 years. And I've been knowing the Lord. And what Daddy taught me, I've tried to practice. And I believe giving is a vital part of the Christian life. Really is, whether we like it or not. It is. And I'm grateful that my daddy taught me in all these years. God used my daddy to teach me the importance of giving faithfully and generously to the Lord. And this isn't my message, but I I want to say this right here. And God has been faithful. There have been times when it's been a little challenging in Bible college, you know, where I'm scraping up money to wash my socks. You know, and stuff. But I'm telling you, God blesses it. I I I I stand by it. Amen. God blesses those that give There was a there was a fella, a preacher, there was a wealthy man, and um the preacher came to him, they had a special project going on in the church, and the preacher came to him And he approached them about, you know, giving some to help out with this project in the church, whatever it was. And the fellow bristled. When the preacher showed up, and uh he said that and he and he responded to the preacher, he says, you know, he says, I've got X number of dollars, I've earned a lot of money. He says, I don't give any money to my children And I don't give any money to my cousins, and I don't give any money to my uh nephews, and I don't give any money to my nieces, and I don't give any money To any of my family And the preacher was like, okay, well, he says, what in the world makes you think I'm going to give any money to the church? And what I'm saying is, a man's attitude towards giving, a man's attitude towards generosity, very much indicates what kind of man he is. This guy said a lot about himself when he said, I don't do all these things. And so giving is a vital part. of the Christian life. Jesus is sitting here and he's watching who it is that's putting money in the offering in the in the treasury And he's watching how they do it. The idea is how much they're putting in and what their motives are behind it, what all is involved in their giving. He pays very close attention to that Christian giving is not a suggestion. All through Scripture, we are instructed to give and to give generously to the Lord and to others The Bible teaches that. All through Scripture, God expects his people to give. Now keep your place here, if you would. Come back to Matthew chapter 6 with me. Now Matthew 5, 6, and 7 is the Sermon on the Mount. We reference it often. It has to do with discipleship. Jesus is teaching. His disciples, what it means to be a disciple, how disciples think, the first ten, twelve verses, what their attitudes are He teaches them how to interact with one another. He teaches the disciples what to do and what we should not do. There are certain ways a disciple should behave as a disciple of Jesus Christ. That's what he's teaching them. And if you get to chapter 6 of Matthew, and notice verse number 6, now he's talking about giving of alms. That would be charitable giving, we would call it. And he says, take heed that ye do not your alms before men to be seen of them. Otherwise, ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven. Would you agree with me? That implies God pays attention to our motives for giving, right? He says, listen, if you're doing it so everybody sees uh how what how much you're giving and what you're giving, if you're doing it for that, uh You're not getting any blessings from heaven. You're not getting any recognition of heaven. But heaven is paying attention. And then notice what he says in verse 2. Now, words are important. He says, therefore, what's the next word? When thou givest thine alms. Notice he doesn't say, therefore, if Thou givest thine alms. He says, Therefore, when thou givest thine alms. What is that implying? It implying he expects that we will be giving. Amen? Now when you do this, he doesn't say, oh, if you feel led of the spirit, oh you know if you uh if you're emotional, oh if you got an extra bonus, you know, you had a you know you sold an extra dozen eggs He doesn't qualify it at all. He just says, listen, when you do this, the assumption being, disciples give And so all through Scripture, he instructs us to give. All through Scripture, we find that He expects His people to give. And let me say this: all through Scripture, God promises to honor. Is people when they give. Let me take you to another passage. Now we're going to end up back in Mark here in a moment. Come to Luke, if you would, and chapter number six. And notice with me, if you would, and it's a familiar passage. This is the same sermon that Jesus preached on the Sermon on the Mount. And um I believe he's preaching that same sermon at a different location at a different time, but it's Basically, the same message. And in verse number 38 of Luke 6, 6, he's speaking to his disciples. He's not talking to an unsaved crowd. He's talking to his disciples. And he says, give And it shall be given unto you. Now, if he stopped right there, that'd be a good promise right there. Amen. That says, you give, I'll give to you. But he doesn't stop there. Notice what he says. He says, give, and it shall be given unto you, good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over shall men give unto your bosom For with the same measure that ye meet, withal it shall be measured unto you. Would you agree with me? It sounds like Jesus, it sounds like the Lord pays attention to our giving. And he expects it and he honors it. Sometimes years ago, I don't know if you still do this or not, probably not. You probably just text Walmart and they deliver it to you. But years ago If a lady was cooking a meal and she came up short on flour, she would send one of the kids next door and ask the next door lady, hey, could I borrow, I need four cups of flour or whatever. I don't know. Right? Anybody remember remember thousands of years ago when they did stuff like that? And so the kid would run over, come back with flour. She'd do that. And then they'd go to the market and within the next week or so or whatever and they'd get some flour and say, Oh, I need to pay uh I need to pay ethel back. I need to give her flour back to her And uh so she would get her cup, her measuring thing, and she'd fill that with flour, and what would she do? She'd tap that thing and shake it and then put a little more in and tap it and get it settled down and put a little more in and shake it up a little. And she would try and fill that thing as much with as much flour as she possibly could because she's given that back. Follow what I'm saying? She was grateful. She helped her out. And so she that's what the Lord's saying. Lord is grateful when we give. And He says, You give, you're going to get given back, but you're not just going to get equal. It's going to be shaken together and flowing over and taken care of. Now, before you get any ideas, I know how some of y'all think. Oh, good, I'll put a $100 bill in the offering plate and I'll get $10,000, $10,000 back. It's not necessarily what he's talking about. That blessing, that honor, may come in various forms. But I will say this: sometimes it does come in material form. God does bless us. God does give to us. Many times, shaken together, pressed down, running over, he gives to us. So my point is this: Christian giving is not a suggestion. God expects it. He instructs us to give, he expects us to give, and then he honors us when we do give. I was trying to think, what's the greatest example of giving in Scripture? Who could I use, for example? I thought of this widow's mite here. I thought about the dear uh uh lady with the prophet, and he says, make me a little cake first. Remember that? We're going to go die, make be it cake first to Elijah. I thought, man, what an example of giving. You know my conclusion I came to the greatest example of giving in all of Scripture? For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son. I'll tell you who the greatest giver is. I'll tell you who the greatest giver is in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. He gives and gives and gives and gives, not only in quantity, but quality. He gave himself To die for you and I. So the greatest. . you say, well, give me an example of somebody that gives. All right, Jesus. You're not going to find a greater giver than our Lord. Nobody gives more gifts than God gives to us, and nobody gives greater gifts to us than God gives to us. I believe sincere, genuine giving to the Lord is an expression of gratitude for God's giving to us. Genuine, sincere, heartfelt giving to the Lord, I believe, is an expression of our love to God because He first loved us. You fellas, when you first met your wife and you started, first of all, you know, she caught your eye. You know? And then uh so I gotta I gotta get to know this gal. And so depending on what your age was, maybe you pulled her ponytail or something to get her attention. I don't know, maybe it was older. But anyway, you get to know her a little bit. And then there's something and you started to like her. And that like is getting pretty strong. And there's something down inside us, there's something in the very nature of love that prompts us to give. You wanted to give her something. You wanted to express that affection you had. And we instinctively want to give something. Right? Uh Thursday night we were getting ready for visitation. Some of the young girls were here, uh I forget who it was, Cam and a couple others. And um They c they came, I was out basing, I come back and on our front porch at the door, and Kathy was already in bed, on our front porch at the door was a little cup and it was full of flowers And the girls wanted Mrs. Leatherman to know that they loved her. So they gave. It's instinctive. God's sure been good to us. God has sure given us, man, unbelievably. God loves us so intensely and so pure. His love is so pure and it's so unconditional. And as a disciple of Christ, as a recipient of the loving gifts of my God I just want to give back. You follow what I'm saying? I just want to give back to God Um expression of our gratitude for God giving so much to us, an expression of our love For God's great love for us. Now, let me say this very quickly, and this is important to understand. We don't give to God because He needs money. Alright? He's a uh Hey listen, the streets in heaven are made of gold. If he needs something, he could just go dig up a pothole or something, you know He doesn't need our money. We give to the Lord not because he's in need. We give to the Lord because we're in love. We love him. I put it this way: we give to the Lord because we love our Savior. We want him to be glorified, and we want souls to be saved. And so we give to the Lord. So I said all that. Now let's come to our text. I kind of laid the context, the framework, the subject of what the Lord is trying to teach us here in this passage. And so we see here in verse 41 of Mark chapter 12, it says, And Jesus sat over against the treasury and beheld, looked very intently, looked with tremendous interest. But watch very, very closely how the people cast money into the treasury. So he's looking for who is giving and how they're giving. Now, let's read on. And many that were rich cast in much. Now, I read this through probably 15, 20 times. And I can't find anywhere here where he's condemning the rich for casting in much. He doesn't say anything negative about that at all, does he? He just comments, he just takes note. These are very, very rich people, and that's the idea behind the word rich. These are fabulously wealthy people And they're putting a lot of money in the offering plate. He doesn't condemn it, he doesn't criticize it, he just takes note of that. And so They are putting a very, and by the way, it says they that were rich cast in much. The word much there has the idea, an extremely large amount. Tremendous amount of money they're putting in. It's not just a couple hundred bucks, it's a lot. But this poor woman catches his attention And he doesn't criticize the rich for all they're putting in, but he doesn't make a big deal about it. It's almost like, okay. Alright. But he catches this widow. She catches his eye And notice what he says in verse 44. For all they, the rich, did cast in of their abundance. And again, it has the idea of tremendous resources. They have tons. And they can't, they put a lot in. It says verse 41, much. They put much in out of their abundance. But She, this widow, of uh but she of her want did cast in all that she had. even all her living. And that catches his attention. And he uses that event, he uses this whole scene as he's watching this unfold. And he pulls the disciples. He says, Hey fellas, come here, I want to show you something. Come here. I want you to learn something from this. And he highlights this widow. And he points out the degree of giving on the part of the widow contrasted to the degree of giving on the part of the rich. Now let me give you in a little bit of time I have left, let me give you a few thoughts. First thing I oh by the way, a mite, she puts in two mites. A mite was the smallest coin available in circulation. There was no other smaller coins. What's the smallest coin in American dollars? What's the smallest coin? Penny That's the the mite was the smallest amount of currency that would be in circulation. A mite, he tells us here, is a half, two mites was a half a farthing A farthing was uh uh let's see, I wrote it down here. A farthing was a half a penny One farthing was a half of what would be considered our penny would be a half of a penny, a half of a cent. So two mites made up a farthing. So a mite would be what? One quarter of a penny. And that's all she had. To her living I mean that's savings, that's investments, that's grocery money, that's all the money stuffed down in the back of the sofa. She has nothing else There were no other resources, nothing to fall back on. All she had was a half a penny to her name. And she takes it and she puts the whole both of them into the offering, into the treasury. Now, here's my first observation. Number one, I see the full surrender of this widow. Full surrender. At some point, she made a decision. All my living, everything I am, everything I have is not my own. I'm putting it in the Lord's hands. I'm giving it all to the Lord. Full surrender. I'm not my own. Take your Bible if you would. Keep your place here. I want to try and do this quickly. Come to 1 Corinthians, would you? This was the truth that Paul, under the inspiration of God, was trying to convey to the little church at Corinth, who was living, who was wrapped up in themselves. They were living in sin, they were proud, they were perverse. A church, believers, he calls them brethren. And he's trying to communicate to them, they had a wrong understanding of who they are and what they had. Look with me, chapter 6, 1 Corinthians, and verse number 19. First Corinthians six and verse nineteen. He says, What I mean he's incredulous that they don't understand this. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God? Alright. But look at this next statement. And ye are not your own. For verse 40, for ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. This dear woman came to some somehow, some reason, we don't know what prompted it, we don't know when it took place, but something happened apparently in the heart and mind of this dear widow. That prompted her to take all her living, everything she has, and bring it to the temple, to the court of the women, where the treasury was and cast everything she has into there. I see a dear widowed lady that says, I am completely surrendered to God. I am nothing to fall back on. Everything is in God's hands. I am his. Completely. That's a great place to be in our Christian life. Um, I put my life and my possessions in God's hand. And in God's control of my uh uh in God's control, I think there's a lot of people who are controlled by their possessions. A lot of people are controlled by the Almighty Dollar. That dollar dictates my life. That dollar runs me. Jesus spoke of that in Luke, where he talks about don't be a, and I'm putting it in my own words, but he says basically, don't be a slave to manna, be a friend of manna. It helps you, not don't be a slave to it. I'm telling you, we live in a society that is a slave to money Controls our decisions. Hey, let me say this. We live in a society where many Christians, their spiritual life is controlled, not by the Holy Spirit of God, but by the Almighty Dollar. What I'm going to do for God, what I'm not going to do for God, it all is according to my bank account. And this woman said, I'm not living that way. I'm barely getting by. I'm just going to take what I have and put it in the Lord's hands. I'm going to give all myself. A total surrender to God. God, everything is yours. Take your Bible if you would, if you're still there in Corinthians, come over to 2 Corinthians real quickly with me. I hope you're with me. Everybody alright? All right, everybody okay? No s no heart attacks. Yeah, okay. Notice 2 Corinthians chapter 8. Now here he is praising the churches in Macedonia, how they had given. And he's using them to challenge the church at Corinth in their giving. And notice that verse number two, 2 Corinthians 8, he says, how that in a great trial of affliction And in the abundance of their joy, now look at this, and their deep poverty. Sound like the widow Their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality, their giving. He says they were in deep poverty, but they gave liberally, generously For to their power, you could say ability, I bear record, yea, and beyond their power, or beyond their financial ability They were willing of themselves, praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift. I think this is what's happened. The churches of Macedonia, they are in abject poverty And they're giving so much money for missions and Paul's advancement of the gospel. And Paul says, no, no, no. You guys can't afford this. Don't give this. That's what he's saying there. He's saying, praying us with much entreaty, we'd receive the gift. Paul's saying, no, no, no. And they said, no, take it, take it. We want to give this. It's for the Lord. And take upon us the fellowship of the ministering to the saints. Now look at verse 5. This is what I'm getting at. And this they did, not as we had hoped, but look, look at this. But first gave their what? their own selves to the Lord, and unto us by the will of God. I think that's what that little widow's doing. I think she's coming, casting all her living in, she says, Lord, I'm all yours. What she's doing basically is taking that offering plate, dumping everything she has in it. And then stepping down inside the offering plate and say, Lord, full surrender. I'm yours. Everything I have, everything I am, is yours to do with as you see fit. So this widow, her full surrender. Her full surrender. Some people had the idea Well, uh I read about some missionaries had gone into a deep jungle and they'd come across this um very backward tribe. They worshiped idols and false gods. They had these little gods all around. And they were slaughtering hogs. Uh, Derek and Vern, were you are you getting a hogs? Somebody was talking about buying hogs. What? Derek's gonna buy a hog. Farmer Derek. I like it. But they were slaughtering hogs and they were butchering them up. And the missionary noticed that they would cut the tail off the hog and they threw him over on a pile. And they had this big pile of tails and they're butchering up the Pig, the hogs, and cutting them up, however they're going to use them. And the missionary said, What are the tails over there? What are you going to do with the tails? They said, Oh, the meat's ours. Those tails are for our gods We'll just give the tales to our gods. Now, I laughed at that. But I'm afraid that's the way a lot of Christians are. See, see, some Christians have this, some people have this attitude. Everything I have, all my resources, everything I have, I am, everything, it's all mine. It's mine, I can do what I want with it. Some Christians have this attitude. Everything I have, all my resources, everything. 10% of that is God's, and the rest, the 90%, that's mine. That's mine. 10% God, you get this 10% tail. And the rest is mine. So some people have the attitude, I don't care about God, it's all mine. Others have, well, 90% is mine, 10% I'll give to God. And then you come across some folks like this widow, where it's all God's. 100% God, this is all yours. And you've made me a steward. Of everything I have, to use it and care for it and take care of it according to your will, not my will. That's full surrender. That's full surrender. Jesus says, my life, and again, I'm not quoting this verbatim, so bear with me. But he said, basically, he says, My life is my own. No man taketh it from me. And then he made a statement. He says, I lay it down. I give it fully, completely. And in the Garden of Gethsemane, he said this: Lord, if it's possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, say it with me, not my will, but thy will be done. I think that's what the widows say. Lord, everything I have, everything I am, it's yours. You do with it as you see fit. You use me as you see fit. I see total surrender. I see total surrender This widow's full surrender giving was about as close to the giving of the Lord as you can get Giving it all, giving it all. Second of all, quickly I notice the faith of this widow, the full surrender, but the faith. Verse 44, back in Mark 12, says she gave all her living Everything she needed to survive, nothing to fall back on. She is living by faith at this point She's trusting that the God that she's committed everything she has to, the God that she has committed her whole life and being and living everything. That she has surrendered to God. She is now trusting him that he's going to take care of her. That he's going to meet her needs. That he's going to use her in whatever way he sees fit. Faith is a five-letter word that is central to the Christian life. The just shall live by faith. We're told that in Romans 1:17, Galatians 3. 11, and Hebrews 10. 32. The just shall live by faith. 2 Corinthians 5 7, Paul told the church at Corinth that we walk by faith and not by sight. That's what this woman is doing. She has no backup. She has no reserves. She has no CDs she can cash out. She has no retirement fund she can withdraw from. Nothing She's trusting God completely. Faith is believing that what God says is so and acting upon it. Faith is confidence that get this. Faith is confidence that God will do what He promised to do. Fa is having confidence that God will lead me where He's promised to lead me. That God will provide for me what He has promised to provide for me. I thought about, Charlotte, I thought about Paul, and he had a little saying, he used to say often: if God brings you to it, he will see you through it. That's faith. That's faith. Say, preacher, if I make some sort of commitment, if I dedicate my life to Christ and I surrender and do whatever God tells me to do, where am I going to end up? You'll end up in the smack dab middle of the will of God, and that's a good place And we have faith that God will take care of it. We're going to have three missionaries through next week. On Wednesday, they're going to be here. You're going to meet them in person, live and in person. Real missionaries And you're going to meet some people who have surrendered all to Christ, and they are absolutely trusting God's faith that He's going to meet their needs and lead them and use them where God leads them to. You say, well, praise the Lord for those missionaries. I tell you, that's the attitude, that's the approach every Christian ought to have. I was talking recently about giving the faith promise. And I thought for years, I'd said this before, years, I want to go to mission field. I kept surrendering, Lord, Lord, send me, send me. God, for whatever reason, kept me here. Not because I wanted to, but because it was his will, and I his will has become my will. And I come to the point in my Christian life, I come to the point in my heart and mind. Where if I can't go to the mission field, if I can't go to some field where desperately needed, then I'm going to do everything I can I don't know that I've reached this, but I want to get to the level of submission and commitment and sacrifice that those that are going are making and do that same level here in supporting them to go. You follow what I'm trying to say? That level of faith and commitment and submission on that part of that missionary who's gone to Guam I want to be at that same level of commitment and sacrifice and surrender in getting them to Guam. This woman lived by faith. He says, I just give it all to the Lord. I'm going to put it all in the treasury, and I'm going to trust God to take care of me. Trust God to meet my needs. I've told this before, but such a, in my mind, such a profound illustration. I got to Indianapolis, Indiana, in May of nineteen eighty-seven. We'd just been married two, three months, got married in February, March, April, so not quite three months. And uh I showed up as youth pastor. I still remember uh they they didn't have any room for offices there, so they cleaned out the closet. And put a little desk in the closet, and they put a little name on the door, Pastor Dennis. That was huge. Pastor Dennis. Pastor Dennis. So I required my wife address me as Pastor Dennis. And they had faith they had missions conference. They had faith promised missions conference. There was two little girls that I ran a bus route. also and a big route. And there was two twins that came in on that bus route, came to our church. And they got saved. The first time I preached in church, the two twins got saved, got baptized. Man, they took off for the Lord, just thirteen years old, probably twelve, thirteen years old. And uh they took off living for God. They come Sunday mornings, we'd go pick 'em up in the car, bring 'em back Sunday nights, Wednesday nights They came to missions conference every night. And we took up faith promise like we do here, very similar, took up faith promise. About a month or two or three later, we're driving on a Sunday night. I've gone and picked them up, Kathy and I, and we're bringing them to church. And one of them, or Bobby and Amy was their names, one of them, I forget which one, said, Pastor Dennis, I got my dime permissions. I said, what do you mean you're dying for missions? She goes, well, back at the missions conference, God spoke, and they both said this, God spoke to our heart. that each of us should give a dime every week to missionaries to support missionaries. Now you need to understand, this is 1987. These girls are inner city ghettos of Chad of uh of Indianapolis. A dime would be the equivalent of a $50 bill for you and I or more. And I said, where do you get a dime every week? Listen, she goes, oh, God provides it for us. I said, what do you mean? She goes, well, if we don't get our allowance or whatever, I don't know She said, if we don't have it, God always makes sure we find one. She goes, I was standing at the bus stop the other day, and there was a dime on the sidewalk, and God provided my faith promise. She says, sometimes, she said, one time I found in the hallway at school there was a dime right in front of my locker, and God provided. My offering. She goes, and if it gets to Saturday and we don't have it, we go out and collect up tens and we go to the 7-Eleven and we mash them until we have 10 cents and then we get our faith promise money. You know what that is? That's faith. They didn't have any money. They didn't have two mites. But what they had, they gave to the Lord. And God says, all right, I'll take you. And they trusted God. Man, I'm telling you, that impacted me. I said, surely these two girl twin girls riding a Sunday school bus can trust God for a dime. I can trust God to do what He leads me to do. The woman to faith. And then God honored her in a tremendous way. God honored her. And he says, You look, they she cast more in than all those rich guys, those millionaires You combined all of theirs together, she put more in. Now, she didn't put more in number-wise, but she put more in than that she put more in that she was capable of Than they did. You follow what I'm saying? They were capable of doing a lot more. But she gave all she was capable of doing. She put much more in. You follow what I'm saying? Much more in. It's what are we capable of doing? Some people say I read commentaries on this and I'll end. I read commentaries on this and they said, well, this teaches us it's not about how much you give I don't believe that for a minute. I think it teaches the exact opposite. I think it teaches we ought to give what we're capable of giving. I do not have singing abilities. I thought I'd get a more resounding response than that. I am not capable of offering to the Lord my beautiful voice. I don't have it. Now I like the sing, and I'm going to sing whether you like it or not. But what I do have, I can give to the Lord. Follow what I'm saying? I don't have a million dollars, but maybe I got a hundred dollars. Percent. What she was capable of, she gave more than they did because she was cap she gave what she was completely capable of doing I gotta quit. Father, I ask you to help us. Help us to surrender to you, Lord. You've been too good to us for us to be selfish. God, you love us too much for us to be unloving. And Lord, help us to trust you, to operate on faith. And Lord, as we go into this missions conference, and we're going to talk about giving to missions. I pray you would help us to see and know what we are capable of doing by faith. And then lead us and direct us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, if there be some this morning, say, preacher I'm capable of living a better Christian life than what I'm living. I know I am. There's areas in my Christian life that really, really need to be addressed Now we keep saying, oh yeah, I need to address it. I really need to address it. How about we finally address it? And I wonder how many would say, yes, I could, I could live a Better life. There's areas that are not right. There's areas that need to be improved. Anything like that by the uplifted hand? Come on, let's be honest. It's probably a lifetime issue us being Closer to the Lord, walking, fighting, defeating the flesh. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I need to learn to have faith And just trust God. When He leads me, impresses me different things. We go into mission conference. God impress upon my heart my role in world missions, whether going or giving. And I wonder how many would say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me to learn to trust them. Just to learn to have faith. Is there any like that? I just need to learn to trust them. Just learn to trust them. Now I'm not going to ask you to respond to this question, but let me challenge you in your thinking, in your heart and mind. I wonder how many of us that almighty dollar rules our life Rather than the Almighty God. Wonder how many of us are slaves to our bank statement Rather than servants of all-powerful God, materialism is a serious, serious problem, issue in churches and in Christian lives. And we need to get victory. Father, pray you bless our invitation now. Have your way in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes