Ephesians chapter number six. Ephesians chapter number six. It's a uh a very familiar passage of scripture to most of us, and um I found myself in a situation Actually, last week before we came up, that um that really tested my faith, it really tested my mettle. And as I thought about what to preach tonight, I had a couple outlines in my Bible. And the first thought that I went to was a message that I preached to my church last Wednesday night down in Darlington that was entitled How to Weather a Storm. And I had God had given me that, brought that message that I preached from years ago, brought it back to my mind, and I dug my notes back out and went through that the evening that I found out that I had made a terrible human error And um it uh really smit smoke me pretty hard and and uh I I thought about preaching that message and as I got through that I thought This one just kept coming back to the surface as afraid about it. And uh I simply entitled it The Armor of God. It's got nothing new, nothing that um nothing that's going to be super dynamic tonight But it's going to be something that I think we all need to be reminded of. It's something that we all need to pay attention to. It's something that we all need to take very seriously So uh Ephesians chapter number six, uh begin reading in verse number ten. The Bible says, Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand, stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth And having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, above all taking the shield of faith wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints, and for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. Let's pray tonight, and we'll see what the Lord has for us here in Ephesians chapter six. Father God in heaven, I love you tonight, and I thank you, Lord, that you are a God of second chances. I thank you, Lord, that you orchestrated every message of this past conference, Lord, to encourage your saints. Lord, I thank you that you are again that God of second chances, that God that forgives, that God that restores, that God that never gives up, that God that never gives looks away. That God that never leaves us, never forsakes us, but is always right alongside of us. Father, I thank you for that so much. And Lord, I pray tonight that you would use me in some way to encourage your people Lord, as I step aside, I pray that you would take my place, and Lord, that what you would have spoken would be all that would be spoken from this pulpit tonight. Censor me, I pray, and Lord, have your will and way among the hearts of your people. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I look at this tonight, I see the first thing here in verse number 10 that I'd like to bring our attention to. The Bible says, Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord. Be strong. God encourages encourages us to be strong. And as I started to look at this and I started to think of the events that I went through last week, I got to thinking about a weak soldier You know, we are soldiers in a battle. Paul used that analogy all throughout his epistles to encourage us. He also used a race. He uses those illustrations for us to understand that, hey, we're not In a leisurely laid-back island type lifestyle where we can just coast. We are in a battle Whether we like it or whether we don't, whether we want to be there or whether we don't, it doesn't matter. If you're a born-again Christian tonight, you are in a battle You have an enemy, you have three enemies actually. You have your flesh, you have the world, and you have the devil, and all three of those are looking to defeat you just as quickly as they possibly can and as effectively as they possibly can. And if you are a weak soldier, you will be defeated very easily. You'll be defeated very easily. Turn with me, if you would, back to the book of Joshua, chapter number one. Joshua chapter number one. How many of you have brought your Bibles tonight? We're going to use them just a little bit. We learned that they are infallible, that the Bible is infallible. and that it is uh perfect and that it is indestructible and a bunch of other things this past week and I like that. Amen. I have a book that I don't have to worry about failing me Turn with me to Joshua chapter number one. Let's look at verse number six. This was Joshua, of course. Moses has passed from the scene now and Joshua is now taking over to lead the children of Israel into the promised land. And God tells him this, Only be thou, verse or verse number six, be strong and of a good courage, for unto this people shalt thou divide for an inheritance the land which I swear unto their fathers to give them. Only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded thee. Turn not from it to the right hand nor to the left that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. Look at verse number nine. Have I not commanded thee, be strong and of a good courage, be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. So the Lord encourages us to be strong. We don't want to be a weak soldier. So in order to do that, we must do a couple things. The first thing that I think of that we must do is we must exercise our faith Faith is like a muscle. If we don't use our faith, our faith will actually deteriorate. Just like a muscle will, some of us are older than others, and we're starting to realize that, hey, we're not quite what we once were Some of you guys are young and strong and scrapping and raring to go and you don't understand what we're talking about yet. But hey, muscles will deteriorate. Faith is like a muscle. We have to exercise that. You say, well, Brother Chip, how do you exercise that? Keep stepping forward with it a little bit. You know, just because you're getting older, your faith should be getting stronger. You have more experiences, you have more battles that you've fought and been in. Hey, your experiences and your faith should grow. It should be stronger. Think about it like this. If you had a baby and you fed that baby every day just exactly what you were supposed to feed it and you clothed it and you took care of it exactly what you were supposed to do and six, seven, eight, nine years rolled around and that thing was still just a little eight-pound baby, would you be concerned? Hey, you would be, wouldn't you? Let me tell you, you'd have seen the doctor a long time before eight years passed. But you know, we have church houses full of Christians that are still little eight-pound babies. Because they've never exercised their faith, they've never grown, they've never digested the Word of God like they're supposed to. You know, we should be in this book every single day. One of the greatest things that happened to me happened to me a couple years ago. And a friend of mine down in South Carolina has done this apparently for years. He came up with this idea and And he just one day he got a hold of my cell phone number and one morning I got this text message from him. And it was pretty lengthy. And as I read down through it, I started reading some thoughts that he was giving, and then I read a verse of scripture that he had shared with me, and then some comments about that piece of scripture down below, and I thought, man, that's pretty good stuff And the next morning I got another one. And the next morning I got another one. And the next morning I got another one. And you know what? After about seven or eight days of getting that, I was seeing what he was getting And all of a sudden I got convicted because I was reading my Bible, but I was kind of in one of those ruts you get in. And uh The pastor down in Darlington says that a rut is an open-ended grave. I think that's a good analogy. When you get stuck in a rut, it's an open-ended grave. It just continues to suck you in. So I got to look at that and I said, God If he's getting that, why can't I get something like that? And boy, I started to ask the Lord, show me what's wrong. And I started confessing some things in my life, and I started digging in. And then you know what I started to do? I started to pick a verse of scripture out of what I was reading and try to find something to share back with him. Well that thing has developed now. We've been doing it for a couple years. There's several of you here in the auditorium tonight that get that from me every morning And hey, it's not something super difficult to do, but it's something that does require a little effort. You have to exercise to do that. And you know what I have found? I found it is I've exercised, I found that I put myself, Pastor encouraged us a long time ago, many, many years ago, encouraged me. Hey, find some way to be accountable And you know what I found out? When I'm traveling or something, we get up early in the morning sometimes and we'll hit the road at 5. 30 or 6 o'clock or something like that. That's a little bit early to wake somebody up with a text message, so I just kind of hold off on that Sometimes I'll forget and it might be eight or nine o'clock at night before I send that thing out. I guarantee you it never makes it past ten in the morning before I get a text message from somebody on the list of who I send it to that says, Hey, is everything okay today? We're praying for you. Why? Because they're expecting that. It's a little accountability for me. It keeps me sharp. It keeps me on my toes. It keeps me digging in. Hey, I've sent it to Pastor a couple times at 9. 30 and I'll get back here late. But hey, we need to exercise our faith. The next thing that we need to do is and it goes hand in hand with this, is we must properly feed our spirit. You know, we're talking about that little baby and feeding it the right things. Hey, you don't take a little baby and feed it a T-bone steak Okay? You don't take a grown man like me. My diet can't consist solely of milk either. Okay? So hey, you're gonna have to start out small with little nibbles, and hey, God will help you. Pick some easy books to go into first Pick something like the Gospel of John. Learn a little bit about the love of God first. Something that's a little bit easy to digest. Get that before you start digging into Isaiah or Revelation or something difficult. Hey, you're going to have to work your way into that To work your way into that. And hey, as you're working your way into that, you've got one of the greatest Bible teachers that I have ever sat under. Be faithful to church. You will learn from this man. I assure you, you will learn from this man. Be faithful to church. Be in here getting what you're supposed to get. So, why do we need to do all of this? Look at verse number 11. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Stand Stand. Stand means to be erect, to be upon your feet, to be up and active. I remember several years ago, how many of you remember Dr. Bill Barrens? Great man of God, great man of God. Love Dr. Barrens a lot. No, he's a very close friend with Pastor and I I'll tell you, I didn't communicate. He was one of those friends Pastor, that was like they were mentioning the other night. You didn't have to talk to Brother Barons for years, but you crossed your paths and it was like you were just arm in arm again. It didn't require a lot of maintenance. It didn't require a lot of maintenance. It didn't have to keep up with him all the time, but at the same time he was still a close friend. And he st he preached a message one time. Uh well move or die, I think was the name of it. Move or die. And he used an illustration from Vietnam that that if you sat still in a foxhole all the time, the enemy would soon find your position and you would die You had to be moving. They were moving all the time. And I thought, I have a little uh uh uh game that I play with my son sometimes over the internet we're 500 miles away, but we can get together online and play this little game and it's kind of neat And it's a tank game. It's called World of Tanks Blitz. And you know, one of the things that I was very guilty of when I first started playing that thing was I would find me a nice little spot and I would set still And I would try to hit somebody, you know, as they would come out or whatever. And, you know, pretty soon I realized that I was dying very early in the game because I was sitting still. But all of a sudden, Matt started telling me, hey, Dad, move, move, move. He'd send me little messages. Get moving. He'd remind me and prompt me. And then I'd start moving. And as I started moving around a little bit, I noticed that, hey A couple things that are very important to our Christian life. You know, when you're moving, shots will ricochet and deflect off of you It's harder to hit a moving target than it is a stationary target. There were a lot of things in this game that suddenly I found applied to my Christian life. I need to keep moving. I need to keep moving forward. I need to keep moving on. Hey, some guys out today, just a conference on revival and soul winning out today. Soul winning, knocking on doors, was able to lead somebody to Christ. Hey, they kept moving. They didn't just sit down and say, boy, that was good. And let the devil just start paying at him because that's exactly what he'll do Hey, he's very effective even at hitting moving targets, so we have got to keep moving. We have got to stay on the offense. Wilds, it says he may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Wilds means deceitful tactics. Turn with me to 2 Corinthians chapter number 11. Back just a few pages. 2 Corinthians chapter number 11. 2 Corinthians chapter number 11, look at verse number 14 and 15. 2 Corinthians chapter number 11, verse 14 and 15. And no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Verse 15: therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness. whose ends shall be according to their works. Hey, the devil is all about putting on our uniform. He'll put on our uniform. You know that there were some Germans that tried to do that in World War II, and they penetrated deeply into our lines and caused much havoc by taking captured uniforms. Hey, you've got to be careful. You've got to really be careful because the devil doesn't fight fair. He uses deceitful tactics. You know what Vicky and I learned whenever we went out full-time in the ministry? I was expecting all sorts of attacks. I was expecting torpedoes to come my way. I was in the Navy 10 years, so I know what torpedoes are all about. One torpedo hit can sink a ship. And man, I was looking all over. I was waiting. I was looking for those trails in the water to see those hits coming, those shots being fired at me. And man, I didn't see nothing. And I was like, man, praise the Lord. We're prayed up. We must be doing pretty good. And you know what I found out? The torpedoes weren't headed at me. Satan was firing torpedoes very effectively. Very effectively. And he started attacking my family. He started shooting torpedoes at my family. He started fighting a battle that was deceitful and not very fair. He started hitting where we were weak. He started taking the weak shots. Remember we talked earlier about a weak soldier being easily defeated Hey, he was taking the shots where he knew it would hit me, but without, because he knew I was ready, he was taking a hit on somebody else that he knew would affect me, but they were weak. He doesn't fight fair. He doesn't fight fair. We may be able to stand the only way that we're going to stand against the wiles of the devil is if we are up and moving and in God's word and exercising our faith and feeding our spirit, we have got to be prepared for his deceitful tactics. And then we look on at that verse and we look down at verse twelve, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wrestle. When you're wrestling, that is hand to hand combat. That's the wrestling isn't isn't the long shot Wrestling is when you are struggling. You are sweating on one another. The blood is getting on each other. Hey, it is hand-to-hand fierce combat. Wrestling is not long distance. Hey, whether we like it or not, we are wrestling every day. We are in this battle, folks. Every single day. Now you know what I have discovered? I have discovered one thing, one way to get away from this, but it's not a way that I want to get away from it. You know, if we're willing to just do this The devil will kind of leave us alone. But let me ask you a question. What about all the other multitudes that haven't heard? That's why he'll leave you alone if you sit down on the sideline. Because if you sit down on the sideline, the rest of the world's going to die and go to hell. He doesn't mind if you go to heaven as long as you leave everybody else alone. But I sure don't want to be sitting on the sidelines. We just heard this week some great preaching about the second coming of Christ. Hey, the last place in the world I want to be found is setting on the sideline when that trumpet sounds. I want to be up and active. I want to be doing something. I want my Lord to put his arm around me when I get to glory and say, well done, my good and faithful servant. I don't want him to say, hey, what were you doing sitting over there? I want him to say, well done. Like it or not, we're in a fight. So look at look at verse number 13a here. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all and having done all to stand, stand therefore. Hey. We've got to take unto you. It is a personal battle and a personal responsibility. You know what I realized here in this scripture? God provides for us every single piece of armor. that we need. He's provided it for us. But he doesn't put it on us. There is a personal responsibility that each and every one of us as a Christian has to put on this armor. Paul is admonishing the Ephesians to put on the armor. God has provided it God has given it to us. God has got everything in place for us. But you know what? If you don't pick it up and put it on, it's not going to do you any good. It's not going to do you any good at all. Let's look at some of the people. First of all, the whole armor. We want to put on the whole armor. Why the whole armor? Because any part that's missing is exposed. Any piece of armor that's missing is exposed. It's a weak point. And that's where exactly where the devil will hit us. Now let's look at some specifics of the armor. Alright, truth. Truth. Look down through here. Stand therefore having your loins girt about with truth. Truth. Truth is right around our middle section. Kind of the big part of the target. How many deer hunters do we have in here? Couple? Hey, what's the easiest part of a deer to hit? The midsection? Why? Because it's big You know? Hey, I kind of like to use the old Navy analogy, you know, you put one through the boiler room, it's over. You put the boiler out, that ship's done. Hey, you put one right through the middle right here, it's over. It's done You for sure want to have your loins girt about with truth. You want to have that piece of armor on. That's the biggest part of your body, and that's the easiest spot to hit. So you want to make sure that you have that on. It also holds on all the other pieces of armor. It's very important. The midsection. We will never be successful apart from the truth. Look over with me, if you would, to the book of James, a couple pages back, right behind Hebrews. Been having my personal devotions in James here for a little while, been kind of going verse by verse through it Look at James chapter number five, verse number twelve. Just had this here not long ago. James chapter five, verse number twelve. But above all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by any other oath. But let your yea be ye, and your nay be nay, lest ye fall into condemnation. As I got to looking at that, hey, let our words be pure and true, whatever we say, make care that we make it good God hates a liar. Read that all through the Old Testament. God hates a liar. He does not like lying. He does not like deceitfulness. Hey, truth is very important. The next piece of armor we see here is the breastplate of righteousness in verse number 14. Matthew Henry said, The righteousness of Christ imputed to us is a breastplate against the arrows of divine wrath I thought when I read that divine wrath, I actually have a piece of armor that's on me that defends me from the arrows of God's wrath. Hey, that's an interesting spin on that, isn't it? We think of this armor being defensive against the world and the flesh and the devil, but hey We're putting on Christ's righteousness. Before we put on Christ's righteousness, if we're unsaved, if you've never accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior You can't have any of this armor on until you put on the helmet of salvation. That's going to be the first part. We're going to see that in a few minutes. But when you put on that helmet of salvation, you get the righteousness of Jesus Christ applied to your account. Do you know that before that, you are condemned already, the Bible says? The Bible says you're already condemned. You're already destined to hell. You don't have any hope outside of Jesus Christ If you have not accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Lord and Savior tonight, there's only one destination. You are headed down a highway with the bridges out, and you're going full throttle. I urge you tonight, if you've never accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior, if you don't know beyond a shadow of a doubt tonight that if you died when you walked out these doors that you'll go to heaven, I urge you to seek one of us out tonight before you leave here. It is just simply not worth it. I can take you to the Oakland Cemetery up here and I can walk you through and they will find tombstones from young people, middle-aged people, old people. It doesn't babies It doesn't matter what your age is, it doesn't matter what your health is, it doesn't matter where you're from, and it doesn't matter where you're going, you are not guaranteed tomorrow, my friend. You are not guaranteed tomorrow. Put on the righteousness of Christ, because God's arrows of wrath are pointed at you. And boy, I'll tell you what, he's the Almighty. He's the one that spoke the world into existence. I believe his arrows will hit their mark whenever he fires, don't you? I for sure do. I don't want to be hit by divine wrath. The righteousness of Christ is implanted in us when we accept Jesus Christ as our Savior, and it fortifies our heart against the attacks of Satan. When we have Christ's righteousness in us, whenever we're having full of the Spirit, and whenever we're in perfect fellowship with Jesus Christ, the devil can't get in. There's no room for him to get in. There's no way he can get in there. Put on the righteousness of Christ. The next thing that we see here is the gospel, having your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. You know, as I looked at this, I thought, shoes? Really? God is specific enough to talk about our shoes? Hey, Brother Jerry, you were a soldier. How effective is a soldier without his boots? Not very effective. He can have the best weaponry. He can have the best supply line. He can have the best uniform. He can have the best armor. But if he ain't got any boots on, he's not very effective. You know? Let's go back to my tanks. Hey, it can be the best gun on that tank and the thickest armor on that tank, but if it can't move, if the tracks are gone, you're a sittin' duck. And everybody's going to start shooting at you. Hey, shoes are really important. So let's look at this a little bit. Shoes. This is a very firm stand on the assurance of God's love. We can trust in Him and His love for everything we need. These shoes keep us off the slippery slope of doubt. How effective is a barefoot soldier? Not very effective. Have your feet shod with the gospel of peace. Above all, verse number sixteen, taking the shield of faith, wherewith you may be able to quench all of the fiery darts of the wicked. Faith, we talked a little bit about this. This requires us to trust in the shield of God's protection, which will quench the darts of temptation, fear, and lust. Our belief in God must include a belief in His divine protection. Hey, if you trust in Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, trust Him to protect you. He will do that. That's part of exercising that faith. Trust Him to protect you. He won't fail you. If you put your faith and trust in him, he'll protect you. I'm not saying that the devil's not going to shoot at you, but hey, God will protect you from it God will be able to quench that. This and this alone will extinguish all the flaming darts that our enemies hurl at us. Turn over to Philippians, back just one page from where we are. Philippians chapter number one. And this is kind of funny This is kind of funny. I'm going to give you my life's verse. It's on the back window of my pickup truck for those of you all that remember. This is my life's verse. I adopted this before we went into ministry, but it really applies in the ministry. And you know what was one of the farthest things from my mind last week whenever I was under attack? My own life's verse. Look at this. Philippians chapter number one, verse number six. Being confident. Here's that faith. Being confident. In this of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it under the day of Jesus Christ. It doesn't say anything about Chip performing that work Doesn't say anything at all about that. It says that the work which he begun in me, he will complete. It's all about him. It's all for him. It doesn't have anything to do with me God's going to complete it through me. If I trusted and I stepped out and I'm doing God's will and God's call in my life and I'm where I'm supposed to be, then God promises us in His very word, and He cannot lie that He will perform the work. He will take care of it. The next thing we see here is that is salvation. We talked about that just a minute. Verse 17. And take the helmet of salvation. Salvation, arguably the most important piece of armor. You know why? I think it's very interesting that Paul used the helmet for salvation. One blow to your head can take you out. It doesn't take a long struggle or a long battle or a long fight. One blow to your head can take you out. A helmet is very important Very important. You know, NFL players, hey, they've got the great and latest gear, and they still have concussions all the time because of a blow to the head With the best helmets that they can possibly engineer. Hey, these guys make millions of dollars. How much money do you think is put into the research of their helmets If the NFL is putting in place concussion protocol and all this stuff to help these guys, don't you think that they're putting as much money as they possibly can into the development of the best helmet that they can possibly put on their heads? They are. It's very important. The helmet of salvation, the most important piece of armor. One blow to your head can prove fatal It's interesting to note here that if we do not put this on, if we don't take it or receive it We're already destined for failure. We're already taken out. Salvation is so important It's so important. You can't have any of the rest of the rest of the armor really doesn't matter without salvation. Without that helmet. The thought here is to protect our minds also with the good hope of salvation and expect victory. You know, our minds can wander, and the devil can put little thoughts in our minds. And he can put things in front of us that will cause our minds to wander off of what we're focused on Hey, we need that helmet of salvation. We need to protect this thing. Hey, some of us is not worth very much, but we need to protect what little bit we got, amen. We need to protect what little bit we got. The next thing I see here is the Word of God. Look at verse number 17, the tail end here. It says that take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. The sword of the Spirit, this is the only weapon that we have. All of this armor is given here. It is the only weapon that we have. And it, like the helmet of salvation, is totally of God. It is the power of God as of Himself. Turn to Hebrews chapter number 4. Hebrews chapter number four. I'm going to look at verse number twelve. I'm going to chapter twelve and verse four. I should listen to myself. Should I not? Hebrews chapter number four, verse number twelve. For the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, peace piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and of the joints of my and morrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. And God gives us that weapon to wield. Think about that. That's a pretty powerful weapon, isn't it? If it can determine the thoughts and intents of the heart, if it can pierce into the joints and morrow, all the way through to the bone. How many have you ever s uh heard of Forged in Fire, a little show on the History Channel? Watch it all the time. They take these guys in there with they make these they make s knives and Then these guys grade them and they put them through some of the craziest tests that you've ever seen in your life. And one of them, and I love this, they'll take some beautiful, masterfully crafted piece of uh uh of metal that somebody's formed into a a wonderful looking weapon and they'll just start smashing it repeatedly onto a a a beef bone or an ox bone or something bizarre like that. And and they'll say all the time, it's not about what your weapon does to the bone. It's about what the bone does to your weapon. Hey, when they're repeatedly smashing that, they're testing the durability of that weapon. They're testing to see if that edge will hold up to that repeated abuse. Hey, we've got a weapon that'll hold up. We got a weapon that'll take it out. We got a weapon that will work. You know, I've going back to that tank game because it applies so much here. You know, there's some tanks you go out there with and they're so unar underarmed. Their weapon is so insufficient that you shoot at people and you don't do anything. And you're like, really? A Sherman tank in World War II was like that when it went up against some of the German tanks. They could shoot repetitively and the bullets would bounce off of the German tanks and one shot from a German tank would take a Sherman and just blow it to pieces. So what was the United States answer? Put more Shermans out there. Hey guys realize pretty quick. Hey we better get around them and we better get around them fast because the only place we can hit them is behind. They learned real quick. Learned real quick. We don't have a weapon like that. We have a weapon that will work. We have a weapon that is effective We have a weapon that will discern the very thoughts and intents of the hearts of those that we present it to. Hey. We've got the best weapon out there that we can possibly have. The God of the universe has created our armor. Are you spending time each day practicing, drilling with your sword. Where's Brother Dave? Is Brother Dave Heath there tonight? He's probably downstairs, isn't he? He's out of town. I wanted a Marine in here tonight. We have another Marine in here tonight? Anywhere? There you go. Can you still recite for me the rifleman's creed? Can you? Don't think so. Okay, that's alright. That's alright. I gotta find it here. I've got I've got it written down here. And then what did I do with it? There's a there's a little thing the Marines put out. It's called the rifleman's creed, and I had it marking a page of scripture and I don't know what I did with it. Don't you hate it when you lose a page of your notes? Here it is, here it is, here it is. We're good. Nope, that's not there it is. Okay. The Rifleman's Creed. I don't know exactly what it is, I was counting on Brother Dave because I knew he would know it. Um but the Rifleman's Creed starts out kind of this as my rifle and And it's basically a little indoctrination that the Marine Corps gives its foot soldiers about how important their weapon is. So I kind of took that this afternoon or this morning as I was sitting down, I was going over my notes. I thought about that rifleman's creed. And I thought about our weapon. Thought about the Bible. And I thought, this is my rewritten version. This is my Bible. There are many like it. But this one is mine. My Bible tells me of my best friend. It has shown me eternal life. I must ever strive to master my Bible. Without my Bible, I am useless. I will hide its words in my heart that I might not sin against God. I kind of took and rewrote that little creed. Hey, it's a good creed Creed to have. It's a good creed to have. Hey, this isn't just a book. This book is alive. I always questioned that. I always heard that. And I always thought, what do they mean by it's alive? And I told you about my friend and I send in our little text message devotions. He's in the Old Testament. I'm in the book of James. This morning our devotions were exactly the same. That's a book that's alive. That's a book that's alive. You know what my response back was to him when I got his? We better pay attention because God said that twice today. Better pay attention. Hey, this book is alive, my friend. It is all powerful. It is ever-changing. It is ever ready to defend. It is ever ready to attack. It is the perfect weapon. But we must know our weapon. If you don't know how to use it, it's useless When I was in the Navy, I'll close with this, just a little illustration about how important your weapon is. When I was in the Navy, my last tour duty was with a reserve unit in St. Louis, Missouri We were basically a non-combat unit. We were a harbor surveillance unit. We had sonar buoys that we could deploy. The unit was actually designed to be brought in on a beach and control and set up landing zones so that the supply lines could be established on a beachhead. That's what they were actually designed for But there were several times during Vietnam that they used these units, and they used to be full-time, they would use them to monitor or defend against another attack coming in. You would have the sonar buoys, you could hear vessels coming in. And when Korea heated up about, I don't know, my this has been twenty some years ago I guess that it heated up again. They actually had our unit on standby. And they were sending us right below the DMZ on some big river, and the whole point of us being there was just so that we could pick up our radio and say, here they come. They were giving us 200 Marines and us, and they were putting us way out yonder, and that was really all we I mean when we deduced what we were there for, we realized all we were was a speed bump to say here they come Because there was no way that if the the North Koreans came down that river in airboats, which is what they were talking about. That's what we were being informed to look for. If they came down that river on airboats, they were going to run over us so fast that all we could possibly hope to do is say, here they come. That's about all that we could possibly do. So we started getting ready. Our unit was on twenty four hour standby. They called in all the reservists and man they were there and we were going through all this extra curricular training and And they decided that, hey, we needed to refamiliarize ourselves with our weapons. Well, we had the old M sixteen A1s and we had some twelve gauge shotguns. So I don't know about you, but uh uh a rifle is kind of a specific weapon. I mean you got one bullet, you got one opportunity to hit your target. So if I have somebody that's inexperienced, I'm kind of thinking shotgun, because hey, puts out a nice big wide pattern. They're pretty much guaranteed to hit something. Well, our officers thought the same thing. So they took all of our cooks and all of our inexperienced people, and they were going to train them specifically with shotguns, and they were going to let the people that were a little more experienced take the rifles. So we got all our MSs out there and they started to qualify with the shotgun. Well all you had to do with a shotgun was fire the gun and hit the target. That was it. I mean it's ten feet away from you. I mean you can take it from your hip, shoot the gun, it's gonna hit the target. So some of the big guys that were cooks, they were going up there and they decided that they were just going to be hot shots. They'd done this before, they'd been around a while, so they just walked up with a shotgun, you know, on their hip and boom, you know, fired a gun, racked a chill in the chamber, handed it to the next guy. They were going down through the line. Well we had a we had a little cook. She was about kind of funny about our little joke from the other night. We little she was about the size of Jackie Hindball, maybe a little smaller. And she decided she was scared of that 12-gauge shotgun. And she'd seen all these big burly guys go up there and fire this thing from the hip, so she decided that it wouldn't bruise her shoulder if she went up and fired it from the hip. So she walked up there and she took that shotgun and she'd never fired a shotgun before in her life and she walked up there ten feet from that target and she held that thing down at her side and she pulled the trigger and when she did back there it went. She didn't have a very good hold on it Well she did hit the target, but boy you should have seen that marine drill instructor whenever that shotgun went behind her. I'd never seen anything like it in my life. I hope I never ever do again. It kind of made that look Bill Barrens used to give, you know, when he made his eyes bug out, it kind of made that look like the candyman on Sunday morning. I mean it was it was ugly. It was real ugly. And you know, I got to thinking about that as I was thinking about this message this morning, and I was thinking, you know, what happened to her? She would have been very ineffective in combat. Because she might have hit her first target, but then she would have been an unarmed target. And it wouldn't have taken long before she'd have been taken Because she wouldn't have had a clue where that shotgun went. Because she didn't have a clue where it went the day she pulled the trigger and it took off behind her. She had absolutely no clue. She did not know her weapon. She was very ineffective with it And she would have been very quickly killed and taken out. Christian, do you know your weapon tonight? Do you know how to use it? If you find yourself in a position tomorrow where somebody walks up to you and says, Can you show me from the Bible how I can know for sure I'm going to heaven? Can you do it? Could you do it? Could you open up to the book of Romans and take them down the Romans road? Could you do that? Show somebody from the Bible how they know for sure they can go to hell heaven when they die? Hey, if you can't do that, you need to start drilling with your weapon. You need to start to learn your weapon so that you can be effective. And above all things, we need to start putting the armor on and paying attention to what's going on. The Bible clearly tells us that our days are waxing worse and worse and it doesn't take a fool to look around and see what's happening. We better be ready. We better be ready. Training time is almost up. Battle time is upon us. Tomorrow we may be challenged for our weapons. Weapon. We better know how to use it. Pastor