Where Brother Mark read from. And then when you find that, keep it there. That's where we're going to start out. But I also want to read from our text uh for our text reading from uh 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. So find 1 Corinthians 15. We're going to read a portion there again. And then we're going to go to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. And I want to read a portion there. Several years ago there was a convenience store in Colorado Springs. And a fellow comes in with a shotgun. He's robbing the convenience store. True story. Um and he held the shotgun up, told the cashier to put all the cash uh into this bag he had, and she threw it and she filled it up, and as he was fixing to leave, he saw behind the cashier a bottle of whiskey on the shelf behind her. And he said, I want you to throw that bottle of whiskey in the bag also. She says, young she said, young man, you don't look like you're twenty-one years old. I'm gonna I can't give that to you if you're under twenty-one years old. There needs to be some ID. Believe it or not, the guy holding the shotgun robbing the place pulls out his license, shows her his license that he is actually old enough to have whiskey She writes down his name and address, gives him the whiskey bottle, he leaves, she calls 911, they pick him up. It's not the brightest crowd robbing convenience stores. But I told I said that to say this. There's some pretty dumb robbers out there. And uh but if we're not careful, there's some dumb ideas about the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. And you'll hear people, and you'll see on TV and everything, some statements made that are as unscriptural and are just downright dumb. And so we want to understand what the Bible teaches about Jesus Christ coming back again. And if you would, notice in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, and I would like for us to read together verse number 52, read together in unison. 1 Corinthians 15 and verse number 52. Everybody chance to find it there if you would. Read it with me. Here we go. Ready? In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump. For the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. Now if you would come over to first Thessalonians, chapter number four. And I want to begin reading in verse number 16, 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. I'm going to read verse 16 down through the end of the chapter. I'd like you to follow along. Now keep your place because we're going to end up back here at 1 Thessalonians a little later in the message. 1 Thessalonians 4, verse 16, the Bible says this: For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout. And with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then We which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words I want to speak this morning on the coming rapture. The coming rapture. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. I thank you for the song service, the singing, the c the acquire, the congregational, the young people. It's all been a great blessing. The fellowship has been a great blessing. But now, Lord, as we have our open Bibles before us and we look into what your word teaches about your return. I pray, God, this is my prayer, Lord, that the truth of the coming rapture would grip our hearts, and that that truth would have a profound impact on how we live our lives. I pray, my desire, Lord, is that as a result of this message, these few moments, that there would be souls saved. I pray, Lord, that people would come to know Christ as Savior, either directly from the message or because of the impact of the message on our lives. As we go out and share the gospel, have a testimony of your grace. Lord, I cannot accomplish that in and of myself. So, Father in heaven, I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew this hour, and I ask you with all my heart. That you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you speak through me these truths to each of our hearts and lives. And help us, Lord, to be humble, to be willing. To make whatever adjustments your Spirit deals with us about. Help us to believe and trust you and obey you in every area. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. All through the Bible there is, and no doubt many of us, maybe all of us, have heard the statement that through the Bible there runs a scarlet thread. How many people ever heard that phrase? A scarlet thread runs through the Bible. And of course That is reference to the fact that the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ that cleanses away our sin is taught all through the Bible. We see in the Old Testament sacrifices, we see a picture, a type of the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Of course, in the Gospels, the Lord Jesus Christ is offered up and his blood is shed and given. uh for the uh forgiveness of our sins and then through the rest of the New Testament, the blood of Christ, the blood of Christ, the blood of Christ. So there is a scarlet thread that runs from Genesis all through the Bible to Revelation teaching on the blood of Jesus Christ that cleanses us from all sin. I want to suggest to you there's another thread that runs through the Bible, not just the scarlet thread, but I'm going to call it the golden thread. And that golden thread is the truth that Jesus Christ is coming back again. All through the Bible we see taught the fact that Jesus Christ is coming again. I believe one of the greatest truths and one of the most greatest precious promises in all the Bible is the fact that Jesus is coming again. It is impossible to believe the Bible. Now hear this. It is impossible to genuinely believe the Bible and not believe that Jesus is coming back again. It is so thoroughly, the Bible is so thoroughly saturated with truths and prophecies and promises and references of the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ That you cannot believe the Bible and not believe in that. Now there may be some folks have little different variations and understandings of the details But if I'm going to believe the Bible, I've got to know, I've got to believe Jesus coming back again someday. And the return, the teaching, the preaching of the return of the Lord Jesus Christ is not some off-the-wall doctrine It's not some extremist Christian group that believes that Jesus is coming back again. It is a very fundamental doctrine of the Bible And it's very important for you and I, as believers, those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, it's very important for us to understand Jesus is coming back again and what the the impact that that truth should have upon our lives. I had the privilege for uh about uh three, four years, three years I guess, to uh sit under Dr. Lee Robertson down at Highland Park Baptist Church. And one of the two great themes that they emphasized in the ministries and from the pulpit of that great church down there, one was world missions. And the other was, Jesus is coming again. Jesus is coming again. Jesus is coming again. And that is such a vitally important truth. And as I said, we have this golden thread that runs from Genesis all through the Bible to Revelation teaching that fact. If you would Now we touched on this a little bit last week. We kind of introduced it, but if you would, come with me back to Genesis chapter number three, all the way back to the beginning of the Bible. Very first book of the Bible, the third chapter of the first book of the Bible. And here we have Adam and Eve have sinned, they've disobeyed God. God is confronting them, and Eve and Adam, and in our passage, verse number 14, God is confronting the serpent, Satan. And he's making some very important statements to Satan. Look with me in Genesis chapter 3 and verse number 14. And the Lord God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle and above every se every beast of the field. Upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life. How many people here like me, you hate snakes? How many people like snakes? You are sick and demented person We'll just leave it at that, alright? So God's pronouncing a curse upon the serpent here. And look at verse 15. Now he makes a profoundly significant statement. He says, and I will put enmity between thee and the woman. Look at this And between thy seed, the serpent's seed, and what's that next two words? Her seed. Now wait a minute. I think w I think all of us here understand there is no seed in woman What is the seed of woman that's being referred to here? This is the very first reference to the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. So when he says between thy seed and her seed, he is referencing the Lord Jesus Christ. Now look what he says Between thy seed and her seed, it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Now, the it there, what is the it? It's the seed of woman It's this virgin-born son of God shall bruise thy, the serpent's head. And thou shalt bruise his heel. The word bruise there has this idea, a crushing blow. The word picture I get in studying the definition of this word is if you suppose you see a snake, some type of venomous uh snake, and um uh and you take your foot and you crush its head. You it the bruise there has the idea of a crushing blow. It's not something it's not what we would think today where you bump uh uh how many uh if you're uh folks if you take blood thinner here, some of y'all, the cardiac club, uh y'all take blood thinner or something, and you bump yourself and it bruises very easily. That's not what it's talking about. This is a crushing blow Crushing blow. And so he says, the woman see, this virgin-born promised son of God. Shall bruise the head of the serpent of Satan. It means to crush. It means to incapacitate, to destroy. That is, I believe, the first reference in the Bible to the second coming of Jesus Christ, when Satan will be dealt with. Then he says here, and thou, the serpent, shall bruise his heel. I believe that's a reference to the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ. Where Satan bruises his heal. He doesn't destroy Christ. He doesn't incapacitate him. He hurts him deeply through the judgment of God upon Jesus for sin. He doesn't destroy them. However, the Lord Jesus Christ does crush, bruise the head of the serpent. Now, if you would turn with me to Romans chapter number 9. I'm sorry, Romans chapter 16. And here again we have a reference to the bruising of the serpent. Romans chapter 16 and verse number 20. I don't know if I think it's a bit more Uh Romans chapter sixteen and verse twenty. And the God of peace shall future tense it's going to happen. Hadn't happened up to this point. Jesus has already been crucified. Jesus already paid for sin. Jesus already shed his blood, been buried, resurrected, ascended to heaven. The God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. Again, I believe this is a reference to the return of Jesus Christ, where Satan will be dealt with. So we have from Genesis all through Scripture, we have references This golden thread referencing the fact that Jesus is coming back again. Jesus is coming back again. Listen, if there's one thing you and I can count on, and that is this, Jesus coming back again I read one preacher said, he said the second coming of Jesus Christ is even more sure than death. Because as a believer, there's a very real possibility That you and I will uh not face death, that we will be raptured and avoid death. And so um And so the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ is a sure event. Take your Bible with me if you would and turn to Revelation chapter 22. Revelation 22, last book of the Bible, last chapter of the last book of the Bible. And notice with me verse number 20. Now notice the wording here very carefully. Verse 18 and 19 are the Lord Jesus Christ speaking. Verse 20: He which testifieth these things saith. The Lord Jesus says this: Surely I what? I come quickly. I come quickly. Last promise in the Bible is a promise that Jesus Christ is coming back again. Surely I come quickly. Then look at the next rest of the verse. Surely I come quickly. Amen. Then John, under the inspiration of God, makes this statement. Even so come Lord Jesus. The very last prayer of the Bible is a prayer for the return of Jesus Christ. The last promise in the Bible is a promise that Jesus Christ is coming again. We got some kind of squeal going on here. Say that? That's what I have to deal with all the time when he's here. Everything all right? Okay, good. I'm glad Hey, hey, watch this. Watch this. Just like he got a weather warning, God has given us a warning Jesus coming back again. How is that? And the fact of the matter is, and we mentioned this last week, the fact of the matter is, God, we have warnings all around us, don't we? We're constantly getting warnings. This is going to happen. This is going to happen. I'm here to tell you, every time there's an earthquake out there, that is God's warning to us. Hey, I'm coming back again. Every time there's a mass violence, every time there's some sort of epidemic or some sort of strange thing, oh the eclipse, that means Jesus is coming back in. Doesn't mean he's coming right now, but it is a warning, hey I'm coming again. And so, thanks, Doc. You helped my message a little bit there. So, all through the Bible you have this golden thread, Jesus coming back again. By the way. The promise that Jesus is coming back again is more sure than the warnings about the weather. Huh? Anybody here ever say, oh, there's going to be a terrible storm? You cancel all your plans. Sun's out. Beautiful day. But I know what I'm talking about. That gives that ain't gonna happen. That ain't gonna happen about the Lord Jesus Christ. God says he's coming back. Mark it down, he's coming back. I M. Haltemann was a great preacher in New York City back in the late 1800s, early 1900s. First Baptist Church of New York City. The church is still in existence He made this statement. He said, you cannot read your Bible intelligently without an understanding of the glorious truth of the return of Jesus Christ. And I agree with that a hundred percent. Listen, if this Bible's true, and it is, Jesus Christ coming back again Mark it down. Mark it down. He's coming again. He's coming again. I read a missionary in Mexico, and I don't know his name. I don't even know if he's still living. But he made a tremendous statement. He said this, this old world, listen to this carefully, this old world is rapidly parading a dance death down Prophecy Boulevard. And what is he saying? This world is dancing, it's partying, it's living up, the world's having a good old time, and we're heading right down the road of prophecy boulevard that ends with the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. This golden thread that runs through Scripture. There is no future event that is more sure of happening. than the return of Jesus Christ. Listen, if you walk out of here in a little bit with nothing else and getting nothing else out of the message, I hope you'll get this. And I'm trying to drill this in and drill this in and drill this in. When we walk out those doors, it must be absolutely clear in our minds, Jesus Christ is coming back again. That is a settled fact. And that truth must never, I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but that truth must never be far from the forefront of our mind. Every day, every day, keeping that in mind. Jesus coming back again. Jesus coming back again. Now, we do not know the time of the Lord's coming. These guys setting dates. And now it's Nan. Would somebody please take their phones away from them? I we'll just wait till y'all are done. All right, you good? Yes, please, ushers, please. Um, here's what here's what I'm trying to say is this. We do not know the time of the Lord's return. If you hear on the news or you read somewhere, you get some email or somebody puts on Facebook and it's and they set a date or a time or even suggest a general time when Jesus come again You mark it down, that is not true. That is not true. No man knoweth the day nor the hour. We do not know when Jesus cometh back again We do not know the time. And by the way, just because it's on Facebook doesn't mean it's true. You understand that, right? We don't know the time of the Lord's return, but we do know the schedule. Of the Lord's return. We know how God has it scheduled out. And we touched on this before, and if you've been around here or you've been in a Bible preaching church, you understand the prophetic timeline. How many people are familiar with that term? Prophetic timeline. And uh almost printed this out and stuck it in the bulletin, but I did not. But there is Very simple prophetic charts you can see sometimes. Now be careful. If you go online and you look up prophetic charts, you're going to get all kinds of nonsense So be very, very careful. But this is basically very simply what happens, and we went through this last week, but I want to reiterate it. We are now in what we refer to as the church age. Before the Gospels, there was no church. God dealt with Israel. Jesus Christ shows up. God set Israel aside. Now he deals with the local church. And that's the time frame we are in. The crucifixion of Christ, the burial, the resurrection. He ascended to heaven. Now, for 2,000 years, we've been in the church age or the dispensation of the church The next event that God has promised is going to happen, the next event in this prophetic timeline, is the rapture of the church. It's where we're caught up. I'm going to talk about that. It's what we're talking about. But the rapture takes place. That rapture introduces the seven-year tribulation period. The most horrific time in the history of this planet, the judgment of God poured out upon this old world And you read what the Bible says during that tribulation period, it is absolutely horrific. There is nothing That you and I have ever experienced that comes close to what's going to take place during that period of time. That goes for seven years At the end of that seven years, and there's various events that take place during that, but at the end of that seven years, Jesus Christ comes back to earth. That's called the Second Advent. Where he returns visibly in the clouds, in the sky, people see him, he comes down. The Battle of Armageddon is taking place, and I don't want to go into great detail because I want to focus on the rapture That of Armageddon's going on. Christ shows up. He deals with the armies of the earth. He squashes down the armies of the earth. He judges the nations. And he sets up the 1,000-year millennial reign. That is where Jesus Christ rules literally from Jerusalem. He rules the world. There'll be nations, but they're all subservient to the Lord Jesus Christ. The end of that period, there's a brief insurrection that Satan rises up one more time. Christ squelshes that insurrection immediately. And uh he then begin then is the great white throne judgment, where death and hell give up the dead, the sea gives up the dead, and every single person that died unsaved Every single person in all history that died in their sins will stand before the great white throne judgment of God. It'll be Jesus Christ on that throne. And the sentence will be declared, and the Bible very clearly teaches in Revelation, they'll be cast in the lake of fire where they'll spend the rest of eternity. At that point, this present earth and heaven are burned up, the elements melt, and then God establishes a new heaven and new earth where he reigns eternally. And what goes on out beyond that, God is not revealed to us. So that is very briefly the schedule or the prophetic timeline. Now, we do not know when That rapture is going to take place. Or the church, every believer is caught up out of here. We don't know when that's going to take place. But we do know the schedule of it. You follow what I'm trying to say? We do know how it lays out. And so, one thing we're absolutely certain of is that Jesus Christ is coming back again. Now, I want us, in the little bit of time we have left, I want us to consider the rapture. The rapture of the church, the rapture of the believers. Boom. Caught up. The word rapture itself is not found in the Bible And skeptics sometimes will come and say, well, the word's not even in the Bible. And you know what? They're right. The word itself is not in the Bible. Did you know that the word Trinity is not found in the Bible? The word substitution Is not found in the Bible. Question, does the Bible teach the substitutionary death of the Lord Jesus? Absolutely. Though the word itself may not be there. The truth is there, the concept is there, the fact is there. The word Trinity is not in the Bible. Does the Bible teach that our God is a Trinity? Yes, absolutely. So we use that term to identify a teaching in Scripture. So if you're talking to someone and and uh uh and uh they say well the word rapture is not even a Bible say that's absolutely true The word rapture isn't in the Bible. But the truth is there. The word rapture itself means to be caught up, snatched up. Um uh it's uh uh uh uh and and here's the thing, the word rapture means the to to somebody's going by you to spoon catch them up. Um but it has a it has a delightful flair to it. Rapture It has a concept of joy, a concept of anticipation to it. For the believer, the rapture of the church is a good thing. It's a good thing. The word itself, sometimes you know, and uh back in the day they uh they would have slaves and stuff and somebody'd be free and they'd go grab them and catch them and and uh snatch them up and take them off the slavery. That's a negative, that's a bad thing. But the concept for you and I as a believer, the thought that we would be raptured, caught up off this earth, is not something terrible, but the Bible says it is something wonderful, something that we comfort ourselves in. The fact that we will be caught up out of this old earth and we escape the tribulation. So the word rapture itself, though it's not used in the Bible, nevertheless that truth is there. In Hebrews chapter 11, verse 5, the Bible says that Enoch was translated by faith that he should not see death. And we understand, and there's been a few folks through the Bible that have been raptured. Enoch being one of them. We don't give in a lot of details, but apparently he was caught up. He never died. Taken immediately to heaven in the presence of God. So, uh, Enoch uh was raptured, and and uh so it means to be caught up, to be captured up. Um what God did for Enoch In rapturing him, translating him, what God did for Enoch, there's going to be an entire generation of Christians. Are going to be caught up out of this old world. Caught up out of this old world. The rapture of the church. Come with me back to 1 Thessalonians and chapter number 4. And notice again verse number sixteen We just read this a few minutes ago. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God. And the dead in Christ shall rise first. Those that have already died, their bodies are in the grave, their bodies are going to be resurrected. Boom! Instantly. Zing! Glorified. The dead in Christ shall rise first. And look at this. Then we which are alive and remain shall be what? Caught up. I circled that word caught up in my Bible. I wrote rapture. That's what it means. Snatched up. We which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord. So at the rapture, the Lord doesn't come all the way back to earth. He's in the clouds. The world does not see him. We're caught up. We're raptured instantly. Boom! Caught up and we meet the Lord in the air, so shall we ever be with the Lord. Alright? So everybody understand how many people say, preacher, I understand that concept. I understand this taking place. And for most of us, we've heard that before. So let me give you a few thoughts about the rapture. Number one, the rapture is imminent. The rapture is imminent. The word imminent means this. Can happen at any moment. Can happen at any moment. Can happen at any moment. Well, preacher, all this stuff has to happen before the rapture takes place. There ain't, excuse the English, there ain't nothing. It's got to happen before the rapture takes place. It is imminent. It could happen at any moment. It could happen before 12 o'clock today. We could be sitting here. Very real possibility. We could be sitting here in this sermon, I'd be preaching, and unheard to the world, the trump of God, the archangel shouts And I mean in the twinkling of an eye so fast you couldn't even grip comprehend it. Boom! So bodies are transformed, glorified bodies, and we're instantly with the Lord in the air. And just a power close. Just a power clothes. By some dentures. Hearing aids. The rapture is eminent. There's not the word eminent has this idea, uh, and and this is an interesting Picture in your mind. The word eminent has this idea to hang over someone's head. It's hanging over, it could happen at any moment. It's hanging over there. It's hanging over their heads. At any moment, at any moment. Ready to happen at any moment. There's a lot of events that may happen before the rapture. But no event must happen before the rapture. Follow what I'm saying? A lot of stuff can happen before. And like I said last week, every earthquake Every pestilence, everything that happens in this world, uh uh nations, wars and rumors of wars, all that, that doesn't happen before the that doesn't have to happen before the rapture. They may happen before But when they do, it's simply a warning to you and I, hey, Jesus is coming back again. That rapture will take place. And so it is imminent. It can happen at any moment Did you notice there in verse number 17? Notice the wording. Then, what's the second word there? Then we which are alive and remain. Paul was writing this under the inspiration of God. He obviously is alive at this point. You know what that tells me? Paul anticipated the rapture to take place in his lifetime. He fully expected, then we, which are alive and remain, shall be caught up together with them in the clouds in the air. So shall we ever be with the Lord. So you and I need to understand that that rapture could happen at any moment. There is no other things. Some folks teach, and I don't really don't want to get into this right now, but some folks teach that we go part way through the tribulation period, then the rapture. Others teach that the rapture isn't until the end of the tribulation period. I'm telling you, they are flat out wrong. There's nothing has to happen. There's no event, no prophecy that needs to be fulfilled. Everything is in place. Say, oh preacher. Uh uh we I I need to find out who the Antichrist is so we know when the rapture is gonna happen. Listen, nobody's gonna know who the Antichrist is till after the rapture And so the rapture is eminent, could happen at any moment. That brings us to a few conclusions. Number one, we cannot plan on a certain amount of time before the rapture takes place. In other words, I say, well, you know, in ten years from now the rapture is going to take place. I can't say that. In five years. Well, we've got 15 years. We cannot plan on any certain amount of time. If I don't know when it's going to happen, if it could happen at any moment What does that mean about my spiritual condition? I need to be prepared at any moment. And I haven't had a lot of people say this to me, but I have on occasion over the years have somebody say, Preacher, you know, when I get older, I'm going to start taking that church stuff seriously. Patrick, when I listen, you don't not one of us know how much older we're going to get. Host not thyself of tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. And so we cannot plan on a certain amount of time. Now, should we make plans for the future? I think yes, we should, because we don't know when it's going to happen. Should I put money up for retirement? I think you should. It'd be foolish not to Because I don't know when it's going to take place. But in my heart and mind, in my walk with God, in my witness, I need to be prepared every moment that rapture could take place. Number two, I put this down. I cannot set a date for the rapture. And we already touched on that, but nobody knows the day nor the hour, so do not set a date. Number three, we cannot live now get this. Sometimes we're guilty of this. We cannot legitimately say the rapture will happen soon How many people say, preacher, I'm looking out at the world out there. It has to be soon. How many people feel that way? Sure, good night. I look at it. It has to be soon. But I cannot say dogmatically, yep, that rapture is going to happen soon I can't say that. It might be a hundred years. It might be 500 years. Now I can't fathom that. Paul didn't think that would be the case. But because we do not know when it's going to happen, we cannot legitimately say it's going to be soon. We sing that maybe morning, maybe noon. Maybe evening, it may be soon. That's accurate. Uh sometimes uh I've heard pre- I've heard folks sing, and I may have been guilty this year's gone by. Maybe morning, maybe noon. I know you like my singing. Maybe morning, maybe noon, maybe evening. It will be soon. Can't honestly say that. I cannot legitimately say that because I don't know that it will be soon I like to sing it this way, maybe morning, maybe noon, maybe evening. It must be soon. That's the way I look at it. It has to be, but I can't say dogmatically it is. And so the rapture of the church, that moment we're caught up in an instant, boom, we're transformed in the presence of Christ, it is imminent. There are no signs. Catastrophic events in the world are warnings, reminding us that rapture could happen at any moment. North Korea, oh, they're sending a bomb, it's gonna blow. Uh that that proves that it's uh the rapture's gonna happen soon. No, it doesn't. It's a warning that it could happen soon. Wars and rumors of wars. And so the coming of Christ is eminent. Every Christian should continuously anticipate the rapture at any moment. You and I ought to walk out of these doors if the rapture didn't take place. We ought to walk out of these doors, hanging over our heads, the understanding. That that rapture could happen at any moment. Any moment. Get up in the morning, hanging, not in a cloud way, not in a dreadful way, but in a positive, that's over my head. The rapture could happen today. The rapture could happen today. We took a little trip down to Washington DC the last few days, several of us in the church, and uh had a wonderful time. And James and Diane were worried sick about getting their paper done for Pastor Brett's uh institute class. And uh I just thought of this. Maybe the rapture will happen and you won't have to do that paper. So it'll be hanging over the heads. So number one, the rapture is imminent. Number two, let me give you this one. The rapture is inspiring. The rapture is inspiring. Oh, I had a person say to me this a number of years ago. They say to me, preacher, I'm scared to death going up through outer space. Listen, it's going to be fine. It's going to be fine. In fact, the rapture is a very positive thing. It's very inspiring. Come with me if you would. Are you still here in First Thessalonians? Come to chapter one. 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. I want you to notice verse number 10. Last verse in the first chapter of 1 Thessalonians. Well, let's look at verse 9. For they themselves show us what manner of entering in we had unto you, how ye turn to God from idols to serve the living and true God. He's referencing their repentance and their turn to Christ. Verse 10, and to wait for his son from heaven. It happened any moment. They're anticipating, they're waiting Whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus. Now look at this last statement, very important, which delivered us from the what? Wrath to come. You could write in the margin of your Bible the tribulation period. Tribulation period. And what Paul is telling the church there at Thessalonians, and he Later on in the book in the letter, he addresses this more thoroughly. But he's saying this, listen, Jesus Christ, when you accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, the wrath of God for your sin and my sin Is no longer hanging over us. The wrath of God for sin is no longer, I am no longer under God's wrath for my sin. All God's judgment, all God's wrath, all God's holiness that demanded the wages of sin, which is death, was taken off of me and placed on the Lord Jesus Christ. And he suffered the full judgment of my sin the moment I trusted Christ. Are you listening? The moment I trusted Christ. All of my sin, the judgment of it, was placed in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, as a believer, I'm no longer under the wrath of God. However, that tribulation period is the wrath of God being poured out on this world. And God tells us that as a believer, He has saved me from that wrath to come And the rapture of the church is simply God's assurance to the believer that our sin has been paid in full. You follow my thinking? I no longer fear the wrath of God. I am not going to face the tribulation period because as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, God's wrath has already been poured on Jesus. That wrath has been paid. So the rapture is pulling me up out of this earth, taking me out of this earth. Before God's wrath can be poured out upon this earth. Sin's debt has been paid in full. Some of the happiest songs in the hymn book are about the return of Jesus Christ. Some golden daybreak, Jesus will come. Some golden daybreak, battles all won. He'll shout the victory, break through the blue, some golden daybreak for me and for you. What is he saying? He's saying that's a glorious truth, that when we get raptured up out of here, it's evidence, it's God's assurance that we will not ever face the wrath and judgment of God. He is saving us, he is removing us from the wrath to come. So I don't know about you, the very fact that God has promised Alright, you got it. The fact that the rapture is going to take place is assurance that my sins are forgiven. Let me say this. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, you don't know for sure that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. The Bible's very, very clear. You are already now under the wrath of God. If that rapture takes place, you're left behind. Wrath of God is poured out on this world And it is a terrible, terrible thing. And that leads me to my last thought, number three. The rapture is the inception. Now explain what I mean. The inception. The word inception means the beginning. to initiate something. And the rapture is very literally the beginning of the end. The rapture is the first event in God's final activity, God's final movements at the end of this old age, this old world. The beginning of God's judgment on the world. The seven-year tribulation period is horrific. And that would have to be another study. But I'm telling you, this whole world has never seen anything like the death, the destruction, the horror. Of the tribulation period. How many people would say this whole world's pretty bad? Sinful, wicked, date, violent. Anybody agree with me? Can you imagine with me what this world is going to be like when everything good is removed? Every Christian Presence and influence is taken off this earth. Every genuine church is removed and taken off this earth and all their influence. And even the Holy Spirit himself Can you imagine society unchecked by the presence of any Christian, by the presence of any church, by the presence of Of the Holy Spirit Himself, what society will be like when all that is removed. You say, I don't want God in my life. All right, stick around for the tribulation period. You'll find out what it's like without God. The fact of the matter is, even the atheists in the world today are enjoying the spillover blessings from believers and churches and the presence of the Holy Spirit. And when all of that is removed, all of that is removed, it is going to be horrific beyond imagination. And the rapture of the church is the inception of all these end-time events and all that transpire. If you would, turn over to 2 Thessalonians with me. And chapter number two. My family, uh, my wife and I were up in Pennsylvania visiting, this has been many, many years ago, and Kathy got witnessing to a lady. And a lady had just read a series of books on the end time by a fella LaHaye. What were those books, Brother Don? Well. And she had just read those books. Now, maybe there's some help in them. I read a few of them many, many years ago. But I know this. Those books teach. That if a person has an opportunity to be saved, and they reject that opportunity, and the rapture takes place, they can still get saved. Now this lady, Kathy, was witnessing to her, and she was telling her about Christ, you need to be saved, and she made this statement. She goes, I just read that left behind book. And she said this, listen carefully. She said, when I see that rapture thing happen, I'm going to get saved. When I see that rapture thing happen, I'm going to get saved. Kathy said, let me show you in the Bible. If you know how to be saved, you have opportunity to be saved, and you reject it now, that rapture takes place, you will have no other opportunity. You're lost for eternity. Second Thessalonians chapter two, look at verse number seven. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work, only he who now leteth, the word leteth there means hinders, holds back, will let until he be taken out of the way. I believe that's a reference to the Holy Spirit being removed. And then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish. I believe verse eight down through the first part of verse ten is referencing the Antichrist during the tribulation period. When Christ comes back in the second advent, he's going to deal with the Antichrist with Satan. Now look very carefully at verse number 10, the middle part. Because they receive not the love of the truth that they might be saved. And for this cause, God shall send them strong delusion that they should believe a lie, that they all might be damned who believed not the truth But had pleasure in unrighteousness. What's he saying? This is what he's saying. Jesus Christ is going to come back at the second advent. He's going to deal with the Antichrist and Satan at that point. And the people who, prior to the rapture, heard the had the truth, the love of the truth, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and they would not receive it that they might be saved. Those people are going to go into the tribulation period. They're going to be blinded. They're going to believe the lie of the Antichrist. And they will have no opportunity to be saved. Listen, do not fool yourself into thinking that when you see the rapture take place, that you will have some opportunity to get things right and get saved at that point. At that point. It will be too late. Today is the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time And the rapture of the church, the God snatching out this planet, those that are saved, initiates Is the inception of God pouring out his wrath on this old simple world and God dealing with this simple world and then setting up, ultimately setting up his own kingdom. That lady in PA said this, when I see that rapture thing, I'm going to get saved. And Kathy could not lead her to Christ. As far as I know, we're talking 15 years ago probably. As far as I know, that dear lady, if she's still alive, is still lost. Listen, if you're here this morning, you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven. You don't have your salvation of your soul settled. Listen to me, the Bible is clear. You need to be saved. You need to be saved. I don't want anybody to walk out of here confused, thinking if you're lost, I want to be very, very clear in your mind. You need to be saved. That's the most pressing issue in your life. That rapture takes place. No other opportunity. Will people be saved during the tribulation? Oh yeah, people that never heard. There are billions of people out there that never heard the gospel. God is very, very gracious, and God will raise up witnesses, and that has a whole nother scenario We were down at DC as I mentioned and I noticed the different buildings we went into, the Capitol building and the archiv the um uh the the congressional library and a bunch of these buildings. I noticed when you go in on the walls, there would be a little map like a floor plan of that building. And it'll say something like this. It would say, you are here. And I always say, you don't have to tell me that. I know where I'm at. It would say you are here, then it would have like a little red line, and it would be an evacuation route or an escape route in the event of an emergency. This is your escape route. We were down in February, we were down south, we were in South Carolina, we were coming up, and I noticed on some of the highways coming up away from the coast, there would be sign-up, evacuation route. In case of hurricane, in case of disaster, this is the way to get out. If you're in a building, there's a fire, this is your evacuation plan. May seventh, nineteen seventy-nine, I found my heavenly evacuation plan. And the way out of this old world is through trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. And when that rapture takes place, we are evacuated. And we escape the judgment of God on this world. So what does that mean? One, it means if I'm not saved, I better get saved. I'm trying to emphasize that Number two, if I am saved, I need to live my life in light of the fact Jesus Christ coming back again. I'm not going to have time to make things right, I'm not going to have time to clean things up. I need to live for God on a daily basis. And that means you and I ought to be very, very aggressive in trying to bring others to Christ. Bring others to Christ. Bring others to Christ. This world is dancing a is is uh going a dance of death down the highway, down Prophecy Boulevard. And it ends in the tribulation period with the judgment of God. And you and I need to know we're saved. And you and I need to know we're living for God. Amen? Father, I ask you bless now our invitation. I pray you'd stir our hearts and help us, Lord, to look to keep our eyes looking up, waiting for that Trumpets sound when we're caught up out of this old sinful world. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, to be honest with you, now our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. This is between you and God But you'd say, preacher, I really appreciate you pray for me. That rapture would happen right now. There's some things in my life that really aren't the way they ought to be. Now it's between you and God But you'd say, preacher, I need to, there needs to be some adjustment. There has to be. There's some things in my life that are just, as a Christian, that are not the way they ought to be. And you'd say, preacher is my pastor, I appreciate you pray with me. And God would help me make those adjustments. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? That rapture took place. There's some things that I have to deal with. I have to be made right. How about it? Any others? Hands all around. How about it? Any others? Spirit of God's dealing with hearts. There's some things that need to be made right. I don't even say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I know I'm saved. But my witness to some friends and families isn't what it ought to be. And I need to be a little more active, proactive, and trying to bring others to Christ before it's too late. Maybe you're thinking of someone particular. An individual, they're heavy on your heart. You'd say, Preacher, pray with me. They need to be saved. I'm burdened for them. I want God to help me, to be the witness I should, and bring them to Christ. Any like that by the uplifted hand, somebody heavy on my heart. They need to come to Christ. God bless you, hands all around. But there'll be someone this morning, say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. I'm not sure that all my sins are completely forgiven. And you say, Preacher, I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to be left behind. I want to know Christ has forgiven all my sin that I go to heaven. Is there anything like that by the uplift of hand? Preacher, pray for me I need that settled in my heart and life. I don't want to chance it. I need that settled. Any at all? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I need to have that settled. Any at all? Any at all? Now, Father, I ask you to bless our invitation time, so important. I pray you'd help us to humble ourselves before you and make those adjustments, respond in faith to what you dealt with our hearts about. In Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together, heads are about, eyes are closed. Jennifer's plan the invitation. And this imp