And uh well well you kind of um decided to go into this kind of ministry? No, I I really didn't decide to do this. Uh the Lord decided it for me. My pastor, and by the way, I I believe in pastoral authority. I believe because the position of the pastor, look, no pastor is perfect. There's only one perfect man that ever walked the face of the earth. His name was Jesus Christ. Amen. He was God in the flesh But because a pastor is where he is, and if you come in and you voluntarily put your life in the hands of a pastor and his under shepherd to the shepherd, which is the Lord Jesus Christ. Because of his position, they have wisdom for us that no one else has. I learned that a long time ago. So when I go to my pastor and he gives me some advice, I I I follow that advice. And my pastor said, you know, you need to pray about a God and country ministry. And I said, all right, if that's what you think I should do, and I prayed about it, and the next morning I came in and I said, you know, um, Pastor, that's exactly what I believe God wants me to do. So my pastor was the one that said, pray about this. I did. And the next morning I surrendered to it. Now I didn't know actually what to do in this God and country ministry. But I started praying and getting on my face before the Lord. And as I said this morning, he gave me that the five-point premise of awake America. And uh the capital connection came later when we uh brother Creed and I met uh as we spoke with uh John John Ashcroft And so, you know, what we need to do is we need to have a healthy attitude towards our country. Let me just uh tell you again uh the four DVDs. This is the one we just saw tonight, and uh I think uh a lot of times people say, Well Brother Harding What can I do? How can I help uh our country educate others? Once you get educated yourself, educate others. Well, I don't have all the different, you know, facts and figures that you do. Well I I said, well then then get get a few of these and even give them away You know, get one from for your family, get one from someone else. I mean, uh th you understand, as I said this morning, thousands of dollars of production cost years of study and they're just ten dollars a piece. And what they're doing is, and look, we can't keep them in stock, my wife will tell you. So it's not that, you know, I'm necessarily trying to sell these. I'm trying to get these, this word out you see to people and educate people. And so those are some very valuable things that we need to understand about our country. And we're coming up with the fifth one. The fifth one actually has been filmed already And it's in production right now. It's in uh I should say edit before it goes into production. And uh so um that is gonna be coming to, you know, a church near you, as they say. Okay And then the three books, we are running fast, running out of these. But if you want a little bit of history, we have a few books left in the back and these Two of these three here. This one is already the prayers of Shaped America is already spoken for by Chuck back there. He's got this one. But in any case, if you want these, then we run out. We can take some orders and send them to you. But again, what these books are is amazing compilations of who we are. And uh I really like the fact that uh God allowed us to get these to every senator and every congressman on Capitol Hill. A lot of people say, well, how did that all come to be? Well, back in 2010, I was asked to bring three pastors with me, and two other men brought three with them, and we met with John Ashcroft. You know John Ashcroft, former attorney? General the United States, good Christian man, and uh he met with us in his office that overlooks the uh unique Church, the New York Presbyterian Ba uh New York Presbyterian Church where Lincoln went and where Peter Marshall used to pastor He was the great old Scotsman that really knew how to very eloquently put into words what liberty was, and he was the Senate chaplain. In fact, and he would uh pray and open the Senate and whenever this was before, you know, social media and television, all that stuff. And whenever he was there to open in prayer, all the senators were there because they wanted to hear what he had to say and how he was going to once again articulate this prayer. And so we met right over top of that church in John Ashcroft's office. And this is what he said. He said, now fellas, I'm going to give you my take on America, but first of all, we're going to ramp up. We're going to do what I did every day when I was Attorney General in the United States. We're going to read the Bible. Uh ramp, you know, uh R A M P. We're gonna argue about it. He said, now we're really not gonna argue, but I couldn't think of any other word that began with A So we'll discuss it. We'll meditate upon it and we're then we're gonna pray. And then I'll give you my take on our country. So we did that. We read the Bible, we Talked about what we read, we meditated upon it for a few minutes, and then we prayed. And this then this is what he said. He said, now our country has a lot of problems right now And we see it on a lot of different levels, social, economical, educational, foreign relations. He said, but the bottom line is the biggest problem that our country has is that we have a spiritual problem And you know we send missionaries, this is he goes on to say, we send missionaries all over the world to preach the gospel and so we should. And we s send pastors out to plant churches uh in this country to preach the gospel. He said, and we need to be doing that as well. He said, but you understand, right? We don't have any missionaries to Capitol Hill. Now we have advocates that are there And we have information gatherers and disseminators. He said, and both of those things are honorable. You know, people to get people informed and and advocating for the one thing or another. He said, but we don't have any missionaries, we don't have any Josephs in Egypt that simply are going in and praying with these people and holding up their hands like Aaron and her held up the hands of Moses You remember that story, right? Because the people of Israel had just been released from uh is Egypt and and uh the Amalekites attacked them Remember that? And there was a national battle going on in the valley, and there was also a spiritual battle going on up on the hill because Aaron and her and Moses walked up there together. Whenever Moses' hands were up, the people of God prevailed, and when he got tired and his hands fell down, then the enemy prevailed against the people of God, and so what did they do? Aaron Herod got a big rock and and they sat Moses on the rock and they held up his hands Because there was two battles going on. And that's the same thing that we, Brother Creed and I, thought, you know, it might be a good idea to follow a biblical principle and an actual incident, situation. And so we started inviting pastors as your pastor has come. to simply go in and pray with these people. Because we have the same two battles going on today for our nation, but it's a spiritual battle. And it was amazing what happened and how Doors began to open up. And uh these pastors, uh your pastor included, would come in and say, Look, uh, I'm not here for any political reasons to today. Uh I I'm here simply to pray for you. And I want to pray with you. And so what would you like to pray about? And and basically they say, well come on in. Are you sure you're not here for anything? And and of course the pastors they will they'll walk the books in, give them the books Well it's a beautiful book. Thank you very much. It's all, you know, cleared with the Ethics Committee because it's below fifty dollars. I I don't want to go to jail, you know. So it's all that that's all cleared and and so it's a wonderful book. Thank you very much. And and so what what would you like? We just would like to pray. What you would like to pray? And so they bring him in and several times. I don't know how many times you got asked, but a lot of pastors, you get asked three, three times. So what do you want? Because everyone wants something, right? From these people And then finally, after the pastor really uh convinces them they don't want anything, a lot of pastors come with people and with their wives and their families, sometimes even little little ones, uh, uh, and finally they say, no, we are here to pray for you Because we're exhorted to do so. So you're you're exhorted to do so? Yeah. I want to show you something. We're just kind of warming up a little bit here. Okay? But look with me uh to First Timothy, okay? First Timothy, because a lot of times people say, well, hold your And I want you to hold your hand there for a second, but 1 Timothy, because see, an exhortation is what? It's not a suggestion, is it? Is it a suggestion? No. It's an exhortation. And it's something that God really wants us to do. And so 1 Timothy, it says this And and uh I you know this is not my Bible that I'm that I have here, so okay. It's an exhortation. And God says 1 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 1, I exhort therefore that first of all. So here's some first things. Supplications, prayers, intercession, and giving and thanks be made for all men. And look at the type of men then God says in the second verse because he specifies, okay, for kings and for all that are in authority. So those are people in political office, those are people that are ruling uh over other people or deciding how other people are going to live by laws. So I want to ask you a question. If this is an exhortation by God, He wants us to do this. Do you pray for our elected officials every day? They have a prayer list. Are you praying for the president? So you pray for the president, Brother Hardy, every day. By name. How do you pray for the president? Pray the president gets saved. Oh well we're not supposed to judge. Yeah, we're supposed to be fruit inspectors. Okay? You shall know them by their fruits, right? And I know this, that th this president is against the life of the unborn This president is against traditional family. This president is against the nation of Israel. This president is against the free market system. Okay And so I just look at this president and say, well I you know, I I would really like to see our president get saved, wouldn't you? Then wouldn't it be good, wouldn't it? Sure. All men to be saved, right? And I pray for the vice president. Now I kinda like the vice president. Say you like Biden? Yeah I do. Go I like to hear him speak. If you know what I mean. Okay. Because whatever he does, you know His foot goes, you know, in his mouth. But in any case. And I pray for the fifteen cabinet rank members, six uh the the fifteen cabinet members, six cabinet rank members, and right now the eight Supreme Court justices, and then all of my uh representatives from my state and then a uh a bunch of other folks that I know up there that are really doing the the job. And and I pray for them because God exhorts us to do so Now now why does he want us to supplicate, pray, and intercede and give thanks? He says this as well. may lead a quiet and peaceful life in all godliness and honesty. That's our benefit for praying for them. That's Bible. Now I want to lead that type of life, don't you? A peaceful life in all godliness and honesty? For this is good and acceptable, the Son of God, our Savior, that shows you the type of God that we serve, the beneficent God that we serve. But here is the bottom line, who will have all men to be saved and come into the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. And so that's what we do. We go in and we pray. Now what happens is the walls come down. And these people that normally are being slammed every day and people are asking them for this and that. and and these pastors come in, don't ask them for a thing, the walls come down, and I mean ten-minute meetings many times have stretched to 45 minute meetings, an hour, where even one of the pastors came and get this and prayed with one of the Muslim congressmen. And prayed for prayed with and for and talked with him about, you know, just our country and biblical principles for almost an hour. Isn't that amazing? And what that does, you see, it opens up the doors then for Brother Creed when we walk through the halls of those same offices. for the next uh you know year on a weekly basis. And as we're walking through, we actually now are having people call us into their offices. In fact, the first year after it happened and uh Brother Creed and I were walking through the office, one of the congressmen recognized and said, Hey, uh your doctor Harding and and your pastor uh Creed, uh you hosted the Capitol Connection, right? Uh yes we did. Uh I I need to see you in in my office. I thought we were in trouble. I said well I don't think I did it. It was him. I was I was just walking along and and uh He brought us in and sat us down and he took his coat off and came around his desk and sat with us and said, Uh, I need to get your biblical view on this issue. That's uncr that's crazy. That's unheard of. And we see that more and more now to where just recently we were on the hill. We had five meetings, four of them weren't even planned. You know how long it takes to get a meeting with one of these people? You got a call ahead of time and what you're meeting on? Now? Because of gracious pastors, loving pastors just like yours coming I can call on my way over and say, I'm coming over, I'm going to be on the hill today. Sure would like to come by and visit and pray with the congressman. Hold on. Hold on, Dr. Harding. And he'll come back in a few minutes. Okay, you know what? He's here and he wants you to come. And we walk in, and we walked in on several of them this particular time, just recently, and they're you know they're getting ready. Their day is like, I mean, increments of just, you know. Two minutes here, five minutes there. And they'll and and they'll welcome us into their office and they'll and they'll say now God guys what what can I do for you? And so what what they say is uh Why are you here? Oh well we we're here again to pray for you. Oh please pray for me. And we did that. This one fella said, you tell my staff, I insist If you're here that you get to come in and pray for me. You tell them that I have insisted. He said, I'm going to give them direction as well I don't know about you, but that's pretty interesting, okay? And uh and so that's what's going on, and that's why you might say it is of the Lord, it's by God's grace and through his favor and that we've done this. In fact, you know, not only have we taken these books and handed them out to every member of Congress these last three years. We've also handed up thousands of gospel tracts and thousands of New Testaments because it is good to have God on Capitol Hill, His Word, His Holy Spirit, His principles to guide by, because our founding fathers, they established this nation through and by God's word. And so we need to get back to that again. And so that's just kind of a it's very interesting, but uh my my wife said uh shortly after we decided to go in like in Joseph in Egypt. She said, you know, I was reading in my Bible And uh I I wanted to show you something. And so this is what she showed me. Turn over to Psalm 105. Are you with me tonight? Psalm 105. And you know how unique this is? I I mean, never in the history of uh our movement have we ever seen anything like this. Really? Where uh this is just uh you might say again that coming together of the people of God with the people of government But my wife said, look, um, I just wanted you to know that God gave this to me to give to you, because now that you're going in as a as a Joseph in Egypt, so to speak, to try to help these people to see what biblical principles are as they governed our nation, she said, God gave this to me. And this is talking about Joseph in Psalm 105. And look with me to verse 22. It says to bind his princes at his pleasure and teach his senators wisdom She said, that's talking about Joseph. And she said, and and God gave that to me to give to you. And you say, well what are you talking about? Well just well, it was a while back a congressman stood on the floor of the House and listed all the grievances uh that he had against the egregious violations of our Constitution by this administration. I mean he listed them all right there. On the floor of the house. On s on the, you know, on television it was publicized. And I mean just amazing standing up straight and true and saying this president's done this and he's done this and he's done this and he's done this and he's done this Well I called him and said, hey, um how was the response? He said ninety-nine percent from throughout the United States positive. He said, now the parliamentarian said I went out beyond the boundaries of proper etiquette. I said, look If the boundaries of proper etiquette don't include the truth, then they need to expand those boundaries. Amen? And uh I and he said, Well I'm going on the Mark Levin show in a little bit and then uh he said uh and then actually he went on handy, he said I I said, Well that's great. I said, you know, well you have actually joined a very unique club. He said, What do you mean? I said, You've joined the Patrick Henry Club. He said, what are you talking about? I said, Patrick Henry was listing all the egregious violations that the King of England was basically violating his own laws. And I said you've joined that group. I said I said, you know, it's our duty to stand against tyranny. And the first field of the United States proposed by Dr. Benjamin Franklin himself was the children of Israel being led through the Red Sea by Moses in a pillar of cloud in the background, and around that seal proposed by Dr. Benjamin Franklin of the United States of America, I was telling this congressman, were these words, rebellion to tyrance is obedience to God. He went, no, I said, yeah. Check it out. I said, Patrick Henry, when he was giving that great speech, and again, it'd give me liberty or give me death, the reason why he said that was because he was watching a Baptist preacher, and this guy is a Baptist Being beaten to death in Culpeper, Virginia for preaching without a license from the state-run church. He said, are you kidding me? I said, no, I'm not kidding you. Check it out. And I told him a few other things as well. He said, well, can I use your name when I go on my I said, you don't need to use my name. I'm just giving you the ammunition to stand and deliver. The truth. And so sure enough he went on the Mark the Vincent show. He said, this preacher I know said this and he said that. And I checked it out and it's it's true in history. And we need to stand against the tyranny that's going on in our country. To teach his senators wisdom. See, my wife said, see, that's what the Lord's allowing me to do. And I know this folks. Look, I'm nothing. But when you put yourself in God's hands, he can do wonderful things with you. Amen. How many have you ever uh had a nail, gonna drive a nail into the wall and and you had it and you had it and then you realized, oh there's a perfect and good hammer in the garage. You know, it's it's perfect for the tax, but but you don't have it with you. The only thing that you have with you is your shoe. You take off your shoe, huh? And you nail that hammer. I mean y y you use that that shoe as it is a hammer, nail that nail in into the wall. Well that's what I'm just an old shoe Amen? In God's hands. And that's where we all are. And so that's what we just have to say, Lord, I'm available right here. You show me what I can do, and I'll be glad to do it. That's what we need to understand in our country. Amen? And so those are just some of the things that I wanted to share with you that I think are very, very important as to what's going on and why we have this God and country ministry. It's so that all men can come to the knowledge of the truth. It's so that all men can be saved. And that's why that's the bottom line for everything, because that is the very best thing that anyone can do for their country is to see someone else get saved because it changes their mind, their heart, and all the rest. Amen. And so uh I'm 62. And uh just recently, because I am 62, I I went and got a uh checkup And uh because I wanted to make sure what was going on. And and so I went to a Chinese doctor. A little different, slant, no pun intended there. Uh but uh I went to a Chinese doctor and and he took all the blood and work and everything and And uh this guy's very well known and uh has a little different approach to uh to to health. And so after all of the tests and everything, I sat down and And uh, you know, uh we were supposed to have a doctor patient exchange and so I said, Well doc, um how is everything? He said, What what you mean? I said, Well how did all the tests go? He said, Well uh well uh you have a question? I said yes I said, uh first of all, um, should I I've heard that cardiovascular exercise is good, so should I start doing a cardiovasovascular exercise program? He said, heart only good for so many beats and that it He said, Don't waste on exercise. Everything wear out eventually. Speed apart, not make live longer. Like saying you can extend life of car by driving faster. He said, You want to live longer? Take a nap. I said, I like this guy. I want to ask him another question. So the next question I asked is, well, should I cut down on meat and eat more fruits and vegetables? He said, you must grasp logistical efficiencies. What does cow eat? Hay and corn. What are these? Vegetables. So stake nothing more than efficient mechanism of delivering vegetables to the system. He said uh need grain, eat chicken. Beef also good source for field grass, leafy uh vegetables and pork chop can give 100% of recommended uh daily allowance for vegetable products. He said, eat meat each day, eat chicken. I said, wow, I love this guy. So I said, well how can I calculate my body fat ratio? I heard that's really good. He said, oh, uh you have body, you have fat ratio, one to one. Wow, I'm feeling good, you know. I'm just I mean um every question is just wonderful and uh being answered in such a wonderful way. And I said, Well, what are some of the advantages of participating in a regular exercise program? He said, Oh, I can't think of a single one. My philosophy, no pain that good. I said, okay, well what about, you know, um eating fried fruits? They're bad for you, right? He said, well fried foods you're not listening. Foods, vegetable oil How vegetable get in bad for you, eat fried foods, go ahead. And so, okay, well what about sit-ups to prevent me from getting a little soft around the middle. He said, Oh definitely not. He said you only exercise muscle when you want to get bigger muscle. So don't exercise of no don't do that. I said, well, you know, what about chocolate? That's bad for me, right? He said, hello, chocolate, cocoa bean, vegetable, good for you. Eat chocolate. I know you ladies would like that one. My wife loves that uh I said, well what about swimming, a good for your figure? You know, I've heard about that. He said, if swimming good for your figure, explain whales to me Said, well, okay. I said, well, you know, getting in shape that's important for my lifestyle. He said, hey, round that shape too. So that was my checkup. But what I'm saying is this, we need to have a good, healthy outlook at our nation. Amen. And when we do, it's good to look back into history and understand some things that perhaps we can see displayed very clearly in the Bible And how that relates to where we are today in our country. And learn some lessons of what God has done, what he will do for us, and we'll continue to do if we just simply ask him To do these things. Too many times we have not. Why? Because we ask not. I want to ask you a question this evening. Do you believe that God is still a God of miracles? Do you believe you believe that God can do something miraculous for you individually, for us corporately, and for our nation nationally? Well, I do. First, uh actually 2 Kings chapter 18, if you would please. Go to 2 Kings chapter 18, and I just want to share a few things with you this evening. And then see what the Lord brings for us. Says in 2 Kings 18, of course, this is about Hezekiah. And folks, if we don't quickly begin to fight with our lives for liberties, soon we'll be fighting for our lives without our liberties. And we all agree that God's on the throne, but he has given us stewards of the spiritual liberty in Christ and also the civic liberty as we have in America. A lot of times people say, well, Brother Hart, we're not supposed to be involved Government because you know separation of church and state. Oh it's found in the Constitution. I say, is it really found in the Constitution? Oh yeah, it's in there. I said it's not in there Yeah, it separates the church and state. It's in there. I said, no, it's it's not in there. Like when we go soul winning and they say there's some crazy thing in the Bible, you know, and you show you give them a Bible and say, well where is it? And they're flipping through the Bible. I know it's in here somewhere They say, no, you are kind. No, it's not. It's not in there. And when they say separation of church and state, it's not in the Constitution. Now it isn't a document. That separation of church and state. Oh, what document is that? That document is not ours, doesn't belong to us. That document is entitled The Communist Manifesto. But what is in our document is this, that the government should make no law respecting the establishment of a religion or the free exercise thereof. That means that the government stays out of church. But we the people are supposed to be stayed in the government. On a lot of different levels. A lot of times people say, well, you know, that Danbury Baptist letter. In the Danbury Baptist letter, Thomas Jefferson says it's a wall to keep the state out of the church, but he does not say In fact, he even says in the Danbury Letter, he said, I'm convinced that man has no natural right in opposition to his social duties. Well, he's telling the Baptist up and Danbury is, hey, you have a responsibility to be involved in your government. But the Devony stay of the church. Amen? And so that's what we need to understand. Hey, somewhere along the line we fall fell under the misnomer That we shouldn't be involved in government, and that's simply not true. It's not true biblically, it's not true historically, it's not true constitutionally All the way through the you just try to name me one book in the Old Testament that wasn't written by a public official to a public official or about a public official It's always been the people of God and the people of government. Always. From the very beginning all the way to the end. And in fact, the Lord Jesus Christ said this. He said, render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's. And unto God the things that are gods. What was he talking about? A duality of citizenship. Amen? That we are citizens of countries. I kind of like this. Our first country and foremost, where we already sit in heavenly places, is heaven. And our King, King Jesus. Amen? And that's that flag right there. That's what that flag stands for. That we have a heavenly home. And we are ambassadors of that heavenly home in a foreign country. But we're also Citizens of this country right here as well, the greatest nation on earth. And we have responsibilities and duties to both. Amen? And they should go together, hand in glove And if the responsibility of this country ever can coincide, you know, ever conflict with this country, then we go to this country first. Just like Peter said Hey, we need to be subject to the higher powers. But then when the higher powers said, didn't we tell you not to preach in this man's name? And they were of course referring to the Lord Jesus Christ. Peter with the his the rest of his men there said we would obey God rather than men. Amen And so when man's law tries to supersede or cancel out God's law, then we then we always go to God's law. Does it make sense to you? You understand this? Okay. All right, right here in 2 Kings 18 is uh something that we see in God's word about Hezekiah. The king Hezekiah. And I just want to read a few verses, and we're going to pray, see what the Lord has force here for a few minutes this evening. Now it came to pass in the third year of Hoshea, the son of Elah, the king of Israel, that Hezekiah, the son of Ahaz, the king of Judah, began to reign. Twenty-and-five years old was he when he began to reign. And he reigned twenty and nine years. in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Abbe, the daughter of Zechariah, and he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. Look at this now. According to all not some, not most, but all that David his father did. He removed the high places and break the images and cut down the groves and break in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made. For unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense to it and called it Neshutan. He trusted in the Lord God of Israel so that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any that were before him. For he cleaved to the Lord and departed not from following him, but kept his commandments, which the Lord commanded Moses, and the Lord was with him, and he prospered withersoever he went forth And he rebelled against the king of Assyria and served him not. He smote the Philistines even unto Gaza and the borders thereof from the tower of the watchmen to the fenced cities. So I want to speak for just a little bit tonight on the prayer of Hezekiah. Or you might say the subtitle might be this: God's Divine Intervention Depends upon our prayerful intercession. Heavenly Father, thank you so much now for loving us. And dear God, we pray that you would come down once again and meet us in this particular service tonight. Father, might we once again sense your presence and dear God that we would rely upon your provision and Father that you might give us the power through and by the holy unction of your Holy Spirit And Lord, lead and guide us into all truth. Father, we are simply sinners saved by grace. And so, God, as we bow before you tonight Lord, have mercy upon us and give us that grace that we need as we speak and as we listen, that your words and thoughts might be my words and thoughts. That you would articulate each word and season it with thy grace. That you would illuminate my mind and that your words and thoughts truly, that you would give them to me. Father, I surrender myself to you, and I ask that you would allow me to be the vessel that you could speak to and through. And Father, we pray tonight Once again, create and maintain a head protection around us bound off from this service, the evil one, anything that would keep us from focusing upon these truths, help the burdens of life just to dissipate for a while and Father might we look towards the eternal truths and apply them to the world in which we live and Father that we might do something for our country So that the gospel of Jesus Christ can continue to go forward and we'll give you all the praise and glory for what you are about to do in the minds and hearts of we, your people. For we ask this in the precious name of your Son and our Savior. And by the power and the merit and the authority that is in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. So here, Hezekiah. He's just a young man, he's in twenties when he comes to the throne. And I know this. I know that a lot of times people say, well, Hezekiah didn't have a good end. And that's true. But I think we can glean from him. And the reason why I believe that we can glean from him is found so very clearly in verse 5. Look at it with me. He trusted in the Lord God of Israel, so that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any that were before him. So he stands out head and shoulders over all the kings of Judah. Because he did certain things when he was just a young man. He claimed unto the Lord, he did that which was right. And he removes in verse four as it recounts the high places, break in the images, and cut down the groves and break in to pieces even that brazen serpent that at one time was good Because at one time they held up the servant to the serpent, remember, and when the people were bitten by the snake, what the what the leader Moses said was if you want to be healed, look to the Serpent and you will live. That's where we get that old song, look and live. Amen. And if Jesus is lifted up Right? All men can look upon him and look to him and salvation in him and live. But they took that brazen serpent and they made it into something that it was never intended to be, and that was kind of like an idol. But yet may I say this, America is still a very, very religious people. Only problem is we're worshiping at the wrong altars. Worshiping at the altars of professional sports. Look, I like baseball. Like I I like football. I like sports. But it's not my God. You know, the the Olympics, I mean that's that's a you know good thing, you know, and our young people competing against the other nations of the world for a uh you know kind of a uh uh get everyone getting together and having a peaceful competition. But I I'm not gonna stay home from church to watch that. I I'm not gonna I'm not gonna watch that instead of reading my Bible You understand? And we're worshiping at the altar of professional sports and I mean look at America. Football's a god in our country. The pregame, the pre-pre-game, the post-game, the game, and you know It's crazy. And promiscuity America is worshiping at the the the altar of promiscuity and and professionalism and and uh prosperity. And it's time that we get back to worshiping God Amen. And that's what's going on here. He's breaking down all of the idols, and when that happens, of course then a revival breaks out. And we see some amazing things occur. And right now, look, while the highest office in the land is discontinuing the tradition of national prayer in the White House and yet celebrating Islamic Ramadan. Huh? You know, to me it's very interesting. Those people that say I'm gonna vote my conscience. Or are I'm not gonna vote at all because I don't like anyone. How'd that work out for us? Huh? Oh, I don't want to vote for Mr. Romney because you know I don't believe he is, you know, a Bible believer. I mean that's your prerogative to believe that. But I really believe that uh Mr. Romney loves our country. I think we would have been a lot better off if we had had him for these last four years than who we have That's my personal opinion, and guess what? I still have a right to my personal opinion. Amen? So far But what what I'm saying is folks we just need to have some common sense about these things. And and the this particular administration, and look, I can still love the office of the presidency And I can still respect the office of the presidency, but but may I say this? Uh look, I can disagree as well. Because men of God have always done that. Samuel was the one that told King Saul, God's right the kingdom from you. Nathan told David, Thou art to man. Elijah told Ahab, Hey, you're the family that's troubling Israel. And John the Fastest told Herod, shouldn't have your brother's wife. Amen? So men of God always stand up against wicked leadership. And and we see These giants in the land defying the principles upon which the nation was founded, these giants of political correctness. As I said this morning, people tried to uh disparage me by saying, you are not politically correct. And then they give me this look. And I say, thank you. What? They thought they just insulted me. I said, I don't want to be politically correct by the world standards Neither should any of us want to be politically correct, but biblically and and historically and and constitutionally. But when We put the stones of truth, biblical constitution, historical, into the slings. I'll guarantee you, we can slay the giants Amen. And look, there's even some of our brethren. They're saying, oh look, our country's in apostasy. Just let it go, and uh and we'll just keep soul winning for as long as we can. If we go into persecution, are you kidding me? Do you think that's the spirit of America What would have happened in a in our Founding Father's Day if they thought that? Well, the king, you know, yeah, he the tyrant But you know, they had persecution in the Old Testament, and we'll just continue to suffer under persecution. It's all in God's hands. Yeah, it's in God's hands. But he expects us as we take spiritual liberty and we go soul winning and we are the evidentiary personification of salvation through Jesus Christ here on earth and we take the gospel to people, he expects us also as we do the spiritual liberty. He expects us also to be examples of the civic liberty as well. Our founding fathers, they stood up And they said, look, we're going to stand against this. And the reason why is because preachers were standing against this. And I love it, and I know it said it in the movie, but I just want to repeat this because this is mandated by repetition. That the Declaration of Independence that they signed was simply excerpts from many messages of preachers that had preached back to the 1600s. And I just kind of like that, amen. This is not a cause to capitulate what we're in right now. It is an opportunity to occupy. And God says, occupy till I come. And it's not just standing around waiting for the Lord to come. Occupation is a military term. And those forces of occupation that go into a country are never in the majority, but they're in control and they negate the law of the land and they impose their law. And here in the United States, for 240 years, we have negated the law of this world, and we've imposed God's law through him by the Ten Commandments and the precepts of God's word, and we have the greatest nation. in modern history. Amen? And it's not just by saying, well, just, you know, we'll just let it go. It's time that we stand up and we do something. We take out from our lives these idols, move them apart, you see. And from that, I believe that we can do something very unique. It says in verse 7, look at it with me. In verse 7, Hezekiah rebels against the tyranny of the king of Assyria, served him not. And that is very, very good because rebellion to tyrants is obedience to God. You say, I I heard this, I heard this, Brother Letherman, in a preacher's meeting that one of the Independent Baptist preachers got up and said, I'm not sure if we even had the biblical right to rebel against the King of England. What? And no one challenged him was my response. No one after, even after he got through and sat down, he was just a young preacher No one challenged him about this? Oh, you gotta be kidding me. Look with me over to 1 Samuel. Are you with me tonight? Say amen. Uh 1 Samuel chapter 8, I want to show you something very unique in history and where our founding fathers understood that we were as a people and what we needed to do. This is amazing to me because this is you might say where it all started from. These types of concepts and how unique we are as a nation. And you know what's going on in 1 Samuel chapter 8, right? They're having an election. Amen. You know what they're doing? They're electing God out. Israel is electing God out. Okay? Now remember here That Israel at this point was a theocracy. You know what that means? That means that God was the sovereign of Israel. Amen? But they didn't like this. They didn't like the fact that These men who were the seers, they called them judges, for certain prescribed times that were connected with God, that now Eli's sons begin uh to be sons of Belial and then Samuel, uh for whatever reason, his sons didn't grow up right either. And so instead of keeping their eyes on the Lord, because God would have given them another replacement like he did Samuel for the sons of of Eli Instead of that, he started looking at the other nations. All the other nations around them. Okay? And what they saw, what they saw was kings everywhere, monarchies everywhere Okay? And so they went and they said, we we don't want this uh system anymore. And we want a king over us. And what did Samuel do? Remember Samuel? Boy, he really took it offensively, didn't he? I mean, it really bothered him. And what did God say? Look, they haven't rejected you, they've rejected me. He said, but nevertheless, I want you to show these people exactly what kind of king they're going to have. And so that's exactly what would happen. So 1 Samuel and chap chapter 8, are you there? You see what it says? It says that Samuel then began to warn the people about the type of king that they were going to have. And it says Look at it, verse 9. Now therefore hearken unto their voice, howbeit yet protest solemnly unto them, and show them the manner of the king that shall reign over them. And I want you to see this. And uh because, boy, folks, we need to realize something here. It says that Samuel told the words, told all the words of the Lord unto the people, and asked that asked him of a king And said, this will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you. Look at these next three words. He will take. See that? He will take. And that same phrase he will take appears again and again. In verse 13, he will take your daughters. And verse fourteen, he will take your fields. And verse fifteen, he will take your tenth of your seed. Verse sixteen, he will take your men's servants. Seventeen, he will take the tenth of your sheep. Verse eighteen, and here's the result, and ye shall cry out in that day. Because your king, which she shall have chosen you, and the Lord will not hear you in that day. So he will take, he will take, he will take Isn't it interesting biblically that any time that someone has aspirations of no longer being a presiding official and now they want to be a monarch, a king, he will take, he will take, he will take. That means taxes are going up and up and up, huh? And what is the money being used for? The nine trillion dollars. No, eight trillion dollars in debt. It took us two hundred and thirty-two years to be eight trillion dollars in debt. It should, if you go into debt at one dollar per second, It should take you 32,000 years at $1 per second to be $1 trillion in debt. 32,000 years. At one dollar per second. You ladies like that, don't you? Well you could do some shopping there, couldn't you? Amen. Boy, you say, wow, a dollar per second But it only took us $232 years to be $8 trillion in debt. Just $232 years. That's not the worst part of it. It only took this president four more years to bring us back into $9 trillion more in debt And it's grown since then. You understand what's going on, right? I mean, we are out of control in our spending. And if God doesn't intercede, doesn't intervene We're going to have our children, our grandchildren. I mean the little ones in here are going to be paying off the debt that this president has acquired. You understand how slow our economy is? It's like a lumbering giant It's so huge our economy. When Reagan started with the Reagan economics, the trickle-down effect, do you know when that took actually took place? He started and then Bush followed him and when Clinton finally got in office Reaganomics caught up and we saw a balanced budget. And everything that Reagan put into effect back when he was president caught up to us when Clinton was the president and Clinton took all of the accolades but never did anything. It was Reagan It took that long for the economy to basically respond to positive things. Do you understand where we are right now? It's going to take a while and the economy's going to catch up and it's going to be horrendous. If God doesn't do something, He will take, He will take, He will take, because that's what someone that has aspirations of being a potentate, of being a king, does. He takes. And he makes bigger government. And the bigger the government, the poorer the people. The smaller the government, the wealthier the people. That's just the way it is. Always has been that way. Amen? And so, look at this though. Even after he warns them, the people say in verse 19 of 1 Samuel chapter 8, nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel, and they said, Nay, but we will have a king over us. After that, they still want to be like all the rest of the nations. You know what our 56 signers of the declaration said to the whole world, declaring, they declare to the whole world, we no longer want to be like all the rest of the nations. They declared to the entire world, we don't want a king over us any longer. Isn't that amazing? To me that's just that's just completely opposing. I mean millennia of thought. And the reason why is because this old black book and that principle right there and they declare to the whole world, our king is going to be King Jesus. And when the Declaration of Independence was signed, the cry went out, and that was one of the big cries of the war for independence. No king but King Jesus. I don't know about you. That just kind of gets me going, amen. And it was amazing that in every battle, that was the cry that was going on. But we had forgotten these things and how unique our founding fathers were. Well, Hezekiah, he is looking and and and he sees the fact that now that he has rebelled, he's removed the altars and and these idols and he's rebelled, he reclaims the land And he smites the Philistines, uh, even unto Gaza and the borders thereof, from the Tower of the Watchman to the French city. And and look at this. In the verses to follow, we see Samaria and Israel conquered and carried away. Go back with me to 2 Kings, if you would, please. in verse 12, chapter 18 and verse 12. And you'll see something, I think, very unique there because they started to see things in other nations that occurred. And of course the two nations of God's people were split at this time. And so we see that the uh the nation of Israel, the nation of Samaria were conquered by the Assyrians. And this, look at verse 12. Because, look at this now, they obeyed not the voice of the Lord their God, but transgressed his covenant and all that Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded, and would not hear them nor do them. So they were conquered from without because they were corrupted from within. That's why we, God's people, need to be the conscience of our nation. That's why we, God's people, need to once again show people, hey, the principles and precepts of our country, this great republic. And realize something that once again we need to go back to the guidebook, to the owner's manual, and see what God has given us, which is so unique I I told you this morning that I would show you the difference between a republic and a democracy. And there's a big difference. And I want you to look with me. Hold your hand there again in in 2 Kings. Look over to Exodus and uh and chapter 18. Are you with me tonight? And I want to show you something very interesting to me because uh this is of course the uh the priest of Midian, and he's talking, this is Moses' father-in-law, and he's talking to Moses And of course Moses is judging everyone. He says, look, this isn't going to happen. You're going to wear yourself out. And so what he does is that he kind of lays something out that that is in Scripture for all of us to look at And a lot of times people say, well, Brother Harding, what kind of people should I vote for? What tells us what kind of people are right here? Or at least the kind of people that we need to strive to see that run for office so we can vote for them And again I go back to the fact where a lot of people say we just don't have a very good choice for this presidential election. Yeah. And the reason why is because we've been so disengaged for so long. Because Christians haven't done their duty. Because God's people haven't really been engaged with our government. And you know what we do? We don't we do nothing. For four years, then we have attack of conscience at the end of four years and say, Well, I can't believe we don't have anyone to vote for and we've got to hold our nose and and and vote against someone and and and the reason why is because us We the people, we're the we're the government. And we need to be engaged with our government, calling them. You know what Napoleon Bonaparte said? Pretty smart man, very good strategist, even though he was in his wickedness, you know, he he fell. But he said ten people make more noise than ten thousand people that say nothing. You know why three percent of the population are getting uh an amazing amount done? It's because they're saying a lot more than we are. And many times those people are much more fervent in what they're doing than we are. Amen. And so we need to start speaking up. I mean, it's time to wake up, it's time to rise up, it's time to look up to God, it's time to speak up. For who and what we are, you see. And once again, understand that it doesn't take many people to reach out to Washington, D. C. to actually start making a difference. It only takes ten But but here, look at this. This is the republic. And again, it's re-public. It's the public, you might say, folding itself back into the government. We the people. Amen? And it says in verse 18, verse 21, moreover, thou shalt provide out of all the people. Look at this, this is the kind of people we need to be looking towards and trying to get into office or at least to run for office. Able men, we want people with ability, such as fear of God. Now sometimes we don't see that. And that's because of our disengagement. Men of truth, wouldn't that be something? Just to have someone up there and say, you know what, I just want to tell you the truth. Whether this hair lips a hound dog or not. This is the truth. Wouldn't that be refreshing to have a politician just tell you the truth? Amen. And goes on to say, look at this now, hating covetousness, because if they hate covetousness, then they won't be prey to the lobbyists They're trying to special interest groups trying to pay them to do something for them. Amen? And place such over them. Here's the Republic right here To be rulers of thousands, there's national representation. Rulers of hundreds, there's state representation. Rulers of fifties, there's cities, and rulers of tens, there's communities. Right there. That's Republic. A multi-leveled representation of the people on those particular levels, and they are supposed to be speaking for us But if we don't reach out and tell them how they should be speaking for us or remind them what the Constitution says, guess what? They degenerate into the new royalty. And they tell us what they want us to do instead of us telling them how they should be ruling. And that's where we are in America today. It's a shame, but so true. And we need to get back to a republic. A republic is this. A republic is a will of people tempered by the rule of law, which is the Constitution of the United States. This is the owner's manual. Us guys, if we buy a car, how many guys buy a car and go to the owner's manual? When you buy a car, do you look into the glove box and start reading the owner's manual? Have you ever done that, Ken? I've never I've I've never done that. I don't know, maybe Ken's different. Maybe he's an engineer, you know. Have you ever done that Mark? No. What do you say, Mark, when you buy a car? Where are the keys? Huh? I want to take this baby out for a spin. I wanna see what it does, put it through its paces, you know, see how it shifts, and right? All the bells and whistles, ooh, you know. Make sure everything works, right? But when the car starts going off Okay? Starts going base basically, you know, awry. What are we looking for? Looking for the owner's manual Ah, see here. What is this thing supposed to be doing? Is this under warranty? Huh? Right. Oh yeah, I can take it back to the dealership and they need to fix it because it's under warranty. I have a written warranty. And that's what this is a written warranty As I showed you this morning. Article 4, Section 4. That we, every state in this union is guaranteed what? A Republican form of government. It's guaranteed. Written. No expiration date We need to get back. I want to show you something here so very important that that we need to realize in in understanding where we are. Are you with me tonight? Okay, my the time where'd the time go? Okay. Well um I I think I'd better put that on hold. I'll show you that tomorrow night. But I'm going to show you exactly why we need to do what we need to do uh for tomorrow night and and and why look churches Are not tax exempt. They're tax immune. The IRS says something Well, if you don't uh you know you you can't preach foreign against candidates by name. Oh oh yeah we can. Sure can. We've done that since the sixteen hundreds. We had election sermons that men would, men of God would preach for one against ten. By name this person's closer uh they they adhere more to where we need to go and this brand this is my opinion and uh but you know you vote however you want to but this is what I your pastor uh it uh this is what I'm gonna do and so that influence is used and and but the fact is You know, we were stifled for so long. And the reason why we were stifled, you know why we were stifled? Get this now. The Johnson Amendment. How many ever heard of the Johnson Amendment? Come on, be honest. How many have never heard of the Johnson Amendment? Raise your hand. Okay. That's just about everybody. The Johnson Amendment, July the second, 1954, by LBJ, Lyndon Baines Johnson, in the 11th hour attacked a little something on tax appropriations bill that said any one of the 501c3 class exempt status By the way, the IRS just simply reflects what the Constitution says. Better keep their nose out of government, out of the four-centered cultural areas, or they might lose their 501 tax exempt status. And guess what? We believed it. It was brought in on the eleventh hour. It wasn't even discussed. And pastors started saying, oh, well, I guess we've got we can't be preaching about our government anymore. or or the elections, and they started withdrawing from the public square. They started withdrawing from education. And because of that, we started withdrawing from who we were. Do you understand who always in the colonial days were the best people that asked Other people for political advice, who the authority was yesteryear, the authorities of political science and our government yesteryear, most times were preachers and pastors. That's who you went to ask. You know who it is now? The news media. Huh? Or talk show host? Huh? And and they're and they're they're reading something. Or they're looking at a teleprompter, and you're saying, oh they no, they're looking at a teleprompter. They're being fed this stuff and they're trying to throw it at us. Amen. Now I don't know about you. You hear that cry? That's the future crying out right there. Amen. That's Mariah, right Mariah is crying out saying, I am here and I want all to know. Amen. So she's competing with me a little bit here. That's okay. But that's that's who we're talking about. We're talking about the future And and why we need to hold on to what God has given to us. And so all of these talk show hosts, these these uh people that are on the news, they're they're all circumventing the preacher. And they're trying to tell us what we should know and what they believe that we should think about this, that, and the other. I don't need someone to tell me what I should think I have the Holy Spirit of God living within me. Amen? And and you realize this, right? They they tell us this and they tell us that and and uh and and they're trying to do something and uh And El tries to be sensitive with with you ladies and they they're trying to force things down our throats. You know. And they say it's a no spin zone. Oh yeah, it's a spin zone. Yeah. Because everyone has a spin. Amen? And some people just have to have a different spin, some people more conservative spin. But but the fact is when we go to the Bible, that kind of substantiates it all. That's it's kind of the standard But you ladies, you've seen these documentaries and you ladies, you you say, isn't that cute? Look at mama bab m mama's feeding the baby birds. Huh? And little birds going, and mom is feeding them. But you ladies don't understand what's going on. Because what's going on is, see baby bird's intestines, they're not completely developed, and mama bird has gone and fed and digested. I'll try to be sensitive for you ladies. Mama Bird comes back and she's expectorating down Baby Bird's mouth. She's regurgitating down baby, oh forget it. She's puking down baby bird's mouth. And you're there to say, oh, isn't that cute? No, that's gross. And the little baby birds chirping away, oh mama, give me some more of that. That's war benguy And that's what most Americans are when they're watching the news. Oh yeah, is that what's going on? Really? Mm num and the regurgitate, I don't need someone regurgitate down my throat Amen. We have the Holy Spirit of God living within us. We can read. And that's what I recommend people do. It takes a few more minutes. I'll tell you what? That's the best way to do it. You say where do we get the Christian news from? The the right news? Go to my website And I have all kinds of different links from Christian sites. Take a few minutes and pull a few things together and read them and consider and draw your own conclusions. You see? That's what we need to do. I can't watch the news for too long. My wife knows when I'm watching the news because I'm talking to the TV. That's not right. You're a liar. You're manipulating public opinion. And my wife says you watch the news? Yes So I turn the news off and I go read my news. But that's see, when we do that in conjunction with the 28 biblical principles of the Constitution of the United States, when we look at the biblical viewpoint, Then it's very interesting because then people start looking at you as you're the authority, but that's just doing the math. You understand That's what God wants all of us to do. Because folks, right now, as Hezekiah was seeing, we're surrounded. You understand? And you see all these bad things coming and you say, what's the sense? How can we even even deal with this? I want you to see very quickly, and I need to bring this to a close, because I want you to come back tomorrow night. And if you don't come back, I'm going to ask the pastor where you live. And I'm gonna come get you. No, I'm just kidding. So we're hard and you're scary. No, I just I'm just kidding. But I do want you to come back. Because what we're doing this this particular week is being able to be equipped. to save this country, to prolong the state of this nation for little Mariah That is now, you know, crying in the back somewhere. All right. And for the rest of these little ones in here. You know, those of us that are older, we may not see all the real bad things come to pass. I don't want our children to be able to see that either. Amen. We need to hold on uh to the Constitution. You know you know what uh Daniel Webster said about the Constitution? He said, in 6,000 years, remember I told you about the 6,000 years recorded history this morning? In 6,000 years, Daniel Webster said, miracles seldom cluster. But they clustered in the Constitution of the United States. He said, hold on to the Constitution people of America, because if we lose it, the whole world descends into anarchy. And I was told by more than one person, if we don't get someone at least friendly to the Constitution, elected to the next office of the President. The Constitution will be gone. And you say, well, I'm just kind of scared about both people. Well, look, I know one of the people, I know exactly what that person is going to do. Okay? They're going to bring us to a demise. I'm not sure about the other one. They kind of, you know, make me wonder too. I wish they would just keep their mouth closed a little bit more often. But uh at least, you know, they're saying some very good things. You know one of the things that they have said? Because what caused Christians to leave the public square was the Johnson Amendment, thinking that they were going to lose their tax exempt status? Guess how many, guess how many churches law had lost their tax exempt status Since 1954. Zero. None. You know why? Because every day it's a new day for church That's why. And thirty-three guys in two thousand and eight got together, notified the IRS and the news media, we're going to preach for and against candidates by name because we have a right to do so. We did since the sixteen hundreds, we're going to do it before We did before, we're going to do it again. And uh so if you want to try to come and take our 501c3 tax exempt status from us, go ahead. I know one of the pastors, he's in Oklahoma, and uh his name is Paul Blair, and and uh so they stood it and the IRS did nothing They notified them in writing they were going to do this. Next year, over a hundred. Next year after that, over five hundred. Now, every October in this Freedom Pulpit Sunday, there's thousands of pastors that are standing and doing, but reclaiming our writing. Rights under the Bill of Rights. You've been handed the Bill of Rights, oh come tomorrow. I'm going to tell you some fascinating things about the Bill of Rights and where it came from. Tomorrow night It's amazing. But they're standing on the principles of the Bill of Rights, that we have the freedom of religion, the freedom of speech. The freedom of the press, the freedom to peaceably assemble and to redress our grievances to our government. It's amazing what a and so they've done this now and and the IRS hasn't done anything because the IRS knows It we have the constitutionality to do what what we are supposed to. And guess which candidate said, if I'm elected, I'm going to repeal the Johnson Amendment. Well, it's a he, not a she. Amen. That hasn't been done. Reagan didn't even do that. He said I'm gonna let of course he he kind of qualifies us all as evangelicals. He said I'm gonna let the evangelicals say whatever they want to. I I heard him say it. They need to have the freedom to say whatever they want you from the pulpits. And what he's saying is, and maybe he doesn't exactly understand the the uh the bulk of the influence, but that is the responsibility of preachers to preach. And that's why we've been given this immunity from taxes because we, God's people and God's men, have been the very ones that have kept Or we're supposed to keep the government in check by preaching. See, but where does public policy come from? You know what it comes from? It goes just like this. Listen, this is the way it's always been. Only problem is the pulpit's gone silent. But it goes from the pulpit to the pew to the public to the politicians to policy That's the way it's always been. But now the news media is circumvented. And no longer do we get policy from the pulpit, now we get policy from the Pundits and the prognosticators that are no longer the watchdog for the citizens, the lap dogs, many of them, most of them for liberals and godless agendas. Amen. Hey, are you getting sick and tired of what's going on? Then why don't we do something about it? Well, what can we do, Brother Hardy? It seems like we are surrounded. Okay, you ready to finish this message? Okay, are you ready? Everyone still with me? I know that the mind and heart cannot receive what the posterior cannot endure. And so I'm going to wrap it up here as quickly as possible. Okay? Are you with with me tonight? But we're talking about our nation, the future of our country. It's very, very important. And so if you would please go back with me then to uh 2 Kings and uh and let's go now uh over to Chapter 19. Okay? And in chapter 19, what is going on is something uh very critical at this point of Hezekiah's reign, uh, because uh what happens is he receives the message from the Assyrians uh in which They seek Judah's surrender. And they're using terrorist tactics. Remember, uh ancient Assyria is modern-day Syria. Isn't that interesting something's never changed? Because Syria n is still a hotbed of terrorism. And the ancient Assyrians were using terrorism as well. And so his response, I love who is his response. Look at at verse 2 of chapter 19, 2 Kings chapter 19. And he sent Eliakim, which was over the household. And Shebna, the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amos. I just kind of like that. Because their response was to go to God, to the man of God. Amen. Isn't that good? And that's what's happened all through our history. And then what occurs again is is something very interesting because His response to go to the man of God to show the reproach of the enemy so that God would reprove them and that his prayer would be made for the remnant of Judah And the reply, I love the reply, in verse six, and Isaiah said unto him, unto them, Thus shall ye say to your master, Thus saith the Lord, be not afraid of the words which thou hast heard with which the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me, behold, I will send a blast upon him, and he shall hear a rumor, and shall return to his own land, and I will cause him, your enemy, to fall. by the sword in his own hands. Excuse me, in his own land. And I want I want you to show some I want to show you some here. Again from God's word. Look over to Psalm 33. Psalm 33. Because this is exciting. You say, Brother Harding, you know, it's kind of bleak out there. Here's hope. You wanna you wanna get some hope? You want a little you want a little um Pill of hope here. Okay? Alright? Wouldn't that be great if you went to a doctor? He said, I'm going to subscribe some hope. Amen. Can he give you a subscription of hope? Take this and you'll have hope. Well that's what God's Word is. Amen. And God says in Psalm thirty-three, and look at it with me. In verse 10, the Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught, and maketh the devices of the people of none effect. Isn't that good? What does that mean? That means that he can turn all of our enemies Against themselves. Say? And it goes on to say, look at this verse 11. The counsel, excuse me, the Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen tonight, and maketh the devices of the people of none effect. Okay? The counsel of the Lord standeth forever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations. So those people that are planning the demise of our country, God can take care of that. Isn't that what it says? All the counsels of the heathen to naught, the devices of the people to none effect. Why just kind of like that, don't you? That's a promise from God. And that's what, of course, we are seeing in the book of 2 Kings. Go back now to 2 Kings. I'm about to wrap this up, okay? A few more things, and we're done. Are you still with me tonight? Okay. Are you still with me tonight? Still with me tonight? Okay. Now folks, you know what? I think we should get excited about the Lord every once in a while. Amen? How how many like sports? Come on. You like y how many have a foot football team? Okay? How many are sitting on the couch when your team's about to make a touchdown? Huh? Two yard line. And you're sitting on the couch, you know you're going? Yes. No, you're not. Your wife knows this. Team's about to make a touchdown. No! You're out of the count. Come on! Throw it! Woo! Touchdown! And we come to church and The preacher says, You with me? Yeah. Huh? And then they go into sudden death and you go, Great! Going into extra innings? Woohoo! Extra innings! Where's this guy getting it done anyway? Huh? Hey, we're fans of foot. Don't don't you think we need to be fans of Jesus? Amen. And it's like saying, where is this guy? You know? It's going to some some extra innings. He's not done yet. He's gonna go on just for a little bit longer. When is this guy gonna get done? Huh? We need to be fans of Jesus, amen? You know what fan is, right? It's just a short term for fanatic Say, brother, are you fanatic fanatical? Yes, I am when it comes to Jesus. I'm a fan. Amen. But look at this now as we wrap this up In those days, what they were doing was they were going to their knees. I think that's what we need to be doing for our country as well. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. And prayer and the governance of our nation have been forever etched in our country's history. In the first order of the Continental Congress was a call to prayer. September the sixth, seventeen seventy-four, as the British troops were attacking Boston, the response of our legislative leadership was to bow an intercessory prayer and humbly petition the author of Liberty for his protection and providential guidance. Many times during critical points in the war, our response was to garner divine intervention of God. That's exactly what we see in our country. That story of the prayer in America, the most remarkable aspects in history. Prayer played a critical role preserving our nation through times and of darkness and trying uh incidents and preparing our country to become a world leader of the elevation and the welfare and the spiritual civic liberty of mankind, the many elements of prayer have shaped our nation and its character and guided our paths and inception of our country to the present day. Prayer is the very thing that girded our military for valor, that guided our public leaders, and once again God's people need to go to prayer for our country. Fervently, a factual prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Well That's what Hezekiah did. He went into the house of the Lord. And he took the message from Rabshaky, which was Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, and and I love this. He went before God and look at it in verse 14, and Hezekiah received a letter of of the hand of the messengers and read it and Hezekiah went up before the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. Oh I like that, don't you? When we hear all these news things coming in, well we need to do every once in a while. You know, we get frustrated and we go and we talk to one another. Did you see what they said? Yeah I saw. Well, what do you think we should do? Well, that's what I think we should do. I think it's a good idea. And we talk to people, there's nothing wrong with that. Good stress management. Solve all the problems of the world between us. But nothing changes. Huh? Got kind of frustrating, don't you, when when all these things every once in a while we need to take that frustration and go to God. Say, Lord, you see what they're saying about you? About this country that you have a vested interest in? And you take all that frustration, you go to God, and you put it before Him. Just like Hezekiah went. And he spread before the Lord. I mean, he was surrounded. And listen, listen to what he says And Hezekiah in verse 15 prayed before the Lord and said, O Lord, God of Israel, which dwelleth between the cherubims, thou art the God, even thou alone of all the kingdoms of the earth. Thou hast made heaven and earth, he said, I know I'm really not the king. I'm just a figurehead, you're the king. Look at this in verse 16. Lord Bow down thine ear and hear, open, Lord, thine eyes and see, and hear the words of Sennacherib, which sent him to reproach the living God. Of a truth, Lord, the kings of Assyria have destroyed the nations in their lands, and have cast their gods into the fire, for they were no gods but the works the work of men's hands, wood and stone, therefore they have destroyed them. Now therefore, O Lord our God, I beseech thee, save thou us out of his hand. Look at this. That in verse 19, that all the nations of the earth may know that thou art the Lord God, even thou only. So I want you to save my country. I want you to save Judah, but I want you to do it so that all the rest of the nations can see you did it. Now I want to ask this question and we're and we're almost done. Okay? Everyone okay? Doing great. Stay 35. Case anyone spending you know, I just wanted to let you know. Okay. That was an honest laugh right there. Amen. I love it. I la I just I just love the honesty of people. Okay. She probably did that earlier. I don't know. But no, I just kidding. But uh in any case, it it it's an amazing thing to me When Hezekiah goes to the Lord, he said, I want you to deliver our country so that all the world can see. Wouldn't it be wonderful to see the whole world shaking their head? How'd they get out of that mess? Huh? How on earth did they? Do you understand that we were broke after the war for independence? And that Two and a half years after the Constitution was ratified and signed that George Washington wrote to someone else and he said, if you had told me or I told you that we would have been debt-free and so at peace with our government, just two and a half years after the Constitution was ratified, you would have called me a madman. And I would have called you on. What he was saying was this was miraculous. That our country has come back from, I mean, almost destruction to where we are today. You know why? Because, folks, God He's a God of miracles. You know how many times the war for independence was over? And then God showed up? Do you realize one of the first major battles of the war was the Battle of Brooklyn Heights and Washington had 20,000 men, but they weren't Troops that were trained? These were farmers and tradesmen and and these were men that plucked their squirrel rifles from over their hearts, bumping into one another, the ragtag group of the Continental Army And the British soldiers, the British regulars, rolled in, sailed into New York Harbor, and the people thought they were watching a forest begin to grow because there were so many masts of so many ships. 32,000 British regulars, hardened, disciplined, trained troops, got off the largest invasion force in the world up to date. And they fought against the 20,000 men, and sure enough dispersed them very quickly, and George Washington was running to try to avoid capture and I guess his map guy didn't quite get it right and and uh sure enough on Brooklyn Heights they were going trying to leave and they wound up blocked by the East River. Nowhere to go. It was beginning to be dark and it was raining and the East River, you couldn't cross the East River because it was so very rocky because of the storm, and so they were trapped and If the British had continued to pursue the war would have been over, George Washington would have been hung, we would have been British subjects, probably still talking with British accents and drinking much more tea than coffee And I sure do like coffee a lot more than tea, so I'm glad, you know, of the British mindset. And you know the British, you know what the British did? This is amazing to me. I love the British mindset. Because as they were pursuing Washington, they stopped It was getting on at night. Everyone was cold. And I can just imagine one of the British officers telling the others, Ew, Cecil, I think I'd like a a spot of tea. Oh, capital idea, Reginald! I think I'd like some crumpets with that tea. Well, let's bibouak here. Oh, right. We'll take care of those pesky colonists tomorrow. And they did. They stopped. And they bivacked. George Washington was amazed. He said they stopped. He said, so we might as well put some tents up, get some fires going. Our men are cold. They're hungry. But then something happened at 11 o'clock. You know what? The rain stopped And the East River that was separating Brooklyn Heights from the Manhattan Island that they needed to get to to escape became as smooth as glass. See, something was going on. The Continental Congress had called for prayer and fasting. And people in America were going to their knees and begging God for His divine intervention upon the circumstances of that battle and their fledgling nation. George Washington said, okay guys, you, you keep the fires going. So under the cloak of darkness, it'll appear that we're just sitting there waiting to be captured the next day. You men, go get every ship and every boat that you can amass as quickly as possible, and let's get these men and munitions off of here. His exec said, Sir, we're never going to be able to get this done. He said, I don't care, we're going to try and I'll be the last man off in the last boat. So they quickly got boats together and they were tying rags around the wheels of the cannons as they were moving them into the boat. Men as they got onto the boat were holding on to their sabers and their muskets so they wouldn't clatter because the British were just there and they could hear them and they would have come and tried to stop that evacuation. All night long. As the boats got loaded, it is recorded history. In the journals of the men that actually experienced it, whenever the boats were loaded, a wind came up and helped blow them across the East River And when they got unloaded and came back, the wind subsided. All night long. Anytime the boats were loaded and they were ready to go again, a wind came up and helped them to row across the river. The sun began to rise. And the men said, That's it, it's it it's over. And George Washington and many of the men were still on the wrong side of the East River. But then something happened that meteorologists And looking at the time was not correct. I mean these conditions were not correct, but a fog moved in And it was such a dense fog that you couldn't not only see your hand a few feet in front of you, but it was an odd one you couldn't hear in the fog. So the men all the more frantically continued to evacuate in one after another boat until the last boat with the last men pulled across and safely onto Manhattan Island and the fog lifted. I'm sure there were some explicatives on both sides of the East River. It is said that one of the British saw one of the colonialists doing a jig mocking him. I'm sure some of our men said something like, Wow. They probably said it backwards, wow But they knew God had shown up. And God had done something miraculous. Hezekiah was surrounded. 185,000 Assyrians. You know what he said? Lord? We need you to come and to binly intervene You know, we started with the Great Awakening in the 1600s. We saw our country continue with the Second Great Awakening in the 1800s, 200 years later. It's been 200 years since the Second Great Awakening. You know that I've learned something in the study of God's word and history? In God's personage, in his doctrine, and in history, he's the God of threes. I don't know about you. I'd like to see a third great awakening. Brother Hart, you really believe that it's possible? Oh yeah. I believe it's possible. I believe God has divinely intervened for us. He will intervene for us. But he will not intervene unless we pray in an intercessory way. I don't know about you. I would wouldn't you love to see the whole world look at America and say, how on earth did they get out of that problem? And look at all the people that are coming to religion as the world would say it. But wouldn't you love to see, I mean, millions of people get saved? I would love to see that. Do you believe that again? Yes. You know why? Because I believe God's the same yesterday, today, and forever. He has brought this country into being with the Great Awakening in the 1600s. He allowed us to continue the second Great Awakening 200 years later in the 1800s. It's been 200 years. It's time. for a third great awakening. I'm just simple enough and believe God enough that he could do it. Hezekiah parade And look at this. In verse 35, and it came to pass that night that the angel of the Lord went out and smote in the camp of the Assyrians And when they arose early in the morning, behold they were all dead corpses. You know that you're having a bad day when you arise near a dead corpse. I want to see it, don't you? When was the last time that you prayed for an hour for our country? When was the last time you prayed for a half an hour? For just our country? That's just a sitcom. When was the last time you prayed for just fifteen minutes for our country? Okay, when was the last time you just prayed for five minutes? Five minutes. For a country. Do you know how long five minutes is when you're praying for one thing? What what's your name, buddy? Right over here? You? You. Robert stand up, Robert. Around. Got dog tags on. I like that. This is Joel right here. Joel stand up. I just want everyone to know Joel is an usher. In case anyone hasn't understood that yet, he is an usher. See that? He's doing a great job. Stand right there, Joel. Okay, stand up night nice and straight. Turn around. What what's this little one's name? Paul. Paul, stand up Paul. How old are you, Paul? How old are you? Five years old? You do you this many? Look at this sweet little one here. Four. I want it to be understood. I am four years old, okay? I love it. Stand up little ones here. Stand stand up for a second. These little ones, stand up. There's there's don't don't wait, don't wait, wake him up. Those all the little ones over there just just stand up. And then of course we have Mariah that was competing earlier. Let me ask you a question. Are these little ones worth five minutes of your time every day? Pray for our country. Just five minutes to pray just for our nation. I think all of these little ones are worth five minutes of our time. When was the last time you prayed just for five minutes? for our country. And we wonder why our nation is in the state of affairs that it's in. Wouldn't you like to see God divinely intervene for us? Well we need to start prayerfully interceding that He will. And we can do, you say, Brother Harding, where could that third great awakening begin? Right here tonight at these altars. I would just love to see it. I'm simple enough to believe it could happen God says, I sought for a man to stand in the gap, to make up the hedge before me, that I should not destroy the land, but I found none Wouldn't it be wonderful if he found people every day that would be making up the head, standing in the gap before him for the land that he should not destroy it? And he was finding thousands of people every day. Five minutes. Lord, I want you to postpone the judgment. Of our country. Oh, Brother Harding, uh look, when God decides that he's going to destroy a nation, he's going to do it. Yes, and I believe that our country will one day come to great catastrophic destruction. But it shouldn't happen while we are still You say, well give me one instance. The wicked nation, Gentile nation of Nineveh under a 40-day judgment call, and the unwilling and partially digested preacher By the name of Jonah showed up. He looked, he he preached an eight-word message and they started praying from the cane down. And God repented, turned from the evil that he sought to do to Nineveh, and he postponed their judgment from 40 days to over a century later. And God says. For the transgression of a land, many of the princes thereof, but by a man of understanding and knowledge, the state thereof shall be prolonged. I want to see our nation prolonged. Don't you? So you say, you know what? I think these young people are worth five minutes. And I'm going to commit five minutes for my country. Five minutes just to pray for America. And I'll help you do this. By showing you how to pray tomorrow night. But tonight, Brother Harding, I I'm with you. And I think our country and these young people are worth five minutes. If that's you, without any music playing, I want you just to join me at this old-fashioned altar right now and say yes. Five minutes. I'll be willing to pray for five minutes. Let's stand and let's come. And if you can physically get here