Few disclaimers on the message tonight. Second Peter chapter number one, verse number twenty says, Knowing this first That no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. A couple disclaimers. Number one, I'm not going to say anything tonight that 99. 9% of us haven't heard before. At least I hope that's the case. I'm pretty certain. Most of us, what I'm going to say tonight, you have heard over the years in other messages and different places. Second of all, what I'm going to say tonight Is not profound in the sense that it's new to anybody Um did you ever hear somebody preach and you gotta watch out for new stuff, but you ever hear someone preach on a passage and you and you say, Boy, I never thought of it that way. I never saw it that way. Anyone know what I'm talking about It's not their come up with some new truth, but they had some insight into a passage that I never saw before. That's not going to happen tonight, I doubt. Most of us have seen and heard this before. So it's not significant in that sense. It is significant in the sense that what we're going to talk about tonight is vitally important to our faith, what we're going to talk about. So it is significant in the sense of its importance and um the necessity of it We're going to talk, let me say this, we're going to talk a little bit tonight about a fundamental of the faith. And by fundamental, we mean this. If you don't have this in place, then you don't have biblical Christianity. So, alright, so it is significant. And the third thing is I'm never ac I'm not going to actually get to what I want to talk about tonight tonight. I'm going to do some of the groundwork and lead up to it. And the reason being is, and I think you'll see here when I get to it, the reason being is I want to devote an entire message to this one particular subject And so I didn't want to just make it the third point of a three-point message. You follow what I'm saying? So um I read the scripture, right? Did I read it already? We don't even remember five minutes ago. I didn't pray though, did I? Let's pray. Father, I ask you bless now. We finish out. It's been a good day. My heart's full And as we finish out with these verses here that we'll look at, I pray you just kind of solidify or reinforce Something that I'm confident the vast majority here tonight we believe, sincerely believe with all our heart But I pray you'd solidify that, re-establish it in our thinking, bring it back to the forefront of our mind once again. And to do that, I can't do that, Lord, it has to be your Holy Spirit. So Lord, I want to get myself out of the way. I want to get my own reasoning and thinking, thoughts out of the way. Yield my will to you, my mind. And I yield it to you completely. And I present my body anew that your spirit would have my tongue to be the instrument to speak and teach us your word tonight, this passage. So fill me with your spirit and bless us, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to speak on the inspiration of Scripture This passage here we read, verse 20 and especially 21, is one of two of the most significant passages in Scripture on the inspiration of Scripture. And that's going to save that for another uh another uh message next time. But Peter, I believe what Peter's doing here, we get to these The last couple verses we looked at last week, what we're going to look at tonight and then in the future, I believe Peter is laying some groundwork. for the for the uh for the fundamental doctrine of genuine Christianity In other words, Peter is laying out here what is absolutely necessary groundwork if we're going to have genuine Christianity. If our Christianity is going to be real, if it's going to be what God intends for it to be, by the way, not all Christianity is what God intends for it to be. I'm quote-unquote Christianity. Are you following me? But if we're going to have genuine biblical Christianity, it's going to be built on the truth that Peter's given us right here. That we're going to look at. Anything, let me put it this way, anything that calls itself Christian And it is not based upon the inspiration and authority of Scripture, it is not genuine Christianity. Now that's an important statement. Anything that takes the name Christian and it is not based And rooted on the authority and the inspiration of the Word of God, it is not genuine Christianity. It's a counterfeit. Anything that claims the name of Christianity and is not based on the authority and inspiration of Scripture is counterfeit Christianity. It's a phony Christianity. It is illegitimate Christianity if it is not based upon the Word of God. It's it's it's malarchy. Somebody help me. What are some other s synonyms? Of phony, counterfeit, malarky, baloney, fake. Not the real McCoy. You get the point I'm trying to make, right? The author what I'm trying to say is this the authority and the inspiration of Scripture is absolutely necessary. You're going to have biblical Christianity I believe the Bible teaches baptism by immersion. To me it's plain as death Is it possible for someone not to have, to baptize another way than by immersion, and yet still be a genuine Christian? Sure. Sure. Baptism is it's important and don't misunderstand. Don't twist what I'm trying to say here Baptism is vitally important, and it ought to be when the Bible says the way the Bible says. That's what we endeavor to do. But you can still be a Christian even if you weren't scripturally baptized the way the Bible teaches. You with me? But you cannot. A biblical Christianity, if you reject the inspiration and authority of Scripture. You get that point I'm trying to make? This is vitally important. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we cannot play with the Bible teaching of the inspiration of Scripture We cannot neglect that. We cannot toy with that. It's vital. It's a fundamental. Peter, as we've been pointing this out, as we've been leading up to these passages here. He's shifting his focus a little bit off of the Christians that he's writing to, and he's trying to stir them up, keep them going forward. We talked all about that. And now he's shifting his focus over, and there's something been happening in the churches of these Christians that he's writing to. There has been an infiltration of false teaching and unscriptural teaching and ungodly practice living. Look at verse 1 of chapter 2. Now we're jumping ahead a little bit, but I want you to see where he's heading to with what he's teaching here, what he's saying here in this passage. Look at verse 2, chapter 2, verse 1. But there were false prophets also among the people. Look at this, even as there shall be false teachers among who? You. He says they privily shall bring in damnable heresies. Strong language, huh? Damnable heresies. Peter's not playing Even denying the Lord that bought them and bring upon themselves swift destruction. So that's where he's heading to. That's and all chapter two, almost all of chapter three up until the very end. He's dealing with these folks that scoff the second coming and bring in these damnable heresies. And so his focus is shifting here a little bit. Um to on these folks, these false teachers, these false prophets that he mentions. Over in we're not far away. Turn over to Jude, chapter one. We're studying Jude in Sunday school, and it's in I never planned it this way and I knew this was the case, but it didn't enter my mind when I started either of these series. In the adult Sunday school class, we're studying the book of Jude in depth. And notice in verse number four. Now, Jude and 2 Peter are almost verbatim. They obviously, in my mind, they obviously collaborated together in writing this. Now, all under the inspiration of God, that's our subject. But they they say almost verbatim stuff through this. And look at verse 4. Look what he calls these fellows that are infiltrating the church. He says And there were certain men crept in unawares. So if somebody's creeping, what are they doing? They're sneaking in. Some guy's trying to shoot a turkey in another couple weeks. And he's creeping into the woods there and getting set up. He doesn't want to be seen. He doesn't want to want to be known what he is. He wants that turkey to think he's a bush or a stump. You follow? And notice he says these guys uh they snuck in uh unawares. Let me let me read it the way it's given there. Let me get back a little. He says, and there are certain men crept in unawares. I put in the words of my Bible. These guys are sneaky creeps. And that's what Peter's addressing. These guys are sneaking in, creeping in, and they're sneaky creeps, is what they are. So the rest of the book, from where we're at now, chapter 2 particularly, 3N, he's dealing with false, unscriptural teaching. He's dealing with foolish, ungodly living. But he's laying some groundwork and he's and it's like he's he's saying, you have got to understand The inspiration, what the inspiration of Scripture is, if you're going to effectively deal with false teaching. It's kind of like that old illustration. I'm sure many of you, most of you, if not all of you, have heard this before, when a bank teller, they're going to teach them how to identify counterfeit bills What do they teach them to do? Study the real one. There's no way you could possibly study all the counterfeit ones because they're constantly changing. But the real, the true one, never changes It's legit. And if I can identify, if I've got the legit down, I'll be able to tell what's counterfeit, what's illegit. And I think that's what Peter's doing. He's saying, listen, you need to understand, you need to understand what this book is. If you're going to be able to deal with people who are trying to change it and alter its teachings. Everybody with me? So, my first thought, I'll get right into it here. Number one, and we're not going to get to all these because I want to save the biggie for another one. Number one, notice the importance of scripture. And I know it probably sounds like I'm hounding this and just beating this for the last month or so. There's two reasons. One, this is our year of the Bible. We're standing on the promises, so we're going to focus on the Bible. Number two That's what the Bible, that's what it's teaching where we're at in our study. So But number one, the importance of Scripture. Look what he says there in verse 20 of chapter 1. Knowing this what? First. Knowing this first. What he's saying is: this is priority. This is important. What we're going to understand, what we need to understand about the authority and inspiration of Scripture is high priority. It's important. So one thing needs to be understood about biblical Christianity, the Bible is the Word of God. Now, if you're tired of me saying that, you might as well just uh get used to it because I'm going to keep saying that until the Lord takes me home. The Bible is the Word of God. That is a priority understanding. It's not just a book made written by men. It's not just some great religious writing. It's not, it's the greatest history book ever written, but it's not just a history book, it is the word of God. The very words of God. The Bible is God's Word. The Bible is the authority for all of Christianity. The Bible's authority. The church is not the authority in spiritual matters. The Bible is. And any church that teaches that they have more authority than the Bible is an apostate church. And we do have apostate churches around. The Bible's the authority, not the church. We don't have some decree, ex cathedra, and corrects the Bible or makes a statement that has more authority than the Bible. The Bible is the authority. Not a church, not a denomination. We are an independent Baptist church by design. Because inevitably, and I'm maybe getting off here a little bit, but inevitably, my observation has been inevitably You get involved in a denomination, you start finding that denomination trying to exercise authority it does not have Starts exercising the authority only Scripture has. A denomination has no authority to decide who the pastor of a church is going to be. The church decides that and we're given that authority in Scripture. Are you with me? So the Bible's our authority. That's important we understand that. That's right. This first, knowing this first, the Scripture is authority. You say you against denominations? Yeah. I think you ought to be in I was talking to uh somebody some time ago was uh in uh Uh I I forget what they were brethren or something. This is years ago, talking to him. I said, why don't you just get out of that? He was fussing, they were talking about homosexuals in the denomination, all this stuff. I said, why don't you get out of that mess? We don't got to deal with it. Amen? I don't got any denominational hierarchy trying to press me to accept sodomy. Are you with me? They don't have authority to do that. If the Bible says it's right, then we do it. If the Bible says it's wrong, we keep our hands off it. And he says, knowing this first, he's going to talk about the authority and inspiration of scripture. This is high priority. The Bible's our authority, not a church, not a denomination, not a preacher. We say this often. I fully adhere to this. If this preacher or any other preacher says something contrary to the scripture, the scripture is right, the preacher is wrong. Now you all will try to find something I said wrong, so you can come and tell me I was wrong. And I'll own it. I'll own it. If I preach something that's unscriptural, brother, I want to be right as much as anybody. The Bible's our authority, not a church, not a denomination, not a preacher. And by the way, even in our independent circles, sometimes preachers get carried away, start exercising authority they don't have. I have zero authority in your home. I can't come in your home tell you what to do and what not to do. That's primarily daddy's job. God's given the father, the head of the home, mother has authority. So the Bible is our authority. The denomination is our authority, uh, is not our authority, the church is not our authority. The preacher is not the authority, the Bible is. Let me throw one more out there, and I've got to explain this a little bit. Mama ain't the authority in scripture in Christian matters. Say, what are you talking about? I'm talking about this. Somebody says, well mama always taught me. If what mama taught you is different than what the Bible teaches, your mama is wrong Huh? Well daddy always, uh, praise the Lord. If daddy's lined up with scripture, I'm all for daddy. You with me? The Bible, the Bible, the Bible. So the priority, he says, the importance of Scripture, knowing this first. First in line, top of the list, highest priority. It's understanding the Bible's authority, the Bible is inspired of God, it's God's Word. So that tells me, this is my response to what I just said. This is my response to my own statement We need to teach our children that this book is the final authority. The Bible is the word of God. We need to drill it into their heads. When I was bus captain down in Highland Park and at Chattanooga and then out in Indianapolis, Thompson Road Baptist Church, I had a bus route out there. And um We used to do a thing, we'd have the kids repeat after us, the Bible is the Word of God. Say it. The Bible is the Word of God. Say it again. The Bible is the Word of God. And I wanted to drill in those little skulls full of mashed potatoes. I want to drill in their heads the Bible is the Word of God. They might not get a hold of it right away, and it may be 30, 40 years down the road, but someday it's going to come back. I need God. I got to go to the Bible You with me? And people remember Mike Stubbler. We were talking about Mike yesterday. Mike Stubler is forty-some years old when he got saved. Man, God got a hold of him Do you know what I found out about Brother Stubler? This was years after he was saved. He was talking a little bit. He said, you know, when I was a little kid, I used to ride a Sunday school bus They pick me up, take me to Sunday school, and they taught me about Jesus. They taught me that the Bible is the Word of God. 20, 30, 40 years later, that seed that was planted takes root, and God saves a soul and changes his life in a tremendous way, leads many people to the Lord. We ought to drill it into our kids. No child ought to ever come to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and not be taught that the Bible is the Word of God. Every grade, starting way down little. The Bible's the word of God. The Bible's the word of God. Teach it. We ought to uh uh uh be taught to our children as soon as possible. It ought to be established in our homes. Every home ought to be convinced the Bible's the Word of God. The Bible's the authority. It ought to be read. It ought to be memorized in the home. It ought to be sung, scripture song sung in the home. It ought to be drilled into the minds of our youth. It ought to be taught in every Sunday school class, every children's church class, every church service. It ought to be declared from our pulpits. Tell you, if every preacher in America of any strife would get up and start preaching the Bible is the inspired word of God, I think it'd make a difference in this old country. It ought to be printed in our papers. It ought to be broadcast over our airways Nothing is going to change our life until we get back to the Bible. Nothing's going to change our homes. Listen to me, nothing is going to change your home and the relationships in your home until you get back to the Bible. And the authority of Scripture and just taking it for what it is. Say, preacher, you preached this before, yeah, and I'm going to preach it again. Nothing's going to change our churches till we get back to the Bible. We have revival meetings. I try my best to bring in preachers that are going to preach the Bible is the Word of God The authority of Scripture. Nothing's going to change our nation until we get back to the Bible. I'm all and you've heard me say this before, I just I like this statement. I believe it with all my heart We worry about getting the Bible in the State House and the White House. We worry about getting the Bible in our schools, and I'm for all that, but how about we get it back in our homes? Let's start there. Get it back in our churches. Let's get our churches start preaching the Bible again. That'd be a good start So he says, number one, the importance of Scripture. Number two, the interpretation of Scripture. Now let's look at this. Knowing this first, that's the importance. No prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. Private interpretation. What's he talking about? Well, I'll tell you what he's not saying. He's not saying that you and I can't personally study the scriptures and try and interpret what it's saying. He's not forbidding personal Bible study. For crying out loud. The Bible teaches we ought to personally study it. So he's not like some denominations. Particularly the Catholic Church that says individuals, at least they did for decades, centuries Taught that individuals, you must not, you cannot, and you will not study the scriptures yourself. Our church leadership will tell you what the Bible says Now getting back to my introduction, that is baloney. Why would why would a now I'm not going off on this, but why would a church not want its church people to study the Bible. Do you think that maybe because they're doing some things that are unscriptural? Oh no, don't look at that book. In fact, they killed people because they read that book. So Peter's not suggesting, when he uses that term, uh no scripture is any private interpretation, he's not suggesting that Dorothy can't study the Bible for herself and understand what it says. Or Scarlet or anybody else You it behooves you and I to get this book out, get our nose in it, and start studying what it teaches. So He's not suggesting that you and I can. So what is he saying? I think there's several thoughts in this. When he says of no private interpretation, number one, I think he's saying this is the Bible did not originate with man. It originates with God. When we read, I like what um oh Preacher, not Raymond Hancock. Maybe it was Raymond Hancock years ago, old-time preacher. I used to have joy hearing him preach. He would say the Bible, it comes to us from the mind of God. And then he'd say this, let's open our Bibles and see what God's thinking about. I like that statement. What he's saying, Peter, when he says no private interpretation, in other words, no man came up with this book. Moses, Samuel, Isaiah, they didn't come up with what they wrote. He explains that in the next verse. So it's not, it originated with God, not with man, but there's another thought behind that. I think he's saying here also, no one has a corner on understanding the Bible. Kind of touched on this, but he's not suggesting that What he's saying is, listen, no one person, Brother Mark, does not have some corner, his own private interpretation of Scripture that nobody else can come up with. The word private has the idea of it's along the lines of private property, privately owned. And nobody has their own privately owned interpretation. The word interpretation has the idea of loosening, letting loose, kind of like untying your shoes. Anybody how many people here you untie your shoe and kick it off? Anybody across the living room lands in the corner. I don't personally do that, but I've heard of people doing that. That's the idea of interpretation, loosening it up. The idea is there's a passage of scripture, and this is what I try to do in my preaching I try to open it up and so people can see and understand, loosen up. You follow what I'm saying? Opening that thing. Oh, oh, I see. He opened that scripture to me. I see what it's saying And he's saying nobody has a corner on that. Nobody has a little private way of doing that. Brother Nathan can interpret Scripture just as much as Alvin can. You don't have his own little private interpretation. You follow what I'm saying, trying to say here? I think that's why That's one of many reasons we reject these modern Bible versions. Every stinking one of them has a copyright on their version of the Bible, and that's exactly what Peter is saying is not the way it is. Copywriting God's Word. Give me a break. If it's man's Bible, then sure, you copyright it all you want. You came up with it. If it's God's word, keep your copyright off of it. By the way, the way I understand it, King James is the only Bible that doesn't have a copyright. It's one reason of a many that we're not budging from the King James Bible And so doesn't mean somebody has a corner on the scripture. Anybody, a teenage, these teenage girls can open their Bible. They can look at it, study it, look up words, compare scripture, and say, hey, I see what that understands. I don't have a corner on it. Pastor Matt doesn't have a corner on it. You with me? Everybody ought to study and understand the Bible. Grandmas ought to read the Bible and try and understand it the best they can. Teenagers, Gabriel, and the best they can Now God gives the church and gives us, brothers and sisters, are gifted sometimes in teaching to help us along that way, but I don't have any corner on this thing. No private interpretation. And I think along with that is the idea, and here's just a maybe I'm stepping outside of the exact teaching here, but I think it applies. is you don't take a passage of scripture just itself, tonight's a little more teaching than preaching, but you don't take a passage of scripture just itself. and come up with a doctrine taking that scripture and disregarding all the what the other scriptures say. You compare scripture with scripture. You don't have this private. Well, this verse here says this. Well, wonderful. Amen. And if God says something one time, that ought to be enough. But we ought to look at what else he says about that subject. Right? You follow me Compare scripture with scripture. That's how cults get started. Taking verses out of context, taking verses without comparing them to other passages of scripture. You can come up with anything you want. And I think that's what these sneaky creeps are doing that Peter's addressing this. Listen, these guys don't have their own private interpretation of this. You study the scriptures yourself and determine. Don't let these guys come in here and pull a little verse out of context and a singular thing. Well, this is the only verse that applies this, and disregard all the other teaching about it. Do you know there are some verses, if you just take them out of context and just take a little portion of it, you can come up with the idea that getting baptized will save you? There's some verses. You just pull half that verse or something, and you can come up with that teaching. And it's unscriptural. What do the other verses say? Well the other verses you put them all together and say, ah You're saved by grace through faith, plus nothing, minus nothing. And so we compare scripture with scripture False teachers take scripture out of context. They isolate passages and come up with unscriptural doctrines, and they disregard cross-references. I wish everybody could have been in the Sunday school class this morning. We studied what the Bible teaches gainsaying is. And we just said, We were what the Bible said about the word gainsaying. That's a word nobody uses. And do you know the Bible is its own best dictionary? And you look and see, and we came to a scriptural definition of what the word gainsaying is by looking at how it's used throughout scripture and what the original word means. Come back to that. You with me? My third point is what I'm going to say for a message in itself, the inspiration of Scripture. The Bible talks about the inspiration of Scripture. What does it mean? And we're going to save that for a message in itself. So number one priority. We're not doing nothing until we establish the fact this book is God's word. It's our authority. Everything grows from that. Every other belief, the deity of Christ, second coming, blood atonement, all of that is built on the foundation. This book is the inspired, inerrant, perfect, authoritative word of God. Right there. That's priority. And number two, the interpretation. We don't got a corner on that. Everybody ought to study and know the Bible. Amen? Now here's my invitation Next Sunday morning, we're starting our spring revival. I am praying and asking God for a Holy Ghost revival. I mean the legit. Real deal. I mean what we read about scripture. Will God send a genuine, powerful Holy Ghost revival? I don't know. I don't know. It's what I'm praying for, it's what I'm asking for. But if we don't experience, and I'm not looking for an experience, but if we don't have a powerful moving of the Holy Spirit like I'm talking about I'm going to determine, I'm determined, it's not going to be because I didn't beg God for it. God doesn't turn some things around and say and do a work noticeable spiritual, supernatural work. If we don't experience that, and I'm not I hope you follow what I'm trying to say. And it's possible that won't happen. It's you know God responds to us. But I do not want it to be because I didn't ask for it. Follow what I'm saying? Because I didn't want it. Listen, if we don't ask for it, we don't want it. It ain't happening We ask God and we beg and we pray and we do inventory, we make everything right in our hearts. We get right with our spouse and our neighbors and whoever else we're not right with. We get all that right God can send revival. Maybe he'll wait later. Maybe it won't be this week. Maybe it will. But let's not let it be because we didn't ask for it and plead for it and want it with all our heart. And that's my invitation. I'm going to invite our church, every member. You say, Preacher, I want that too. I want God to do something real in my life. I've got so many, I got I got these besetting sins. I struggle with this and uh I'm not that and I've got this attitude. And maybe tonight kneel at an old altar of God's people and say, God, we're asking you to send a Holy Ghost revival to this church. And my invitation is to every member Just flood this altar and say, God give us. God do it. God do it. Start it in me. Make it what it ought to be. You with me? That's my invitation. So let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.