Timothy chapter number one addresses that subject of fear in verse number seven. If would you read verse seven together with me in Eunice and Second Timothy chapter one, verse seven there. Let's read it all together. Ready? Here we go. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. Did you get that? I've got that undersc underscore to my Bible in red. God hath not given us a spirit of fear. And that's what I want to talk about, this spirit of fear this morning. Let's pray. And ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, sure has been good to be in your house with your people. Lord, my heart has already been blessed. Just to fellowship one with another, sweet spirit. The love that we have one for another is just so encouraging. I thank you for the songs we sing. Once for all, and uh rejoice in the Lord. What these good songs are in amen a little bit ago. Just stir my heart. Now, Lord, as we've opened our Bibles and we're looking into your word, I ask, Father in heaven. That you would meet with us, that your presence would be here in a very evident way. And I pray, Lord, through your Holy Spirit, that you would take this scripture And apply it to each of our hearts and lives as you know we have need. Lord, I want to get out of the way I want to yield my will to you and present my body anew that you could take me and fill me. Lord, that you would speak through me your word. Help us to make right decisions. Help us to trust you. And to follow your instructions and let you live through us and use us. So speak to us now and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think one of the greatest truths in the Christian life, one of the greatest facts about the Christian life, is the fact that the moment we trust Jesus Christ as our Savior The Holy Spirit of God indwells these bodies of ours. I spoke to our juniors on Friday night. Brother Mark had the little junior camp out. We had a great time. Um I think I beat them all in golf. And um all the juniors, they're the only ones I golf with, because if I golf with anybody older than them, they beat me. So But we had a wonderful time, and I was able to speak to the juniors about this matter of the Holy Spirit indwelling them. The moment a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, now think about this with me. This is mind-boggling to me The God that created this universe, the God that spoke this galaxies and this universe and this world, the God that has the power to speak that into existence. Get this. moved into your body and my body in the person of the Holy Spirit the moment we trust Christ as Savior. How many people agree with me? That's mind-boggling Now, if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, you are right now in dwelt with the Holy Spirit of God. Now, by the way, on the other side of that, if you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, Then you are without God. Ephesians says you're without God and without hope in this world. Our only hope is the Lord Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit of God, God dwelling within us, the power Of the Holy Spirit indwelling within us is an amazing, amazing thing. I think the uh the person of the Holy Spirit is probably the most neglected personality in the world or the most distorted and misunderstood. The Holy Spirit dwelling within us. What an amazing thing that is. When the Holy Spirit comes and dwells within us, Jesus said in John chapter 16 that he will give us comfort in the times of sorrow. Now, I know, I'm certain I'm talking to some people that are going to understand what I'm trying to describe here in this next couple statements. But those of us that know Christ as Savior, those of us that have experienced the Holy Spirit comforting us in times of sorrow, let me see if anybody here understands what I'm talking about. When your heart is so broken. And you feel so abandoned by this world, but yet something down in your heart and soul assures you that God is there and everything's going to be okay. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You know what that is? That's the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within us, bringing comfort. I don't know how many times. uh I uh I've been in a situation, I've been in a a difficult setting, and a m a verse would come to mind that I never even knew I memorized, and that verse would come to mind and give me reassurance and give me encouragement. Anybody know what I'm talking about? What a blessed thing it is to be indwelt with the Holy Spirit of God. And to have that comfort in times of sorrow. Romans chapter number eight tells us that The Holy Spirit that indwells us not only will give us comfort in times of sorrow, but it'll give us clarity in times of prayer. Romans chapter 8 says that the Holy Spirit, now I'm putting this in my own words here, but the Holy Spirit will help us pray when our heart is so broken we don't even know what to pray. Now again, I know I'm talking to some folks. I've been there myself. I'm sure many, if not all of us, as Christians, have been at this point where we were so broken, maybe we were so confused Uh the situation was so devastating we wanted to pray, but we didn't know what to say. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And you just kneel before God, and you almost there's no words to express, and you just groan and you just sigh before the Lord. And the Holy Spirit that dwells within us takes that prayer, that unspoken, inaudible prayer, and takes that and brings it before God. And expresses it before God the Father in ways you and I never could. I am so glad that we have the Holy Spirit to help us pray And he makes our prayers, brings them before God. So he brings us comfort in sorrow. He brings clarity in times of prayer where we don't even know what to say. The Holy Spirit prays for us. And then this is what I'm getting at. The Holy Spirit dwelling within us gives us confidence in times of fear. Confidence in times of fear. Study the book of Acts, and you find believers that are being scattered all through that Middle East. They're being persecuted. They're being imprisoned. They're being beaten. They're being stoned. Many of them lost their lives. For the cause of Christ, for no other reason. They were followers of Jesus Christ and they were preaching the gospel. And yet, in the midst of the most fearful setting you can possibly imagine as a believer They spoke the word of God with boldness. They had this courage, a superhuman courage Where they could stand in the face of persecution and proclaim the name of Jesus Christ, not through human courage, but it's through the presence and power of the Holy Spirit. I'm telling you, that's what I want us to think about this morning. We live in a day and age where we need the power of the Holy Spirit and we need the boldness that only the Spirit of God can give us. Paul, writing to Timothy under the inspiration of God, says, God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. What a statement. What a statement. Second Timothy was penned by Paul. I always like to give a little background of the book we're looking at. It was penned by Paul shortly before his death. Later on in the book here, Paul mentions the fact that He's fought a good fight. He's finished his course. He's about to be martyred for Christ. He's about to be beheaded because he's a preacher of the gospel. He sees that. He knows it's coming. And he's writing to Timothy on these last days of his time here on earth. He's actually in prison, probably in Rome at this point. And he's g he's extending this call or this challenge to Timothy. Now if you study the whole book, you'll find that there are several Themes or several areas that Paul is challenging this young preacher boy, Timothy. He's just a young man. He's called to preach. He pastored for a number of years. And he's calling him to stand firm in his commitment to Christ. He's saying, Timothy, you are committed to the Lord Jesus Christ. You stand firm in that commitment. Don't you waver. And your commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. By the way, the history books tell us that shortly after Timothy received this letter, he was imprisoned for his faith. And uh he was imprisoned for preaching the gospel. Um this is a little aside. We talked about it a little bit in Sunday school, but um I'm telling you that days where Bible believers and gospel preachers being in prison in the United States of America may not be too far off We're seeing that more and more all the time. Now I don't want to be uh sensational and I don't want to try and you know be scary or anything, but I'm saying it's a very real possibility that you and I are facing. We're talking about in New Zealand and some of the laws they're passing that are restricting speech And uh and uh may end up Bible preachers down there being imprisoned. And so that is spreading across the world. So Timothy, Paul's writing to Timothy, and he says, listen And if you'll read the book carefully, he mentions several times afflictions and persecution and suffering for the gospel. And he's saying, Timothy, don't you waver in your commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ Can I extend the same challenge to you and I, as members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, in the year 2021, in the coming years, I want to challenge us Regardless of what happens in our society, regardless of what direction our country goes, regardless of how this world may respond to us, let's remain firm in our commitment to Jesus Christ. That's what the challenge was to Timothy. Don't you waver. You stay true to your Lord, who died for you and rose again. He's challenging Timothy to stand firm in this commitment to Jesus Christ. He's challenged Timothy to stay true to biblical doctrine. Would you look with me at verse number 13 of chapter 1 there? Pastor Matt read it just a few moments ago. 2 Timothy 1. 13, he says this: Hold fast. If you look down in verse 14, he said, That good thing which was commended to thee, keep by the Holy Ghost which dwelleth within us. Look over in chapter 2 and verse 3. Therefore, endure hardness as a good soldier. He's saying, stand firm, you stay true. Not just in your commitment to Jesus Christ, but also stay true to biblical doctrine. Again, back there in verse 13 Hold fast the form of sound words, which thou hast heard of me in faith and love, which is in Christ Jesus Listen to me. The doctrines that this book teach us about Jesus Christ, about the spiritual world, about the things of life, we must stay true to the doctrines of that book. I uh you know, by the help, with the help of God and by the grace of God, as long as I'm pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we are holding to the fundamental doctrines of that book right there. We're not going to compromise them for any type of cooperation, any type of uh popularity. You say, preacher, we need bigger crowds. Hey, if bigger crowds mean compromising Bible doctrine, we're sticking with the doctrine. That's a challenge to Timothy. Paul says you hold fast that form of sound words. Don't you compromise the teachings of this book for any reason. And so the challenge to Timothy is to stand firm in his commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ, to stay true to Bible doctrine, and then this is what we want to look at this morning: to stir up his courage when facing affliction. Stir up that courage. Timothy was facing opposition, as all believers were in that setting. And I tell you, the timid and cowardice And the Fredycats and the Cesse Christians, they weren't going to stand very long in that environment The Christians that were going to make a difference, the Christians that were going to have an impact on this world with the gospel, they needed to have, they needed boldness and courage, not the spirit of fear. Now that brings us to our text here in verse 7. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind. As a young preacher boy in a world intensely opposed to his Christian faith, he had to conquer fear. If he was going to be what God wanted him to be, if he was going to serve the Lord acceptably, if he was going to have an impact in his world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. He must conquer fear. That's what Paul's telling him. You've got to get over it. Fear was a major factor in the early church. You study through the book of Acts, you find them over and over. They're praying, Grant unto thy servants that with all boldness we may speak the word as we ought to. They faced intense opposition They faced persecution from Jewish rulers and Roman government. And fear was a big issue in that early church. In fact, fear has been an issue all through church history. As if we face a world that opposes RP. We live in a day now, I don't have to tell you this, we live in a day now, our nation is gripped by fear. Right or wrong? Scared to death. Our world is gripped by fear. Of course, afraid of this virus going on. Fear. afraid of violence taking place in our cities. I had some family members went uh down, of course I grew up uh my family's back Philadelphia Um where I grew up, but um uh we lived on the north end of the city, right on the outside the city limits, and I had some family go down to Baltimore here some time ago And I'll be honest with you, I got it made me a little concerned. I said, where in the city are you going? Where are you going? They went in the spine. But I tell you, just thinking of that makes me, worries me a little bit. Anybody know what I'm talking about? There's a little bit of fear there. I mean you got guys like Chuck Davis down there, you know, and and uh I'm teasing I'd rather have Chuck with me when I went down there than Fear, violence in our cities, changes in our country, and directions that are not good. Scared of a virus, fear has gripped our nation and our world. Now, some of y'all are a little older than me, and I'm old enough to remember back in elementary school in the 1960s. During the Cold War, when there was the our nation was gripped by fear of the nuclear bomb. Anybody, anybody here old enough to remember that? And people were digging fallout shelters in their backyards and under their houses and schools. I remember when communities they would have signs up were nuclear fallout shelters. Anybody Remember that? And towns would have them different places. Fear gripped our nation under the Cold World War. And we live in a time of fear right now. We're losing our liberties. Economic crash is looming. And here's the thing, that fear, this is what I'm getting at, that fear that grips our world is creeping into our churches and creeping into the hearts and minds of the people of God of all people. Afraid. Afraid. Somebody said what a world, uh, in a world that is scared to death, a world that is scared to death needs Christians who are fearless For the gospel. And that's all through church history. What this world needs are churches and Christians who do not have a spirit of fear Fear. God has not given to us a spirit of fear, power, of love, and of a sound mind. Paul was urging Timothy to not allow the spirit of fear to hinder his walk with God, and not allow this spirit of fear to hinder his work for God. Now I've got three thoughts real quickly I want to share with you this morning. Number one, I want us to consider the definition of the spirit of fear. The spirit of fear. What does he mean when he uses that phrase, the spirit of fear? God hath not given us the spirit of fear. What does he mean by that? Well, I do what I always do. I did what I always do. I started looking up those words. I wanted to see what the word it comes from means. I wanted to see how it's used, other places in Scripture. And I found that the word Spirit there, if you'll notice it's not a capital S, so that means he's not talking about the Holy Spirit of God, obviously. He's not even talking about our spirit as in with our soul or what we are. You and I have a body, but we are a spirit. We are a soul. That's what we are. We inhabit this body. I was at a funeral yesterday for Brother Benny Morant, and um that was his body there, his tent. They referred to his body as a tent or a tabernacle And I thought the other day, uh, that body, that tent's folded up, and yesterday they put it in the ground, they folded that tent up, they put it away. B brother Moran's not in it anymore. They put it in the ground where when the Lord comes back, they'll get that tent out, that tabernacle, that body out again, it'll be glorified, and it'll start living in that body again So when he's talking about spirit here, he's not even talking about our spirit. I believe what he's talking about here is our attitude. Our way of thinking, our mindset. Did you ever hear somebody say this about somebody? Ah boy, he's got a bad spirit about him. Anybody ever hear that? Oh, she has such a sweet spirit. Um uh what are they saying? They saying, boy, they got a good attitude. They got a good demeanor. He's got a mean spirit about him. In other words, he's got a bad attitude. He's got a bad way of thinking. He's just a hateful way of thinking. By the way, men can have sweet spirits too, right? Well we say she has a sweet spirit in men. And I thought, well, I know some men that have a sweet spirit. So when he says he's got the spirit there, the word spirit has the idea of a way of thinking, uh an attitude. How my mind, what my frame of mind. In fact, the word spirit sometimes is translated other places. The word that it comes from is translated other places as a wind. An influence upon something. So, in other words, he's saying God has not given us a spirit, a mentality, a mindset, an attitude that affects us and controls us. Of fear. Do you know the way we think it it controls our behavior? Anybody know that? The way I'm thinking controls me, it governs me He says God's not giving us an attitude, a frame of mind, a a mindset, and then he uses the term fear. By the way, that's the only time in the Bible that the root word from the word fear is used here in this place, only time in all the Bible. And it means this, simply means this, one word, cowardice, bradycat, sissy God has not given us the spirit of cowardice, timid and cowering before something that grips our mind and controls our thinking. God has not given us a spirit of fear. I looked up the word cowardice. It means to lack courage, to cower in face of real or perceived opposition or danger. God has not given us a spirit of fear. In other words, he's saying this: God has not given us We are not to have our thinking controlled by cowardice. How many folks are with me? Everybody with me here? All right? Bear with me now. I must my thinking must not be influenced or controlled by cowardice. Now, don't misunderstand what he's saying here. He's not saying we shouldn't be cautious. He's not saying we shouldn't be careful in different situations. The horse is prepared for the day of battle, Proverbs tells us. And what he's saying there is simply this: you're going to go into battle, you're taking a horse in the battle. Make sure you put some armor on that thing. Make sure you take some cautions. Make sure you think it through. Consider what the setting is going to be that horse is going into. But don't be afraid because safety is of the Lord. You follow what I'm saying? He's not saying be reckless. He's not saying God's given us a spirit of recklessness and just throw caution to the wind. No, no, no. But we're not controlled by cowardice. If you would keep your place here, then come with me to Romans chapter number eight He touches on the same subject, Paul writing to the church at Rome, who was facing intense persecution, a church where fear was a real factor And they're living for God and they're serving God. Romans chapter 8, and look with me if you would at verse number 15. He says almost very, very similar, almost verbatim, what he's telling Timothy, Romans 8 and verse 15 For we have not received the spirit of what? Bondage again to fear But we have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father's capital S on that second spirit there. We have the Holy Spirit dwelling within us. But I think it's interesting in Romans 8. 15, Paul writing to the church at Rome, who is experiencing intense persecution, who fear would be a very real factor in their Christian lives, and he says, Listen, I want you to remember. God has not given us the spirit of bondage unto fear. He's saying we must not be controlled by cowardice We must not allow our fears to control us and to hold us in slavery, is what bondage is. All through Scripture we find some of God's greatest people influenced by the spirit of fear. I thought uh uh maybe if uh uh maybe you're thinking of somebody throughout the Bible who fear Controlled them and had bad consequences. You know who I thought of right away? Abraham. Remember, Abraham was called of God to go to a promised land? He got there, he got to Canaan, and famine hit. And I'm sure Abraham was thinking, listen, I left Ur and I left my hometown. I left my whole family and came out here and God got me to Canaan. This is where he promised. And the first thing I experienced is a famine. There's no food, there's no rain, there's no crops. And he heads down to where? He goes down to Egypt. God did not call Abraham to Egypt. He called him to Canaan. But he goes down to Egypt. And on the way down to Egypt, Abraham gets thinking and fear takes over. And he gets down there and he's looking at his wife Sarah and he's thinking, man, she's a beautiful woman. And I believe Sarah was an incredibly beautiful woman. And he gets looking at her and he says, We get down there, Pharaoh is going to want her. And if he if he knows that I'm her husband, he's going to kill me to get my wife. And you know what happened? Spirit of fear took over Abraham. The bondage of fear controlled his thinking. And he lied. And he says, oh, she's my sister. Now I often wonder, he tells her ahead of time, he says, listen, Sarah, we get down to Egypt. Uh tell them that I'm your brother, you're my sister. Don't tell them we're married because um it'll go bad for me if they find out we're married. Now I often wonder what Sarah thought about that. What, you're ashamed of me? You're afraid? You're not willing to die for me? Uh no And the spirit of fear took over Abraham and he lied about his wife. And it just about cost him. Just about cost him. There's other cases in the Bible where the spirit of fear came over. Moses was out in the wilderness. He had raised up in Pharaoh's household, and he killed an Egyptian. Anybody remember that story? And he fled for his life, which was makes sense. And he's out in the wilderness for forty years. He's taking care of sheep and he sees this bush is burning, but it's not consumed. It's on fire, but it's not being Consumed. And so he says, I don't know, what in the world is this? And he goes over, and God begins speaking to him. And God tells him, Moses, I am calling you to the ministry. I am calling you to go back down to Egypt and lead my people out of slavery into the promised land. And Moses says, I can't talk very good. And the spirit of fear comes over Moses. And he starts giving all these reasons and all these excuses why he can't do what God is calling him to do. And the root of it all was the spirit of fear. He was afraid. And God had to show him numerous times the power of God and what God could do and what God would do through him. He just needed to trust God and do it. Spirit of fear. I wonder how many people, listen, I wonder how many people are not in the ministry today, not serving God today, because of the spirit of fear. Oh God, I could never do that. Oh, I could, oh no, I can't. Oh no no no no no. I can't can't talk talk talk very good Spirit of fear. I thought of A I thought of Abraham. I thought of Moses. Uh I thought of Israel when Moses did lead them out of the nation out of the uh Egyptian slavery and they got to a place called Kadesh Barnea. Little town, and they're about to go in and they the promised land. All this that God had promised them, the land of milk and honey. And I said, you know, before we go storming into this nation cross the Jordan River and storm into there, maybe we ought to send a few spies in there and just see what we're getting into. Ah, wasn't the greatest idea. Moses says, alright. So they sent twelve spies in, one from each tribe. Ten were bad, two were good. What did they see when they got into Canaan? They saw great subclusters, but they also sow saw giant armies. And they came back, and 10 said, listen, that place is exactly the way God described it. It's unbelievable the prosperity and the and the fruitfulness of that land. It's amazing. But there's walled cities there, and there's giants. And in the eyes of those giants, we're just like grasshoppers to them. They'll just step on us and squish us. It's hopeless. We can't go in there. We're all gonna die. Caleb and Joshua said, oh no, no, no, no. We can do it. God's promised us. We can take this land. We can go into that land. And the ten prevailed. And the nation of Israel, fear, a spirit of fear, gripped the nation of Israel, and they refused to go into the promised land. As a result of that, for 40 years they wandered in the wilderness until that generation died off. Spirit of fear gripped the nation of Israel, God's people. Spirit of fear affected Abraham or Moses when God was calling him into the ministry. The spirit of fear affected Abraham in his relationship with his wife. I thought about Elijah. In the book of Elijah, when he called the prophets of Baal together and he issued one of the greatest challenges in all scripture, when he says, Listen, you pray to Baal And I'll pray to Jehovah and the God that answers by fire, let him be God. And they accepted his challenge. Four hundred prophets of Baal prayed and sought their false God, and they cut themselves, and they did all these things to try and appease a false God. Of course, no fire fell. Elijah steps up and he prays to the true and living God, pours water all over that, praise to the true and living God, and fire of heaven falls down and consumes the wood. consumes the sacrifice and consumes the water. How many people would love to have been there and seen that? Man, what an event. You say Elijah's fearless. Elijah is bold and courageous. Yeah, until Jezebel started throwing some threats around. Jezebel said, You get me Elijah, and I'll do to Oh by the way, chop the heads off the all the false uh all the prophets of Baal. I'd have liked to have been there, but not as a prophet of Baal Fearless. Then Jezebel says, You get me Elijah, and I'll do to him what he did to those prophets. And Elijah, the bold man of God, the prophet of God, said, I'm out of here. And he went running. Spirit of fear gripped him. He got out in the wilderness, and you know what happened? He got so discouraged. That spirit of fear had such a control over his thinking, such a control over his mindset, that he says, I wish I wasn't even alive. I wish I'd just die. Fear, that spirit of fear, that mindset of cowardice, afraid, controlling my thinking and my actions, has been a factor of some of God's greatest servants. Fear. Fear. Fear is a very real issue. And Paul is writing to Timothy here in Timothy, 2 Timothy chapter 1, just before Paul dies. Pit Timothy's about to pay a heavy price for his faith in Christ, and he writes to him and he says, Listen, Timothy, you remember this God has not given us a spirit of fear, a cowardice thinking, a fredy cat mindset. God's not given us that. So the definition of the term spirit of fear means my thinking being influenced or controlled by cowardice, fearfulness. Second of all, I'd like for us to consider the danger of this spirit of fear. The danger. I got looking in my Bible and doing a little research, I found that 63 times in the Bible, the phrase Fear not appears. Fear not. Fear not. Fear not. Fear not. Over and over and over and over and over again. God tells his people Fear not! Don't you be afraid in this world. Now I got thinking, why in the world does God emphasize Not being fearful. Why does he say it over and over and over again to his people in the Old Testament, New Testament? Why does he keep telling us, don't you be afraid? Don't you have that spirit of fear? Don't let it control you. Don't let it grip you. Don't let it dominate you. Don't be in bondage to this coward. Why does he keep saying that over and over and over? I'll tell you why. Because it's a dangerous thing in the Christian life. To allow fear to control me. I put down three reasons, three dangers of this spirit of fear. Number one, it hinders our spiritual progress. Fear is one of Satan's great weapons to keep us going forward in our faith, to keep us from growing. Proverbs chapter 29 and verse 25, listen to this. It says, the fear of man bringeth a snare. Now, I uh when I was young growing up, I always enjoyed trapping. Any way any trappers here? Anybody here ever did trapping in your life? Uh three people, okay Not many people do it anymore, but we would uh we'd catch little muskrats and raccoons and possums every now and then, a skunk, and um Uh and uh we uh catch sometimes a fox or whatever they were a little harder. We didn't have coyotes back there then. Um But uh we'd set these traps out and we'd have these snares you could use a snare and we'd put it like maybe where a fence was, you could see where the critters were going under a fence or there was a run in the water down to the stream. You could see where they're going down there. And we put this little snare there and attach it to a tree or a stake or something. And that little critter, that little muskrat or something would get in there and get in that snare, and you know what happened? It would keep it from going forward. It would hold it in place. It couldn't do the things it wanted to do. It couldn't do the things it was designed to do. And it was held there till we come and we dispatch it and took care of it. God says this: there's a real danger in this spirit of fear. It is like a snare. And it'll keep us from progressing in our Christian life. It'll keep us from growing in our walk with God. It'll keep us from being the Christian God wants us to be when this fear grips us and controls us We were in my wife and I met in the bus ministry down in Chattanooga, Tennessee at the Highland Park Baptist Church, and from almost day one that I showed up on campus for five years later I was very diligent. I squeezed a four-year Bible college into five years and it was a lot of work. But uh from day one, we showed up down there I've worked in the bus ministry. I have loved the bus ministry. By the way, I thank God for a church that has a bus ministry And um man, I think it's one of the most important ministries of our church. Bringing people into the under the Word of God, bringing people into church. And so we were down there and our route, I w had an afternoon Sunday school, the church ran 42 buses. How about that? Forty-two buses that ran all over the city. They'd bring them in. Then uh for the morning service, then uh those buses they clean them up, refuel them, and then they'd send them back out in the afternoon. and run all those buses and have an afternoon Sunday school. And our route was an afternoon Sunday school and um uh we had uh we went into the projects they had them divided up into different Sunday schools. We were the C Sunday school. And all our kids were out of the inner city projects. I mean rough. I wish I could take you back in time, walk those streets. I mean rough. There'd be syringes on the streets and beer cans everywhere and run-down houses, government big government buildings. And uh we'd go in there and we'd witness the people and give out tracks, we'd run the bus in Sunday morning You couldn't go in after night. Good night, you'd never come out. And we bring those, and we'd load that bus up with these little kids and bring them to Sunday school and teach them about Jesus. But you know what I noticed A lot of times some of those kids that get saved, boy, they're going to get baptized and they're going to live for God. But they'd be there and uh I noticed this uh uh early on, we'd drive down the street, certain streets, and depending who was standing out on the sidewalks Those kids would be sitting in the bus and they'd look out the window and they'd see some of their friends or some of the neighbors in their neighborhood and they'd go like they go, uh, this is the bus, here's the window, and they'd see their friend and this would happen. I mean they'd disappear. They'd hide underneath the seats, they'd duck down there. You know why? Because they were afraid of what their friends would think. You with me? And boy Michael, he's probably 16 years old, maybe 17. And uh he came to Sunday school. We had a special teen revival, and he came to Sunday school, he came that team revival, old Michael got saved I mean, God changed his life, turned him around. He got baptized, he was living for God, but his old buddies got wind of that And they started coming around giving him a hard time. And you know what happened to Michael? He disappeared He wouldn't come to church. He wouldn't come to Sunday school. You know why? He was afraid of what his friends were saying and thinking and do to him. See what I'm saying? Fear will hinder our spiritual progress. I had high hopes for Michael. I mean God got a hold of him. Out of the inner city projects. And man, he was carrying his Bible, he dressed nice, he was coming to church, doing right, his language changed, he cleaned up his language, he cleaned up his life, no more drinking and carrying on But is he got afraid of what others would say. I wonder how many Christians are stunted in their spiritual growth. How many Christians are less than what God would have them to be because they have a spirit of fear? Afraid. Afraid. Spirit of fear will hinder our Christian our spiritual progress. Take your Bible with me, if you would, real quickly, and go to Matthew chapter 14. Matthew chapter 14. Fear has always been a factor in God's people. Matthew chapter 14, and look with me if you would. At verse number 30, now this is a fascinating story. I would love to have been a seagull flying around watching this take place. Jesus, the disciples are out on the ship at night and there's a terrible storm going on. And uh they notice if you come back up here Verse 24, but the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with the waves, for the wind was contrary. Now picture this in your mind. They're out in the ship, it's being tossed about big waves, a wind's blowing, terrible situation. Verse 25, and in the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went unto them. What's he doing? He's walking on the sea. Jesus is walking on water. Now look how the disciples responded And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It's a spirit. They thought it was a ghost. And they cried out for what? Fear. They are scared to death. Now, I'll hand it to you. If I was in their shoes, I'd probably be scared too, right? Number one, you got this terrible storm, and here's something, somebody's out there walking on the water. What in the world? Look what happens. But straightway Jesus spake unto them: Be of good cheer. It is I, be not afraid. Don't have this spirit of fear about you. And Peter answered, oh Peter, something else, I'll tell you that. Peter answered him and said, Lord Lord, now they're yelling over the wind. The waves are crashing against the boat. It's up and down, tossed about. Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. Boy, Peter's got guts, huh? Ain't no spare to fear there yet. And the Lord said, Come. I often wondered, I wonder if Peter didn't really mean that when he said that. And then the Lord said, Yeah, come on. It's like, uh oh And I I see I can picture, I love to picture this in my mind. The waves are blowing us the ships down, then it's up, and the wind's shh blowing, and the Lord's out there, come, beat it! And he puts his leg over the thing steps over. And thou it's not smooth water, right? You you see these little pictures and it's just water. Peter's walking across this nice water. Uh-uh, that ain't the way it is Those waves are up and down, and whitecats are crashing, and the wind's blowing, and Peter's walking up one side of the wave And down the other side, and the wind's blowing him, and he sees the Lord there, and he's walking and walking. But look there at the next verse. Something happens. I don't know where I'm at on the verses, but I know where I'm at down here. And Peter's walking across. Anybody, anybody agree with me? That's something else. Be walking on the water, not just flat water, but I mean storm up and down sideways and he's stepping over weight caps and And then what happens? He, what's it say down, what is it, verse 30, what's it say? When he saw the wind boisterous, and I think the waves. What's it say? He what? He was saying what he was afraid. The spirit of fear. Came over him. He saw his circumstance. He saw the situation he had gotten himself into. And he said, What in the world am I doing? And fear took over his thinking, and he begins to sink. I don't know about you. Every time I jump in water, I didn't sink slow. You know? He begins to sink. I think it's like, he's going down. And as he goes, I I think this is what he says, as he goes, he says, Lord help me. The Lord helps him. Now here's the point I'm trying to make. As soon as that spirit of fear took over Peter, he stopped making progress. He was in a tough situation. He was in a scary circumstance, right or wrong. Walking on water in a storm is scary. I don't know from experience, but I'm assuming that would be the case. As long as his eyes were on Jesus, he was making progress. As long as he did not have the spirit of fear, he was making progress and getting closer. and closer to the Lord Jesus Christ. But as soon as that spirit of fear took over him, boom, he goes down. Now, the Lord's gracious and came to Him. My point I'm trying to make is this: when we allow fear to control us, we cease getting closer to the Lord. It hinders our spiritual progress. So, number one, fear is the danger of the spirit of fear. Number one, it hinders our spiritual progress. Number two, I put this down: it hinders our Christian service. You're in Matthew here. Come over to chapter 25, if you would, very quickly. Matthew chapter 25. And here we have a parable where the Lord is dishing uh where this fella is dishing out talents. To several of his stewards, people that are helping him take care of his property and his possessions. And he's dishing out these talents, which in this case would be a type of money But in Matthew 25, and uh look at verse number uh 14. For the kingdom of heaven is a man traveling a far country, called his servants, and delivered unto them his goods. Verse 15, unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and another one. Every man according to his several abilities. He says, All right, this guy, he's pretty sharp, I'll give him ten, this guy I'll give him five, this guy I'll give him one. And he instructs them to go out and make gain, use these and increase my possessions. Then he that received the five talents, verse 16, went and traded the same and made them another five towns. This guy took what he had and used it for the glory of his master, and he brought gain to his master. Likewise, verse 17, he that had received the two talents, he also gained another two. Now look at this. Look at verse 18. But he that received one Went and digging in the earth and hid his Lord's money. They have two different responses here. Two took what the Lord gave him. And they went out and took chances. They went out and made effort. They went out and did what they could to try and gain more for their master. One of them came and hit it in the ground, say, Well, I'll make sure he gets back what he gave me. Now come down to verse 24. The Lord explains. Then said he, then he which had received the one talent came. This is after the master comes back, and he's given they're given account to him He which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou wert a hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed. Look at this next statement. And I was what? Afraid. And I went and hid thy talent in the earth, and lo, there thou hast that is thine Fear prompted him to disobey what his master told him to do. His master said, You take this and you use it. And he says, I was afraid. Listen, I'm talking to people. I'm talking to people right now, I believe. God has given every one of us different talents, different abilities Now the talent here is money, but the application is the abilities, the skills, the gifts that God has given to us to serve him with. To serve Him with the abilities and gifts God has given us. And I tell you, I've been running into it ever since I've been in the ministry. Folks are gifted, but they won't serve God because they're afraid. I was reading this week about a preacher who was saying that he had a fellow in his church that God had stirred him to go and start a church, start another church. One of the many said, God's called me to start a church. And he said, Amen. And then so they worked a little bit and finally the guy said, I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. He says, well, I thought God called you. We did it. Well, why won't you go and do what God's called you to do? You know what he said? He says, I'm afraid I'll fail. And the preacher said to him, What if you were guaranteed success? What if you were guaranteed you went out and started church, it would be successful? Would you do it? He said, absolutely. He says, the only your problem is you have a spirit of fear. Just do it. Trust God and do what God has called you to do. Listen, there's people, I know this is true, there's people I'm talking to that would go soul-winning and would be a much bolder witness if it wasn't for what? I'm afraid to talk to people about Jesus. I'm afraid. There's people who could work in the bus ministry here, but they're afraid. Of failure, afraid that I can't do that. There's people, uh, there's there's folks have musical abilities that can play instruments That we could have a little orchestra down here and play various instruments. I know there's folks in our church, and I talk to them, and you know what they say? I'm just afraid to get up there and play. Listen, if God's given you a gift, God has enabled you, God has gifted you. Don't let the spirit of fear keep you from serving God. If nobody ever got up and preached sermons until they were no longer afraid, there wouldn't be anybody preaching sermons I'm telling you, when God called, when I had the first opportunity to preach back in Philadelphia, I was only saved a couple months and they came and said, we want you to preach Wednesday night. I'm telling you, I was terrified. I'd practiced. I got my dad and my sisters up in the attic of our house, so that's where my room was. I said, you guys sit there. And I preached it to him. You know how long it lasts? About five minutes the sermon was. It was on prayer. So then Dad said, Well when you get up there and preach in there it'll last longer. I said, All right. I got up and preached. You know how long it lasts? Three minutes I was terrified. But we cannot allow the spirit of fear to control us, or we'll never do anything for God. Don't answer this. Don't answer this visibly. But in your own heart and mind, let me ask you this. If you were guaranteed that nobody would give you a hard time, would you witness to more people than you do? If your answer to that is yes, and you know what you have? You have the spirit of fear that is keeping us from witnessing to people. Right or wrong? I'm right. Amen. I know I'm right. Fear. Fear. It's a factor in the Christian life. It will hinder us from serving the Lord. All through the book of Acts, they prayed for boldness. Lord, grant unto thy servants boldness, and we may speak the word as we ought to. They were scared. So, Lord, we don't want our fear to control us. We want to be bold. We were in Indianapolis, I was on the step there, I was youth pastor at the Thomson Road Baptist Church, and we would go through the city there, um uh of Indianapolis, there was one street, Shelby Street, and then there was other streets went off. And it was rough. And so we're going door to door. I had about 15, 20 teens. We're out on Saturday morning. We're just canvassing the area, talking to people about the Lord. And I had some people with me. We're going down this one street And uh we could see ahead, about half the way down the block, there was a big party going on in the front ro in the front yard, and there was music blaring. And as we got closer we saw it was a motorcycle gang. I mean they're all in leather and their uh, you know, earrings and tattoos and and uh there's whiskey bottles all over and the music's playing And uh me being the great youth pastor leading these teens was like, I gotta go somewhere else. This is too scary. And uh the kids just say, are we gonna go talk to them? And I'm there, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm done telling you it was scary. There's this big old guy walk down there, this big old guy, big beard, earrings all over. And um So I said, all right, Lord help me. Grant me those old boldness. I speak the word of God. And uh went up and said, I said, excuse me, sir, I'm Pastor Dennis from the Thomson Road Baptist Church Can I leave a little gospel track with you here? And I pulled a gospel track out and said, uh, let's tell you how you know for sure you're going to heaven when you die And he he looked at me and he said, Sure, thank you, in this real high voice. And uh I said, huh? He goes, thank you very much. You know what? That guy was the nicest guy in the world. We became buddies. He was asking about whether drinking whiskey is bad or not and we we had a great conversation. We did a little Bible study. I shared the gospel. You didn't get saved. But uh we were like afterward, hey bud, best BFF, huh? You know what it was? It was fear almost kept me from sharing the gospel with this guy Fear, the danger of the spirit of fear, it'll keep us from growing in our Christian life. It'll keep us, it'll hinder our spiritual service. It'll stifle our Christian character. Now I'm winding down here. Come back real quickly to 2 Timothy with me. And notice what he says here. He makes an interesting statement. He says, God has not given us the spirit of fear, but Of power and of love and of a sound mind. When I have the spirit of fear, when my mind is controlled and my actions are dictated by this cowardice. My Christian character is stifled. No power. No love. No sound mind. You know, sometimes fear will make us do things we never do in another situation. Panic. You know what they say when they get in a situation, they say, first thing you need to do is not panic. That is where fear takes over, and we do things that are detrimental. We do things that don't make sense, that don't have a sound mind. We get so scared. That it stifles our Christian character. I tell you, people get scared, love goes out the window. Brother, I'm taking care of me. You all can deal with yourself. I'm taking care of me. That is not Christ-like thinking Amen or not. And fear will do that to us. Love and power. We lose the power of God. Spiritual growth and Christian service is never easy, and it takes boldness, and it takes courage. Now I don't have time to deal with this like it really should be, but the defeat of the spiritual fear of the spirit of fear. How do I defeat this? How do I have victory over fear? Let me just give it to you quick. Number one, I put this down: adjust my focus. Get my eyes off my circumstances, get my eyes off myself, and get my eyes on the Lord. As soon as Peter got his eyes off of Jesus and looked at his circumstance, he went down. And you and I need to keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. In 2021, with everything going on, with all this scary stuff happening all around us. We need to get our eyes off of the circumstances and get our eyes on Jesus Christ. That's how we defeat the spirit of fear. Spear to fear. Somebody said they were talking, a guy and he was all happy and could be, and they said, Why aren't you scared to death? Everything going on, all this stuff, why aren't you scared to death? He said, I don't have a TV Right? He's not looking at the circumstance, looking at Christ. So, number one, get our focus, adjust my focus back on the Lord Jesus Christ. Number two, remember my future. John chapter 14, verse 1 and 2, Jesus said, Let not your heart be troubled. Don't be scared. Don't have the spirit of fear. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. And in my father's house are many mansions. And I go to repair a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. Listen, this world can throw everything they have at us. We still have a home in heaven. We still have a Savior that's coming back one of these days and going to take us to be with Him. Don't ever forget this world is not our home. We're just passing through. Our home is laid up somewhere beyond the blue. Fear. Spirit of fear. Number one, get my eyes refocus. Adjust my focus. Remember my future. In John 16, 33, Jesus said, In the world you shall have tribulation, be of good cheer, I've overcome the world. And then last of all, I put this down. Number three, exercise my faith Psalm 56. 3, great verse. We teach it to the kids. I love this verse. I quote it to myself often. What time I am afraid I will trust in thee. You say, preacher, I'm scared. I don't know what's going to happen. I'm scared. Scared to go out my front door. Scared to go get gas. Preacher, I'd live for God, I'd witness to people, but I'm afraid of what people will say. They'll get mad at me, though they'll get angry at me, I'll lose friends. What a great opportunity to exercise my faith and trust God. Just trust God. You know what it is? You know what the Christian life is? The Christian life is stepping out of the boat. Onto waves and simply trusting God to see me through. Amen or not? That's what it is. Just stepping out and trusting God. They have little signs up, I think, down at the lake, different places, don't feed the bears. Anybody ever see them? I think we ought to put a sign up in our TVs and on our computers and our phones and in our houses and put this. Don't feed your fears Stop taking all that garbage in and scares you out of your mind. Get our nose back in God's Word. Start trusting God. Now listen, I'm not saying I'm not saying we should disregard fear. I think when fear comes, we ought to consider it. I say, all right, is this a legitimate fear? Is this something I need to do with? But don't let it control us. You follow what I'm saying? Don't let it become a spirit of fear. That controls you. Say, preacher, are you concerned about some things? Yeah, I'm concerned about them. I like what I don't recommend this guy, but I like what George Patton said He said, I don't take counsel of my fears. I know what needs to be done. I know what needs to take place. Fear is there. I'm don't disregard it, but I'm not going to let it control me. I'm going to do what God's called me to do. I believe we'd have I I I know of three churches right now that are desperate for pastors. And we can't find any preachers to come and take churches that are already established out of debt. A perfect situation for a pastor step in, humanly speaking. We can't find one. You know what? I think if we get if we get rid of that spirit of fear, of trusting God say, if I go, if I go in the ministry, how am I going to pay my bills? You know what you got? You got a spirit of fear If I go out soul winning, I'm going to lose friends. You know what that is? Spirit of fear. If I get involved in teaching or working in a ministry, I might fail. You know what that is? Spirit of fear. God says, we have not given you a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. We live in a world that is gripped by fear, and we need churches and Christians who are fearless in their faith with God. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us not to be foolish, not to be reckless. But Lord, help us to be fearless. To trust you. I don't know how this message might apply to folks here or folks listening. I pray your Holy Spirit would stir up That faith that is in us. And help us to trust you and walk with you and serve you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. But I know fear is a real factor in areas of my Christian life. I want God to give me victory. I want God to give me boldness. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? My hand is raised. Brother, it is for real. If Moses was afraid, then you and I, it's understandable. Abraham. Elijah. God, give me boldness. Help me not to have this spirit of fear. I've heard some say, preacher, I'm saved, but I've not been baptized. I'm a little scared of that. It's kind of scary to get up there. But I'm going to trust God anyway and exercise faith. I don't follow the Lord in baptism or anything like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, I've been saved, but I've not been baptized. I need to get that taken care of. God bless you, and God bless you. How about it? Any others? I've been saved. But I've not been baptized. I just need to trust the Lord and step out and follow his instructions. How many would say, preacher, I got somebody that's lost, and I don't want them to die and go to hell, and I know I need a witness to them, but I'm scared And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God will give me wisdom and boldness and be able to talk to them about Jesus. Any hands like that? How about that? God bless you. My hands raised. Especially family, sometimes it's tough. But we need the Lord to give us boldness. We need the Lord to help us overcome this spirit of fear. Maybe there's someone this morning to say, Preacher, I'm not saved. I know I'm not, and I'm afraid of I trust Christ. What's going to happen? I tell you what's going to happen. He's going to forgive you and save you and give you a incredible life. One of some say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not saved. I need to put away any fears and I need to trust Christ. Get it settled. Any like that? By the uplifted hand, any at all? Father, I ask you to bless our invitation now. Have your way in our lives. Help us to trust you. In Jesus' name