2 Samuel chapter 8, verse number 1. The Bible says, after this it came to pass that David smote the Philistines and subdued them. And David took Methegama out of the hand of the Philistines. And he smote Moab, and measured them with a line, casting them down to the ground, even with two lines measured to put to death, and with one full line to keep a lot. So the Moabites became David's servants and brought gifts. And David smote also the Hadadezer, the son of Rehab, king of Zobah. And he went to recover his border at the river of Euphrates. David took from him a thousand chariots, seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen, and David hewed all the chariot's horses, but reserved them For him, but reserved of them for a hundred chariots. And when the Syrians of Damascus came to secure Hadardazar, king of Zobah, David slew the Syrians, two and twenty thousand men Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became servants to David and brought gifts. Look at this next statement. And the Lord preserved David whithersoever he went. I underlined that in my Bible. And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadazer And brought them to Jerusalem, and from Beth and from Barothai, cities of Hadad Deser, King David took exceeding much brass. Now if you would come down to verse fourteen It says he put garrisons in Edom, and throughout all Edom put he garrisons, and all they of Edom became David's servants And here's that statement again. And the Lord preserved David whithersoever he went. I want to talk about the Lord's preservation of David. Let's pray and ask the Lord to Speak our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for the opportunity to look into your word. We ask now that you would speak our hearts. I pray that you would open our hearts and minds to the lessons that are given here in this passage. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body. And Lord, I pray with all my heart that you would help us to grow in our faith. Help us, Lord, to learn from David and to be stronger Christians and a more effective witness for you. So again, Lord, I ask you, please fill me with your Spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The honeymoon is over. Anybody you've heard that right? The honeymoon is over. What do we mean by that? When somebody says the honeymoon's over, what do you mean? Somebody talk to me. What's that? Good times are over. It could be that. Uh well we might say it this way. Reality is setting in. Right? Something along those lines. Well, I got looking at this here, what's happening here with David, and I put down the honeymoon is over for David. For instance, I put down David's honeymoon with his neighboring kings and neighboring nations is over. They're at war now. Come back to chapter number seven and notice with me verse number one. Notice a statement. In chapter 7, verse number 1, it came to pass when the king sat in his house. Now look at this, and the Lord had given him rest. Roundabout from all his enemies. David first became king. This is a new thing for David. He's now become king. The nation has come together. They're unified. He's got the ark here in Jerusalem. He's got plans to build the temple. Of course, that didn't play out exactly the way he wanted, but he's putting things in place for his son to build it. And uh everything's going really well. David is in his honeymoon period as king of Israel. All the nations around him, his enemies, are at rest. There's no wars going on But that only lasted a little while. Now David is experiencing wars, not just as a soldier under King Saul. Now he's fighting battles, not just as a as a commander over an army. Now he's king. And did you ever hear the statement, the buck stops where? Here. Now David is uh has to take responsibility for all this. So David's honeymoon with the neighboring kings and nations is over. This peace that he experienced for a while uh is now uh they're now having a lot of wars going on. I'm gonna I'm gonna say this. David's honeymoon with the Israelites He's going to eventually wear off. Israel loves David right now. They're unified around him. They support him. And David is enjoying a high poll ratings, no doubt, as king of Israel. But time is going to go by and those poles are going to drop off. Particularly, we're going to see this later on, particularly when Absalom turns against David And he undermines him, and a huge percentage of the nation is going to turn against David. And he's going to have to deal with that And so this honeymoon period as king, the first to go was the neighboring nations as they begin to war. Eventually the nation of Israel is going to have problems with David's leadership a little bit, and off and on there'll be that. But he also, he's gonna the honeymoon with his God will wear off a little bit. David is on a spiritual high now, I think. He is uh God has given him these phenomenal covenants Where his kingdom is going to be an everlasting kingdom, and his throne is going to be an everlasting throne. And God made these amazing statements to him. But here's the problem Over a period of time, our relationship with the Lord, if we're not careful, can become stagnant. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody here ever go to a revival service and a revival meeting? And man, your heart gets stirred, and at the end of the week you come out of there, you're on cloud nine, you're on a mountaintop, and uh but as time goes by, what happens? We drift back to where we were. And that honeymoon period is over. The flesh in the world become more appealing than the blessings of God So as time goes on, what I'm trying to say is this: as time goes on, if we're not careful, we can lose some of the things that God blesses us with. We take things for granted. We get in a rut. We get uh it the novelty wears off. And before we know it, we're right back to where we were, and before we know it, uh sometimes we're in a worse situation than we were before. I think time can be my friend. I can grow in time, and by the way, spiritual growth takes time. Nobody becomes a super Christian in a week or two, or a month or two, or even a year or two. I mentioned it uh in a message not too long ago. The Christian life is a crockpot, not a microwave Right? It takes time to grow. It takes time for my faith to develop. It takes time for my understanding of the Lord and his will for me. That's why I think Paul told Timothy not to put someone in places of leadership that is a novice, somebody new, lest they be lifted up with pride. They don't have a full grasp. So it takes time. So time can be my friend, and actually time is my friend if I use it wisely. But time can be my enemy If I'm not careful and I don't use my time correctly, my heart can grow cold. The novelty wears off And before I know it, I'm neglecting some of those things that I was all stirred up about before I've seen it many times. Oh I shouldn't say many times. I've seen it uh in a new Christian. Boy, somebody gets saved, they're on fire, they get baptized They're all excited about reading their Bible. They're all excited about going to church. They're all excited about serving the Lord and praying and giving out tracts. But over time that zeal begins to die off. And if we're not careful We lose what we had. You follow what I'm saying? And so time, David is now king. And now time is kicking in And um the honeymoon's wearing off for him. I have three thoughts here from this passage, and I don't know they're directly uh verses directly given to him, but just three things I took from chapter eight of 2 Samuel. Number one, I put this down. Leadership carries responsibility. How many people have ever found that out? Anybody been a leader in some capacity? We all are to some extent. Leadership requires carries responsibilities with it. David's now king. The buck stops with him. And now he is responsible for the security of Israel. He is responsible for the well-being of the people of Israel He is in a position of leadership and it is tremendous responsibility. Now I don't know what your position might be. It may simply be a Sunday school teacher and maybe a bus worker It may be a nursery worker, whatever capacity God may have called you and has you serving the Lord, that position comes with responsibilities. I think there's two challenges to leadership. And I touched on one of them a little bit already. But one challenge is this. Is time. Is time, like we said above. As time goes by, I'm in a position of leadership. As time goes by, if I'm not careful, I can neglect that. Let me give you some uh a list of things here that have to be in place if I'm gonna be a if I'm going to be able to maintain my responsibilities at a leadership in leadership over a period of time I jotted a few down. Number one, there has to be a sense of God's call. There has to be a sense of God's call. This is what I'm trying to say. God gives you a Sunday school class to teach. And you're there and at first you're all fired up about it. Boy, I want to do a good job and the responsibility of studying, the responsibility of getting to know my students, the responsibility of uh of engaging them and helping them grow and teaching the Word of God. I've got all of that there. But as time goes by, I begin to lose interest. That novelty wears all And now I've got to decide, am I going to keep that zeal up or is it going to die off? What I need is a sense of God's call. This coming September, we've been here for tw it will be twenty-eight years that we've been here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Hard to believe. It just went by like that But I tell you, over the 28 years, there's been a few times where we just hit some rough spots. And there's been a few times where it was like, well, I don't know Maybe it's time to look somewhere else or something like that. But I'll tell you, I've always had a sense of God's call to this place for me, and nothing ever was a serious attraction to go somewhere else. You follow what I'm trying to say? Time, a sense of God's call. It'll keep you in God's place for the long haul. If God's given you a Sunday school class and you say, God has called me to this class Then when it going gets rough and maybe the numbers are down or the uh you know you're just having a difficult time teaching and say, wait a minute, God has called me to this, I'm gonna stay here David became king of Israel. Everything's uh he has rest with all the enemies around, everything's nice. And then over a period of time these wars start kicking up, and David needs to decide, am I in the will of God or not? And knowing that God has called him, anointed him for that position, enabled him to deal with these various wars and just keep pressing forward. And we have got to have a sense of God's call Number two, I put this down. We need to grow and develop spiritually. And by that I mean this. I've got to keep my walk with God close. Maybe you have a Sunday school bus route, maybe you have a Sunday school class, children's church, whatever it is. My effectiveness in Christian service is very much dependent upon how close I am to the Lord. My very much dependent upon my personal walk with God. We can put on a little show for a while. We can put on a little show for a while, but If God's going to use us in any way, we have got to stay close to the Lord. This is one thing I've prayed for years for our missionaries. I've prayed, God, keep them close to you in their personal devotions. And I want to challenge each and every one of us, regardless of what your role is in our church, regardless of what position you might have or what ministry you might have, I want to challenge you. Top priority is keeping that walk with God. Warm and fresh. It must be. Or uh we grow stagnant, we grow cold, we lose interest. And so I've got to um Grow and develop spiritually. Keep growing. Paul said, the Apostle Paul, late in his life in the book of Philippians, he said that I might know him and the power of his resurrection. Now here's Paul been serving the Lord for a long time. You know what he said? He said, I want to know more about the Lord. I want to get closer to the Lord. I want to be stronger in my spiritual walk with God. I want to know him in the power of his resurrection. I believe that sense of staying close to the Lord enabled Paul to stay faithful all through his trials. And so leadership re carries responsibility. One of the challenges to fulfilling my role, whatever God has given to me, one is a sense of God's call, and David had that. He was anointed of God. He could look back and say, God's called me to this position. I cannot fail. I cannot walk away from it. Grow and develop spiritually. I think I need to fuel a passion for service. And what I mean by this, and I'm I mention this, but the novelty can wear off in a new ministry. Oh, I'm going to do this for God. I'm going to do it. And we jump into it And then over a little period of time that novelty wears off, and maybe that class doesn't grow the way I thought it would, or maybe it didn't pan out the way I anticipated And if we're not careful, we start neglecting that responsibility, and we start getting bored with the ministry God's given. And what we have to do is just keep that thing alive and keep that passion going. Say, God has called me to this. And it doesn't matter if there's two people on the bus or two hundred on the bus I'm going to give my all to it because God has called me to this ministry. When we came here, I made a decision early on when we came uh to the church here and You know, those early days, how and some of the others will tell you on a Sunday this would be a big crowd on Sunday morning the first few months we were here. I mean probably a third of this might have been Sunday morning And I asked God to help me. When I came in, I asked God to help me. I don't care if there's two people there or two hundred people there. I'm going to preach my heart out every time I get up. And I'm going to give, I don't, if it's a 50-minute message and there's two people, they're getting all 50 minutes of it And I've asked God to help me maintain that passion for the ministry God has called us to. You know, being a Christian is a tremendous privilege. Did you know that? And serving God in any capacity, whether it's singing in the choir or cleaning or whatever it may be, serving God is a privilege that we have as children of God. And when we lose that passion for that, and we just uh start looking at it, it's just something I have to do, then we're going to lose out. So um maintain, fuel that passion for serving God, grow and develop spiritually. Make sure you have a sense of God's call. I put this down. Maintain a vision. Maintain a vision. I want to expand. I want to grow. I want to reach farther for the Lord. I want to do more for God. Whenever we get in a rut, anybody ever hear that? Get in a rut? Anybody here ever been in a rut? You're just going through the motions? Anybody know what I'm talking about? When we get in that, then we're not going to be able to do much for God. But we ask God, say, God, give me a vision. Help me to see what's something else I can do. I thought of uh Ron Coddington this past Christmas. He wrote uh an article and did they printed it in the newspaper, right? A little plan of salvation. And he just thought, here's something I can do to help advance the gospel. You know what that is? That's vision. I say, I want to see what I can do, something else, something beyond, something more I can do to reach people. And so maintain a vision, reach farther out. And then humility. I wrote that down. Humility Here's what we have to watch out for. God will use us. And we mentioned this, I think it was in Sunday school. Mentioned this. God is probably using you in ways you're not aware of. If you're making any effort at all to be a good Christian, if you're making any effort at all to be a witness in this whole world, God is probably using you in ways you don't realize and more than what you actually realize He is. Now here's what we have to watch out for when God uses us, and then God speaks to somebody's heart or he uses us to help somebody spiritually. And then that person comes and says, boy, you're really wonderful. Man, God used you and you helped me so much. If we're not careful, our flesh will want to do what? Want to take the credit for that. And we'll get proud and we'll think, wow, I must really be something. God used me. And that is a big danger. What we need to do is understand God's the one that does it all And he does it through us. Last Saturday we had the ordination for a young man. I said, and then at the end they gave just some advice. I said, one thing, watch out. God's going to use you. People's lives are going to be changed. Folks are going to be drunkards, they're going to come sober. God's going to use you to help families. God's going to use you to help young people. God's going to work through you and change people's lives. And people are going to think you are the cat's meow. And you're the most wonderful thing in the world since chopped almonds. I don't know where I just thought of that, chopped almonds. And I said, What you've got to remember is you are nothing more than a sinner saved by grace and God using you for his glory. And every soul we win, and every life we influence, and every bus kid we bring in, and every song we sing. It is God working through us, and we have to be very, very careful that we don't take the credit for that, that we don't get puffed up and think, boy, I'm really something. Um sometimes folks it hadn't happened for a long time, but every now and then folks will come and and tell the preacher, you know, how terrible he is and everything. And uh early on I used to say this. I said, Well, actually I know the preacher better than you do, and he's far worse than you even realize he is. So you're not gonna tell me how terrible he is. He's worse than that And so there needs to be humility. And I see this in David. I see David had a sense of God's call. And he's his honeymoon's over. And uh could have been awfully discouraging when all and particularly look at uh verse one excuse me verse one after this it came to pass that David smote the Philistines Those rascally Philistines, I mean, they are relentless. He just about wiped them out just a chapter or so earlier. And one thing about the Philistines, they would regroup and they would come back again, I mean, so quickly. They were relentless And you know, David just kept whooping him. David just kept whooping him. God's called me. And uh and David had this sense of God's call. David grew and developed spiritually. Some of the greatest psalms that David penned under the inspiration of God were written late in his life. We're going to see when we get to the end of David's life, just before he died, he wrote a psalm that is absolutely powerful He kept growing, kept growing. And uh he fueled the passion for service. He kept serving God, maintained the vision and humility. So one danger to leadership, I'm looking at David here is time. Time is going on. These wars are kicking up. Here's another danger I put down, and that is transition. David is transitioning. He's a shepherd. He became a soldier Now he's a king. He was a uh and shepherds and soldiers. Now I don't know a whole lot. I've never been either of them But to me, particularly in New Test in uh biblical times, uh a shepherd would have kind of been of a rough type job. Would would you agree with me? It's kind of outdoors, rough, uh not working with animals, not with people a whole lot Soldiers can be um uh soldiering uh being a soldier can be pretty rough, right? Now he's a dignitary He is making a tremendous transition from what he was, where his comfort zone was, what he was grew up doing, what he was very, very good at. Now he's making this transition over to be a king. And when during times of transition, if we're not careful, uh we can get messed up. David does a phenomenal job. God taught him all through this how to be a king. And he learned from it. I put some things down here on uh when growing and going through a transition. I put down one, we need to have clear communication Now, I don't know if I'm making sense in this message, and I just pulled these out of here. But uh David was very, very effective in getting people on board with him. They've had a time of peace. Now they're going to war. And uh David is not the only one. Look here with me if you would It says verse 1, and David smote the Philistines. Verse 2, and he smote Moab. Verse 3. David smote also had a desert. And you go down there, David smote, David smote. Everybody here understands it wasn't David by himself out there smiting these people, right? I mean he has got a whole army. There are a lot of people behind him and involved in this, and he got all these people on board. He was able to get them to be see what he saw, get them willing to risk their lives to defend their nation. And there has to be clear communication. I learned this early on as pastor Some of y'all remember, uh, years ago, shortly after I got here, I wanted to bring- I wanted to introduce faith promise missions I believed that. I understood the scriptural concept. I believed with uh with all my heart it was biblical, and uh I tried to communicate it, and I was doing a terrible job I could not communicate to the church the concept of faith promise. And we had some meetings and it didn't really go well. And then one of the smartest things I ever did, I called up Dr. Pat Creed I said, Dr. Creed, I need you to help me. I'm not getting this across like we need to. And he says, all right, I'll come on up there. And we had some meetings and we had lunch one day and he said um I said, Dr. Creed, I need you to help me. I've got to get this. I'm not doing something right. He says, you really want faith promise of your church? I said, yes. He goes, get a notepad out. I'll tell you exactly what to do And I said, all right, so I wrote it down and did exactly what he said, and God blessed it all these many years. What I'm saying is he would have the ability to communicate in such a way to get people on board. I remember old Don Williams, Sr. , Daddy Williams. How many people remember old Don Williams? Um we I first started talking about this and he called me up and says, I need you to come by So I went down and uh visited him down on 3rd Street down there. And um he says, I don't know about this faith promise business And he told me some of the concerns he had about it and different stuff, and I said, Well, tell you what, let's give it one year Let's just give me one year. Let's see how it goes. If it doesn't work, we can always go back to the old way of doing. He said, all right, that's fair. Oh, he and one of his statements was, we ain't never done it this way before. He says, I'm not real sure about this. So a year went by, and man, we took on like 13 missionaries. Money's coming in for missions. God is blessing this thing in tremendous ways. And uh he called me up and said, Brother Lemon, can you come on down? I need to talk to you about this mission stop. I said, Okay. Went down, he sat down, he says, um, you know, we ain't never done it this way before, and we ain't never had these results before either. So the ability to communicate to people and let them know what you're doing and get them on board and work with you is key to leadership. And David is learning this, and uh he's doing a tremendous job. Um and then be able to be correct on your conflicts And what I mean by this is sometimes people are going to challenge. He's got these enemy nations now. They're challenging him. They're wanting to destroy Israel. And now he's got to deal with these conflicts he's facing. And I put it this way, we have got to choose our battles. Did anybody ever hear that statement? You've got to choose your battles Um there was a fella, a boy kept hitting him in the chest. Come up and slap him in the chest. So he got a bomb and tied it, a vest to his chest, and he said, Next time he hits me, I'll blow his hand off. Well, yeah, he might, but he's also gonna blow his chest out too. And what I'm trying to say is you gotta think about what fights we wanna f what battles we wanna fight I like what Curtis Hudson said. He said, there's some things we ought to be willing to die for. Amen? We ought to be willing to die for some things. There are some things that maybe we're not willing to die for, but we would be willing, but we would definitely fight over it. Right? I'd fight about it. I wouldn't necessarily die for it, but I would fight about it And then there's some things I wouldn't fight over, and I certainly wouldn't die for it, but I'd fuss about it. I'd make a fuss, but I'm not going to get in a fight with you about it. And he said, then there are some things that ought to be ignored Just ignore it. It's not that big a deal. It's not worth the time. Just ignore it. And he said, here's the problem with us. We fight over the things we should be ignoring. And we fuss over the stuff that really isn't that important, and we get that order completely out of whack. And we spend our time fussing over things that are really really meaningless and then ignoring things that are very, very important. And so the ability to um correct your conflicts Uh we get 'em all mixed up. We fight over things. And I've seen that in churches. When we were uh in Indianapolis, there was a church that had been there, was still in existence at the time. But there was a day when that church was huge church, running buses. souls being saved, baptizing every service. I mean a powerful church in downtown Indianapolis. And the government started giving them some hard times. And they got in some fusses with the government. And I'll tell you, they got all caught up in fighting the government and getting caught up in the things about government That there were Sundays, there were some people that had come to our church from that church, and they said there were Sundays when the preacher would get up and he never opened the Bible. All he talked about was politics the whole time You know what, that that's that's fighting the wrong battles. I think we ought to be active in politics. I think we ought to vote and call and do stuff like that. We do that. But listen, our battle is with the devil And our mission is to preach the gospel. And we have to be careful about the fights that we get in. And so clear communication, correct our conflicts, and then maintaining that focus, staying focused on what God has called us to do. And so here you have David. The honeymoon's over. The enemies are coming in. They're fighting. And yet it says there, and the Lord preserved David whithersoever he went. David, as a leader, had some responsibilities. He fulfilled them, and God took care of them. Now let me give you two more thoughts real quick. Number two, losing my voice here. Number two, God keeps his promises The Lord preserved David whithersoever he went. Look up at verse number one. And after this It came to pass. That this he's referring to is this Davidic covenant God just gave him, this promise This unconditional promise that David's reign, David's kingdom would be an everlasting kingdom, David's throne would be an everlasting throne. And after this, God's covenant, and immediately it's being challenged. Every one of these battles, if Israel would have lost and been destroyed, The coming Messiah would have been cut off. But God promised He would keep them. From the day God gave David this covenant, the world and the devil were out to destroy Israel, and yet God kept them. Nothing can keep God from fulfilling his unconditional promises. So God keeps his promises. Let me give you a last thought here, real quick. God uses people. David smoked, David smoked, David smoked. It wasn't David doing this alone. There was a lot of people behind the scenes. There is people preparing meals for the soldiers. There is people transporting supplies back and forth. There is people helping the wounded. There is a lot of people involved in God's kingdom and serving the Lord. And God uses people. We have Bible time coming up, two weeks. It's a great program. The ribbons are tremendous and all that. But Bible time is meaningless without people doing it. Without people serving it. And so we have to be involved. God uses people. Leadership is very important. But followship is important also. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from the life of David. I pray that you would help us to Keep our focus on what you've called us to do and our areas of responsibility. Help us stay diligent. Lord, we want you to use us. We want you to be glorified in our lives As we give ourselves to you. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's any this evening that say, Preacher, I want God to help me be a faithful servant of the Lord, whatever responsibility He gives me. I want to stay focused on that. I don't want to lose my zeal. I want to stay passionate about it and give it all I have. Is there any like that? Whatever ministry I have, I don't want to get cold in that thing. I don't want to let the fusses of this world dis distract me. And David stay focused and God kept him. Father bless our imitation tonight, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen