All right, John chapter thirteen in your Bible, the Gospel of John, chapter thirteen. I'm gonna While you're turning there, I'll just take a very, very quick moment to say uh a little bit about us. I think it helps when you when you know us a little bit more, where we're coming from. My wife and I have been married for two years, eight months And I've been very happily married. The Bible says he that findeth a wife findeth a good thing. And I could say a hearty amen to that. My wife, Miss Jenny, back there. Go ahead and wave your hand, babe. I won't make you stand up We don't want to disturb the baby, okay? So we've learned very quickly with baby Asher coming in that uh our our life sort of revolves around his schedule now But I'll say this too, that Asher turned seven weeks today. His name means blessed or happy. And that's sort of how he makes us feel as as God's given us a precious gift, precious life, and we're looking forward to Him growing up here. Um and let me say this too We are excited about God's will for our lives. And I can say that dogmatically, whether God has us here or wherever, and you could say that dogmatically too that you can be excited no matter what what God's will is for your life. So we're we're just exploding with excitement and of course um just praying about this position here and laboring together for Christ with you guys here. So really excited about that. I'll just jump right in. John chapter 13 is a uh very familiar story And I'll just do this to get the juices flowing, so to speak. What would you say, whether a Christian or not Christian, it doesn't matter, what would you say the highest calling a person could have in this life is. Think about that for just a second. The highest calling somebody could possibly have. Maybe your mind is thinking, well it would be pretty cool to be Donald Trump, the President of the United States. Maybe it wouldn't be cool, okay? There's a lot of responsibility, a lot of a mess right now that America is in Uh maybe you're thinking, I think a high calling would be to be a CEO of a very well-to-do company. I'll just sell it and make lots of money. That would be nice. A lot of uh ways your mind may be racing right now when you think of The highest call, let's think of the highest calling maybe a Christian can have. Maybe your mind immediately goes to uh someone like Pastor and the position that he has there, a position of leadership and that is very, very important. Maybe uh you think of an evangelist as very influential. Certainly a lot of uh a lot of leadership responsibility and a lot of uh high positions as we think, but I believe as we develop more the mind of Christ He's and we as we peer into this passage, your mind is going to be totally flipped around, and we're going to see what is the highest calling, not according to our definition, but according to Christ's definition. John chapter 13 Again, a very familiar passage, but please don't uh miss this. Don't put your uh m mind on park, so to speak. John chapter 13, we're gonna Try to pick up just a little bit of context of what's going on. I might point out a few things. You've got your Bible there, John chapter 13. Look at verse number one. John writes this, he says, Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come, that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own which were in the world He loved them unto the end. So get this in your mind. These are days before Jesus Christ is about to die. If this were you and I, I don't know about you, but I would like to take it easy, go on a vacation. Sip some lemonade, relax, and think about what's going on. But Jesus Christ does something very different that shocks probably uh every one of the disciples As we go into verse number two, and supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot Simon's son to betray him, Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands and that he was come from God, and went to God, he riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments, and took a towel, and girded himself After that he poureth water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. Drop down to verse number 12. So after he had washed their feet and had taken the garments and was set down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you? Ye call me Master and Lord, and ye say, well, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet For I have given you in, what's the next word? Example that you should do as I've done to you, you should do the same thing. Verily, verily I say unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord, neither he that is sent greater than he that sent him. I love verse 17. If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them. We'll talk about what that word means exactly. But happy are ye if ye do them. I'd like to challenge you with this. Maybe you've already uh realized where we're going with this as soon as I said John chapter 13. But the highest calling that I believe a Christian or anybody can have is the life or that of a servant just as Christ exemplified in John chapter 13. We'll get right into it. Lord, we thank you so much for your word, and I thank you personally that you've not only called us unto a life of holiness, holy living. And a life of service, but you've also perfectly exemplified it. I pray that our lives would be literally broken around the example that you've given to us here in John 13. I pray we would not just be hearers of the word, but doers of the word, and that we would be blessed in our lives. Lord, I pray even tonight that you'd challenge me, the folks that are underneath the sound of the preaching With a life of service and what that means, and that we would be willing to make changes accordingly. In Christ's name I pray. Amen. When I say the word servant, perhaps there is somebody that comes to mind. It could be an a Good example of a servant, maybe a not so good example of a servant. I don't know, but when I think of a servant, there's one man in particular that comes to my mind back in college days I graduated from Ambassador Baptist College The president of Ambassador Baptist College, his name was Dr. Olton Beale. Dr. Olton Beale was not only the president of Ambassador Baptist College, which kept him busy, but he was a full-time evangelist traveling around the countries doing meetings. Not only that He was the mayor of the city of the that the college was located. You say this guy has got to be really, really busy. I remember we were in one of his classes, preacher boy classes And we had a guest speaker this particular day. So he introduced the guest speaker and he was just about ready to leave the room when he asked something I thought that was kind of odd of us. It was just a room full of dudes A bunch of guys, and he said, gentlemen, I want you to take your shoes off and give them to me. I thought, does he know what he's asking? I mean this is gonna reek. So but if he wants them he can have them. You gotta understand ambassador is a little bit like spiritual boot camp, okay? So we thought we were gonna get grilled, oh no, what is he doing out there? We don't we are they're not polished enough and he sees a problem. So he takes these away and I'm sure the lesson the guest speaker had was really good, but we just could not pay attention. We were uh our mind was so distracted about what he was doing out there with our shoes. And I'll never forget the guest speaker dismissed us and we were making our way out and we're ready to collect our shoes before we make to the next class. And I turn off to the side. Here was the president of Ambassador Baptist College, a full-time evangelist, the mayor of the city, on his hands and knees, polishing our shoes. You know, it really hit me hard that day that I may never have the status Dr. Beale has, but I can have the spirit that he has The spirit of a servant. When you consider the word servant, it appears over 500 times from my cow in the Word of God. You go to the earliest account in Scripture and it talks about a man named Job. Job 1. 8, God's commentary on this man. He says Here's a uh hast thou considered my servant Job? He had this testimony. He feared God and a shoot or stayed away from evil. You think about the man named Moses. He was called the meekest man that ever walked the earth aside of Jesus Christ, of course. And the Bible says it calls him over a dozen times the servant of the Lord Most High. Then you think about Joshua, the next person to take leadership over the great nation of Israel. And he said as he came to the end of his life, he says, um, you can choose this day whom you're going to serve. Fine. That's it. That's your choice. But as for me and my house, my family, I'm going to serve the Lord. Psalm 100 says this, serve the Lord with gladness. Okay, a little bit of a change maybe for some of us. But you go over into the New Testament. The Gospel of Mark calls Jesus a servant of God over thirty times, I believe. Luke twelve twenty-two, twenty-seven, Jesus said I am among you as he that serveth. I got a quote here from Albert Einstein. He said this, it's high time we trade the idea of success for the ideal of service. We just came upon a presidential election, and I think back to JFK, not that I was alive, but he is famous for this saying. He said, Ask not what your country can do for you, but what? But what you can do for your country I may not subscribe to everything that gentleman had said, but I will say there's a Christian parallel. The more you and I mature As believers, the more we we gear our mind away from what other people should be doing for us to, hey, what can I be doing for other people? How does God want to use me? How can my life be more a life of service. Mark ten forty-five says, For even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. That's not necessarily my light verse, but I'm praying about adopting that as a ministry theme. God, let my life, ministry, anything that you allow me to do to not be about myself but be about other people and to just spend my life that way. You know when you do that, it uh your life will conclude the same way our story does. Happy are ye if ye do them. You say Uh so w what exactly is Jesus exemplifying? Well let me challenge you just back up a second, let me challenge you with this Do you, would someone say of you, do you have the spirit of a servant? And that's the challenge, really the challenge Christ poses to his disciples. Do you have the spirit of a servant? Now Um maybe you're thinking, why in the world does he say spirit? Does that automatically make it holy? No, not necessarily, but I say spirit because sometimes As church folks, we get caught up in the mechanics and forget the meaning or the action, but not the attitude behind it, so to speak. So I I would challenge you with this thought, the spirit, do you have the spirit of a servant? Teenager, do you have that sort of spirit where you just want to serve the Lord and do whatever pastor may have for you or your parents may want you to do? Um ru uh church folks, something that God has been pricking your heart about doing that you know you be ought to be more active and more servant-minded, uh that just have the spirit that Jesus Christ did. Have the same mind. You say, what spirit is that? How uh brother Bryant, okay, you've got me I I do want my life to count. I do have Christ exemplified it, yes, that's what I want for my life. So where do I start? What What is Jesus pointing out here? What's so special about this classroom, this example that he gives to his disciples, and by the way, the disciples today today, which would be you and I So first I'd have you notice that Jesus Christ, I believe this, when we're talking about having the spirit of a servant, what does that look like? I would say this, and you'll you'll get this right away. Jesus Christ had a submissive spirit. Do you have a submissive spirit? You could term it this way, some uh some would say self denying. But uh you're just submitting yourself to authority. You say, why is that a big deal? Christ thought it was a big deal. Consider who Jesus Christ is. Look at John chapter 13 verse 3 in our text. John does not, by the way, just add a bunch of superfluous. He's pointing out something very, very important He had many years to reflect before he ever wrote this account. So he's thinking back, and look what he points out in verse 3. Jesus, knowing the Father, had given all things into his hands. And that he was come from God, and that he was going to go to God. Why did John say this? Well, that's a good question. He's talking, Jesus Christ, here is a deity. He's talking about his preeminence. You don't have to turn there, but Colossians chapter one is one of my favorite chapters in all the Word of God. Paul points out in verse 16, he says For by him were all things, that is Jesus Christ, for by him were all things created that are in heaven, that are in earth, visible, uh invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him. and for him. Why? Why wh why is this important to point out? So that he might have the preeminence. Here John is pointing out that listen, disciples, listen, those followers of Christ Jesus Christ has the preeminence. God's given all things in his hands. He also points out, I think, his pre-existence. Where do you find that? Notice that phrase, he was come from God. That simple phrase made a lot of Pharisees mad. John 8. 58, Jesus said, Verily, verily I stand to you before Abraham ever was, I am. He had no birth date, no death date. He uh never uh he he wasn't created, he was creating. Um he also I think John is pointing out not only his uh preeminence, pre-existence, but I would say his Permanence. What do you mean by that? Well he says and that he went to God. So he's talking about Jesus Christ is deity, the one who's washing our feet, is from everlasting to everlasting. Psalm ninety verse two is prophetic saying, before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hast for the earth even from everlasting to everlasting, Jesus Christ, thou art God. Here he, this guy who was creating But never was created. He was majestic, but then he made himself very low. I think about it this way. Jesus Christ was a sovereign by all rights, was he not? But he did not come bearing a scepter. He was a supreme general, I guess you could say too, but he did not come bearing a sword. He was a shepherd, but he didn't come bearing a staff. Instead, he came as a, according to this passage, servant. And became obedient even unto death. But here in this passage, he takes up a towel and a wash base basin. And begins to wash the disciples' feet. You've got to do a little bit of digging into culture at this time to find out the significance. But it was the job of the lowest of lowest servants. To wash people's the guest feet who are coming into a household. It was a someone who was com their life was completely sold out, the lowest of the lowest in society, the lowest rung. That was the person who was supposed to wash the feet. And here we see Jesus Christ. the king of ages washing the disciples' feet. This is some really big stuff. Micah 6. 8 says, He hath showed thee, O man, what is good. What doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, to love mercy. And here it is Walk humbly with thy God. Jeremiah 45, 5 says it very bluntly. He says, Seekest thou great things for thyself, seek them not. And uh He's Jesus is saying, listen, is um if you came here to be somebody, you need to first learn to serve somebody. I think about it this way. You can be too big for God to use, but you can never be too small for God to use. Let me say that again. You could be too big for God to use. But you can never be too small for God to use. A couple questions. Are you looking for status or service? Do you hope for popularity or to help people. Um, is your mind more on yourself rather than souls as the emphasis is this year? Is your desire to be a success you must realize There is no spiritual success apart from service. This is what Jesus Christ was getting at in his example to the disciples. And they just did not seem to get it. So a right view of Christ is very helpful. What impact does it have on you? How ought we to view ourselves then? Well that's a very good question. Turn over to Philippians chapter 2. Philippians chapter 2. Have you noticed something? I believe Philippians chapter 2 is the most beautiful commentary on this story. Philippians chapter 2. So, how ought this to dictate the way we think of ourselves? Have you ever s met people who just sort of take themselves too seriously? You know what I'm saying? Like, no please. I'm not gonna do that. That's not that's no, no way. I mean you've met chances are people like I met people like that uh that y it it's not even really joint You know, really nice to be around people like that. But so how ought we to think of ourselves? What's the right view of ourselves as Christians, bud uh blood bought uh sinners and so forth. How ought we to think of ourselves? Well that's again a good question. Philippians chapter two lays it out. Here he says in verse number three, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. Hey, Mountain Lake, Independent Baptist Church, there ought not to be strife amongst you. Or this person's in charge of this, or this is more important than that, or look at what I do. There ought not to be some strife and bickering. That's totally against the thinking of Christ. So let this uh let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind. Let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Here it is. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Oh, that's interesting. What mind is that? Look at verse six, who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. That's not what he was here for. He took upon him instead the form of A, what's the next word? Servant. There it is. You want the mind of Christ, disciple of Christ here tonight? That is the mind of a servant. How ought I to view myself? You ought to view yourself as a servant, and you'll align yourself exactly with what Christ was getting at here. It reminds me. Of my first year traveling, neighborhood Bible time. I don't know if pastors mentioned that, but I absolutely love neighborhood Bible time. My very first rally was in Dothan, Alabama And as a custom we would, my partner and I would meet with the pastor before the week got started, and we would tash some things out, and as we were doing that, we noticed it very nicely, sharply dressed. Man in our peripheral off to the side there. Didn't pay it a whole lot of attention. We're asking pastor a couple questions. And then we noticed what he was doing. He was on his literally on his hands and knees in a full suit, scraping stuff off the back of the pews. And he carried on like this for a good half hour just cleaning stuff off. Finally my partner said, Pastor, you know you've got a the most nicely dressed maintenance man I have ever seen. I just gotta say that. Pastor said, Oh no no, he's not our maintenance man This man is the highest ranking or one of the highest ranking army generals. He's um he was is so good at what he did that after he retired out of the army The Army hired him back. He's the world's best Apache helicopter pilot. He can build an Apache helicopter from top to bottom. One day he came to me and asked me, Pastor, is there something that nobody else wants to do? I'd be willing to do that. And he's been doing it for years. Here's a man who got it Ranked quite high, but was willing to stoop very low to do something that nobody else was willing to do I don't know if I'm prepared, Brother Brett, to identify it like that. I don't know if I'm prepared. Listen, if you're willing to identify yourself as a servant, you're in very good company. Identify yourself. The word servant literally is slave in the Greek doulos. It's the exact It's a synonym. We ought to consider ourselves as slaves, literally we deserve nothing, but we're thankful that God even uses us. John identified himself as a servant Jude identified himself as a servant. Paul identified himself as a servant. You and I ought to be willing to identify ourselves as a servant or a slave for Christ. You see that's that's a really low view of yourself. That's not how Christ treats us though. Uh we ought to consider on our end it's just a privilege to be used by God. And you know, the older I get, I don't necessarily consider myself that old necessarily, but um The older I get, the more I just sort of sit back and say, whoa, God, are you sure you want to use me? I really blew it. I I I I don't think I'm just quite cut out. I I don't know, God. That's uh sincerely how I feel sometimes. Just amazed that God would be low And that ought to strike us like it did the disciples. God is willing to use you. Absolutely amazing thing I think Christ exemplified a spirit of a servant not only because he was submissive, but because he was sensitive. And fill in the blank. You probably know. You say, what was Jesus Christ sent to them? Well, remember all the accounts in the gospel? I'm reading those in my devotional time. You remember all the accounts in the gospel? Jesus looked on the multitude and what? Had compassion on them. How many times do you read that? He had compassion. He looked on them. The disciples said, send them away. We don't got money. We don't got food for them. We don't got time for them. Send the kids away. Oh my goodness. Giving me a headache. Would you just get him out of our hair? And Jesus never did that. He was an extremely, extremely sensitive guy. You see, that's kind of mamsy pamsy. No, it's not And that ought to be expelled from our mind. Gentlemen, ladies alike, we ought to be sensitive to the people and the needs around us. What sort of needs did the disciples have? Well, I would definitely say they needed Christ. They needed salvation. That was very obvious that uh they needed to be saved just like everybody else. But So did many people out there. They were lost. Jesus said, That's what I've come for. I am sensitive to their need. Don't turn them away, disciples. You don't know the spirit that you have. I am come for them. I'm sensitive to their need For Christ. Are you sensitive, uh, Mountain Lake Baptist Church? Are you sensitive to people's needs for Christ? And I think we all could grow in this area. Sometimes if we're care not careful, that is we'll get the mentality that uh well so and so won't really listen or I if I I could try, I've tried with my family over and over again to share Christ with them and if It's the same response over and over again. You know, sometimes we we expect the unsaved almost to be appreciative of it or act like the saved or or uh Earn salvation, so to speak, or even the right to hear the gospel. It's sort of like this. My wife and I was sharing with Brother Mark that we are cat people. Uh but we more so just like pets. But I grew up with dogs, okay? So that's what I'm used to. My wife w she grew up with cats and so the first thing that we adopted A cat, okay. So a happy life happy life. Um so anyway, but we uh so we adopted a cat and I quickly learned cats are not dogs. Okay, uh you throw a bone and the cat looks at you like you're really stupid. It does anyway. You spray it with water and oh that was really bad. So I learned not to do that. You slap a cat upside the head like you would a dog playing around with it and it gets really sassy. And cats cats just are not dogs. They don't bark like dogs, okay? This you got a weird cat Um but the the cats it would be ludicrous to expect a cat to act like a dog. They're very different. If we're not careful as Christians, we're selective in who will be burdened for, who will be willing to give the gospel. We say they ought to act a certain way or they ought to look a certain way. Christ didn't was not in the business of turning people away. He specialized in those really hard cases, didn't he? Look at the disciples. They were a bunch of knuckleheads. I sort of think myself as a uh you know just a knucklehead that Man, Christ, uh, he was so sensitive to their need for Christ. How about for cleansing? He was sensitive to their need for cleansing. Now immediately my mind jumps to the physical, okay? So I just uh finding this this situation sorta comical. Picture back in Israeli time in in i uh the in their culture, they had dirt roads that they would walk on in sandals. You know what happened? The rain came down and it would get really muddy and camels would traverse and leave little special uh surprises there on the pathway there too and it would exfoliate between the toes, you know what I'm saying? And uh yeah, really good stuff. And then to make it even better they would get indoors and they were getting ready to eat supper And they lounge and they eat like this. Okay, so here's your toes like twinkling in your face as you're ready to eat some food and so forth. And it I mean, c can you get the idea like, oh you would think the disciples would say like Dude, I'm willing to wash your feet if you just wash my feet. You know, that's sort of the image that I get. But you don't really see that. Christ said, I'm willing to wash your feet even if you don't wash my feet feet. What an amazing spirit Jesus Christ had. But that's a physical sense. Think of the spiritual sense. I'm thinking in this room there are people that there are Christians in desperate need for cleansing. But you know what happens? You've heard this said before that The for some reason the Christian army is the only army that tends to beat up and knock down our wounded soldiers. You know, that's not what they need. Someone maybe here who's walked away from the Lord and out of fellowship. They don't need this critical and harsh spirit for them and judgmental. What they need is a Galatians 6. 1 man or a Galatians 6. 1 woman who is spiritual and willing to reach out and restore such a one. Because there are people that, like I said, even in this room, that may need some cleansing spiritually. And maybe you are here tonight and you say, That's kind of been me, brother Brad. If I were honest, I have not been living as purely as I know that I should. I know there are some things that are and before I could ever think about being a servant and serving other people, and when I think about living my life sold out for God There's this sin that sort of tugs at me, and I think, man, if I could just have this out of my life, I could probably be pretty dynamic for the cause of Christ. Let me encourage you that Christ was not in the habit of turning people away just because they needed cleansing He would rather receive them as and was willing to cleanse them. How about their need for comfort? The older I get, the more I begin to sort of sniff out. We worked at a Christian camp in Wisconsin. And boy, oh boy, if you open your eyes and are willing to look around, you'll see it all around you. People need comfort Teenagers that are hurting and their faces just say it all. We're having a blast and doing some water sports or something like that, having the time of our life, and they just are absolutely As Pastor mentioned this morning, heavy laden, just bogged down. You say, well, why why do you mention comfort? Jesus was sensitive to the disciples' need for comfort. Here's why I would say that because the every one of these disciples, as soon as Jesus Christ approached them, what happened? They would drop their fishing nets, they would leave their their tax table. They would go and they would just immediately follow Christ. They would give up their home, they would give up their comforts of home. They would give up their family. They would give up all these things where they were used to living, the things they would used to do, all these comforts that we enjoy as human beings. They said, uh, you know, I'm willing to drop it all and follow Jesus Christ. You know why? Because Jesus Christ has come here. He's our Messiah. He's coming to set up a kingdom, and that's why they were asking who's going to be the greatest in the kingdom, and we're really excited about this. And then you know what Jesus Christ lays out for them? He says this In three days I'm going to be crucified, and they're going to, uh, I'll be dead, and I'm going to rise up again, and then I'm going to leave you. I'm going to drop you like a sack of potatoes. That's almost what Jesus Christ had told them. Here they had hopes and expectations and thoughts about what was going to happen and boy this is going to be great, Christ is going to set up a kingdom. And we're just excited about this. And who's going to be the greatest? I want to sit on his right hand. I want to sit on his left hand. And here Jesus Christ gives them this news. I'm going to leave you, and you're going to be left alone. I'll send the Holy Spirit with you. And they just were crushed Absolutely crushed. Maybe you are here tonight and God's called you to give up something. It's kind of hurt a little bit family that you just can't associate with as much anymore or uh your schedule just carving out time for certain things. Maybe You've been involved in ministry for many years and your life just sort of takes a turn that you didn't expect and you say, Why God, this is not what I signed up for. This this isn't this isn't cool So to speak. I don't know if I like this anymore. These disciples needed desperately comfort. And there are people probably in this room tonight that are stand in need of comfort. You and I need to be sensitive and not be so preoccupied with ourselves. Christ was sensitive. It reminds me I shared with some of you that my wife and I work for Starbucks Coffee Company, so we absolutely love coffee. I understand this is a coffee-minded church, so uh good for you. Um you guys are saved and on the right track. That's awesome. But we work for Starbucks, so we're kind of a little bit of coffee snob, that sort of thing. But I'll never forget we shortly after working for Starbucks, they moved me to a brand new Starbucks and things were going great. It was really exciting. We had the grand opening. Business just went through the roof. But then uh after six months um we had a problem. The Starbucks was built around uh completely renovated, but was built around an extant electrical unit. It was there from the previous building. So everything was going great for about six months when smoke began to billow from the back of the house. And I mean it began to pour out. We were coughing. I didn't know this was a part of my job description. But I got to yell at everybody in the cabin. Get out of the cafe. And you should have seen some of the people were like Oh You know, I mean they had to have their it was like embarrassing. But finally we got everybody out of the cafe and they were all cleared out and the fire department was there within like three minutes and there were police cars and they barricaded both of the entrances of the Starbucks and Uh we were we were like Snapchatting and Facebook and it was like cool our Starbucks is on fire is gonna blow up and you know no more work for us. Whoo! You know, and then uh we'll never forget that we watched this lady pull into the little uh uh subdivision that we were in and she was on her phone doing this number and we watched as she made her way past the barricades She made her way past the blinking lights of the two fire trucks out in front. She made her way past the police that were parked blocking the way, and she lined up perfectly into the drive-thru and proceeded to wait, I'm not even joking, three minutes for her to order her latte. We're like, who's gonna go and tell this ridiculous lady that we're sort of closed? Yeah, I was just I couldn't believe it. I still can't believe it. But you know, I uh finally she caught the drift, you know. Um but I I just thought, wow, how preoccupied. You and I get with our phones, we just completely are not sensitive to the needs of people around us around us. That wasn't Jesus. He had a submissive spirit. He had a sensitive spirit. He had a sacrificial spirit. That's obvious to see. We read a passage that said he became obedient even unto death, the death of the cross. How was Jesus sacrificial? Well, I would say he sacrificed without exception. What do you mean by that? Well could think about this. Who was in the room there with him feasting? There was a group of deserters, right? Remember, just three days from now, Jesus was going to be delivered up to the Roman government to be crucified. And what happened? The shepherd gets smitten and All the sheep went flying. They all deserted him and left him when they when he needed them most. They couldn't even pray with him in the garden during this hard time. And who else was there? There was not only deserters but doubters. You remember Thomas? He was famous called Doubting Thomas. He said, I wouldn't believe that Jesus Christ is risen from the dead, my Savior, even though he told me that he would be risen from the dead, that I won't believe it unless I can actually touch with my hand Hey doubted Jesus. How about deniers? You remember Peter the story about Peter? Peter followed a uh far off from Jesus and Uh the first lady came to him and said, Listen, I think you were with Jesus. And he said, No, I wasn't. Finally someone else came along and said, I'm pretty sure that you were you sort of act funny, okay? Um and he said, No, I I I I wasn't with Jesus, okay? I I wasn't Finally, someone said, Listen, I know you're with Jesus. You sound like him, you act like him, you're a disciple of Christ. And he's a point, he's like, I was not with Jesus. Can't you get the picture? Peter denied Christ. There was a deceiver in the midst too, wasn't there? Did Jesus skip over him? No. That blows my mind. He knew. Lord is Said I, thou hast said, Jesus knew. Yet Jesus was even willing to wash stinky feet. of the very man who would desert him, who would deceive and betray the Son of Man. That that's just amazing. But You don't say, I'll wash your feet if you'll wash mine. You do what Jesus Christ did without exception. It doesn't matter who it is. Jesus didn't come to malign people. but minister to people. You and I ought to build a life habit of the same, but also Jesus sacrificed, not with not just without exception, but also without expectation. I don't read anywhere in this passage, maybe you could point it out to me where Jesus Christ ever expected from his disciples to wash his feet, or wherever one of them stepped up and said, Listen, Jesus, I'll wash your feet since you've done that to us. And I'm learning from your example. I don't see that anywhere in this passage whatsoever. Jesus sacrificed without exception and without any expectation. Ouch. That sure hits home with me. I love when people applaud me and give me attention and recognize all my service. I'll just be honest. In my fleshly nature, I love that. But that's not what Jesus Christ did. I'd say lastly, the spirit that of a servant that Jesus Christ exhibited was a satisfied spirit. And I get that from verse seventeen. If you know these things, what was that word? Happy. That's the idea of superlatively content. You're your uh your Your life is full of meaning and you're happy and it's i just your life is uh when you get to the end of your life, man, there's substance to it. And teenager, I'd encourage you to develop your heart as a servant. Even now you say there's no way that I can do some of the things that people do. That's kind of for the old folks and so forth. You may think that, but g The Bible says, Let no man despise thy use. God desires to use every one of us. Some folks that are not able to do much, maybe not get out that much. Maybe you're prone to sickness. When you spend your life with the same spirit, the same mentality, that same uh theme, and you're like, I want to be a servant just like Jesus was, you'll be satisfied. Not because of what I say, but because of what Jesus Christ clearly lays out here. Not with uh your face looking like some sort of advertisement for liver disease. Okay, so we're not serving the Lord that way, but you'll be happy. You'll be satisfied when our days are over and spent. Pastor talked about anticipating heaven more and more and I I think I'm getting that way too. I got a lot of things hopefully in life to look forward to, but I'm I'm getting pretty excited about heaven. So looking a little bit more and more appetizing to me with all the garbage. I see going on here. But when my days are spent, do you know what I want to hear from the same Savior who died for me? I want to hear what? Well done. Thou good and faithful. There's the word. Not preacher, not CEO, not some important dude, not the most popular person in church or the greatest personality. Servant. When everything's boiled down and judged, servant is what you want to come up with. I don't know if the name Martin A. Treptow means anything to anybody here. I came across this guy's testimony while I was in Wisconsin. He grew up just thirty miles away from the camp we were at in Wisconsin. Martin A. Treptow had a deep love, a passionate, a unique love for the country, for the United States of America. His parents recognized it, his friends recognize it. Everybody recognizes it. So when it came time in nineteen seventeen for the for volunteers. He enlisted to go to France with the famed Rainbow Division. You've read about them in uh United States history during World War One. But they're on the Western Front He was killed, trying from what I understand to carry a message between battalions under some heavy fire. But some of his uh comrades were able to rescue not only his body But a a small journal that he took with him everywhere he went. They conducted the funeral and one of the fellow comrades had opened his journal and had read under the fly leaf heading, My Pledge of Service. Here Martin had written these words. America must win this war. Therefore, I will work, I will save, I will sacrifice, I will endure, I will fight cheerfully and serve. to my utmost as if the whole issue and struggle depended on me alone. This man's desire to serve his country impacted many people In fact, many soldiers across all branches of the United States military copied down for themselves this same theme. It's called the Martin A. Treptile. Pledge. He was made famous by Ronald Reagan's inaugural address. He was afforded one of the highest places of honor in Arlington National Cemetery. Here was a man who had a desire and uh was willing to sacrifice, give whatever he could to serve his country. God calls you, Christ calls you, not to serve country, but to serve Christ. Do you tonight have The spirit of a servant. We'll close in prayer, and I'd like to ask the pianist to come And just to give you a chance, I think is appropriate to respond to God's word, and nothing flashy, nothing showy, and we'll make it very brief, if God has spoken to your heart about Aligning yourself more with the example he's given in John 13. I'd encourage you, again not flash your showy But just make a definite commitment tonight. God, 2017 is here. I want to be more servant-minded. Would you help me to do that? I'm just going to be Quiet and allow you to do business with the Lord and then Pastor can close as he sees fit, but as she plays, we don't need to sing or anything. I just encourage you to