Psalm chapter 103 and uh I'd like for us to read together, if you would, just verse number eight. Psalms one hundred and three. And I'd like for us to read verse number eight. Are you ready? You got it there altogether. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger. And plentious in mercy. I want to speak this morning. Lord help, and you pray for me. I want to speak on the mercy of God. The mercy of God. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, we thank you for a good day. Thank you, Lord, for the church service this morning. God, I'm so grateful for the singing, the fellowship we've already experienced here. It's been a blessing to my heart. And I pray now, as we have our Bibles open, Father, I ask that you would please speak to our hearts now in this hour. I pray and ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will and my mind over to you, and I pray, God, you guide my thinking, guard my thinking, that I not say anything that I ought not to say. That's anything that would be contrary to Scripture, anything you've not you would not have me to say, God please keep me from saying it And Lord, things that maybe I should say, I may not have in my notes, I pray you'd put in my heart and mind. And I would say exactly what needs to be said in this hour. I yield my body to you. I present it anew. I pray you'd fill me with your spirit. And that you would speak through me to our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Book of Psalms is one of the most favorite books throughout all the Bible And it's interesting. The book of Psalm begins in Psalm chapter 1, and we won't take time to look at all these, but it begins describing the blessed man. It begins by talking about a person, a man or woman, or a family, a home, that is blessed of God. He says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. In other words, he doesn't listen to wrong advice. He guards himself from bad influence. He walketh not in the counseling God, nor standeth in the way of sinners. He's careful who he associates with. Standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. He's very, very careful about his attitude. He doesn't get a scornful, critical, bitter attitude. And so the blessed man But his delight is in the law of the Lord. He loves the Bible, and his law doth he meditate day and night. So the book of Psalms begins by Giving the description and maybe the qualifications of it of what it is to be blessed of God, how to be blessed of God. I don't know about you, but I want God's blessings on my life I want God's blessings on my home. I want God's blessings on our church. And so we have to be very, very careful that we don't walk in the way of sinners, stand in the seat of the scornful. Uh walking the counsel ungodly and all that. We need to be very, very careful. We know we need to love this book. And then the book of Psalms ends with praise. And again, we could take time, go to the last chapters of the book of Psalms and it's just praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord. And then in between it deals with all the ups and downs of life In the book of Psalms, sometimes God is so exalted, and we see the Lord high and lifted up, and we just want to worship him, we just want to praise him. Then there's other chapters in the book of Psalms that address our sinful condition. I think of Psalm chapter 51, one of the most powerful prayers of confession that have ever been penned. David prays, Against thee, and thee only have I sinned. Have mercy upon me, O God. And what a powerful prayer of confession of sin, Psalm 51 is. So the book of Psalms is the reason it's a favorite among God's people. It deals with so many aspects of life. It addresses us when we're down and may be defeated, discouraged, when we fail. And there's passages that help us Deal with that failure and get back up on our feet and be what you ought to be. Then there's other passages that talk about when we're walking in the blessings of God and the joy of the Lord. How to respond and enjoy all of that. The book of Psalms is a tremendous book. Psalm chapter 103. is one of the highlights, at least as far as I'm concerned, in the book of Psalms. One of the great chapters. Now I want to be quick to point out all scripture is given by inspiration of God. There's not one passage that's more inspired than the other. But would you agree with me? There are certain passages in Scripture that seem to stand above some others, at least in our minds. Anyone know what I'm talking about? It's like you're looking yesterday, we had the uh the graveside out there, stem uh Stemple Ridge Road. Is that the name of the road out there? Am I correct? Limestone Road. Uh-huh. I mean we were out there. And uh we're driving across there and I'm telling you that is some of the most beautiful scenery I think I've seen. You can look off both eyes of that ridge and I must be thirty, forty miles one direction, twenty, thirty, forty miles the other, and just mountain ranges and all that. And I'm trying to remember why I'm talking about that right now. But uh these mountains and valleys, and I think that's the way it is in Scripture sometimes. Some of the Passages will read that and we'll say, well, that's good, and there's something there. And then another passage you'll read, and oh my soul, it just stirs your heart. It's like a mountaintop and valleys. Everybody know what I'm saying? In my mind Psalm 103 is one of those mountaintop passages. What a powerful, powerful chapter, Psalm chapter 103 is. Now Whenever I preach on a book of the Bible or from a book of the Bible or a certain chapter, particularly in Psalms, I like to try and figure out and determine what the background is I'd like to know maybe what were the circumstances why this was penned down? Who is it being addressed to Uh what what were the uh what's the situation going on that would prompt God to inspire somebody to record us? And I think sometimes if we have that information, if we know a little bit of the background It actually makes the passage a little more understandable. We can relate to it a little better. We understand why some things are being said if we know what the circumstance is. Now, having said all that Psalm chapter 103, we know nothing about the background. We don't know who it's penned to. We don't know what the circumstances were around it being penned. I mean, we just know very, very little about this chapter. One thing we do know, there's a couple things we do know about this chapter. One, it is inspired by God. We know this is God's word. We know that every single word of there is true. God is giving us, in Psalm 103, God is giving us information about Himself That will help us understand him and help us to trust him and help us to live for him. So we know it's given to us by God. We know the book of the chapter of Psalms 103, we know it is penned by David. Do you know how we know it's penned by David? It says it's penned by David. And so, David, the great psalmist of Israel, king of Israel, we know that he penned this down. Now, other than that, we know very little about it. We look at the psalm itself and we gather some things. And I think you'll see here in a little bit. I have a sneaking suspicion whenever I get to heaven Maybe if I think about it, if I remember, I'm going to ask David a little bit about when this was penned in his life. I have a seeking suspicion. David was inspired by God. He wrote this down after he had messed up pretty bad with Bathsheba. Anybody remember that? Horrid experience. And David came, and that's where Psalm 51 came out of David being confronted by Nathan and he sinned so badly against God, and he humbles himself, and he has this prayer of repentance and confession. And he gets right with God, and God forgives him. And God shows mercy to him and restores his relationship, his fellowship back with God. And I have a sneaking suspicion Psalm 103 was penned some point after that. Because he talks about how God is so patient with us And how God is so forgiving, He remembers we're human. He rose that we, as human beings, we're limited and we mess up. I'm glad we have a God that understands that we are simply human. I'm glad that he is patient with us when we fail and when we sin. And he forgives us and he lets us get back up and go on and live for him. And so I have a sneaking suspicion that David wrote this later in life after he had messed up. Um we were down at the uh National Sword Converse here a few m a month or so ago and uh and one of the we were standing around they have this big gymnasium they have uh displays and stuff up and you can buy stuff or whatever And so we were standing there talking, this fellow came up and introduced himself. We were talking a little bit. And he said, Brother Leatherman, he said, You are a blue collar wor uh you are a blue-collar preacher. And I don't know how he meant that, but I took that as a compliment. What is a blue collar what it when you use that term somebody is a blue-collar man, a blue-collar person Yeah, a working man. Trying to get by, trying to uh be what I ought to be and pay my bills and take care of my family and work hard. I don't Uh nothing's handed to me on a silver spoon. I just gotta get up and do what I need to do, try and be the best person I can be. And uh I took that as a compliment I got looking at Psalm 103 and I got reading it over and over and over, and I come to this conclusion. Psalm 103 is a blue-collar Psalm. It's talking about men and women, where we are and what we are. It's not addressing some super duper spiritual person that's always in victory and never is defeated and never messes up. It's not talking about somebody that never has any doubt, some angelic uh being that's just so far above everybody else. No. It's dealing with life as it is. And I would venture to say most of us, if not all of us here, we're just blue-collar folk. We love God. We want to do right. We love our family. We want to please the Lord. We want to serve Him. We want to make a difference in this world and bring people to Christ and see people say, we just want to live for God. Sometimes we mess up. Huh? Come on now. Can I get a witness? Sometimes we mess up. And we get disappointed with ourselves. Amen or not? It's just life. And we're working our way through. And Psalm chapter 103 is a psalm for everyday believers, I think, trying to live for God, trying to serve the Lord, trying to please their Savior. I think that's one of the reasons King David has such an appeal to the people of God, because he was a great man, but he was a man. And we read his some of his struggles are the same struggles I have. And some of his defeats are the same defeats I have. But he walked with God and God loved them and God cared about them and God was patient with them and God worked with them. Now sometimes God has to chasten us. Now we don't use that term too much, chasten us. What that means, God chastens his children. What that means is God takes us to the woodshed sometime. How many people know what I'm talking about now? Yeah And uh I've been out uh we didn't have no wood stove, we didn't have any wood burner or anything when I was growing up, but we sure enough had a wood shed, I'll tell you that. And I've been out there many times, probably not enough. But God will take us to the woodshed sometimes. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Anybody been there? God will convict us, God will deal with us. He doesn't He doesn't just uh when we say God is patient and God uh understands that we're human, that doesn't mean that God just says, All right, I know you're a sinner, just go on, do whatever. That doesn't mean that. But it does mean he still loves me and he cares about me, works in my life, and he helps me be what I ought to be. Helps me be the man God created me to be. He helps me be the man God saved me to be. And when I mess up, he helps me get back up. And when I harden my heart and stiffen my neck, he'll bring the hammer down and he'll get bring me around. And so Psalm chapter 103 is a great, great psalm. It's one of my favorites, I think. David is praising the Lord. Notice in verse number 3. He says, well, verse 2, he says, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. David is praising God for God being good to him. Now notice what he says who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases, I'm glad God forgives sin. I put in the margin of my Bible, he praises God for saving him. God forgave all his sins. We must never how many folks here you're saved and you know it. Say amen. I tell you, we need to never, ever, ever get over the fact that God has forgiven us our sins. Amen I don't ever want to get over the fact, May 7, 1979, outside of Philadelphia, I knelt by my bed, called the Lord, and God forgave me And he changed my life. He made me a new person. I don't want to ever get over that. David never got over the fact that his God is a forgiving God. Forgiving God. Then look at verse number four, if you would. He says, he says, um, uh, who forgiveth all thine iniquities, healeth all thy diseases? That God saved them. He's praising the Lord for that. Look at verse 4. Who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies. I put in margin my Bible, God secures him, he keeps us. He redeems us from destruction. I thank God saved me, amen or not. And I thank him just as much. He keeps me saved. Man, can you imagine if we lose our salvation? Be saved, child of God, home in heaven, and then lose that? God says, no, no, no, you don't need to worry about that. I'll keep you saved. I'll keep you saved. I didn't save myself, and I can't keep myself saved. All I did is faith received what Christ did for me. He says, all right, I got you. Take you to heaven. And so he praises God for saving him. He praises God for securing him. Then look at verse 5. He praises God for satisfying him, who satisfieth thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. And he gives us, he satisfies us. Before I got saved, I was looking to this world to make me happy, to give me fulfillment, to satisfy me. And I'm here to tell you, this world will never bring satisfaction. Always need a little bit more. I was a young teen, went to the bottle, started drinking, my friend, my neighbor, Scott. And uh and you just needed more, and you just needed more, and you just needed more. When I was a young teen Another friend of mine introduced me to marijuana, hot. We started smoking that. We said, we're never going to do anything beyond this. We're never going to do anything beyond just smoking dope. We're not going to do any chemicals Of course one long started snorting this and started doing this and started doing it and it's a progression and I learned something. This whole world will never satisfy. Then I came and found Jesus Christ to be my Savior. He took all that away. Took it all away. And now, got this, got that? I don't need all that stuff. There's satisfaction, there's fulfillment down in my heart. I don't need all this garbage the world has. Are you with me? Everybody following? That's what David said. He's praising God. You save me, you forgave all my sins. You keep me in a great relationship with you. And then you satisfy. I don't need all that garbage. God, I'm satisfied with you. What should it profit a man he gained the whole world? Lose his own soul. To know that my soul is secure. I have a home in heaven. I'm not going to hell. So David is praising the Lord. The whole first part of this psalm is a s is a call to praise. And then verse 3 through 18 is a cause for praise. And then the last verses, 19 through 22, is the companions of praise. Now, I want us to look at verse 8. I said all that as quickly as I could. I want to get to verse 8 here. Notice what it says: the Lord is merciful. And gracious, slow to anger, plenteous in mercy. Mercy is one of the central themes all through Scripture All through Scripture. The mercy of God. The mercy of God. The mercy of God. What in the world is he talking about when he talks about the mercy of God? What is that? God is merciful. What do you mean by that? Well, I want us first of all consider the perfection of mercy. In other words, mercy, now bear with me, I'm going to be a little theological here. Alright, so I have to use big words and do theological stuff so that you realize how educated I are. Right, yeah. I paid a lot of money to get education, so I want you to know I is very educated. All right. But mercy is what we call an attribute of God. In other words, it's a characteristic of God. It's part of what He is. Mercy is not something God does. Mercy is what God is. You follow me? It's not mercy is not something God has. Mercy is something God is. God is merciful. God is mercy. You got your Bibles? Come with me real quick, and I want to buzz through this quick and good. But come back to Exodus. And notice with me, if you would, in Exodus chapter 34. Genesis, the first book of the Bible, Exodus, second book of the Bible. Chapter 34, it's right after chapter 33. And notice Exodus chapter 34, and look with me, if you would. Verse 6 and 7. Are you there to find it? Exodus 34, verse 6 and 7. The Lord passed by, passed by before him, speaking of Moses. And uh notice what he said, and proclaimed, this is the Lord saying, about himself, the Lord The Lord God. Now, can you imagine Moses hearing the actual voice of God say this? The Lord. The Lord God. Look at this. Merciful and gracious. Long suffering. That means very, very patient. Abundant in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. And that will by no means clear the guilty. And then he goes on businessing iniquity. But notice what he says here in verse 6. The Lord God merciful. God is mercy. It's what he is It's an attribute of his. It's a characteristic of his. It's not something God has. It's what he is. God is eternal. From everlasting to everlasting. Thou art God Sometimes people ask, well, preacher, when did God begin? When did God start? God never did start. He never started, he'll never end. He transcends time. He's eternal. I'm here to tell you this morning: listen, God is so much bigger than anything we can comprehend. He's eternal. And because God is eternal, mercy is eternal. Always has. There never was a time when God started being merciful. It always was. It always will be. Um there there never will be a time when God is not merciful. All through scripture, mercy is def is uh given as one of the defining traits of God. In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 4, it says, God is rich in mercy because he is merciful. The mercy of God never began. Come back here to Psalm 103. Did you keep your place there? I hope you did. I meant to tell you. Come back. Look down at verse 17. Pastor Matt read this a little bit ago. Psalm 103, verse 17. But the mercy of the Lord, look at this, is from everlasting to everlasting. God's mercy never began. The mercy of God never changes. God wasn't more merciful uh yesterday than he is today. He's not going to be any less merciful tomorrow than he is today. Well, God forgave that person's sin, but he would never be merciful to me and forgive my sin. That's a lie of the devil. God's mercy doesn't change. It has respect of no persons. Now I can resist his mercy. I can uh uh forfeit his mercy and say, no, I want to continue on. But God's mercy is the same for everybody. It never changes. You say, preacher, if you knew how bad I sinned, you know God would never be merciful and forgive me. That's a lie of the devil. God's mercy to the thief on the cross was just as pure and true as it was to Nicodemus, the rich ruler that came to Jesus by night. It's what God is. It's part of Him. It can't change. He can't be He it can't ever end. It can't ever, it's not in dis it's not a respective persons The perfection of mercy. Just as God is eternal, mercy is eternal. As perfect as God is, His mercy is perfect. The mercy of God. It's part of who He is. It's boundless and unlimited. There's nowhere. There is nowhere in this universe that you can go that God ain't there. Amen? Um, little boy uh was walking home from Sunday school. He had his Bible, he's walking home from Sunday school and one of his neighbors was out working in the yard and the neighbor was an unbeliever and and the boy's walking by just happy singing his little uh Sunday school songs and the neighbor said hey son where you been he says I've been to Sunday school He said, What'd you learn? He said, I learned about God. He says, tell me, where is God? The atheist said that. Where is God? The little boy said, Sir, tell me where he ain't. God's everywhere. And I tell you, His mercy is everywhere available Mercy is available everywhere. And so it's a part of the attribute of God. Nothing can diminish the mercy of God. There's nothing I can do to make God more merciful There's nothing I can do to make God less merciful. Preacher, if I put a lot of money in that offering plate, will God, then God will be merciful to me. Listen, you can't buy God's mercy Now I'm all for you putting money in in the plate, but uh ain't gonna buy God's mercy. It's God is merciful. He is merciful. So number one, the perfection of mercy. Number two, the precept of mercy. Now what I mean by that, aren't you impressed, these big words I'm using? How many people are impressed? Two. Alright. Very good. The precept mercy. In other words, what do we mean by mercy? What is that? Well, the simple definition of mercy is this It's not getting some negative thing that I actually deserve It's God withholding judgment on me. I deserve judgment, but in mercy, He doesn't give me that judgment. You follow? I ha I hate to admit this, some of you are going to be shocked, but I had a fender vendor, it's probably been 20 years ago, down by Denny's restaurant downtown. And nobody in the world believes me, but I'm telling you this is the truth I was praying down my prayer list while I was driving. I do not recommend that. The bad part is I had my eyes closed when I was praying. No, I didn't But I was I was looking in my prayer list, I was going down driving, and the car stopped in front of me and boom, I ran in the back of it. It's like, I know it. So we got off the road and the sheriff shows up and um deputy and um and so he's there and uh the the person I hit there taking pictures of everything. I said, all right, whatever And so he came to me and says, um here's it you I had to write you a ticket because I ran into him. And um he said but he said this, he says, uh he goes, let me give you advice. He goes, go down to the court because I was gonna lose My I had it with too many points I would lose my CDL to drive the Sunday school bus. And I asked the guy, I said, is there anything I can do? He says, go to court and ask the judge for mercy. Ask him for mercy. And so I said, okay. I wasn't asking for justice because I was guilty. You know? He said, ask for mercy. So I went down, had me come up, and uh he said, and he said, I f I forget how it's worded, something, what do you plea or whatever. I said, I'm just asking the court for mercy Just asking for mercy. I don't want to lose my CDO to drive the Sunday school bus. Can you show mercy? And so he says, uh, okay. And they didn't give me any points, but they did find me some But they didn't give any points. I deserved those points. I deserved what the court was going to give, but they withheld that. They showed mercy. You follow And so the simple definition of the word mercy means to withhold something negative or some sort of judgment or consequence that I deserve, but it's not given to me. Now the opposite of that, we often read in the Bible about mercy and grace. Grace is God giving me something positive I don't deserve. I don't deserve to go to heaven, but God, in his grace, through my faith in Christ He gives me a home in heaven. You follow? So mercy is withholding. I deserve God's judgment. I deserve to go to hell. I deserve God uh to condemn me. I deserve all that. I've sinned. I've taken his name in vain. I've said stuff. I've had attitudes. I've sinned God in mercy withholds that from me. Now that's the simple definition. But as we come through scripture, we find There's a whole lot more as we study the Bible's teaching on mercy. There's a whole lot more to it than that. Here's something I found interesting The word mercy, the root word of the word mercy, comes from the same root word, shares the same root word as the word, get this, womb. Womb. And I think this is the idea. Just like a mother who has carries a child in her womb, that child is protected That child is cared for. That child is nourished and loved by that mother. And it's a little child in the womb is cared and loved for by its mother. In the same way, God's mercy for us, He loves us and He cares for us and He takes care of us, even though we've sinned against Him, we've blasphemed Him, we violated Him, but yet He loves us and cares for us and takes care of us. Amen? It's a whole lot more than God just saying, alright, I won't judge you. Oh it's a whole lot more than that. When God shows mercy He's expressing to us his compassion for us, his pity for us, his kindness to us. It's to show pity to one who is in distress. It's to show compassion to someone who does not deserve compassion. It's the act of showing compassion. I cannot earn God's mercy. But I can receive it by faith that, yes, Lord, you are merciful, and I'll accept you forgiving my sin and restoring me and helping me. The mercy of God. It's as everlasting as God is. It's as pure and abundant and in and uh uh It doesn't respect people. It is God Himself is merciful and He loves me and He shows compassion to me. One of my favorite authors, I have a bunch of favorite authors, one of them I enjoy reading is A. W. Tozer. Is anybody familiar with that term? A. W. Tozer, that man, years ago, was great, has great books. I was listening to a sermon of his this past week and online, and he used a word that I had never heard before. He said it is an old English word. I was thinking I was talking to Pastor Matt about this. It's an old English word that we never use anymore. He said the word is compassionate. He said it's a verb. It's something that is done to compassionate somebody. He said we never use it anymore. And I thought, well, I've never heard that term before. It sounds like something some hillbilly in the backwoods would say. Yeah, I'm going to compassionate them. And lo and behold, I got looking up doing a word study on the word mercy, and lo and behold, in one of the dictionaries, an old dictionary, it said this: to compassionate someone To express compassion. Remember the story of the Good Samaritan? And he's traveling to Jerusalem and he sees this guy that's all beat up and he's left for dead. Remember, the priest went by and he looked at him and he just kept right on going. The Levi came by, went over, looked at him, kept right on going. Then the Samaritan who the Jews hated. He saw this guy beat up left for dead, and he said, I can't just walk by this guy. I can't just let him there and die. And he comes over and he anoints him with oil, he helps him get well, he puts him on his donkey, and he takes him into the inn, he pays the man, he says, take care of him, I'll come back and check on him. The idea is this, he showed mercy to that man. He had no relationship with that guy, he didn't owe that guy anything. He didn't do anything to deserve his mercy, but he showed mercy to him. He compassionated him. Compassionated him. That's what mercy is. Sometimes do you ever see these stupid commercials where they have some puppy dog and it's big sad eyes and it's in a cage and it's sad music and oh this puppy all you need to do is send us $4,000 And we'll save this little but anybody ever see those things? I'm telling you I I gotta be careful she's listening. But uh my wife's a sucker for them every time. Oh, we need to send them four thousand dollars, say that puppy. Compassion Mercy is is compassion in action. It's not just seeing a commercial And oh, I feel compassion. Or you read a sta sad story. I mean there's some sad stuff in the news, and you see it, and your heart sinks, and you just feel compassion. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Mercy is not just feeling compassion. Mercy is compassionating. It's doing, it's taking action It's expressing that compassion. It's carrying it out and meeting the need and helping. And God is merciful. God is He compassionates us He cares for us and he helps us and we're sinners and we've we've broken God's law and we fail in life and we're just flesh. That's what Psalms 103 is all about. And he remembers that I'm flesh. He remembers I'm just using He remembers I'm just an old sinner. And he compassionates me. He shows mercy to me. He helps me get up and go on. Listen, don't ever tell me that somebody is beyond the mercy of God. Never gonna happen. God's mercy is abundant from everlasting to everlasting. Great is his mercy. Anybody, anybody, the lowest of the low The most self-righteous, proud, arrogant person in the world can come to Christ and find mercy, forgiveness, and a new life. The precept of mercy, to compassionate. The Good Samaritan compassionated that man that was beaten It's not just feeling compassion, it's showing, displaying, acting on it. And God doesn't just pity us, a feeling of pity, but he comes down and meets with us. I'm so glad at 1030 on that Monday night, May 7, 1979, God compassionated me He heard me cry, I don't want to be this kind of person, I don't want to live this life, I don't want to be this way. God have mercy. And God heard me, and he cleansed me and forgave me. What he did for me, he'll do for anyone. All across this auditorium, people could stand up and testify, God showed mercy to me. I wish I could tell you I've never failed God since I got saved, since 46 years. I wish I could tell you I never failed God. But the fact of the matter is I've failed him over and over and over and over. And God has never failed to show mercy to a poor child of his that messed up. Are you with me? The mercy of God. I wish I was a better preacher than what I am on this subject. This is such a powerful, profound subject. The mercy of God to sinful mankind. So the perfection of mercy is God of what God is. It's what He is, it's an attribute The precept, it is God having compassion on us, forgiving us, and showing us compassion. And then the patience of God's mercy. God's mercy withholds his judgment. God's mercy patiently waits for an old sinner to come to the Lord When I was 12 years old, my folks sent me off to camp to a Christian camp up in the Poconos. Spruce Lake was the name of the camp. And uh I was twelve years old and got up there. Uh I don't know if any kids here I doubt any of our kids do, but I got so homesick. It was terrible. But anyway, um I got up there and they uh they gave the gospel. I was twelve years old They gave the gospel every night. Friday night, they gave a they preached how to be saved, and they gave an invitation for folks to come forward and get saved. I was here, my neighbor Scott, was with me, and um he uh I said I need to go up there. I was under conviction I still remember this day. I need to go up, I need to get saved. I need to get saved And it was big camps, hundreds of kids, and came out and came up and all these young people that were at camp came forward at that gospel invitation. And they said, alright, everybody come up here, you come on out. We went out a side door, we went out behind the tabernacle type thing there. They had some lights set up, and they said, um, and uh I was out there, I was coming forward to get saved And they said, all right, we're going to get everybody's name and address and where you're from, and we're going to send a letter back to your pastor and uh and tell them that you came forward tonight. And then they sent us all back. I got home and we were in uh part of the Mennonite church then, and um and uh uh the the pastor came out busy, he says, I understand that camp you decided you want to join the church. I didn't know. I said, oh yeah, okay. Nobody ever showed me from the Bible how to be saved. Nobody ever showed me from the Bible how that Jesus died for me. I need to call on them and trust them. Nobody ever showed me that. Went back and ended up messing my life up so bad. What I'm trying to say is this I'm glad God's mercy was very, very patient. And eight, nine years later, finally I've come to Christ. What if he'd have said that night, sorry, too late, mercy's over, done, you're lost for all eternity. Are you with me? God is patient. God is patient. God is patient. Somebody said the best time to get saved is when you're a little kid. I say amen to that. They said the second best time to get saved, if you didn't get saved when you were a little kid, the second best time to get saved is right now. Don't put it off. Don't put it off. God's mercy is so patient. So patient. I'm glad that he's patient with backsliders Once we get saved and we get out of whack with God and uh we go our own way and and uh we get out of fellowship with the Lord and the Holy Spirit's convicting us, I'm glad God doesn't just crush us right then and there. But he's very, very patient. Remember the story of Achan? Oh, we don't have time to get into all that. But Achan, God told him they invade they invaded the promised land, they destroyed the city of Jericho, and he said, Don't take any gold Don't take any silver. Don't take anything. All that's the Lord's. Later on you can get all the spoils, but the first fruits go to the Lord. And ache and disobeyed God. Just disregarded. Took some gold, took silver, took some beautiful clothing, hid it in his tank, and God's judgment fell. And God goes through this elaborate process to point out who it was that disobeyed. God told Joshua, there's sin in the camp, Joshua. And so they go through, they bring all the tribes and they narrow it down, then they have the families, and they narrow it down, then they have the households, and then they get down to the family of Acham. What was God doing? God was giving him a chance to make it right. God's being very, very patient. I don't know. Maybe you're here this morning and you're away from God. You're out of the will of God. You know you are. God's been convicting you. I'm here to tell you God's been very, very patient with you. Why don't you come and make that right? Why don't you make it right? The patience of God. And then last of all, I end with this, the practice of mercy. What does that mean for me? All through Scripture, we find people limiting God's mercy, or I'm sorry, imitating God's mercy. David was fleeing from King Saul. He had twice, at least twice, he could have killed King Saul. And he would have been just. He was threatening his life. King Saul was trying to kill him. It could have been self-defense. He said, No, I'm not going to do it. He showed mercy. We have in uh uh the Good Samaritan, the fellow, the Samaritan shows mercy, compassionates That victim, even though they hated uh the Samaritans were hated by the Jews, yet he showed mercy to them The prodigal son, away from his father, and he comes back. The father doesn't chew him out and beat him up and and uh throw him in prison. Father welcomes him back and hugs him and loves on him, puts a new clothing on. His clothing was so nasty, put new clothes on, shoes, got a big party for him All through the Bible, we find people imitating God's mercy to us and showing it to others. prodigal son welcomes his son. The father of the prodigal son welcomes his son in. So what should I do if God is merciful? Number one, receive his mercy. In other words, get saved If you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, the Bible says you are under the judgment of God. You are in your sins. The worst thing that can happen to a person is to die in their sins. Unforgiven. But you can come to Christ and He'll show mercy and forgive all your sins. Receive the mercy of God. Number two, I put this down. Be merciful. Be merciful. If I'm not merciful to my neighbors and the people around me, I am ungodly. You with me? God is merciful. It's what He is. And as a child of God, if I refuse to show mercy. To my brothers and sisters, people around me, then I am being ungodly. Now we think of that term ungodly as somebody, oh, he rapes people, he steals, he murders Ungodly, they blaspheme. Being unmerciful is just as ungodly as blaspheming God. I am violating what God is as his child. So be merciful. Compassionate people Luke 6, 36 says this: Be ye therefore merciful as your Father is merciful. So show mercy. No human being, get this, no human being, myself included, has the right to be unmerciful to another person. No human being has the right to look down in judgment and condemnation on another sinner. God has been so merciful to me. God has been so patient with me. God has been so forgiving with me It is ungodly for me to turn to another and say, I'm not talking to them. I'm not showing them kindness. I'm not going to be friendly to them. That is as ungodly as taking the name of God in vain, in my assessment Be merciful as your father in uh Ephesians put this this way, be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted Forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you Anybody here ever experienced God's mercy? God been good to you? God been merciful to you? And God have mercy on us if we don't show that same mercy to others. And then last of all, I put this down. Be merciful And then being merciful, when I'm merciful to others, then I receive mercy. Matthew 5:7 puts it this way: Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. God blesses us when we show when we imitate Him. God blesses us When we follow his example and we uh uh do what he's done to us and we do it to others, God says, I'll bless you. Some Christians are miserable Because you carry around bitterness towards other people in your heart. You have no peace in your heart. You have no peace in your mind. You're in turmoil and there and uh all because You won't be merciful to others. Oh, I want God to be merciful to me. And then God in heaven looks down and we treat each other treacherously, unkindly, and mercilessly. I'm not going to have God's blessing. I told Sunny I told, I think I said it here actually a little bit ago, I want God's blessing on our church. I want to own my home, my family. I want God to bless me. And if that's going to be the case, then I've got to be merciful. Our church ought to be a merciful church. You know what kind of person that guy is? Yeah, he's an old sinner that's loved by God, that Jesus died for him, and God wants to show him mercy, and we ought to do the exact same thing. So you don't know what she did to me. You don't know how he treated me. You're right, I don't, but I know how God's been merciful to you. I know how God's treated me. He's been very merciful. The mercy of God. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take these thoughts. Lord, I wish I had the tongues of angels that I could preach this better. And I pray you'd help us to grasp this and understand the greatness of your mercy and the great responsibility that we have to have received your mercy. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many this morning say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. But I'm out of the will of God. I'm away from the Lord. I know my heart isn't where it ought to be. I know there's things in my Christian life are not what they ought to be. I'm so glad that God is merciful to me and patient with me. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I can get back where I ought to be as a Christian. That I can address some of these. Is there any like that? Anybody at all? Preacher, I need God to help me. Get back in line. Maybe God dealt with your heart this morning about something. But whatever it is, he's being merciful, and let's get back in line. Let's do what we need to do. Confess our sin. Forsake it. Make things right. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, um, uh uh, I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to die in my sins. I want to know that God has forgiven me. You'd say, Preacher, pray with me, that God will help me get that settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know my sins are forgiven all my way to heaven. Any at all? Father, bless now our invitation, I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's