Hebrews chapter four, I'd like for us, if you would, I want to begin reading in verse fifteen, and then when we get to verse sixteen, the last verse of the chapter I'd like for us to read that verse together in unison, if we would. I'll begin fifteen, and when we hit verse sixteen, you all join in and read along with me. The Bible says, For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Now altogether, verse 16 Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. I want to talk about this throne of grace. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for the opportunity we have to assemble together freely here In your name, at this place, Lord, you've been so good to our church, and we're so grateful. We are amazed, Father, by your grace that you've shown us. And I ask now, as we look at this throne of grace that's mentioned here, that you would help us to understand what this exactly is and what it means to us as individuals. And so, Lord, I yield myself to you, I present my body anew for this message, and that your Holy Spirit would take me and please Fill me with your spirit, and I pray that I would just be a tool or a conduit for you to speak through my body, my lips, to our hearts and minds. Speak your word through me. I yield my will to you, Lord, of my mind. I pray you guide my thinking and the words that come out of my mouth, that they would be accurate and they would be exactly what you once said. So please have your way in this hour in Jesus' name I pray, Amen. I'm no about you, but I am concerned for our nation. I don't know any Christians that aren't. Everybody is painfully aware of the fact that we have a troubled, troubled nation. And I think the great need of our nation is not necessarily a more mighty military. And I'm all for military might. I think strength brings peace. I think when a nation is weak militarily, they tend to have more war. When a nation's strong, it tends to bring peace. I think there's a biblical pro precept there. But uh I don't think our great need is a is a stronger military. I don't think our great need is an improved economy. But uh Lord knows we can use an improved economy But I don't think that's our great need. I don't think our great need is better politicians. And Lord knows we could use some better politicians That's not the great need of our country in my mind. I believe the great need of our country is good, strong, godly, aggressive churches. Churches that are committed to do exactly what God's Word tells us to do. To do it the way God tells us to do it, and to do it in the power of the Holy Spirit. I'm afraid in many cases we become content with dead, dry, worldly churches. I'm afraid, I hate to say this, and I trust it's not true for our church, Mountain Lake. But I'm afraid we become satisfied with just going through the motions of Christianity. We just show up with our Bible and we sing our songs and we say our prayers and we listen to the sermon and Um and uh we give our offering and then we go on and there's nothing real, there's nothing nothing supernatural ever happens In our churches and in our homes and our lives. We become content with that. And what America needs is churches that have the power of God upon them again. The presence of the Holy Spirit, where lives are changed, souls are saved, lives are changed, homes are altered, marriages are healed, the witnesses empower. And churches that make a difference in their community and in their world for the gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm convinced that's the only hope for America. So, what is the great need of our churches? If America needs strong, godly, spirit-filled, uh, aggressive, soul-winning churches, then what's the need of our churches, I think? The need of our churches is a genuine Holy Ghost supernatural revival. I've been praying for this. Pastor Matav and I have been praying. Many in the church, we've been praying for revival Genuine Holy Ghost supernatural revival. But I'm telling you, it's not going to happen. It's not going to happen until we want it badly enough to do whatever it takes to get it, until we want revival. To the point that we are willing to do what the Bible says we need to do for revival, we're not going to see a revival. As long as we're content with dry, dead, ritualistic Go through the motions, Christianity. As long as we're satisfied with that, that's all we're ever going to have. But down in our heart, something begins to stir and say, you know, I want something more than that. I want to see God's power. I want to see what God can do through the life of a believer or through the ministry of a church. That is sold out 100% to the Lord Jesus Christ. What God can do. I think the ball's in our court, so to speak, concerning revival. There's no action on God's part that is required for you and I to have revival. God has done all he needs to do. Revival, as far as God's end is concerned, is already in place. The ball's in our court, whether we want that revival. It's our move. Dr. Lee Robertson said, he was my pastor for many years, tremendous Man of God, tremendous leader, the independent Baptist churches for many, many years. He said revival begins in the individual's heart. That's where revival begins. He said, revival begins when we fall on our faces alone before God, turning from every sin that would hinder God sending revival. He said, revival begins when we renew ourselves in total dedication to the Lord Jesus Christ. I put this down, revival begins when we get serious about trusting God and doing what His Word tells us to do. When pastors get serious about trusting God and doing exactly what this book tells us to do. When deacons get serious about living for God and doing what this book says, when Sunday school teachers and choir members and bus workers and church members Get serious about living for God and doing what the Bible says, then we can see revival. As long as we're content to live without revival, we will But when somebody here or there, a couple Christians here or there, a couple churches scattered across this nation say no more. No more just going through the motions. No more just playing Christianity. No more in and out, on and off, hot and cold. We're going to seek God and we're going to seek Him until we see Him do what needs to be done. I love my country. I love my church. We need God. We need the Lord Jesus Christ. We need to do what needs to be done to see Him do a work. Andrew Murray, a great Christian writer, he said the great revival that our churches need must begin with great, effectual, earnest, and fervent prayer. Prayer And that brings us to our text this morning. Hebrews 4. 16. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in a time of need. Would you agree with me? We are in a time of need. Hebrews 4. 16 is one of the great verses on prayer in the Bible. Now, Hebrews is I've mentioned this before, and we preach from Hebrews several times in the last several months, but um Hebrews, one of my favorite books of the Bible. And the central theme of Hebrews is Jesus' ministry in heaven right now. Jesus Christ is in heaven at the right hand of the Father, and He has a ministry there. He's not just sitting around doing nothing Jesus is ministering on our behalf in the presence of God the Father, even now as I stand here and speak. And that's what the book of Hebrews is about. And the author, the pen of the penman of the book of Hebrews, I believe it's Paul, the author, of course, being God, is challenging us through these pages to get our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. To focus on him. Look to him. Our theme, when I came here 31 years ago, is this September. I came and candidated in August. Got the call that following week, about the middle of August. And um then began making plans and preparation to move here in September. And uh God laid on my heart during that time frame in between there where we're getting ready to move here Hebrews 12. 2, looking unto Jesus, the author and finish of our faith. And that's been our theme all these many, many years. Looking unto Jesus. That's what the book of Hebrews is about. Jesus Christ and his work there in heaven. If you would, keep your place here in chapter 4. Come over to chapter 10 of Hebrews. And notice with me if you would, verse number 19. It's very similar to Hebrews 4. 16. It's along the same lines, Hebrews 10, 19. Notice what it says. Now if you're in the habit of underscoring verses in your Bible, this should be a good one. Notice it says, having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest. Now he's referencing that Old Testament tabernacle, that Holy of Holies, that chamber, the Holy of Holies, where the high priest once a year would go into the very immediate presence of God And place that blood on the mercy seat to make atonement for the sins of God's people. That's what he's saying. He says, therefore, brethren having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest. What? We can go into the very presence of God? We can go like that Old Testament high priest. We can go into the very immediate presence of God. That's what he's saying, yes. And he says it's by the blood of Jesus Christ. And Hebrews teaches us that because of Jesus' crucifixion, what he accomplished on that cross, when he shed his blood, and then took that blood and placed it on the actual real altar uh uh of uh actual real ark of the covenant there in the immediate presence of god when he placed his blood there He made it possible for you and I as believers to enter into the very presence of God. We now have direct and free access to the very throne of the God that created this universe. How many folks here this morning, you're saved and you know it. Say amen. Amen. I trust that's true. If you trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, that tells me you're a child of God and you have direct immediate free access to the very throne of God. Every one of us, you say, oh preacher, I'm just an old sinner saved by grace Yeah, and you can go right directly to the God of the universe and talk to him one-on-one, face to face, person to person. That's what he's saying. The blood of Jesus Christ was the price of our salvation. He shed his blood on that old cross, and when he applied That his blood, his perfect sinless blood, and he applied it on the altar, the Ark of the Covenant there in the presence of God. When he applied that, our sins are cleansed. We're justified before God. And when you and I accept the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior This past week I uh did a funeral. Nine people indicated they called on the Lord Jesus Christ, be their personal Savior. Every single one of them, the moment they called on the Lord in sincerity and genuine faith The Bible says that their sins were forgiven. They were justified before God. And that's because of the blood that Jesus shed for their sins on their place. Thank God for the blood of Jesus. And God forbid that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ever quits preaching the blood of Jesus Christ. And God forbid that we ever stop Singing songs like nothing but the blood. What can wash away my sins? God forbid we ever stop praising God for the blood of Jesus Christ. Blood of Jesus Christ declares us justified because of what Jesus Christ accomplished on that cross, and that blood, that sinless blood of Jesus Christ that was shed and placed on the altar in heaven, the moment you and I trust Christ as Savior, we stand before God completely justified, as if we had never sinned, as righteous as Jesus Christ Himself, we stand before God. That's what the blood of Jesus does. You say, oh preacher, I'm not that righteous I've trusted Jesus, I've been saved, but man alive, I still struggle. Yeah, here on earth we do, but in God's eyes, in God's estimation, in God's uh cons uh attitude towards us, our standing with him, we are just as righteous as Jesus Christ. We can never attain that on our own. We can never live up to that standard. We can never live up to the point where I'm as righteous as Jesus. In and of ourselves, we can never do that. But Jesus Christ did that for us. Shed his blood to pay for our sins, then applied his righteousness to our account. I don't know about you, but if I had hair, it'd be standing on end right now. That stirs my heart. Just as righteous as Jesus Christ. And that's what the blood of Jesus, it makes It makes it possible for just an old sinner like you and I, we can come into the very throne room of God This God that is blindingly, perfectly holy, an old sinner like I, through the blood of Jesus, I can come right into him. Isn't that an amazing thing? I tell you what, that make a Presbyterian shout right there. I know what I need There we go, there we go. The blood of Jesus Christ. Because of Jesus' sacrificial death on the cross And the application of his blood on the mercy seat in heaven, believers now have full, free, direct access to the throne of God. 24-7 Say, what hours are God's throne open? 24-7. Sheets don't have nothing on God's throne. I can come to God any day or night. I th I think I just thought now of old Jim McRoby uh years ago, his wife Nina was here and and uh she was a I think the charter member, I think, close to it But she passed away years ago. It's sweet, member of our church. Her husband was mean. Old Jim was mean. She goes, preacher, go visit my husband. I said, okay, sure. She goes, now he hates preachers. I said, oh, I can't wait to meet him. Make a long story short, old Jim got saved. God turned him around. I mean, we he loved me dearly. I loved him. He bought our first sound system here. for us. So we could record it. He could hear it. He was deathly ill. He was in a hospital in Pittsburgh, two in the morning, got scared. He says, I need preacher to pray for me. I need Pastor Leatherman to pray He tried to get them in Pittsburgh to call me at two in the morning, have me drive up there and pray with them. And they said, Well, you're f you're not you're okay. Why don't you call them tomorrow and have them come up tomorrow? I praise the Lord for those nurses. And um He says, all right. And he talked, I talked to him the next day and he said, Preacher, I learned something last night. I said, What's that? And he told me he was wanting me to come up and pray. I said, Well, I'll come up there. He goes, No I learned something. He says, I found out I can go to God just myself right here in the hospital room at two o'clock in the morning. I can talk to God. Yeah And that's all because of what Jesus Christ did for us on that cross. Shed his blood. You and I can go directly to the to the God of the universe, right into his very presence, laying in a hospital bed, on our deathbed, talk right to God. 24-7, day or night. You and I, because of what Jesus Christ has done for us, now get this You and I, because of what Jesus Christ has done for us, we have the same access to God the Father that Jesus has. I am in Christ. And I have the exact same access that God the Father that God the Son has. What an amazing thing. What an amazing resource That you and I can go to the throne of grace, the very presence of God, and find grace to help in time of need. I tell you what America needs. America needs is churches that are right with God. And what churches need are to come to this throne of grace and find grace to help, because we are in a time of need. We had the same access Jesus had several it's been a number of years ago. Uh one of our neighbors here in the community, uh one of our neighbors here, uh his wife was very, very sick. I was talking to him, he's a fine fella. Wasn't saved at the time, he is now, but um He said he said Reverend Leatherman, he always called me Reverend Leatherman, Reverend Leatherman, ah, my wife's really sick. Would you pray for her? I said, sure. I said, I'll pray for her. He says she's He said she's up in the hospital here and not doing good. I said, Well would you mind? I'll go by and if it's all right with you, I'll go by and pray with her. He says, Oh, that'd be wonderful. Thank you. Please do So the next day I went up to the hospital and found her, went in a room, and she was very, very ill. She passed away not long after that. But I went in there and we visited a little bit and told me a little bit what was going on. I said, well let me pray. And I held her hand I held his hand and we prayed for God's grace. We prayed God help her and that God would uh uh just uh do what needs to be done, make her well if it be his will, and just had a nice prayer time together We chatted a little bit. I started to leave. As I started to leave, he reached in his pocket, pulled his wallet out. He says, wait a minute, preacher, Reverend Leatherman, and he reached in his pocket and he pulled out a $20 bill. He said, here you go I said, what's that for? He says, that's for that prayer. I said, what do you mean for what prayer? He says the prayer he just prayed. There's twenty dollars. I said, I ain't taking your filthy lucre. No, I didn't say that. I didn't I s I I said his name and I said, I'm not taking that money. This says you don't pay me to pray for you. He says, my priest, whatever he called his church, he said, he charges me twenty dollars every time he comes and prays. I didn't say this to him, but I thought in my head, what a sorry, wicked man would charge money to pray for somebody. That's of the devil, I'm telling you right now. Now if you want to pay me, I'll take it better. I didn't take this money up. I said no. I said I'm not taking it. And I said this. I said it's already been paid The price of being able to go to the throne of God has already been paid. Paid by the Jesus Christ with his own blood, made it possible for you and I to go to God. I did her funeral a few weeks later, and that man trusted Christ at the funeral, along with others. And so Jesus Christ Because of what he did on that cross, shedding his blood, dying for our sins, and buried, rose again, shedding his blood, taking his blood, and placing it on the actual, real, eternal altar uh mercy seat there in heaven. That blood is there now, and it makes it possible for you and I to enter into the holiest of holies, the very presence of God, the very throne of grace, and we can find grace to help in time of need. Isn't that good? Number one, here's my outline. I notice here back in verse number 16 of chapter 4. I notice, first of all, an invitation to pray. An invitation to pray. Notice what he says. Let us therefore come boldly. Let us therefore come. That word therefore is referring back to what he referred to in previous verses And what he's saying is this, because of the work of Jesus Christ, our great high priest, God invites us to come to his throne of grace. God invites us to come to him and tell him what our needs are. To come to him and make our prayers to him. He's inviting us The God of eternity, the God of creation, is inviting us To come to my very throat and tell me what you need. Tell me what you're dealing with Tell me what your burdens are. Tell me what you need. Come to my throat. God is inviting us to come and pray. Would you agree? We're a needy people. We're a needy nation. And here's the thing. We're going everywhere in the world trying to find a solution to all the problems in our nation. We're running here and there. everywhere coming up with all this stuff trying to find the problems with our nation and we've got God himself is saying come to me You need grace to help? You're in a time of need? Come to my throne. It's all been paid for. It's accessible. It's available. Come to me. And we run everywhere else in the world except we come to God. We don't come to God. You know what that tells me? That tells me we need revival. We need to get our eyes back on Christ. The invitation to pray. I think the primary reason prayers aren't answered is because prayers aren't prayed. All through Scripture, God calls his people to pray. I like Jeremiah 33. 3, don't you? It's God's phone number. Call unto me. That's God speaking. He's saying, Call unto me, and I will answer thee. Listen to this. And show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. God's inviting us to pray. He wants you to pray. He wants you to pray. How many people here have a need this morning? Raise your hand The God that created you and died for you and rose again, he's saying, come to me and pray. Come to my throne, bring it to me. Matthew 7, verse 78, ask, it shall be given unto you. Seek, ye shall find. This is God speaking. Jesus says, ask. Seek, you'll find, knock, it'll be open unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth. He that knocketh, it'll be open unto you. He's inviting us to come and pray, come and pray, come and pray. Philippians 4 6, be careful. It means be anxious or worried or fret. Be careful for nothing, but in everything by Prayer and supplication. Let your requests be made known unto God. Our prayers don't need to be formal, our prayers don't have to be fancy or complicated. Just pray. A child can pray. I like it sometimes. I'll have a little situation or whatever, and I'll say something, pray for me. And almost without fail. Uh um when I'm back there somewhere out a little child would come up and say, Pastor, I'm praying for you I tell you, there's nothing stirring my heart like a little child telling me they'll pray. I'll take a child praying for me and a bunch of you carnal folk out there praying. You know what I'm saying It doesn't have to be complicated. Your prayers don't have to be fancy and some oratorical display of beautiful words. You know what a prayer might be? Nothing more than, God help me. Oh God. In fact, he Romans tells us in chapter eight it implies there That sometimes our hearts are so burdened and our need is so great we can't even articulate the words to express it. And the Holy Spirit of God takes that burden, takes that need, takes that desire, and makes it acceptable before the throne of God. Holy Spirit helps us pray. Listen, you don't have to have a Bible college education to pray He says, come on. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace. Prayers don't have to be complicated. Don't worry about getting your words right. Just pour your heart out to God. Sometimes the prayers that are heard the loudest in heaven are nothing more than a little groan of the heart before the throne of God. Do you ever get so burdened where you just bow before God and you just say, Oh God, oh God? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I think sometimes those are the most powerful prayers. God wants you and I to come to him in prayer. Jesus told his disciples in Luke 18, 1, men ought always to pray. He ought always to pray. By the way, I think by application women ought always to pray. Boys and girls and teenagers. I think families ought always to pray. I got something stuck in my craw here. I think it'd do a heap of good in our churches, in our community, our nation, if we get families back to old-time family altar again. Mom and dad, the kids, whoever's in the home, getting together, scheduled consistently, praying together, reading scripture, singing, and bringing that family before God as a family. I think that'd have a powerful effect. on our world. I think it'd help your home. God calls us to pray. Men ought always to pray. I think one of the most important things we can do in our life is establish a consistent fervent prayer life. Number one, the invitation to pray. Number two, in this verse, 16, Hebrews 4, 16, I notice our access in prayer. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. The throne of grace. This is where God Almighty This is the seat of God Almighty. Now I understand that God the Father is not physical. He's a spirit. He doesn't sit in a physical sense like you and I do. But he has a throne. And a throne is a seat of authority. If somebody, you have a human sitting on a throne, that implies that they are a king. That implies they have tremendous authority. And the throne of grace that you and I have access to through the death, burial, resurrection, the shed blood of Jesus Christ. That throne of grace that you and I have access to is none other than the throne of the greatest authority in existence. There is no other, there is no higher authority than God Almighty And he says, you have access to that throne. Authority of the universe. Do you know that one day the devil and the devils themselves Will bow down at that throne before the name of Jesus Christ. Authority. And he says, Let us therefore come boldly to this throne. You come on. Wow. I can come and speak to the highest authority in existence. Yes A throne is a seat of authority. A throne is a seat of power. Somebody is on a throne, that person has authority, they have great power. And you and I have access to the God that is omnipotent, all-powerful. There is no being in existence. that is even remotely close, that has even remotely the power that God Almighty has. You and I have access to that. We can come to the throne of grace, a throne of authority, where even the devils have to obey his word. And I can come to him by grace to help. The moon and the stars hold their course by his authority and his power. And you and I, just old sinners down here in Garrett County. or or uh uh over in West Virginia. Uh uh we uh some of y'all West Virginia. And um I'm not saying what I'm thinking, but um But just old sinners like you and I, we can come to this throne where the stars obey And I have access, I can find grace to help. A throne is a place of authority, place of great power, it's a place of great wealth I've never heard of a king or a monarch sitting on a throne of authority and power that was broke. That was poor. You think of someone, a king, you think of great wealth, you think of great uh supplies and resources. I'm telling you, uh, I'm telling you, there ain't there ain't nobody in existence as wealthy as our God. Elon Musk, he's he's a pauper compared to our God. And he says, come on. Come on. I got access to the wealthiest being that ever existed, ever will exist. He owns everything. He says, you come on, you come on, you come on. Why in the world do we neglect prayer? What's wrong with us? We have this access available to us 24-7. We can come to this throne. And we forget to pray for our cornflakes. We don't take time come on Wednesday night prayer meeting we don't have we don't have pro we don't have time to pray or anything. Are you kidding me? The access we have to the throne of grace. As believers, we understand that God is our Father. And we come to him as our Father. However, our Father, our Heavenly Father, is also King of Kings and Lord of Lords The creator of everything that exists, the highest authority in existence, the most powerful being in existence, the wealthiest being that ever has or ever will exist. And that's our Father. We come to him and pray. Now, though we come to him as our Father, we ought not to come flippantly. A throne is also a place of great respect, of dignity, of royalty. I don't think we ought to, and we'll mention this here in a minute. We ought not to be shy and we ought not to be timid coming to our Heavenly Father, God, but we ought to come respectfully. I'm going to remind you this morning, he's not the old man upstairs. I'm grateful my wife taught our boys they never called their daddy the old man We don't never call our Heavenly Father the God of gods, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords. Don't ever refer to him as the old man upstairs. He is God Almighty. It's my father. I have access. But we better come respectfully. We better come humbly. There's no room for pride at the throne of grace. There's no room for self and presumptuous sins. No, no, no. We come humbly before Him. But we have access. We have access. Though we come to God as our father, we're family, we never come flippantly. We come respectfully and humbly. And then it's the throne of grace. The word grace there has the idea of strength and supply. We come to the God of the universe to find supplies that we need and find help that we need and strength that we need. I want to, this is what I'm trying to, I was thinking about this. When we come to God in prayer, let's make our requests grand. In other words, let's make our request worthy of the throne and the being that we are coming to, God Himself. You don't come to a multi-billionaire and he says, come, let me know what you need. You say, well, you know, maybe a dollar. Are you kidding me? That would be an insult. Are you following what I'm saying? We're coming to God. Let's ask for God-type things. Let's not be afraid to ask God for big things. Let's not be afraid to pray big prayers. Jeremiah 33:3, call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee little and meager things which you're used to. That's not what it says. Just call to me, I will answer you and show thee what? Great and mighty things. You can't even think of them. You and I cannot ask something too big from God. Nobody ever came to God and asked for something. God said, well, I can't afford that. Now I got family members, I won't say which one in particular, but as for some, I say I can't afford that. God never says that. Amen? God never says, good night, that's too big. I don't know if I could handle that. Listen to Psalms 81:10. This is God speaking to his people. He says, Open thy mouth wide. And I will fill it. Every time I read that and study that, I get a picture of that little baby bird in the nest. Ever see that in that little baby robin or whatever? And that mama comes by, and those little birds, that mouth, they could swallow themselves, I think. Man, they want it all. They open that mouth up. God says, you come to me in prayer, you're coming to the throne of the God of the universe. Don't be timid, don't be shy, don't be meager in your requests. Open your mouth wide! Make your requests big. Great and mighty things. Listen to Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 10. He says he is able to do abundantly above all that we ask or think. Woo! So man, I I don't know if I should ask this from God. That's too big. God says, that's in the Greek. He says, Too big? What are you kidding me? I can do things you can't even imagine. In things you know not. I can uh uh he says abundantly above all you ask or think. Now, don't misunderstand, don't hesitate to ask small things. Lord, I need a parking spot. Don't be afraid. I was down there at that new donut shop they got downtown and I said, Lord, if you want me to stop there Make there a parking spot right in front of it. And lo and behold, the fifteenth time I went around there was a parking spot right there Don't be afraid to ask God for little things. I'm telling you, I I've seen God do so many of I came back from a mission trip, uh I think it was Dominican or I think it was w down at um New Zealand the other year and you're switching planes all the time. And the stupidest thing, these airlines They say, oh, you can take two carry-on. Right? So I packed two carry-on. Then you get there and they say, oh, we only have room for one carry-on, you have to check them on. Every single time And I hate to do that. I don't want to you said I could carry it on, I'm going to carry it on. And so I got and this is I'm t I'm telling the truth. If ever if I ever happen to tell the truth, I'll point it out. I'm telling the truth right now I'm standing there in line and there everybody's checking in. We don't have any more room. You've got to check them in. I don't want to, I don't want to. So I said, Lord, please, let there be a spot where I can put my luggage And I'm telling you, five flights in a row, there was an empty place in the bin right above me, where everybody else was checking theirs in. I'm walking back there, it's all packed, all the top things are packed, everybody's staring at me, I got these two things I woke up and lo and behold there's one right there. I'm telling you, God answers little prayers. We shouldn't be afraid to ask for little things, but on the other hand We should never be intimidated and afraid to ask for big things. Great and mighty things. Ask God for that miracle. Does God do miracles, yes or no? You say I've never seen a miracle. Maybe you've never asked for one. Huh? Now, I'm not saying God's going to do whatever you ask of him. I'm not saying God's going to give you everything you ask for Yeah, I'm and I'm glad for that. There's a heap of things I asked for over the years. God didn't give me later on. I looked back and said, Whew, praise the Lord. Thank you for not answering that prayer. Can I get a witness? But we ought never to be afraid to ask for big things. God, I want my whole family saved. God, I want them all saved, dedicated to you. Ask them for that. Pray for that. Oh, I don't think my child will ever come back to God. I just uh that'll that's too big, that'll never happen. Why don't you start praying that God will do a miracle and your child's like, see them turn around? Amen or not? I don't know what the need is, but we're coming to the throne of grace, the throne of God for peace's sake. Let's ask something God like. Let's ask for things that are worthy of the throne that we're coming to. Alexander Great. Great conqueror, great leader, incredibly wealthy. He had an associate that he, Alexander, had found out that one of his associates had a financial need, overwhelming financial need. And he told his associates, he said, go down to the Treasury. And just tell them, here's uh give you authority, go down to the Treasury and tell them uh to give you whatever you need. You go and tell them. Ask them and um tell them what you need, they'll give it to you. So he did. And he went to the treasurer, the treasurer was there, and uh he asked for a phenomenal amount. And the treasurer is like, what? There ain't no way we're giving you this much. So he sent a note back to Alexander the Great and said, Do you know this guy's down here is asking for all of this? And Alexander sent back and he says, I'm honored that he would consider me so grand that I would do something like that for him. You give it to him. You follow him? I tell you, we come to God. Let's ask God for some big things. I think one of the reasons we don't see revival in our church is we don't ask God for it. We don't see miracles happen in our church. We don't ask God for it. We're not seeing liquor stores closed and nasty shops being closed down and communities being changed. I wonder if the reason we don't is we're not asking for it. Either he's God or he isn't. And if he is God, let's not be timid. Then, last of all, and with this, notice our assurance. He says, let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. That word boldly means without reservation. Without hesitation, without fear, with total freedom, with courage, fearless confidence We can come to the very presence of God because of what Jesus Christ has done for us. Just an old sinner saved by grace. And I can come into the very throne room of God, the very throne of grace, and I can come boldly And I can stand there with confidence in Christ, that God accepts me in Christ, and I can let my requests be made known unto Him, and I can find grace to help I can have assurance, boldness. When we need help, we have a place to go. When we have a need, we have a place we can go. It's called the throne of grace. And we don't have to be timid, we don't have to be afraid. We can come boldly into God's throne room. John F. Kennedy had a son. His name was John Kennedy Jr. They called him John John when he was little. Kennedy was president. His little boy, John John, as they called him. had a tendency to go charging into the Oval Office when President Kennedy was there doing business, and he'd just pushed the door open, come running in And uh he didn't need no formal introductions. Uh he could show up unannounced He came in there unintimidated. Sometimes there was heads of state and prime ministers from other powerful countries there in that room. Little John John just comes strutting right in there. Ah, unrestricted, and just climb up on his daddy's lap and tell his daddy what he needed. What he wanted. Nobody restricted him, nobody rebuked him. Kennedy, they say, would take time and give his son a little attention The King of England could not come strutting into the Oval Office like that. Prime Ministers from powerful countries They couldn't come in there. They had protocol they had to follow. They had security had to go through. But old little John John, he'd just come walking right in there You know what I think this is verse is saying you and I are John John. We just come walking right in, the throne of grace. Hi God, I sure need your help. God, I sure need some grace. We can pray. Our country needs help. Our country is on the verge of absolute disaster. I just say this. If things had gone differently last Saturday night, we could very well have been in the midst of civil war right now. The grace of God. What our country needs, or anything else, are churches that are on fire for God. That are serious about living for the Lord and preaching the gospel and doing right. That'll happen when we learn to get a hold of God in prayer. Pray boldly and earnestly and fervently and confidently and bring big prayer requests to God. And then see what God will do. Amen. Father in heaven, teach us to pray, I ask. Like the disciples asked the Lord Jesus, I ask that you would teach us to pray. Teach us to pray boldly and confidently and Humbly. Lord, we're asking for great things from you. We're asking for miracles. We're praying that Prodigal sons and daughters in our congregation will come back to you, convict, and draw them back I pray that unsaved family members would come under great conviction and they'd be saved and their lives would be changed. I pray for marriages that are fractured and damaged that you'd heal them God, I ask you take us and make us a bright light shining, a strong witness The gospel here in our community around the world. I pray you'd raise up soul winners and missionaries and preachers for churches desperate for preachers. God, we're asking at your throne For these things that we need. Teach us to pray. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I need to get serious about my prayer life? Any like that? Preacher, I've got to get this serious. Let me ask this. How many folks this morning say, Preacher, I have a need that's bigger than me? I have a burden situation that's bigger than I am. Any like that? Uplifted hand? Why don't you come to this throne of grace boldly because of what Christ, not because we're anything, we're not, but what Christ has done for us. Let's let our request be made known. Let's pour them out at the throne of grace. Father, bless our invitation I ask now in Jesus' name.