First Corinthians chapter number one, if you would notice with me, verse number eighteen, I'd like for us to read verse eighteen together. You guys don't know how hard I work on these jokes all through the week, building Trying to get them for you. So hope you appreciate them. Verse 18, 1 Corinthians chapter 1, the Bible says, For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved is the power of God. I asked us to read that together, didn't I? Let's read it together. Ready? All of us together. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. I want to speak this morning on the preaching of the cross. The preaching of the cross. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now you would bless our time together in your word. I pray, Father, you would help me and all of us to put out of our minds the cares and concerns of this world just for a few moments. And help us to focus on your word and what it has to say and how it's applied to our lives. Lord, I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me And speak through me to each and every heart and mind, and that we would be conformed more to the image of Christ, that we be the Christians you intend us to be. Our church would be the church you intend for us to be So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and with all my heart, I pray you would have your way. In Jesus' name I ask. Amen. I've had the privilege over the years uh to hear some of what I consider the greatest preachers of our generation back in the 80s, uh 70s and 80s, shortly after I was saved. Of course, I was able to sit under Dr. Lee Robertson. I don't know how many folks are familiar, Dr. Robertson down in Chattanooga, great, tremendous man of God. here and preach uh week after week. Uh big conferences years ago, get in and big sword conferences, Southwide Baptist Fellowship, others, pastors conferences. And uh some great preachers and um uh Curtis Hudson and and um Harold Seitler and some of these great guys, Tom Malone and others And just a tremendous privilege to hear some of these guys preach. And we've had a few of them through the church here over the years, some what I consider great preachers. I've had the privilege in over these years to work under some incredibly dedicated Christians. Um incredibly dedicated pastors and workers down at Highland Park Baptist Church. I think of um uh Dr. Charles Holmsher, the founder and director of Bible Time. I don't think I've ever met anybody more committed to the gospel and to the Lord Jesus Christ than uh Brother Holmsher. He's been with the Lord now many years But I said all that to say this. I met some greats in our generation. I met some tremendous Christians. But I don't think that any of these, I don't think I've ever met as powerful a preacher as the Apostle Paul was. I've heard some great, powerful preachers over the years, but I don't think I've ever met any or heard any that were as powerful as the Apostle Paul in his preaching. Um met, as I said, some greatly great, dedicated, committed Christians. But I doubt seriously I ever met anybody That was as committed to the Lord Jesus Christ and as committed to the gospel of Jesus Christ as the Apostle Paul was. Now, I've read some of his sermons that are re preserved for us in the Word of God, inspired and preserved for us in the Word of God. Uh to be honest with you, I my personal opinion is, and I'll get to heaven, I might be wrong. My personal opinion is I don't think uh Paul was a real dynamic speaker. Uh and I get that in one sermon in Acts he preached where a guy fell asleep in the window and fell out the window and um was taken up dead. Uh and so um so I don't know that Paul was a real dynamic preacher. I don't think now this is one I appreciate, I don't think he was a real short preacher Uh I think he tended to be long. In fact, that same sermon where the guy fell out the window, that was at midnight he'd been preaching, and he preached until the sun came up. That's my goal. Someday, someday I'm going to do that. I don't think it was a I don't know, this is just my opinion, but I don't think he was a real dynamic preacher, but I do believe this, I'm sure of this, he was a powerful preacher. A powerful preacher. You see, there's a world of difference. There's a world of difference between having natural charisma or natural abilities, maybe speaking skills. There's a difference between having that and having the power of God. You follow what I'm trying to say? Paul may not have been a real smooth orator. He may not have been a real dynamic speaker. But I'm telling you one thing: when Paul preached the word of God, lives were changed. Souls were saved. Revival came. Paul was a powerful, powerful preacher. If you would, look with me at verse number 17 in our text here. Pastor Matt read it a few moments ago And from verse 17 down through 25, Paul is expressing a real concern of his about How the power of God in those ministries and the churches and the preaching, the power of God was being replaced with the wisdom of men. Did you pick that up when Pastor Matt was reading? He kept saying, not in the wisdom of men, not in the wisdom of men, not in the wisdom of men. And Paul expresses in verse 17, he makes two statements here. First of all, notice he says, For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. The first statement he's making here, the first thing he's pointing out, his calling in life. Paul was called to preach the gospel. Preach the gospel. The word sent there has this idea. Christ sent me not. The word sent has this idea to be sent out on a mission. uh to be sent out with a responsibility. He says, God has given me a mission in life, and that is to preach the gospel. Now this is aside from my message, but I want to throw it out while we're here in verse number seventeen If you notice very carefully, Paul distinguishes baptism from the gospel. Did you notice that? Said he didn't send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Whenever a church, whenever a pastor, whenever a church mixes baptism with salvation, you've got a problem The baptism is not part of the gospel. The gospel is Jesus Christ died for our sins, was buried, and rose up again. Nobody ever gets saved because they're baptized. It is two separate things. Baptism is a testimony of my salvation. Baptism is a witness to the fact that I've trusted the gospel. I've believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, what he did for me in the cross, buried, and rose again. And so don't ever think I I had somebody just recently outwitnessing a guy say uh just yesterday to be honest with you, a fellow said to me, I asked him to know for sure he's going to heaven. He goes, Well, I was baptized And he gave the age and where it was at. And I said, uh and we talked about that a little bit. It's a real danger when I start thinking that my baptism is what saves me. Baptism is not part of the gospel. So Paul, first of all, he points out that uh he's been given a mission. He has a calling and light, and that is to preach the gospel. Now I want to throw this out there Actually, every one of us, regardless of what our occupation may be, we may be a student in school, we may be a carpenter, we may be a truck driver. uh maybe a mechanic or an office worker and uh maybe somebody like james just has a cubicle and really just play on the phone all day long. But uh regardless of what our occupation may be God has given to all of us a calling, and that is this: to preach the gospel. Our responsibility is to communicate. We'll talk about this a little more in a little bit, but our responsibility is to get the gospel out. So Paul had a calling in life. He points out in verse 17. Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. And you and I have that same calling on our lives to an extent. But then also, notice in verse 17, he expresses a concern. About that gospel. He says, Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Now look at this. Not with wisdom of words. Lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. Paul's very concerned. Now, this is early on in church history. We're talking 2,000 years ago The church is just being established. And Paul is writing to this church there in Corinth that he God used him to establish and get up and running, and he's writing to them, advising them, helping them with some issues, and he says Uh uh Christ sent me to preach the gospel, but not with the wisdom of his words. His concern was this, is that the gospel of Jesus Christ in that church there and by application to our churches today The gospel of Jesus Christ is being pushed out by the wisdom of man, by man's ideas and man's theories. are coming in and they are diluting the gospel and they're distorting the gospel. I put it this way, uh the uh the the they were replacing the simple The greatest threat to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and our scriptural integrity, the greatest threat is not persecution from the government. Our greatest threat is not persecution from the world and society. Our greatest threat is allowing ourselves to dilute and distort what God's Word says. Then the church is in trouble. And Paul is very concerned about that. And he says, We cannot uh we cannot allow the wisdom of men, the ideas and the theories of man to uh uh replace the gospel, a perversion of the word of God. Uh I uh let me just give a few quotes here. Man's faulty and limited wisdom has been a serious threat from the beginning of the church and will increase until the return of Christ One of the very serious concerns for our church, and I'm concerned about what's going on in our society. I'm concerned about our country. How many folks are concerned? This is an important week. We need to be praying for God to have mercy on our country. But I tell you what, the greater concern is if we get away from this old book. Regardless of what happens, regardless of what how the world may respond. We have got to stay true to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And right from the beginning of the church, through the book of Acts, there was false teachers coming in. There was false doctrine coming in. There was man's ideas. The wisdom of man was creeping in. And the wit and the gospel and the word of God was being pushed out. And by the way, that will continue to increase until the Lord comes back. You'll study Matthew, I think it's chapter twenty-four and Matthew, chapter twenty-four. The Lord's talking about characteristics of the last days, the days Just before the Lord Jesus comes back, and one thing he says over and over and over and over through that chapter, he says, Beware of false teachers. Beware of false Christ. Beware of uh wolves that come in sheep's clothing. We must be diligent as a church. We must be diligent as a as a body of Christ. To make sure we do not allow the wisdom of man to replace the word of God. And Paul gives a whole section here, very concerned about that. Stay true to the Word of God. Stay true to the Word of God. Years ago, uh I was reading a book by H. A. Ironside and uh years ago he said actually a hundred and over a hundred and twenty years ago There was a fellow in London. Of course, there was great churches, huge churches and preachers, world-famous preachers in London at that time. And he decided in the morning, Sunday morning, he was going to go to this one big church and hear this very, very famous preacher He wanted to hear what he had to say. So he went there, got into service that morning. Then he said in the evening, he says, I want to go hear Charles Spurgeon, the Metropolitan Baptist Tabernacle. I want to hear Spurgeon preach. So the morning he went to this very, very famous bit liberal church preacher, and he heard him. In the evening he went to hear Spurgeon. And uh at the Mexbon Baptist Tabernacle, in the evening he came home, his wife said to him, He said, Well, how is the preaching today? He said, the fella in the morning service had a great sermon with great ideas and interesting theories. He said, but in the evening service, I found that Spurgeon has a great savior. You notice the difference? Preacher in the morning had his ideas, had his words of wisdom, had his theories. Spurgeon in the evening preached Christ Preach Christ. And he walked out saying, What a savior. I tell you, one of the things I pray for, one of my greatest burdens and desires as a preacher, is that when people walk out of a sermon, they walk away saying, Boy, God sure is amazing. Boy, Jesus sure is wonderful. And uh Paul was concerned about that, uh about the wisdom of the world uh creeping in and replacing the Word of God. I tell you, what our world needs is not more of man's wisdom. Brother, look around. We find out what man's wisdom produces, huh? We can see what man's theories and ideas come up with and how that affects us. What this world needs is more of the message of the cross, the message of the gospel. Churches that are replacing the message of the cross, the pure, simple gospel of Jesus Christ. Churches that are replacing the message of the cross with the wisdom of man are making a grave mistake. And uh they're doing great, great harm. And so Paul takes a large section of his letter to the Corinthians and he addresses this matter. We preach Christ. We preach the cross. Uh and so I would like for us to look at verse number eighteen. This is my message this morning, real quickly. And I notice three words in this I want to highlight. I just want to touch on Three words that are mentioned in 1 Corinthians 1 and verse number 18. The first word I want to deal with is the word preaching. Notice he says, for the preaching of the cross. Is to them that perish, foolishness. Now the question is, what does he mean by preaching? Well, the word itself, it's a very simple definition. It simply means to communicate a message to uh to express a truth, uh to simply tell someone uh a message The word that it comes from, and I'm not a Greek scholar, I know a little Greek. He's passed away years ago. He lived up in Philly. But um but I have some pretty good Greek books So I looked up that word. I found out the word that it comes from is logos, is the word. And interesting enough, it's the same word from John chapter 1 and verse 1. In the beginning was the Word. And the Word was with God. The Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. The word preaching, Paul says, for the preaching of the cross, the communication, the delivering the message, what was the logos? The word was the Lord Jesus Christ in John chapter 1. And uh uh Jesus is and was and is the message of God to us, embodiment He says, You've seen me, you've seen the Father. Jesus referred to the Word. Jesus is the preaching of God, the message of God. Everything about him was communicating who and what God is, and uh he was God in the flesh. And so Paul says here, the preaching of the cross. And by the way, the word preaching here means to communicate a message, to deliver a message. It doesn't mean it it is not limited to just preaching a sermon behind a pulpit like I am now. This preaching of the cross, this preaching If something take place in a Sunday school room, take place under a tent somewhere, it could take place on someone's doorstep. Couldn't take place in the living room yesterday. Had the opportunity to sit down with a fellow in his living room. We had our Bibles open. I was able to share with him, preach to him communicate to him the cross, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's just as much preaching sitting in a living room as it is standing behind a pulpit. It may take place on a street corner. I have some preacher friends get out regularly. They're down south right now, but they get out regularly, stand on street corners in cities, hold up a sign, preach, witness to people Uh uh so the idea of the preaching of the course is the communication, uh something that anyone and everyone can do I put this down. Preaching is God's anointed means of communicating His word the gospel. And we can come up with a lot of clever ways to get the gospel out, and I'm for all of them Uh, you know, I have some things on the on the internet and I'll put stuff out on there, I'll put scripture out on there, biblical truths, and I just kind of use that as a platform to try and get the word of God out and point people to Christ Uh there's means like that. We have um down at the store down here at the grocery store, they have screens up in there and we've got stuff up on there and I got some verses we're going to start putting up on there and plantation years ago, uh um uh the cable company here in Garrett County, uh they had channel three was a public access channel. Does anybody remember that that channel three was And um one day I came across that and I thought, I wonder if we could get something about our church on there. And so I called the number and here she just lived just out of town, out towards the Harveys And uh she said, sure. And I told her what I was just a little bit about the church. She said, okay. And it was like for three bucks for a little panel to show up on there for so many seconds, fifteen seconds or whatever. I said, seriously So I started putting more and more on there. And uh after a while I had the whole plan of salvation. One panel was all sinners, the next panel was wages of sin is death. explained it. Then the next panel was Jesus died for our sins, was very rose again. Third one, call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Then the fifth one was um contact our church and we'll give you a follow-up. Another one was our Bible and I had a whole about ten or twelve of them, these little screens would come up on there. And uh we had a missionary here one time and uh stand a motel and apparently that thing froze up right on our churches thing. And he came to church. He says, Does your church have a its own channel on cable TV? And I said, no, what are you talking about? He says, that's all I see, Channel 3. It's just Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And so what I'm saying is this, I'm all for these clever ways of communicating all that But God has chosen the individuals, confronting individuals and sharing with them the truth of the gospel. That's God's anointed means. Of declaring the gospel. And God will use it in a great way. And so nothing is more important to the life and health of our church than the preaching of God's Word. I tell you, these churches that are pushing out preaching, pushing out the teaching, communication of God's Word, and bringing in dramas and musicals and all that, they're making a terrible, terrible mistake. Preaching is key to the health and life and well being, spiritual well being of a local church. Jesus was a preacher Preached in great crowds. Peter got saved. Filled with the Holy Spirit. Acts chapter 2. Preaching Peter was a preacher. Paul was a preacher. If you would, keep your place here in Corinthians. Come over to Acts chapter number 8 with me, and I want to show you something Jesus was a preacher, Peter was a preacher, Paul was a preacher, the apostles were preachers. But look in Acts chapter 8 and notice with me, if you would, verse number 4. Verse Acts chapter 8 verse 4. Great persecution came to the church. I tell you, we've had it pretty good in America. For several hundred years, we had it pretty good as far as persecution, all that is concerned. There's no promise of God. Listen, there's no promise of God that the church will not face persecution before the rapture of the church. Now we're not he'll spare us from the tribulation period, but there's no promise he's going to spare us from persecution. You understand that, right? Now notice in Acts chapter 8, the church is being severely persecuted. They're being driven from their homes. Their possessions are being confiscated. They're being physically beaten. Because of their faith in Christ. And look at verse number four. Therefore, they, that's the church members, that were scattered abroad, went everywhere doing what? Preaching the word, preaching the word. Jesus was a preacher, Peter was a preacher, Paul was a preacher, the apostles were preachers. You know what? Every member of the church was a preacher to an extent. Declaring the Word of God. Paul says the preaching of the cross. Preaching is God's anointed means of communicating the gospel. Now, what were they preaching? Notice it wasn't the Notice what it says, come back there to Corinthians with me. It says, for the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. It wasn't just preaching that was foolishness to those who were perishing. It was the preaching of the cross. The cross. The cross is where Jesus Christ died for our sins. He was buried and rose again. The cross, when he uses the term cross, He's referring to the gospel of Jesus Christ. He died on that cross for our sins, judged of God for us, buried, and rose again. He says that message The declaration, the communication out on the streets, in the marketplace, behind the pulpits, over the waves, radio waves, TV waves, Internet, that message Is what is foolishness to those that are perishing. Not just preaching. Oh, this world don't mind preaching. It's the preaching of the cross that they have a problem with. Uh did you ever notice you get out and talk with folks? You can talk about church. People don't mind that too much. They'll put up with that. You can talk about uh religion, uh church, and Stuff like that. But you start talking about Jesus died for you personally and rose again, then that's when the pushback starts. Huh? The preaching of the cross. Preaching is God's ordained means, methods of communicating the message of the cross. Now let me say a few words about that cross. That message of the cross is a unique message There's nothing else like it. Tell you, there's a lot of religions where the adherents to that religion die for their God. But there's only one where the God dies for the people That's Jesus Christ. That message of the cross is a unique message. No other, there's no other message in the world that comes even close. To God loving his creation so much that he'll take their own disobedience, their own rebellion their own sin upon himself and die and be judged in their place and rise again. That is a unique message. None other like it I tell you, there's only one way to be saved. That's through the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said, John in chapter 14, verse 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father. Say it with me. But by me. The unique message in Acts chapter 4 and verse number 12 he says, There is none other name under heaven, given among men, whereby we must be saved When you and I are preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ, when we are preaching the cross, whether it's to a family member, a loved one, a co-worker at lunch break Thursday night out visiting, Saturday out making visits, somebody at Walmart we meet, we start talking to them about the cross. When we are doing that, we are preaching a message that is absolutely unique. There's nothing else like it in the world. Not only is the cross, the preaching of the cross a unique message, but it is a universal message. And by that I mean this. Everybody in the world needs to hear about the cross of Jesus Christ. Amen or not? The whole world needs it. The whole world needs it. Mark chapter 16, verse 15, Jesus told his followers, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel. Preach the gospel. I tell you, I was thinking about Kazakhstan this week, been praying for that English people that we've uh highlighted for the month of January. I hope you're praying for those dear folks. No gospel witness Zero percentage of Christians. Maybe, best we can find, 30 out of thousands, tens of thousands of them, 30 that claim the name of Christianity, and we don't even know what to mean by that I was so burdened for them. I'll tell you what Kazakhstan needs. Kazakhstan desperately needs somebody, some people to come there and preach the cross. The only way of salvation, the only hope of escaping hell. So the preaching of the cross is a unique message. There's none other like it. It's a universal message. The whole world needs it. And by the way, not just Kazakhstan, countries all over. I'm working on our missions conference in May. I hope you're praying. And we're working on bringing some missionaries in. A fellow is going to Thailand. We're going to try and get him in here if we can work it out. Thailand. People in Thailand need the gospel, need the preaching of the cross. So it's a unique message. It's a universal message. I put this down. The preaching of the cross is an unpopular message. The cross is an instrument of torture and death. Well ladies aware and I'm not against this, don't misunderstand what I'm saying, but ladies will wear a beautiful little diamond studded cross in their ears, and uh the ha and uh a nice little diamond or nice little uh st s uh silver cross or a gold cross and they'll wear it around their neck and uh have a little cross here. You know, that's all fine. I'm glad to identify, you know, as a Christian, you use that to identify that. But that's not an accurate depiction of what the cross really is. That cross was horrific. It was violent and gore. I tell you what, and I hate these movies. I don't have nothing to do with them, but Hollywood can't come up with a horror movie as terrible as what Christ suffered on that cross. I guarantee it. Spiritual suffering, the judgment of God. I tell you, there's nothing pleasant about the cross. There's nothing attractive, humanly speaking, about the cross. It was a bloody and violent means The cross, I put it this way, the cross is a bloody and violent means of salvation. The awfulness of the cross And what our sin cost. And what our sin, the payment of our sin, what that required, is horrific. Beyond our imagination. The cross is an unpopular message. It reveals the awfulness of this sin. Think about this with me If sin is so awful that God, in sending his son and taking that sin upon himself, we look and see what that sin produces. What the awfulness and the costliness of our sin is in the brutal death of Jesus Christ and the separation from God under God's wrath and judgment. You want to see the awfulness of sin? Look to the cross. You would see the final cost of say, oh, it's not that big. It's just a little thing. Oh no. Look at the cross. It is something. It is costly. And so the cross is not a popular message. The world wants to minimize the cross. The world wants to uh uh remove the cross if you've been following the news a little bit And I don't highly recommend you watch much of the news, but uh if you've been following a little bit, over in China, they've been tearing down churches. Has anybody noticed that? And they're putting a push on to eradicate Christianity in China. And one of the first things they do when they get there is they pull that cross down. They pull that cross down. I'll tell you, this whole world hates the message of the cross. Hates the message of the cross. I read about a businessman, very wealthy man, son saved, lost, and one of the church members is on fire for God, and he started witness to this businessman and sharing the gospel with him Finally, one day, this man bowed his head and trusted Jesus Christ as personal Savior, this wealthy businessman. Well, he got saved, and like we like to say, when he got saved, he got saved. I mean God got a hold of him and turned his life around and changed his whole perspective and all his values. And he started coming to this church, and it wasn't a very good church, to be honest with you. It wasn't a very strong Bible preaching church. And he got in there and he noticed in his newborn mind, his new young Christian mind, he noticed that there wasn't any crosses anywhere in the church. Not on the wall, not on the steeple, not anywhere. And so he approached the pastor and he says, uh, he said, Um, I'd like to purchase a cross. We ought to put a cross up somewhere in this church And just to represent that Jesus Christ, the price Jesus Christ paid for our sins. And the pastor said, well, I don't know. Let me talk to the man about that and we'll see what uh what we'll do there So he met with his committee or whatever and and uh uh got their permission. And uh he told them and he came back to the businessman, he said this, well I talked to the committee, and we decided to decline your offer. And he said, Why would you not want to put a cross up in the church? And he said, This, we're afraid it might offend people. We're afraid it might turn people off to see a cross. On the wall. I tell you what, the cross does offend people. It is an offense to this whole world that we're such sinners that Jesus Christ would die for us. And so the preaching, the first word I want us to notice, is preaching, the preaching of the cross. Notice back here in verse 18 the second word I want to highlight, and that is this: the word perish. Perish. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness Now I looked up the word parish. Looked how it's used in the Bible, different places, where it comes from. And I found this. The word parish there means to what you think it would, it means to be lost. It means to have, and here's one of the definitions, to experience eternal ruin It means to be doomed to eternal separation from God. Paul is saying here under the inspiration of God, he says, this preaching of this cross, the gospel message of Jesus Christ. People who are perishing, people who are doomed, people who are in their sins, who are heading to the devil's hell. It's foolishness to them. It's foolishness to them. To me, the most unpleasant truth in all of Scripture, and I'm telling you my heart right now There is one teaching in Scripture that I have a hard time with that is the most unpleasant teaching in the world. And that is this: that a man who dies in his sins. is separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place that Jesus called hell. You do a Bible study on hell You'll find out that is the worst possible place a person could ever end up. The horrors of hell And yet it's for eternity. I don't know. Every time, even just preparing this message, man, I'm studying that. I just can't imagine. That truth is almost overwhelming in my heart and mind. This dear person I met this week at the grocery store and left the gospel track. If she dies unsaved, she dies in her sins for all eternity. This place called hell, fire, and darkness, torment. Tell you the Bible says there the classification of people. There are some people who are perishing. Doomed to eternal separation from God. Notice what they say. It says the preaching of the cross is to them that are perishing, to them that perish, it's foolishness. That word foolishness means silly, absurd, ridiculous. People who are lost often see the cross as something ridiculous I have somebody I've been working with for years, so burdened for them. You talk about salvation, you talk about the cross, you talk about uh Jesus, death, burial, and resurrection, and their old attitude is that's just stupid. That's just silly. That's foolish. I tell you, a person must never ever reject the gospel of Jesus Christ. The cross of Jesus Christ is our only hope of salvation from sin and hell. It's the only means. By which I can find forgiveness of the sins that separate me from God. And for a person to reject the cross and to think it's silly or despise the cross. Die in their sins. They're lost for all eternity. For all eternity. I was preaching when I was Youth pastor in Indianapolis, one of my first weeks there. The pastor said, I like for you to preach on Sunday nights to get people to get to know you a little bit. I got up and preached, and I preached on the great white throne judgment. Unsayed, and of course we talked about the lake of fire, and I preached on hell and just preached my heart We had two little twin girls. They were just coming into the youth group. I mentioned them before. They got saved. But they came forward that night just sobbing and crying and weeping. Counselors took them out, there was a door on the side of the auditorium where they went off on the side back in the one of the classrooms and A little bit later, after we dismissed, the two girls came out and they were wiping tears from their eyes. And they said, they called me Pastor Dennis, Pastor Dennis, we got saved tonight. And I said, that's wonderful. We talked a little bit, and one of the girls said this. And in Revelation it says, and all liars shall have their part in a lake which burneth with fire and brimstone. And she said, Pastor Dennis, I've been such a liar, and I don't want to go to hell. She came to the cross of Jesus Christ and found forgiveness We left there, those two girls were serving God, involved in faith promise missions and loving the Lord. I tell you how foolish it is to think that the cross is foolish. Person must never reject, never toy with the gospel of Jesus Christ, never reject the only hope of salvation from sin in hell. Paul says, for the preaching of the cross To them who are perishing, to them who perish, it's foolishness. It's foolishness But then I want us to notice the third word, and I'll end with this. Look at verse 18. Preaching of the cross isn't in the perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it is what? What's the word? Power of God unto salvation. Power of God. I got looking up that word power. I got excited. The word power Comes from our word, comes from the same word that we get our word, dynamite. I love dynamite. Um and uh I mean kaboo Um you like that stuff? I saw a video this week where they had a dynamite, I guess they were mining or something. They had it all planted under the ground. They drilled holes down, dropped that stuff down in there And a guy stepped back and he mashed the button, that whole side of the mountain, come crashing down. I would I'd pay money, be that guy, push that button. That would be fun The power of God unto salvation. The dynamite of God. Dr. Lee Robertson had a radio program for 40 years or more, one of the longest running radio stations in the country is called the dynamite of the Gospel Dynamite. The power of the gospel. The word there has the idea of miracle-working power. I'm telling you, there is no truth as powerful as the gospel of Jesus Christ. There's a lot of ideas out there. There's a lot of truth out there just as far as the world system is concerned. But there's one truth that can change a life like no other truth, and that is this truth, the gospel of Jesus Christ. He died on that cross for my sins, was buried, rose again for me I'll tell you, that'll change a life. That'll turn things around. There is no power. There's no truth as powerful as the gospel of Jesus Christ, as the truth of the cross. We live in a messed-up world, amen or not? We got problems. I'm concerned. I hope you're praying this week. We don't know what's going to happen. But I know this. We have the message of the cross, and that message can change lives if we'll just give it to people Here's a powerful, powerful message. I put it down this way. The power of the cross. It's powerful to change the destiny of my soul. There's nothing else in this world can change a man's destiny from hell to heaven. Only the gospel, only the cross, the preaching of the cross, only the gospel of Jesus Christ. Can change a destiny. Paul said, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God unto salvation I'll tell you what, some old poor lost sinner on their way to hell, and you share with them that message of the gospel, that cross, preach the cross to them, they get a hold of that, it'll change their destiny from hell to heaven. How many people are impressed that we can send a man to the moon? Anybody? I didn't say this lately. I was out looking at the stars this week again And uh I got looking up there and how far away they are. And we sent a man up on the moon. That's incredible. They're talking about sending a person to Mars. Anybody ever see that in the news They're preparing now, getting people and things in place. Send someone to Mars. I got some folks I'd offer to s have them send up there. I can give them some volunteers on that. But uh I tell you what, all that amazing things that man could do, but I tell you what man can't do. He can't get a man to heaven and keep him out of hell. Only the gospel can do that. Only Jesus Christ can do that. The power of God unto salvation. The us which believe, uh what, unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. Change the destiny of the soul. You can't beat John 3. 16, for God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son. That's the cross. And whosoever believed in him should not perish. But have what? Everlasting life. A destiny changed. Life changed. I was out visiting old Phil Sherman this week, Brother Ron. We're talking about you Oh it was ugly. But um uh we were talking about Ron. But we got talking there and you never visit with Phil. He's listening right now. You never visit with Phil. We don't start the subject of getting saved doesn't come up at some point Of how God saved us and changed our lives. Power of the cross. It has power to change the destiny of my soul. It has power to change the dynamic of my life. 2 Corinthians 5:17, if any man be in Christ, he is what? A new creature. All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. The power of the cross, power of the gospel, to change a man's destiny from hell to heaven, to change the dynamic of his life, how he lives, his perspective, his very nature. Is altered. His values are altered by that one truth of the cross of Jesus Christ. Listen, I can testify Personally testify. The message of the gospel changes the dynamic of a person's life And again, this is God's glory. I didn't do it. I have mercy. I was just sorry, wretched, sick sinner Nobody talked to my dad too long. You didn't hear him say something like this. He'd say it this way, Denny's salvation's the biggest miracle I've ever seen. He would say that over and over and over. I'll tell you what, it's a miracle, the power of the gospel in changing a life. Listen, you don't have to be an old drug addict, strung out, wasted drunkard sick teenage kid. You don't have to be that to have your life changed. You can be a self-righteous, proud, self-centered person, and God will change the very dynamic of your life through the power of the gospel. Amen or not? Amen. I tell you, when I before I got saved, my whole thinking was, I don't want to be the man I'm becoming. I don't want to be this kind of person. Look at me. Friends are going in jail. I had two or three Odeed on heroin. I said, what am I becoming? What am I? I beg God to have mercy on me. Oh God, help me. I read my Bible about the cross of Jesus Christ. It would save my soul and change my life. I tell you, that old message of the cross is the power of God under salvation to change your life. Change a destiny, change the dynamic of the life, and I'd put it this then, and I'll end with this, change the direction of my love. Tell you, before I got saved, I loved the things of this world. Oh, I tell you, whatever this world had to offer. Oh, yeah. I tell you what, when I trusted Christ as Savior, I believed that gospel, that cross. It changed the things I love. We used to sing the song, Oh, the things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. Things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. Things I used East, I don't do the main mort. It's been a great great chain is better Great change in my line. Anybody ever hear that song? How many people want me to sing it for you? Not one person raised their hand One of the verses goes like this, all the things I used to love, I don't love them anymore. Tell you the gospel of Jesus Christ will change it. I never cared about God, never gave him two thoughts. I came to the cross. I bowed that cross and trusted Christ. God changed. I love. Now I love the Lord. Love the Lord. I love the people of God. I tell you what, and I'm many of y'all I'm no doubt feel the same way, but you'll never know how dear it is to me to come to church and be with God's people. What a precious thing that is. I love the people of God. The love of God. God changes us. And He puts a love in our heart for Him. The love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. Because of the cross of Jesus Christ. A little book I'm reading about martyrs and people that suffered for Christ, and I clipped out a little Little paragraph here. Let me read it to you. It was getting late, and the Soviet officer had beaten and tortured Paulus for many hours. Soviet officer. Beat and tortured Paulus for many hours. He said, We are not going to torture you anymore, grinning cruelly when the Christian looked up to him. We will send you instead to Siberia Where the snow never melts, it is a place of great suffering. You and your family will fit in well Paulus, instead of being depressed, smiled. The whole earth belongs to my father, Captain. Wherever you send me, I will still be on my father's earth The captain looked at him sharply. We will take away all that you own. Paulus responded, You will need a high ladder, Captain, for my treasures are stored up in heaven. He said with a beautiful smile. We will put a bullet between your eyes, shouted the captain, getting angry. If you take away my life in this world, my real life of joy and beauty will begin. I'm not afraid of being killed. The captain grabbed Paulus by his tattered prison shirt and screamed in his face, We will not kill you. We will keep you locked alone in a cell and no one come to see you. Paulus responded, You cannot do that, Captain. I have a friend who can pass through locked doors and iron bars. No man can separate me from the love of Christ. See, how can somebody do that? I'll tell you how the power of the cross changed his whole life, his whole perspective, his whole values, his love. Now for the Lord, greater than his love for his own life. He ended with this statement: despite an uncertain future, we can be sure of one thing: Christ will face it with us. You know what that is? That's the power of the cross. But the preaching of the cross, the gospel, the message of Christ, the preaching of the cross. To them who are perishing, it's foolishness, it's silly, it's ridiculous. To us who are saved, it's the power of God. We've seen and we've known what that message can do in our lives And God has given us a mission, like Paul verse 17. Set it. Preach the gospel. To preach the cross. To this old world. Let's commit 2021, regardless of what happens in our world, regardless of how different things may be in 12 months from now, let's commit ourselves to declaring, preaching The cross of Jesus Christ, every opportunity that God gives us. Amen? If you've never been saved, I invite you to come to the cross. God will save you From hell, he'll give you a new life, a new direction, a new purpose in life. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us. Lord, help us to take seriously this message of the cross. Help our church to stay true. Lord, we pray for your power to be upon Our ministries and our service, that souls will be saved, and lives to be changed, and the Lord Jesus be glorified. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how we would say, preacher, I'm glad God saved me. I'm glad for that old cross and what it's done in my life. And you say, I know someone, or I have a burden for a community, maybe here in our area, neighborhood. I have a burden that God would use me to be able to communicate that message of the cross, one way or another, to preach that cross like Paul did. Is there any like that preacher? I'm burdened for that. I know someone or I know an area, a little town that's heavy on my heart. Any others, preacher, pray with me. I want to be that preacher of the cross. I wonder if there's some would say, Preacher, I have a dear friend, somebody close to me. I'm very, very burdened for them You'd say, pray with me that they'll be saved. Not just in general, but a very specific person, maybe a family member, a child, a parent, brother, sister. You'd say, preacher, pray with me. I want to see my family member saved. I don't want them to perish. I want to know, God bless you, hands all around, my hands raised. There's some here this morning say, preacher, I know I'm saved, and I want to preach gospel, but there's things in my life that ought not to be there, and it hurts my witness. I know it's a grief to the Lord, and I want my heart and mind to be pure and clean and right for the Lord so that I can be an effective witness. Is there any like that preacher? I know there's things in my life that need to be right. How about it? Any others? Many hands. Any others? Let's just bring that to that old cross. The only place where we find forgiveness. And see how Christ died for those sins, suffered, rose again, and confessed and claimed that forgiveness. And one last question. There's someone here say, Preacher, I'm not saved. Not saved. I need the Lord to save me and forgive me and give me new life, a home in heaven. Is there any like that? Any at all? Here in church or online. Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. God will save you. The cross is the message of salvation. We invite you to come by faith. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Have your way in our hearts and lives and in our church. In Jesus' name, Amen.