True, the very first book of the Bible, Genesis fifty. And um We're going to be reading. We started this oh last week, I believe, or two weeks ago. By the way, uh Brother uh Nathan did a good job last Wednesday night. I appreciate him filling in for me. We had great meetings up in Pennsylvania all week. Five different churches, five nights, five different churches And God blessed that in a great way. If you would, notice with me verse number five, and I want to read down through verse number 13. Genesis chapter 50. Beginning in verse number five. Of course, the context here is Jacob, Joseph's father, has passed away. He's died, he's made his final statements to the boys. And uh the thing that really impressed me studying the final days of Jacob's life was uh he had peace with his family. He had peace with himself and he had peace with God when he passed away. And so his final years of his life, the final days of his life, Uh it seems to me he was much stronger spiritually than he was uh his entire previous life. And so We praise the Lord for that. Notice now he's passed away, and we are getting into the funeral. In fact, I've entitled it the funeral of Jacob. We started a couple weeks ago. We'll finish it up tonight. Verse 5 My father made me swear, Jacob, Joseph speaking to Pharaoh. My father made me swear, lo, I die. In my grave which I have digg for me in the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore, let me go up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again And Pharaoh said, Go up and bury thy father according as he hath made thee swear. And Joseph went up to bury his father, and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh. The elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt, and all the house of Joseph and his brethren and his father's house. only their little ones and their flocks and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen. And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen. It was a very great company. And they came to the threshing floor of Atad, which is beyond Jordan, and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation. And he, Joseph, made a mourning for his father seven days. When the inhabitants of the land of the Canaanites saw the mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous mourning to the Egyptians. Therefore the name of it is called Abel Mizraim, which is beyond Jordan. And his sons did unto him, to Jacob, according as he commanded them For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan and buried him in the cave of the field of Makpelah. which Abraham bought with the field for a possession of a burying place of Ephraim the Hittite before Mamre. The funeral of Jacob. Let's pray together. And we'll ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father, I am grateful for the folks that made the effort to be out this evening. And it's encouragement to my heart. And I pray now as we look into your word that you would speak to our hearts and teach us. Pray there be something here that your Holy Spirit would bring to our attention and draw out that would help us Grow in our faith, be stronger in our faith, and and more effective in our witness. So I yield myself to you, Lord, my mind, my will. I present my body again in this hour and ask As always, with all my heart that you fill me with your spirit, you be the teacher and the preacher tonight. And use this in some way, Lord. I pray not just be a formality, just something we do Wednesday nights. I pray you'd use it tonight to help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We noted first of all Joseph's personal grief in verse number one. He wept when his father died. He fell on his face, and he wept. upon him and kissed him repeatedly, and Joseph loved and missed his father very much. And then we noted in verses 2 and 3 Egypt's public mourning. And they and Joseph had his father's body embalmed, which is nothing new for you and I. It was somewhat unique to the Egyptians back in the day. Wasn't a common practice. Abraham was not embalmed and Isaac wasn't. But uh being in Egypt, uh Joseph um had his father's body embalmed, which by the way, we'll pick this up here in a bit uh it kind of uh with them having to travel so far to bury Jacob in Canaan Uh that was uh probably a wise decision to embalm his body because it would take an extended period of time to get his body to the actual burying place. And so we noted the uh the uh the public uh mourning down in Egypt, and then the uh funeral procession And a couple things I want to notice here, beginning in verse 5 as I read, I've done, I got thinking, trying to rem think how many funerals I have done over the years I mean, just since I've been here as pastor, and uh my educated guess, I don't think I'm exaggerating at all I would say probably upwards of 150, maybe more than that. I don't know about 200. But it's been a bunch. And so uh all these funerals, um uh I've done some unusual funerals. The most uh notable funeral I think I've ever done in my life, at least up to this point, was for a fellow by the name of Isaac Brown. Isaac Brown was a fellow that uh he was in the nursing home here in Garrett County in Oakland, and um I came across him through hospice. I was chaplain for hospice at the time They would call me up if someone was uh given uh you know six months or less to live by the doctors. And if they didn't have a pastor and they wanted some spiritual uh counsel or whatever, they would call me and I would step in. I thoroughly enjoyed that ministry. And so one day I got the call and I said, We got a fellow in the nursing home And if I remember is here it then it wrote and um they said uh he has nobody is no pastor, he has no family He has no friends, no associates here in the area, and he agreed he would like for uh you to come by, just talk to him about his soul's spiritual condition And so I did. And uh Isaac Brown, a quiet fellow, didn't say much. He was actually down from the D. C. area. How he ended up up here, I have no idea And so we got to visit him, got to know him, and Isaac Brown trusted Jesus Christ as personal Savior. Uh interesting. Uh he was one time and I know I've told all this many times before, but I was asking him one time about his family. I said, uh so Isaac, you got any kids? He goes, no, but I got several children. And um I said okay. Uh so uh I was visiting them. I hadn't seen him for maybe a week or two. Uh didn't get by for whatever reason. I got a phone call It was from the funeral director. He said, I've got a fella here that passed away, doesn't have any family, there's nobody, and uh he says, I just don't feel right, just burying them, nobody saying do anything. He says, I feel like he ought to have a Christian burial. What the funeral director said. He said, would you come just nothing else, just Say a prayer or something? I said, sure, I'd be glad to. By the way, what's his name? He says, his name is Isaac Brown. I said, I know Isaac Brown. I said, I'd be honored to So we went out here to the Memorial Hospital and down in the back corner, or not Memorial Hospital, uh the Oakland Cemetery, I should say And down in the back of the grave area, the cemetery, they have a an area for folks that don't have family, don't have money or anything. And and they said, We'll meet you down there. So I drove down there. It was January. It was one of those days it was overcast. There was no wind, zero wind. I remember this, it was just still as can be. And um you ever you ever see when those snowflakes just come down so slow? You know, it's just like they're just floating down, just across. That's the way it was. So I drove there and parked and walked down and there was a funeral director there and there was a couple three gravediggers They were standing off on the side and that was it. And so uh the funeral director said, thank you, Pastor Latherman. He says he ought to have a Christian burial. I said, I'm I agree a hundred percent I said, I'll just say a few words, read some scripture, have a word of prayer. So about that time, one of the hospice workers, two of the hospice workers, I saw them coming down through the graveyard And she came down, she had a rose. There was actually two fellows. Another guy died also, so we were doing two and one. And I didn't know that fellow. She had two roses. And she came up and she put a rose on the top of the tombs of the uh ca uh call uh the casket for Isaac Brown, and then she put one on the other fellow who I n I didn't know And she made this statement. She said, she says, every person ought to have a rose and a prayer at their funeral. That just stuck in my mind. Every person ought to have a rose and a prayer at their funeral. So before I prayed, I said, I just feel like I ought to say this. I said, uh Isaac Brown, I've been visiting with him. He said he was he we became friends, and I said, I just want to say this here at his at his burial that Isaac trusted Jesus Christ as personal Savior. And every one of those three gravediggers said, Amen. So I read some scripture, had a prayer, and Isaac was placed in the ground where his body still is today I've done a lot of funerals. That's an unusual one. I said all that. I took too much time probably, but I said all that to say I ain't never done a funeral like this one. Jacob's funeral. We're given more detail about the funeral of Jacob than any other person in the Bible. There's a lot of people buried in the Bible. Well we're given more specifics, more details about Jacob than any other person. Now first I thought, well, what about Jesus? You know, Jesus really didn't have a funeral. They just killed them and put them in a grave, in a cave, and rolled a stone over it. But Jacob had a funeral. A couple observations here I want to make real quick First thing I notice in verse 4, 5, and 6 is 6 is Joseph's respect for authority. Now this stood out to me. Look at verse 5. Joseph, speaking to Pharaoh, he says, My father made me swear, saying, Lo, I die in my grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan. There shalt thou bury me. Now Joseph, speaking to Pharaoh, says this, now therefore, let me go up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again. Joseph doesn't just pack up and say, all right, we're going, Daddy's funeral, we're going. He takes the time and uh uh he addresses the one man in the whole country that has authority over him Joseph respects that authority and he comes and he seeks permission. He asks for the okay for him to go do this what he promised his father. And he respects authority. We saw this throughout all throughout Joseph's life, a respect on the part of Joseph for authority. His daddy told him, go out and check on the boys. We haven't heard from them. It's just a a young man. Go check on the boys. See where they're at. And he does it. He obeys his father. In fact, he goes the second mile when he can't find them, rather than come home and say, Oh, I can't find them. He pressed it and pressed it and pressed it until he found out where they were, and then of course, uh you know, they did what they did. But he res He respected his father's authority and he did what he was told. I know the children are often master clubs and teens and all of that, but the God's command to children is very simple: honor thy father and mother. Just obey him. And basically what he's saying is show respect to authority. And Brother Homesher, Charles Homesher, the founder and director, uh founder, uh Bible time director for many years He used to always say to the kids, I heard him say it a hundred times, he used to say to the boosters, he'd say, if you can't obey your mother and father, you'll never obey God. That's a good point. And so Joseph learned early on to respect authority when he got down to Potiphar's house He wasn't a rebellious, hateful, uh cantankerous, contrary slave to Potiphar, and he was a slave. He respected Potiphar's authority and worked hard. In fact, when Potiphar's wife made the moves on him, he says, How can I sin against my master? He respected Potiphar's authority, even as a slave. And he gets in a present. He shows respect. And now before Pharaoh. And he did not just assume it was okay. Now, Joseph is a tremendous diplomat. If he would run for president, I would vote for him. If he ran for school board, I'd vote for him. He's a tremendous diplomat, and uh he doesn't just get up and leave. Takes the time, makes ever goes to Pharaoh and gets the official, gets official, okay He gets his passport stamped, so to speak. He goes through he makes sure everything's good with Pharaoh and with the Egypt, the Egyptian government, before he goes. Remember, he's a diplomat. He's a high-ranking authority in the Egyptian government. If he'd have just pulled out and went without doing what he needed to do as far as uh getting a uh uh uh official okay Don't you think that could have been misconstrued on the part of Egypt? Here, their number two guy, and all of a sudden he's just gone Instead, no, he comes. They could have thought if he'd have just got up and left, they might, they wouldn't have known whether he's coming back or not. That could have caused problems down the road, years later. He abandoned his post, he uh uh insurrection But he comes and he says, no, no, no, I want to make sure this is okay. I want to do this right. In fact, look at the end of verse number five. He makes what I believe to be a very, very important statement to Pharaoh Now remember the how significant he was, what he did, how God used him in the nation of Egypt through this famine. Now the famine's long gone They're back up and running. It's just history at this point. He could have left and never showed up again. But look at the end of verse number five. He makes this Again, I believe a very important statement to Pharaoh. I pray thee and bury my father. Look at that last statement. And I will come again. I'm coming back. That tells me Egypt was dependent upon Joseph. His leadership, his wisdom And he wanted to assure them, I'm not bailing on you, I'm not running out on you, I'll come back again. I give you my word. And by the way, uh, if Joseph says he's coming back again, he's coming back again All Egypt, Pharaoh and all of Egypt knew that Joseph's word was good. And so he makes things clear there. So I see, first of all, in verse 45 and 6, Joseph's respect For Pharaoh's authority and for his responsibilities in Egypt. Second thing I notice in ver in verse 7, 8, and 9 is the route to the funeral. Now look at verse 7 Joseph went up to bury his father with him, bury his father, and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house and all the elders of the land And uh goes down and lists these folks that went up with him. Now let me just throw this out real quick. I think uh uh I believe I'm correct. When it uses the word up Three times or seven times the word up is used to go from Egypt to Canaan. I just keep saying it over. We're going up to bury my father. We're going up to Canaan. We're going up. With my family. We're going up. We're going up. Why would they say they're going up? Three reasons, I believe. Number one is because Canaan was north of Egypt. Makes sense, right? We're having a revolution of common sense. Uh so he goes up. When we moved here, 1993, September, we had rented a U-Haul to come from Colorado And so we got here and at the time the only place to return a U Haul truck was in LaValle, which to me was like Long way away. And uh so uh Marvin, the fellow here, some of you remember Marvin, he said, I'll drive you up there. It's like Friday. I got here Thursday, it was Friday afternoon He says, uh, I'll run you up to Cumberland. And um no, no, no, let me take it back. I got it all wrong. He says, I'll take you down to Cumberland. I said, down. I said, last I checked, I looked at my map coming in, Cumberland is north of Oakland. We don't go down to go north. You go up. He goes, believe me, we're going down. So they went up to Canaan because one, it was north. Number two, because Canaan was actually much higher in elevation than Egypt. In fact Jerusalem in particular, but the land of Israel, is, if I understand it correctly, much like Garrett County, you can't get there without going up It's high elevation. Like Brother Siddler asked me, how can I get to your place without going up a mountain? Ain't gonna happen. You can't get to Canaan without going up So it's north, it's higher elevation, but it's been suggested that it would also refer and later on to Jerusalem as going up because of its elevation in significance and importance. This was the land of promise. This was the land of God's presence in a lot of ways. And so anytime you're going there, you're going up as far as uh you know the value of the place you're going. So he seven times he says, we're going up, we're going up, we're going up. And so uh they make this. Again, uh one of the most detailed funerals in all of Scripture. I was reading about this. I came across some old Jewish writings in a book called The Midrash. It's kind of like a commentary on Genesis through Deuteronomy. This was from millennials ago. They would write this. And they suggested, these Jewish writers from three two, three thousand years ago, four thousand years ago, they suggested that uh Jacob's twelve sons carried him this distance up there, 300 miles, from where they were in Goshen to where he was to be buried, 300 miles. And they were going to carry him there. Look at verse 13. It says, for his sons carried him into the land of Canaan. Now, whether that means they literally carried him on his shoulders, that's what these rabbis said they did. Or whether they simply put him on a cart or some sort of wagon. and carried him like that. We're not sure, but these rabbis, these ancient rabbis, uh said, these writings said that they literally carried him. And the way they did it was, and I found this interesting. Again, we can't prove this, but I found it interesting. And so if I find it interesting, you're going to hear about it. They said the way they traveled, they had uh Jacob's body, and they would carry it, and they would alternate carrying it. And on the north side of Jacob's body as they traveled to the north, it was Dan, Asher, and Naphtali, those three boys of Jacob. They were always on the north side as they traveled. Then to the east was Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun, and they would always be to the east side. So for our here, north would be that way. Dan, Asher, and Naphtali would always be, if they're going north, would be up here. And uh Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun, they would be off to the east side. On the west side was Ephraim, Manasseh, and Benjamin And they maintained the le- the west side, and to the south was Reuben, Simeon, and Gad. And so they were divided up that way as they transported Jacob's embalmed body 300 miles. The interesting thing about that is, you jump forward 400 some years, you find Israel in the wilderness traveling from Egypt to the Canaan land. After they came out, we know the story. And they had the exact same arrangement as the tribes traveled. on the north end of the camp of where the tabernacle would have been, on the north side of the tabernacle, was the tribe of Dan, Asher, and Naphtali. To the south side of the tabernacle, as they traveled, was Reuben, Simeon, and Gat. To the east, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun. To the west, Ephraim, Manasseh, and Benjamin. The exact same arrangement. So if this old writing is correct, I find that fascinating, that this was a pattern that was established perhaps here. And so we don't know if that was absolutely the case or not. But again, I find it interesting. If you would, look at verse number eight. They left some people in Egypt. And all the house of Joseph and his brethren in his father's house, they're traveling to Canaan with the body Only their little ones and their flocks and their herds they left in the land of Goshen. Now there could be several reasons. Again, we're not told. One is be a little tough taking slew of kids and all the cattle just to go up there, bury them, turn around, and come back. So just practically that makes sense Obviously they had people taking care of the kids. They didn't leave the kids out with the sheep and the oxen. Somebody's there to take care of them I think there's another aspect, again, we're not told, but it may have been, I wonder if Joseph didn't have a say in this, and say, listen, we're going to keep all valuables and all this stuff here, just to reassure Pharaoh that we are actually coming back. They pulled out, took all that stuff. If someone says, uh, uh Brother Letterman, we're just going to Florida for a month They sell the house and pack up everything and they got a big U-Haul and they haul move off. I'd say, you know, I'm not sure they're ever coming back. And so they left some folks back down there with the cattle. So look at this arrangement, this processional, if you will. They got these twelve sons divided up there, carrying, somewhere or another, the embalmed body of Jacob. They got that. Behind them were these dignitaries of Egypt. Look at verse 7. And Joseph went up to bury his father, and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh. That's a heap of servants. Now these are high level people, they're not people doing his dishes and hoeing his garden. These are high level people It says, all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house. Now, elders wasn't talking about the senior citizens group. He's talking about people that held positions of authority. All the elders of his house and all the elders of the land of Egypt. This is a ensemble, an entourage of powerful, powerful people. That made up the leadership of Egypt. And they are traveling this 300 miles with Joseph's family, and they are traveling up there with him. Now, what does that imply? That tells me that they had tremendous respect for Joseph and his family, that they would do this. This isn't a light thing. You're talking time. You're talking huge investment. There's security issues. We're going to notice here in a minute. And what this is starting to sound like as I'm studying this, what this funeral is starting to sound like, it's starting to sound to me like a state funeral that we might have here in the United States In 2004, Ronald Reagan passed away. How many people remember that? And they had his body Lion State down in the rotunda in the Capitol down in Washington DC. And I forget how many days it was, four or five days straight. You could go 24 hours a day, people could go by and pay respects to the body of Ronald Reagan. And uh I'm telling the boys were at home at the time and I was that close uh to packing up and driving down of an evening about 11, 12 o'clock at night. We talked about it, then I ch I decided not to at the last minute. I wish so badly I had now But what a what a uh pageantry, I guess is the word maybe, and and all the official uh ceremonies At the funeral of Ronald Reagan and others recently, it would have been uh Jimmy Carter. So that's the impression I'm getting here of this funeral possession with all these Egyptian dignitaries Investing. How long does it take to walk 300 miles, have a ceremony, and then walk back or ride, whatever they're probably in chariots. So you have the family. And then you have these dignitaries, Egyptian dignitaries traveling along with all their entourage. Then look at verse 9. And there went, there's that word up again, there went up with him both chariots and horsemen. And it was a very great company. Now what do you think those chariots and horsemen consisted of? You know what I think it was? I think it was military escort. They've got high-level dignitaries traveling, and I know in our day and age, anytime high level, there is security is tight. Right? They've all got their security guards, they've all got their bodyguards, they're all armed to the teeth. And I am I I'm pretty convinced verse number nine is talking about a military entourage A military escort, I should say, is uh going along with this funeral, this 300-mile funeral procession um procession to keep the dignitary safe, to keep the family safe. Jacob is incredibly valued by the people of Egypt, and they're making sure he's okay Now again, you find my little stories uh interesting from history, I do. So I don't care if you do or not, I'm gonna tell you. I got reading some of these ancient Jewish comments on this. I find them interesting. And years and years ago, I mean, we're talking thousands and thousands of years ago, the rabbis, Jewish rabbis taught that in this this procession with this military escort Now again, this isn't in Bible, this is legend maybe, or rumor, or whatever. We can't prove this, but this is what they believed took place. Is that when they got to the cemetery, so to speak, for to bury Jacob, when they got there, Esau was there. And Esau had an army with him. And his purpose, his intention was to intervene and keep his brother Jacob from being buried. in the graves that Abraham bought to bury the family in, because Esau was convinced that he should have gotten the blessing. Remember, Jacob stole that from them. And so Esau shows up. He says, you're not burying my brother in that tomb. I should be in that tomb. I'm the firstborn. You s he stole my blessings, he stole my birthright, I'm the one who should be in there. And they say that there was actually a military conflict over this, and Esau was killed at that point Now I don't know. For all we'll get to heaven, they might go, that's not anything at all I go in. I don't know. But I find that interesting. Uh and we saw before Esau was going to confront uh Jacob with uh 400 armed men. And Jacob was able to defuse that. So whether that happened or not, I don't know. But it would make a great book if somebody would write a book about that. So, uh, and so the military escort. So we have the the the respect that Joseph has for authority. We have the route they take up to the funeral, 300 miles, very organized. Big dignitaries, heavily armed. Then verse 10 and 11, we see the reality of Joseph's grief. Now he's all ready, verse 1, he fell on his daddy's face. He's weeping over his body, he's kissing them. Now we look at verse 10. It says, And they came to the threshing floor of Atad, which is beyond Jordan. And there they mourn with a great and very sore lamentation. I mean, they are sobbing. They are grieving deeply over the death of Jacob. And uh he made a mourning, Joseph made a mourning for his father, seven days. Seven days. I don't know if it's just me, but it seems like in the days you and I live in, life has such little value in society. Does anybody see that? I mean the most popular movies are filled with people killing people. I mean it's like we relish seeing people killed. Right? That implies to me there's little value on life. If we find taking another person's life entertaining Much like the Romans, they had little or no value on life. They just kill people just for entertainment. Well, we don't actually kill them, we just act like we are. Of course, abortion is huge. Just a lack of value for life anymore. And with that, along with that comes a little respect for the dead. And if we don't value life, who cares if they die? Why make a big deal about it? Why make a big to-do It's nothing. I just died. Um we uh uh Pastor Ken Lake told me one time a lady called him asking him to do a funeral for her cat. She was kind of and I don't misunderstand, I'm not trying to be unkind, but uh she won a funeral for his cat and she he said uh I said what'd you do? He says, I did it I said, really? He says, yeah, she gave me twenty bucks. And so um I don't know why I said that. But um Uh little respect for the dead anymore. And uh um any you do funerals. Now this is this isn't across the board, there's exceptions But um uh funerals and sometimes very few people come to funerals anymore. Back in the day, if someone passed away, man, all the family was there And then, you know, they closed down the workplace for the funeral of a worker or whatever. And and now um now there's exceptions to that, don't misunderstand, but uh Today I I did one funeral over in Carolda one time, a a sixteen-year-old girl was killed in a wreck. That place was packed. They closed the school down. Everybody came out But that's that's not the standard. And again, I'm not trying to be unkind, but back in the day you went to a funeral, you dressed respectfully, you know And now I do funerals all the time, and I don't say anything about it. I'm not going to make an issue about it, but man alive, show up in t-shirt and shorts. And just like you're out working on the farm and just walk in or that, and uh just to me it communicates little respect. For a life that was lived and is now gone. Um few attend, dress sloppy Back in the day, uh, I know when I first got into ministry years ago back in Indianapolis and even back home, if there was a funeral procession going down the road, other cars would pull over and stop until that went by. Anybody remember that? And it was showing respect, just pulled over. I mean, both directions pulled over. I tell you anymore, I've done funeral possessions where people would cut through, you know, they'd buzz across in between and It's just like uh you're going to the dump, take some trash out. And so we live in a day where there seems little respect for life, and that produces a little respect little respect for the dead. But that wasn't the case here. They value life and they grieved deeply when Jacob was gone. Now, here is something else I want to point out that I found interesting. At the end of verse number 10. It says, he made a mourning for his father seven days. Now, my question is, why seven days? Why not eight days? Why not ten days? Why not five days? Why seven days? And they point it out very clearly here, seven days. Now they had already mourned for him back in Egypt for 70 days, and that was ritualistic for the Egyptians. So now they get to the burying place. This is basically the graveside service. And for seven days, I mean they are broken. They are weeping with great and very sore lamentation. So I got looking up. I wonder why seven days. And somebody suggested, again, this was these ancient Jewish rabbis. And uh they referred back to Genesis chapter seven. So if you would turn there real quick. How many everybody alright so far? Everybody hanging in? Chapter seven and notice with me verse number seven. Genesis seven seven. This is the flood The Ark's been built. Noah's been preaching 120 years. And um uh they then verse 7 And Noah went in and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him into the ark because of the waters of the flood. Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of fowls, and of everything that creepeth upon the earth. There went in two and two into unto Noah in the ark, the male and female, as God had commanded Moses. Now look at verse ten. And it came to pass after what? Seven days. After seven days, that the waters of the flood were upon the earth. In other words, what I believe it's saying here is Noah and all the critters. They get in the ark, and they're in the ark for seven days. After seven days, then the flood starts pouring down, then it starts pouring, and things come the flood commences. Why seven days? Well my approach was always, well, in fact I had written in my margin of my Bible, seven days of grace. Seven days. People saw them get in, there was opportunity, people still get in that thing These ancient rabbis suggest, along with that, was come back to, notice with me, again, come back a little earlier here in chapter 5. And verse number two is this fella Verse 22. Dennis 5, 22. And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah Alright, here's Methuselah, verse 25. And Methuselah lived 187 years and begat Lamech. And then you have Lamech and he lived uh uh 180 years, verse 28, and he had a son called him Noah. So Methuselah was Noah's what? Grandfather. Now here's where it gets interesting. The word Methuselah, you look this up in strong concordance, the word Methuselah means when he dies, God's judgment comes. When Methuselah dies, God's judgment's going to come. What judgment would he be talking about? The flood. The flood So what we believe could be is that the day Noah got on the ark is the day his grandfather died. His grandfather passed away. I don't know. This is what the rabbis taught. And for seven days they mourned the death of Methuselah. And so they said that is what set the precedent for mourning for seven days later on. You say, what's this city of that? Um I don't know anything evights. I just think it's interesting. And so uh could be, I don't know if the numbers were add up on that, the ages and all of that, but I thought it was kind of interesting where they got the seven days. Look at ver now, come back to our text, and um I'll wind down here. Look at verse 11. More teaching tonight than preaching, maybe. But look at verse 11. And when the inhabitants of the land of the Canaanites saw the mourning in the floor of a tad They said, this is a grievous morning to the Egyptians. Wherefore the name of it was called to the Canaanites, Abel Mizraim. Which is beyond Jordan. So this was such a huge entourage, and this was such a an event that it caught the attention of the Canaanites. And again, it suggested that they sent representatives. to the funeral of Jacob. What I'm trying to say is this, this procession was huge. It was tremendously significant. It's not just a family carrying their daddy's body and sticking them in a grave crying and and then going back. This was a colossal uh uh authorized event that took place in the burial of Jacob. And I think sometimes just reading our Bible We fail to recognize how significant some of these things were and how huge they were. And that was the case here with Jacob. And then notice verse 12 and 13. And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them, for his sons carried him into the land of Canaan And buried him in the cave of the field of Makpelah, which is which Abraham brought bought with the field for a possession of a burying place of Ephron the Hittite before Mamre. So My last thought is this, Jacob's return to the earth. When I do a funeral, and most preachers do this, I've never heard one nod. I guess maybe I have. At some point, when the body's committed to the ground, you have what's called a committal. A prayer, usually I read scripture, have a prayer, and then say the committal. A phrase out of the committal is this: earth to earth, ashes to ashes, what? Dust to dust. We come from the dust, physically, we go back to the dust. And Jacob's body is now returned back. Now I'm going to remind you, Jacob is not there in that little cave way back yonder in a pile of dust. Jacob went to the pr into the the the uh paradise, we call it, and today I believe he's in the presence of God in heaven. So what's what what do we take away from this? Like I said, I've done a lot of funerals. And this sounds morbid. I hope you don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I find great fulfillment in it. I don't find any joy in the death of somebody's loved one, but I find great fulfillment in the tremendous Opportunity to share with people who are grieving some promises of God And for believers particularly, I'm able to share with the authority of God's word that that saved person is just fine. They're in heaven. We grieve, we miss them, but if we know the Lord, we'll see them again. I do the funeral of an unsaved. I don't address that fact at all. I just simply share with people how they can be saved and how they can know the Lord is their Savior. So what do I take away? This is what I take away from funerals. Number one, I put this down. We are mortal None of us are going to live forever, right? How many people are finding that out? I really thought it would take longer to reach this age than what it did I'm learning, reminded every day when I get up. I'm not going to live forever. We got one life. That's it. We got one shot at this thing. And uh either we get it right or we don't. There's no do-overs, there's no mulligans. Now I'm grateful for second chances throughout the life, but as far as the life is concerned, what's the song say? Only one line It will soon be past. Only what's done for Christ is life will last. And so one thing, uh I'm reminded we're mortal. I've done funerals where people refuse to come into the funeral home I'm thinking of one in particular. It's been a number of years ago. It was downtown at the funeral uh director and uh we went in, there was family members And I came up, I'll I showed up at there and I was greeting people, it was there when they come in, and the family usually meets in the back and I'll talk with them, read some scripture, pray, and then we'll go to the body. These guys stayed outside And so we were waiting, waiting, waiting. They said, uh one of them said, They ain't coming in. I said, All right, so we just did our thing, went up, viewed the body, it's a family. So I went back and I said, hey guys, you know, I just introduced myself and they said, we ain't going in there. One guy said, I don't get I don't go around dead bodies. I don't go around them. Now they didn't say this, but I got a sneaking suspicion. I think they're thinking, if I can ignore this, then I don't have to deal with it. I tell you, we cannot ignore the fact that we're mortal We're not going to live forever in these bodies. These days this body's going to die. It's inevitable. The mortality rate of humanity is 100% Though we're going to exist forever, heaven or hell, we're not going to live for here forever. So a funeral reminds us that we're mortal. Second of all, a funeral is a reminder that life has value. That people would stop and try to honor and show respect to the life of the one that's passed away. That tells me that life has value. And I want to say to everybody that's listening, everybody knows, your life has value. And don't let this world convince you it doesn't. This world has our young people convinced that if they don't look a certain way, if they don't have a uh uh if they don't behave a certain way then they're just push them off and they're no of no value. And I'm here to tell you, in God's eyes, every person has value. And a funeral communicates that this person's life had value. And we're recognizing that and we're respect and respecting that. And then the third thing I take away from a funeral is this: that every life has influence. People come to a funeral because that person influenced their life. I go to my father's funeral, which we weren't able to, my dad, because of COVID, but you go to a family member's funeral. Why? Because that was my father, that was my mother, that was my wife, that was my husband, and they had profound influence on my life. And I want to recognize that. They influence me. And I'll say this: every one of our lives has influence. Every one of us. No man lives himself. No man dies himself. Every one of us, we are influencing others. And so we're valuable to God. We're not, we're we're mortal. But we're in life our life is valuable and we have an influence. And I would like to know. I would like to think. And when I get to the end of my life, none of us know when that is, but I would like to think that maybe God used me to have a positive influence in some people's lives. Wouldn't that be something? Get to inner life and say, God used me to impact that person and that person, that person, that person, that person. And you don't have to be a pastor. You don't have to be a preacher to influence people's lives. We all do it in our everyday action. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help. And Lord, I pray these thoughts from this Funeral of Jacob would challenge us. Maybe we'd learn something that would help us grow in our faith and live our lives for you. Our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if some tonight say, Preacher, you know, I need to remember God has a plan and purpose for my life. My life has value, I do have influence, and I want to use it for God. And I wouldn't like to make I would like God to use me to make a difference in other people's lives so that when mine is over, some people left behind are better off because of my life and influence. Is there any like that? Of course who wouldn't feel that way? The thing is it doesn't just happen. We need to commit to Christ. We need a discipline to live for him and need wisdom. To interact with other people in their lives. Father bless now to give the invitation in Jesus' name amen