Encouraging, we appreciate that if you would. Take your Bibles, turn back Joshua with me. Joshua chapter two. I just want to say it's great to have Mike up here reading scripture again. It's a real blessing. I love Mike dearly, and uh glad for what the Lord's doing in his life and helping him. Joshua chapter two, I want to begin reading in verse number eighteen. Just to reiterate a little bit what Mike just read here a few moments ago. Look at verse 18 with me. Behold, when we come into the land, thou shalt find this line of scarlet thread in the window. Which thou didst uh let us down by, and thou shalt bring thy father and thy mother and thy brethren, and all thy father's household home unto thee And it shall be that whosoever shall go out of the doors of the house of the into the street, his blood shall be upon his head, and we will be guiltless And whosoever shall be with thee in the house, his blood shall be upon our shall be on our head, if any any hand be laid upon it be upon him And if thou utter this thy business, then we will be quit of thine oath, which thou hast made us to swear. And she said, According unto your words, so be it. And she sent them away and they departed, and she bound the scarlet line in the window. I want to talk about this scarlet thread. That Rahab the harlot used to let these men escape. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to bless. It seems like the monitors are just a little high, Dan. Thank you. Father in heaven, we ask, Lord, that you would bless now our time in your word. God, uh, I'll be the first to acknowledge that I have nothing in and of myself of any eternal or spiritual value for anyone here this morning. So Lord, we need to hear from heaven And with that in mind, I present my body anew. I ask that you would fill me with your Spirit. God, I pray that I could be a conduit, the phone line, so to speak, you speaking through me to all of our hearts. And Lord, I pray we leave here. Our lives will be closer to you. Our faith would be stronger. Our witness would be more effective. And we're asking you to meet with us this hour. I'm asking you, Lord, with all my heart And you'd meet with us this hour. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There have been many remarkable women throughout the history of mankind. both within the family of God and outside the family of God. There have been some remarkable women who were not believers, yet accomplished great things, as far as humanly speaking is concerned. Some women throughout history that we would call remarkable are remarkable are noted for their integrity. Women of great integrity, women of great character. and courage. We think of someone like uh Mary, the mother of the Lord Jesus, uh the prophetess Deborah, and uh ones like these, uh great women, great integrity, great courage and uh had great testimonies for the Lord. Other women who are remarkable, not for so much for their integrity and character, but are remarkable for their lack of integrity Or their lack of character and godliness. And of course, in Scripture, we think of women like Jezebel, who are remarkable in the degradation. that they had accomplished in their lives and the the influence for ungodliness that they had. So remarkable women. Some are remarkable for their positive characteristics, others are remarkable for their negative characteristics. Some we would say are remarkable women because of both God has a way of transforming the worst of humans into the best of humans. I like the way one fellow put it. God can take zeros and turn them into heroes. So there's some people, not just women, there are some people who are noted throughout history for two things. One, their degradation. The extreme negative aspects of their character, and yet God gets a hold of them and completely turns them around and makes them something or someone very, very positive. Now this I want to take a moment and explain something here. Everybody with me? Everybody alright out there? Everybody with me? Okay. Um This is not merely reformation. How many when you were growing up, you knew someone that got sent off to reform school? Anybody? Reform school. Remember that? You don't hear much about reform school anymore. You wise yeah, my husband, that's where I met him. Um what what does what does reform school supposed to do? Reform. You got a reprobate, a rebel. Are you going to send him reform school and there's going to be a reformation? We're going to reform him into an upstanding citizen. What we're talking about here is not reformation. It's not getting someone to turn over a new leaf. How many people ever heard that phrase? I'll be very honest with you, before I got saved, God was dealing with my heart, and man, I just made such a mess of things in such a quick time Um that uh I got this idea in my head that I was going to turn over a new leaf. I was going to straighten my life up. And I was going to go a little different direction. You know what I found out? I found out that the bottom side of the leaf was just as rotten as the top side was. You know, you have a poison ivy plant. You can turn that leaf over. The bottom's just as poisonous as the top was, right? Turning over a new leaf did mean zero good When we're talking about someone who is in the, who has made a mess of things, someone who has is a notorious sinner. And God gets a hold of them and turns them into somebody remarkable for his glory We're not talking about simply reformation just going another path or turning over. We're talking about total transformation. Not a cleaned up old creature, an entirely new creature. Rahab, as we read here in Joshua chapter 2, we're introduced to her here. Rahab was a remarkable woman. She was remarkable in two ways. She was remarkable in where she came from. The deaths that she came up out of. Actually, Rahab had three strikes against her. First of all, strike number one was she was a woman. Now, in this time of history, in this period of man's history, women were at the very best second class citizens. In this time frame and much after that and certainly before it, in Man's eyes, in the world's view, a woman was little more than a possession. Just a little higher in the man mind of the man than the cattle he had or the oxen he had She was part of his possessions. A woman was not expected to arise to rise very high. A woman was not expected to be some sort of role model or somebody we would call remarkable. She was just a woman. Now that is very unscriptural. Amen A woman, according to scripture, is not a second-class citizen. Any way, shape, or form. You will not find that in the Bible. A woman is not a possession. A woman is equal in the eyes of God in value importance and in who and what they are. Amen? Now listen, some Folks, enemies of Christianity, have tried to give the impression that Christianity bemeans women and belittles women. That is not true. You study what the Bible says, God's view, God's teaching concerning women, women are to be highly esteemed. They are to be held in respect with high respect and high regard. Now, men and women have two different roles to play, but we are of equal importance to God. In fact, Colossians talks about in the matter of salvation, our relationship with the Lord, there's neither male nor female. None holds a superior position before God than the other. So it's very important. I thought I'd get more amens from the ladies on that, I'll tell you. Women are to be highly respected and highly esteemed, and uh and are and uh but we each have different roles. But nevertheless, in Rahab's society In their way of thinking, being a woman was a second-class citizen. So that was her first strike against her. The second strike Rahab had against her was that she was a Canaanite. Now you need to be a little familiar with the Bible to understand why that would be a strike against her. The Canaanites were very ungodly people. The Canaanites, their society and their religion was a very wicked religion. It was characterized by idol worship, which you could very easily describe as devil worship. Uh it was characterized their society and and even their worship of their false gods was characterized by debauchery and perversion uh characterized by indulgence of the flesh Rahab was a woman growing up in a pagan society. She was not raised by godly parents. Her mother did not pray to the true and living God. Her daddy did not teach her the principles of Scripture. She was not raised in a godly home. She was raised in an ungodly, wicked, perverse home from her smallest years. Those of us who have been blessed by God to have Christian parents ought to be very, very grateful. If you have a mother that believes the Bible and prays for you, if you have a father who loves you and prays for you and tries to be in a example of what a Christian biblical Christian daddy is. You ought to be very, very grateful to God for that. Rahab did not have that. She was not raised by according to scriptural principles. She wasn't taught Psalm 23. She wasn't taught of Adam and Eve, and the flaw of man, the great promises to Abraham. She knew nothing of that. She was raised a pagan. Ungodly. I just I'll just throw this out. For four years as a youth pastor in Indianapolis and a good church there. We had a pretty good sized youth group. The youth group was made up of probably half kids that came in on the buses, and half were church kids, I would say. About half and half. And uh good kids, so many saved, uh a number of them are in the ministry now. But I noticed something. The young people that did not have Christian parents, the young people whose parents drank, cussed. Young people whose parents could care less what time they came home at night or who they hung out with, they would come to me. And they would say, they called me Pastor Dennis. They would say, Pastor Dennis. I was so bad. I had parents like the church kids have. That cared about them. How late they were out or who they were with or what they were doing. I'm thinking of one fellow in particular, in fact, he stayed with us for a period of time He would say, I wish I had parents that told me what I should and should not do, instead of just letting me go and do what I want. You know what the sad thing about that is? Those kids that had parents who loved them, taught them scripture. Had some standards of decency, cared about where they went, told them the right things to do and the wrong things not to do. They would try and rebel against that. And they would fight it. And they had in their mind, boy, if I could just be like those kids, can stay out, go wherever they want, do whatever they do, boy, if I could only have that. Those kids that thought that way were fools. I use that word on purpose. They're fools. Rahab did not have parents. Rahab did not have parents who cared whether she kept herself pure or not. They could care less. You do with your body whatever you want to do. We don't care. She was a woman in a society that viewed women as little more than a possession. She was raised a pagan. No morals, no principles, no standards of decency, right and wrong. In fact, a lot like Hollywood. Come on, talk to me now. A lot like what Hollywood's promoting. And she had a third strike against her. And that was this. She had turned out to become a prostitute. She had gone to the lowest levels a person can go. It is impossible to be lower on the ladder of morals. Than to be that of a prostitute. We must never Allow ourselves or our young people to be fooled into thinking that being careless with our purity is something cool. Let me say that again. We must never allow ourselves or our young people to be fooled into thinking that being careless with their purity is something cool. It is not cool to be careless with the preciousness of the purity God has given each and every one of us. Is not honorable. Oh, person can be very loose with their morals, they can be very careless with their purity. And they may be popular in the eyes of some. And they may get a lot of attention. And they can dress, like Proverbs chapter 7 says, with the attire of a harlot, and dress in ways that shows lots of skin and enhances the sensual aspects of the of the human body. That may get a lot of attention, but it never genders respect. All the boys may notice the girl that dresses like a harlot, but not one of those boys respects her. Huh? Oh, the movie star can show all kinds of skin and present herself in the most immodest of ways, and boy, she's the most High paid actress in the Hollywood. Yeah, but she's the least respected. Am I right or wrong? Come on now. You guys are quiet this morning. Rahab, the harlot, had degenerated to the lowest possible position a woman could hold, and that was that of a harlot. Prostitute. In fact, the Bible uses even stronger words than that to describe that lifestyle. So, she was remarkable into where she had allowed her life to deteriorate to. She was remarkable in what she had become. Not remarkable in a positive way, but remarkable in a negative way. In fact. She had degenerated to such a low level of morality that even to this day In spite of what God did in her life, even to this day, she is known as Rahab the harlot. Can you imagine the stigma Of having that title applied to your name, that throughout all of history, people would know you as the harlot. So that's that's remarkable. She's remarkable in where she came from, but let me quickly say also she is remarkable in where she ended up. Now I'm not going to elaborate on this because we're going to look at some other things here, but I tried to paint an accurate picture of what Rahab was when we first find her in the Bible, when we're first introduced to her. I mean, just imagine the lifestyle, the way she would look, and by the way, by the way, Harlots are not beautiful, painted up women the way Hollywood sees them. You go out in the street and meet a real one and they are nasty. Come on. That is a lie. Picture what her lifestyle is like, what she appears like, what her language is like. What type of friend that she would be. And yet God takes her God takes a nobody and turns her into somebody. You know what Rahab ended up being when God was done with her? She became the great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great grandmother of the Lord Jesus Christ. Her offspring. When God was done with her, God says, this is a trophy of my grace. This is what I can do with a person that the devil has had his way with her entire life. But if she will trust me, this is what I can do with her. I can turn her into somebody. That I can use for my glory and can be a part of the salvation of the world. What a great God we serve. What a gracious, glorious, all-powerful God we have that can take a zero and turn them into a hero. She's a remarkable woman. God has a super God has the supernatural ability. To take the ordinary and turn it into something extraordinary. God has the supernatural ability of taking a nobody And turning them into a somebody. Making something extraordinary. Rahab is a classic example. Rahab Isn't a remarkable example of God's power to transform a person into something amazing. Now here's the story. I think most of us are familiar with it. Egypt, Israel came out of Egypt under Moses. We know all that. Plagues, Red Sea, Ten Commandments, 40 years of the wilderness. Moses passes off the scene. Joshua is in charge. And they're about to cross the Jordan River into the Promised Land. Finally! Forty years later, they're about to cross into the Promised Land. And they do very similar to what they did back at Cadesh Barnia under Moses. They send some spies in. Again, these spies are not sent in to determine whether Israel should or should not go into the land, that's already determined. But to go in and see what the land is, maybe what would be the best way of attack, what can we expect, uh is just makes sense. The spies are in there, they uh get into the city where uh Jericho there where Rahab is, and um boy the word gets out there are some spies, so they go into uh a prostitute's house Now I don't know how they ended up there. They're thinking maybe, you know, this is kind of the underworld, this is the uh the nastier part of town. We can get here, people will work with us, their loyalties No doubt or not to the city and a thing. They'll be more open to uh you know harboring spies or whatever. I don't know what their thinking was. I often wondered. I wonder how their wives felt about that spending the night there But um, nevertheless, they show up at Rahab's house. She agrees to hide them, and her reasoning is not what you might expect. Look with me if you would at verse number 10. Well, verse 9. This is Rahab speaking. She's taking him in the house. And um she's telling them to hide up on the roof, she's going to hide them up there. But look what she says in verse 9. And she, Rahab said unto the men, I know this is why she's hiding them, this is why she's cooperating with him. I know that the Lord hath given you the land, and that your terror is fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land think because of you. Now notice, she doesn't say, I know that your armies are more powerful than our armies. She doesn't say, I know that you outnumber us 10 to 1, because they did. She knows what she's saying. I know that the what? The Lord, that Jehovah! She recognized God's hand in the actions of Israel. She recognized the presence of God in the people of God. Look at verse number 10. For we have heard how that the Lord dried up the water, the Red Sea, for you when you came out of Egypt. And what ye did unto the two kings of the Amorites that were on the other side Jordan, Sihon and Ag, who may be utterly destroyed, as soon as we had heard these things our hearts did melt Neither do there remain any more courage in any man because of you, for the Lord your God, He is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. It sounds like this woman got what? Sounds like she got saved This uh Canaanite, this pagan, she heard that God had done all these things, and she came to the conclusion that the God of the Israelites is the true God. That's a powerful statement. So she takes the spies in. Not because she doesn't care about her government, not because she's an underworld secret agent, but because she got saved and she fears the God of Israel or God Jehovah. So she takes them in, she hides them. The authorities go through, they can't find them. And they said, all right, I live right on the the cities then had walls around them because I live right on the wall of the city. I got this rope here. It's called a line and thread in the Bible. It's basically a rope. And she says, um, I'll let you out. Just so happens. Just so happens that it's scarlet. So what's the big deal about that? Stick around. She lets the guys out. Then they make this deal, the secret covenant. They said, listen, you spared our lives. When we come back in and invade this place, you put this scarlet line out. When we see that scarlet line, we'll know Not to kill anybody in that house where that scarlet line is. They said, go get your friends, family, whoever you want, get them in that house. When we see the scarlet light, our soldiers will pass over that house. We'll bypass it. We won't kill the people there. And she says, okay. And she puts the scarlet line out. The scarlet line is a very significant item in Rahab's testimony. And I want to notice a few things very quickly about this scarlet line. Number one This scarlet light to me reveals the obedience of her faith. Now she expressed her faith in God with her words in verse 8, 9, and 10. She expressed her faith. But now, she is manifesting her faith by doing exactly as she was told. The obedience of faith. She did what she was told. The strongest evidence of genuine faith in God is obedience to God Let me say that again. The strongest evidence of faith in God is my obedience to God. And the strongest evidence, now are you paying attention? The strongest evidence of insincere faith Is my disobedience to God. If my faith is genuine, it is going to be characterized by obedience If my faith in God is insincere, it's just words, it's just a show, then my life as a professed believer is going to be characterized by disobedience. Rahab's faith was genuine. It was the real deal. It was the real McCoy. It was the. What's another cliche? I don't know either. It was it was It was for real. There we go. Faith, uh genuine, and it was Evidenced by her obedience. They said, put this scarlet thread out. She put the scarlet thread out. Obedience does not save us Right? Obedience does not save us. We are saved by grace through faith, that not of ourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And all God's people said Our obedience to the commands of God is not what saves us, but our obedience to God is an evidence of the fact that we are saved. James chapter 2 talks much about this. You show me, you say you have faith? Show me your faith by your works. He doesn't say your works save you. He's saying your works are evidence that your faith is for real, that it's genuine. The obedience of her faith. The strongest evidence of the fact that she had genuine faith in God was her obedience. Notice her obedience was meticulous. What does it mean if something's meticulous? What does that mean? It means, I looked it up because I thought it was a cool word, but I didn't know what it meant. It means extreme giving extreme attention to details. Meticulous. Extreme attention to details. Rahab did exactly as she was told. Now look with me if you would at verse 18. Now you can read over this very easily and miss this. Behold, this is the spies talking to her. When we come into this into the land, thou shalt bind, what's that next word? This Line of scarlet thread in the window. Not just any line of scarlet thread, but the very one that you let us out in, uh uh let us out in. The one that you let us out with, that very one, you put that one out. Meticulous. This exact one, not in the Now Rahab might have said, what's the big deal? Which one I put out As long as there's a threat, as long as there's a rope hanging out here, what does it matter which one I have? Hey, she could have put a green one out and she'd be dead Right? She could have got another one that was a different shade, and those guys come in and say, wait a minute, that's not the one we came out on. Something's up. Well, it's a booby trap. She spilled her the beans. It had to be meticulous. It had to be exactly the way they said. Hey, do you know what God expects from us, those of us who say we have faith in Him? You know what God expects from those of us who say we're genuine believers? He expects us to do exactly as He says. He does not expect us to take the liberty to take the commands that God has given us, what we're to do, how we're to do it, and then decide, well, you know, what's the difference I can do it this way or I can do it that way. I don't have to do all of that. I'll just make the decisions myself. I'm telling you, that is not characteristic of genuine faith in God. Genuine faith in God says I want to do exactly what God tells me to do. Her obedience was meticulous. She said, I want you to put this scarlet thread out. Now what do you think of when you think of a thread? Huh? You think of a thread. It wasn't a trick question. You think of somebody selling. I was up visiting Tommy Futch in the hospital on Friday and she's making a quilt She's making a it's not cross stitch, it's embroidered quilt. Now I don't know anything about quilt making, but it looks like to me an embroidered quilt is more work than a cross stitch quilt Does that do I have any idea what I'm talking about? Does anybody know? Nobody's gonna say. Am I wrong? Well just for the sake of appeasing me, say yes And she had little tiny threads. And I and I was reading that and I thought, how in the world did those guys get down off the wall with a thread? You know, if you're holding on to that thing, as soon as you go back, snap, whoa! The thread there is not a thread as we understand it, it's a rope. How many people said you didn't need to take all that time to explain that? That was obvious. The thread. She could have said, Well, man, I need that thread for the oxen. Uh you know, we've got some cows and stuff. I need I need that rope for that and I leave this hanging out the whole time. I don't know when they're coming. They said this one, but I I know what I'll do. I'll pull out and I'll tie blankets together You ever see how people escape prison, they tie blankets together or sheets? And I'll just dye it red and I'll hang that out. If she'd have done that, she'd have been dead. Right? Meticulous. Meticulous. Genuine faith is very meticulous in its obedience to God. If I were listen, don't answer this. But if I were to ask this question, don't answer it. Alright? In your heart, you answer it. If I would ask this question, how many people here love the Lord dearly? I'd venture to say, if I would ask that publicly, I'd venture to say that most, if not all of us, would say, yes, I love the Lord dearly. Now, if that professed love for God is genuine, then that love for God will be very meticulous in its obedience to God. You say, oh, I had a girl tell me this in this church years ago. She attended for a little while. She I preached something, I don't remember what. She was going out and she made this statement to me. She goes, Pastor Leatherman, as long as you love God, it doesn't matter what you do. My answer was, if you love God, then it definitely matters what I do. Imagine if I told my wife, Kathy, as long as I love you, it doesn't matter what I do, go out there and do whatever I want. You know what would happen? Frying pan on the head. Take your Bibles with me if you would, just real quickly, and turn to the New Testament Gospel of John. Genuine faith is very meticulous. It wants to do exactly what God says. If I love the Lord, my love for the Lord is genuine, it's going to be very meticulous. I want to do exactly what God says. Look at John chapter 14 And notice with me verse number 15. This is Jesus speaking. If you have a red letter edition, this is red, so it's not more inspired, but it's significant. Jesus says in John chapter 14 and verse 15, if ye love me, what's the next three words? Keep my commandments. He doesn't say to be saved you have to keep my commandments. He says, if you love me, if your love for me is for real, then do what I say. Look at verse number 21. He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that what loveth me. He said, the one that's keeping my commandments meticulously, that's the one that loves me. That's evidence of the fact that his love is for real. Look with me at verse 23. If a man Jesus answered said to them, If a man love me, he will keep my words. Look at verse 24. He that loveth me not, keepeth not my sayings. Or you could say it this way, he that doesn't keep my instructions does not what? Right? Overwhelmingly implied. Look with me if you would at verse 24. He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings. Genuine love, genuine faith in God is very meticulous in its obedience to God I would like to think that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church has genuine faith in God, that we as a body of believers have genuine faith in God. Would you agree with me? I'd like to believe that. I do believe that You know what that means? That means we as a church are going to be very are going to work at being very meticulous in doing exactly what God tells us to do. Amen? We're going to be very meticulous in staying away from the things God tells us to stay away from. We're going to be very meticulous in being involved in the things that God tells us to be involved in. We're going to be very meticulous that we operate and run things and handle our finances and make our decisions and have the witness in the world exactly as God instructs us in His Word, right or wrong? We as a church. Insincere faith is indifferent to God's Word. Insincere faith says, well, we can do that, or we don't have to. Come on, man, it's the 21st century. These things that God has said 2,000 years ago, come on. That's not genuine faith in God Well, in my circumstances, you don't understand. I know God said this, that, and the other. I know what God has told me, and I intend to obey him, but You know, my circumstances are such that I just can't do everything that God says and I can't get it down to that little detail as long as I generally do what God says If Rahab would have just generally stuck some rope out there, her and her family would have been killed. So genuine faith is characterized by obedience to God. And her obedience was very meticulous. I noticed her obedience, if you come back there very quickly, her obedience was minute. And again, this is a little repetitious of meticulous, but minute means even to the smallest little thing Some might have thought it doesn't matter what color, that's of no significance, but if it would have been green, she would be dead. Now, get this statement. Everybody still happy and rejoicing? Amen. Everybody out there? Everybody okay? I like what Brian said to God. Can you handle this? Everyone, can you handle it? Her obedience was minute. I like this statement. We must guard against thinking that some of God's commands are mandatory and some of his commands are optional. Well, and this is the way it's worded by preachers sometimes. These are essentials. These things that God has said are essentials. These over here, they're non-essentials. Huh? We need to be careful about that. Who's the one deciding what's essential and what isn't essential? If God gives us the commands, I'm going to say, alright, these are essential, these aren't essential. I'm the one making the decision. Well, I'll decide what's a yeah, I know we said that, but you know, I'll I'll obey these, but not those. You follow what I'm saying? I don't have the right to decide whether God what God told me to do is essential or non-essential. If God said do it, it's essential. Are you with me? I feel like I'm in a dentist's office here this morning. If God said we don't have that option. Now, granted, there are some things that have greater consequences than others. And I like to use this illustration, I've done it many times over the years. In the Ark of the Covenant. They had various aspects apart. There was the mercy seat, there was the chest inside where they put the tablets of the commandments and the manna and Aaron's rod that butted. They had all of that Some would say, yes, that mercy seat was vitally important. That was essential. But you know that that that Ark of the Covenant also had little ringlets down each side You know what those ringlets were for? For sliding a staff through that when they moved it, they were not to touch the the Ark of the Covenant, they were to carry it on that staff on their shoulders. No one was to touch the thing. David said the mercy seat and all that, that's essential. But those little ringlets on the side, they're non-essentials. Who cares how you carry it? And Uzzah died the moment he touched it. Huh? I'd say those little ringlets were essentials. Now you can find some things in the Bible, and you in your mind say, ah, that's not that big a deal. Who cares about that? That's just a little thing. If God said it, it's not a little thing. And she did very meticulously, very minutely, she obeyed exactly what they told her to do. Genuine faith in God does not pick and choose. It says God said it, that settles it, I'll obey it. Thirdly, her obedience carried a message. Whether the people involved in all this, Rahab and the spice, whether they were aware of it or not That scarlet thread was the same thing to Rahab in Canaan as the blood on the doorpost was to the Jews in Egypt. It was a picture. It was a symbolic. It was symbolic of their faith in what God has said. And when judgment came, the judgment was passed over. And many sermons have been preached on the scarlet thread running through Scripture as a picture of the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, that when we have the blood of Jesus applied to our lives and our hearts and lives uh before God, the judgment of God passes over us, and we are spared eternal death And the significance of her putting that scarlet line, whether they realized it or not, that was a testimony of the grace of God in the coming blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And she had no authority to change that. It was to be exactly as she was told. And I'm saying to you this morning, our obedience to God is very important in that it sends whether we are aware of it or not. It sends a powerful message to this old world as to whether God is who he claims to be and whether our faith is genuine. Say, who cares whether I obey God or not? That's between me and God. No, it is not. It affects others Trifling with God's commands sends a very powerful but deadly message to others When we professed believers disobey God, flat out disobey Him, when we trifle with what He has told us to do, we are clouding the message of the gospel. You're going to have a hard time convincing the people you work with that the gospel is the power of God unto salvation if you do not obey God. Amen? They're gonna say, what? You're not doing what God says, and you're telling me I need to be saved. The gospel didn't change your life. You don't go to church any more than we do. You don't talk any different than we do. You don't act any different than we do. And you're telling me the gospel is the power of God unto salvation? I'm not gonna buy that! You're gonna have a hard time convincing your child. That the gospel will save their soul when it doesn't affect your behavior. Huh? This whole world's not going to buy it. That the gospel of Jesus Christ will save a soul from sin and hell when it doesn't even affect the way we talk. Doesn't even affect the way we live our lives. Doesn't even affect our schedule or finance. Doesn't affect anything in our lives. Her obedience carried a powerful message, the picture of the scarlet thread of the blood of Christ. So we have the obedience of our faith, and last of all, and I gotta end with this, the boldness of her faith, it was a public boldness. She put that thread out the window for how long? How long was it from when the spies went back until they actually invaded the land? Several weeks? Certainly days. Most likely several weeks. Now I didn't figure out the chronology, but it was a period of time. For those weeks, that scarlet thread is hanging out her window publicly I can hear people walking by. What in the world is Rahab up to? What is that about? She's flipped her mind. She's going nuts. Why would she do that? No doubt others misunderstood. No doubt other people mocked her. But nevertheless, she did exactly what she was told. A believer should never be timid about our Savior. Other people will not. You bow your head and pray at lunch, the workplace, or in the office, or at school. You bow your head and thank God for the food it likes, and others say, What in the world's going on with you? Don't be timid about your faith in God. That's a scarlet light. Um brother Mike was telling me he was down with a friend visiting in um was it Ocean City Mike? And he was with a friend of his and he was down there and it came time to eat and Mike said, I'm gonna pray and I'm I don't know if if I don't have this story correct, ask Mike later, he'll tell you. But uh something like this. He bowed his head and the guy says, Whoa Mike, you're scaring me something like that. And uh you know what? That's our scarlet thread Give out a gospel track. I thought yesterday we had 20, 30 people the last couple weeks, Saturdays, running all over creation, putting tracks on everything. We got uh we got a doctorate in rocket science, we've got um successful business people, we've got all these categories of life running around like they're lunatics, putting tracks everywhere Hey, that's our scarlet thread. People don't understand. We got word yesterday somebody was criticizing us for putting tracks around. Hey, that's fine. We know what God's told us to do. We want to be a witness. We want a testimony. We want to see people saved. It was a bold, public boldness of her faith. Hey, that's what baptism is. I am not ashamed of the fact that I trusted Christ. I will follow Him in baptism. I want all the world to see that I have been crucified with Christ. I've been buried and I'm risen again in Christ. That's what church membership is about. I'm not ashamed to be a part of the local body of Christ. I don't care what people say or think. That is what God would have me to do. That's what our lifestyle is about. That's what our conversation is about. That's what our witnessing is about, being bold. And our testimony and our faith in God. She had a public boldness, but she also had a personal boldness. She put her life on the line. She was trusting it. What they said was so. Now she knew it was coming. She could have hightailed it out of the city, right? She goes, I'm heading for the mountains. I'm going Garrett County. I'm getting out of here. But she did. Her faith was personal. I am trusting God to spare my life. I am putting my destiny in the hands of what God has said. And that is exactly what salvation is about. Say, preacher, do you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven? Absolutely Say, we think you're better than anyone else. No, I'm not better than anyone else. But my destiny is the hands of Christ. And he said, he that believeth in me shall not perish. He said, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. My destiny is the hands of Christ. I've committed it. This is personal. If I don't get to heaven, then it's Christ failed. Huh? It's in his hands. It's a personal faith. She put her family on the line. She convinced her family that if they would come in there with that rope hanging out, they would be safe. They trusted. And believe what she said, and their lives were. You know what? When we say we believe in God, we're concerned about the well-being of those around us. We want them to get in the household. We want them to get saved. She could not stand by and see her family and friends be destroyed. She had to get them in. A man by the name of Wilt Durant. Was involved in this church wit visitation program for 40 years. 40 years he went out every week visiting with his church. You know how many people he led to the Lord in 40 years? One person. And they say if one gets saved, it's worth it all, right? Amen? Just one gets saved, it's worth it all, and that's true. But in 1992, Mr. Durant retired and he moved to Arkansas. He joined the local Baptist church there. One Sunday, the preacher preached on soul winning. At the invitation, Mr. Durant responded and devoted the rest of his life to winning souls At that point, from that point on, he prayed with over 600 people to trust Christ as Savior He no longer was casual about his witness. He began averaging sixty homes a week. And what does he consider the secret of his success? Simply this, a willing and obedient heart. What I'm saying is, wherever we're at, I trust you're not in the condition that Rahab was when God found her. Certainly, surely not. But even if you were. If you'll trust God, do what he says. God can turn you around and use you for the cause of Christ. and for his glory in ways you never dream. I guarantee you, Rahab never dreamed that she would be the great, great, great, great grandmother of the Savior of the world. And you and I have no idea what God will do with us if we'll just trust Him and obey Him. Father, bless us now, I ask. Help us. Help us, Lord, to obey. Help me. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. You're here this morning, and God's been dealing with your heart about some area in your Christian life that maybe you've been negligent with, you've been a little careless about. And the Spirit of God has been dealing with you. I want to urge you in a moment when the piano begins to play that you slip on out to an old-fashioned altar and you just say, God, help me to be obedient. God help me just to trust you. I want my faith to be genuine and for real. And I want people to see that. Not for a show, but I just want to be for real Now, it may be your Bible reading, maybe church attendance, maybe separation from the world, maybe soul winning. I have no idea with the Spirit of God, how he would apply this message to your heart. But I know he has I'm going to urge you. Obedient commitment from the heart. As the piano plays, why don't you slip on out? How about it? God spoke to your heart. God spoke to your heart. Don't resist the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit said, hey, here's something I'm dealing with your heart about. I'm dealing with your heart.