Psalm fifty one, notice with me if you would, it's our memory verse. We all are hopefully learned this and um tonight you can quote this verse if you can quote it correctly. We've got a little treat in the evening service here, so keep that in mind. But verse 17, would you read it together with me again? Let's all read it in unison. I know we quoted it in memory. Pastor Matt read it But I like one more time, all of us together, verse seventeen. Ready? Here we go. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. A broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. I want to speak this morning on the sacrifices of God. The sacrifices of God. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, Lord, it sure is good to be in your house today. And Lord, I've been blessed by the fellowship with your people, by the singing, special music, and Lord, everything's just uh been good and it's helped me so much. I pray now as we look into your word, dear Lord, that you would open our hearts and minds to the truths that are presented here in this passage. I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your spirit. Lord, I yield my will to you. I want my will to melt into your will, Lord. I present my body anew to you, Lord, with all my heart. I pray and ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And dear God, I pray it would be you speaking your word through me. And then, Lord, help us to respond in faith. Help us to trust you. And where you deal with our lives, the areas that you touch on in the truths presented here, help us to trust you And agree with you and allow your will to be done. So again, Lord, bless us now. Speak to us. Help us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I believe personally, and our church as a body believes strongly that this book right here is the Word of God. You believe that the Bible is God's truth. Jesus said, speaking of the Bible In John 17, 17, he made this statement, speaking of the Bible. He says, Thy word is true. The Bible's true. Psalms 19, verse 7, says this about the Bible: the law of the Lord is perfect. The testimony of the Lord is sure. Now listen, we need to understand this right off the bat. The Bible does not have any mistakes in it. Doesn't need to be corrected. The Bible is without error from beginning to end. Psalm chapter 119 and verse 160 says, Thy word is true from the beginning. The Bible is the Word of God. The Bible is absolutely true. And as a Baptist church, the Bible is our sole authority. All areas of faith and practice. We cannot overemphasize the importance of the Bible, and we cannot over-emphasize the authority of God's Word. The Bible is true historically. And the Bible gives a historical account. Mark it down. That historical account took place exactly as the Bible says it took place. The places that the Bible mentions are actual, or at least at one time in history, were actual literal places. If a river is mentioned, that river existed. When mountains are mentioned, those mountains exist or existed. The Bible is historically true. It's not a historical book. It contains much, maybe the majority of the Bible is historical, and it is historically accurate. Sometimes liberals and folks that do not accept the Bible, they'll find some mention of a historical event or some historical character And they'll say, well, this person never existed. We don't have any account of them in our non-biblical historical records. They didn't exist. You mark it down, give it enough time, the archaeologists will come across a reference somewhere, somehow, and lo and behold, what the Bible said actually did take place. As Bible believers, we are not afraid of the archaeologist's shovel. In fact, my saying to the archaeologist is: dig, baby, dig. Because the more we find out about history, the more we see the Bible is exactly what it claims to be. The Bible is historically accurate, historically true. The people, the events, the places are real and actually took place. The Bible is doctrinally true. Now, doctrine, that word doctrine simply means teaching. What the Bible teaches us about God, we can be confident, is absolutely true People have all kinds of ideas about God. I'm a pastor. I've been in the ministry for 40 years now. Coming up on 40 years. I've heard every, I think, probably not. Every time I think I've heard it all, and then something else comes up. But I've heard so many theories about God. I'm telling you, the Bible is accurate and true what it teaches us about God. In other words, God is exactly what the Bible says he is. The Bible's doctrinally true. What the Bible says about man is true. Now we may think one thing of ourselves, we may think that of ourselves, but what the Bible says about us is true Not what we think we are. What the Bible teaches about sin is true. I catch myself saying this probably too much, but We're in a day and age where the world, mankind, has perfected the ability to make that which is wrong seem so right, and that which is right seem so wrong I'm here to tell you, when the Bible says something is wrong, and the Bible says something is right, mark it down, that is true What the Bible says is wrong is wrong. What the Bible says is true is true, regardless of what society may or may not think. The Bible is historically true, the Bible is doctrinally true. What the Bible teaches about salvation is true. A lot of ideas. You go to ten different churches, you'll get ten different ways of salvation. I tell you there's only one way of salvation. It's the Bible way. It's not the Baptist way, not the Methodist way, not the Catholic way, not the uh what's another one? Presbyterian way. It's the Bible way. The Bible is our authority. The Bible is true, without error. It's the Word of God. The Bible is historically true, it's doctrinally true, what the Bible teaches about heaven and hell is true You say, preacher, surely you all still don't believe in that old-fashioned teaching of hell. I tell you, until the Bible says it ain't so, then I believe it is so. The Bible's very, very clear. The Bible's true We base, as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, I am basing my eternal destiny on the reliability of the Word of God. That's where my hope is. The teaching of the Bible on salvation, Jesus said is truth. It's true. The Bible is historically true. It's doctrinally true. And the Bible is practically true. Now what I mean by this is what the Bible is more than just facts The Bible is an instruction manual on life. This book here teaches us how to live our lives. It's an instruction manual on life. If you study it carefully, it will say, you know, you ought to do these things. These are some things that you ought to do. Don't do these things, avoid these things It's an instruction manual. How many of you men here, you get an appliance or you get have some sort of a you get uh you get uh uh these new electric bikes are the new thing, e-bikes. Now, if Joy's driving one, be very, very careful. Any guys ever get a bike together and it comes with instructions how to assemble that thing and you say this to your wife, I don't need that Anybody know I'm talking about, ah, you don't need those instructions. And then the steering wheel is where the front tire ought to be, you know, and the seats and the back and Those instructions tell us how to do it correctly. Those instructions help us put the thing together so it works. The Bible is our instruction manual for life. If we follow its instructions and how to put our life together and how to live our lives and how to function as a family and how to function as a church and how to function, as Brother Harding last week, how to function as a citizen If we follow the Bible's instructions, we get what the Bible promises we will get. My point is this: the Bible's true. The Bible is the word of God, it is without error and perfect in every way. If we do what the Bible instructs us to do, we'll get what the Bible promises we'll get. I believe that with all my heart. Our theme this year at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we're over, well over halfway through the year, but our theme has been revive us again. And we're asking God to revive our hearts and lives, and we're seeking the Lord, and we have been earnestly for God to revive our holes. And that we can get back to the old book and start living the way this Bible instructs us to live and revive our church. So that we can function as God intends the church to function. And we can have the blessings that God promises. For those that follow his instructions, we're praying for revival, revival of the joy of the Lord again in our hearts and our homes We're not careful, we'll let this whole world steal our joy. We're not careful, we'll let the behavior of other people steal the joy of the Lord from our hearts and our homes. And we need revival. We need that back again. We need a revival of godliness. Some people that might be an outdated antiquity. uh antiquated word. You say, oh godliness. Who cares about godliness anymore? I'll tell you who cares about godliness anymore. God cares about godliness We need it back again. Just good old-fashioned Bible-based godliness. We're praying for a revival of joy of the Lord, of godliness restored to our homes. Praying for a revival of the presence and power of God upon our ministries. Read of old. A men of God would get up and preach, and the Spirit of God would move in a powerful way, and lives were changed. And drunkards became sober, and liars became honest. Adulterers became faithful. And the power of God that changed lives and took that which was messed up and fixed it up. And we need the power of God back upon our ministries. We need the power of God back upon our lives as we seek to serve the Lord. Sunday school teachers filled with the Spirit and empowered by God. Bus workers, choir members, preachers. Power of God again. Praying for revival. Revive us again, O Lord, that thy people may rejoice in thee. That's our prayer. That's what we're seeking. With that, because that has been our theme, and because that has been our emphasis and our our uh desire to see revival Because of that, we've been preaching from Psalm 51 throughout the year on various times. And not deliberately. It wasn't a plan of mine as the year started. It was just, I feel, is God-led. Psalm 51, I believe, is one of the greatest revival chapters in all the Bible David was covering up sin. We looked at that in Wednesday nights on our study of the life of David and in previous messages. David covering up grievous sin, covering it up. Hiding it, or at least attempting to. David was putting on a show He knew he wasn't right with God. He knew he had sin in his life, but he put a show on, as if everything's okay. David going through the motions. No doubt he went to the temple as the Bible prescribed, the law prescribed. He offered his sacrifices and he went through the motions. But none of it was real. He wasn't right with God, and he had lost the blessings of God. He had lost the joy of the Lord. Psalm 51 is when David comes back to God. And he humbles himself. And he comes clean with God and he gets honest with himself and with his God. And his joy is restored. And he has a he and he has peace of mind again that he hadn't had for a long time. And he has the joy of the Lord in his heart and mind, and no doubt in his whole. And he has an influence for the Lord. And sinners will are converted unto him, unto the Lord now, because David has been revived. And Psalm 51 is the chapter of revival. And by the way, let me remind us that every single one of us had the same capacity to sin just as David did. See, he was a man after God's own heart. He was this great, sweet psalmist of Israel. Yes. And he was a sinner at heart, just like you and me. I'd venture to say there's many of us need revival. I'd venture to say maybe there's many of us just going through the motions. Maybe hiding sin. Maybe putting on a show We need revival. Listen, if David could end up in this condition, somebody of the caliber of David can end up like this. Don't you and I ever think that we can't end up like this. Revival. We need revival. Psalm 51 is David, I believe, David putting into practice the principles. Of 2 Chronicles 7. 14. We're familiar with 2 Chronicles 7. 14, at least many of us are. He says, if my people, which are called by my name, God's people, that's you and I. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray. That's what David's doing. My people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven, then will I forgive their sin, then will I heal their land. Now 2 Chronicles 7. 14 was written much later than Psalms 51, the experience David had of Psalms 51. It was his son. Made that statement under the influence of the Holy Spirit much later, years later. But what I want to say is this: the principles of 2 Chronicles 7. 14 are eternal. When God's people humble ourselves, get honest, and pray and seek God to restore us and do for us what we can't do for ourselves. Confess our sins. We acknowledge it. We seek His face. And then God blesses. God forgives. And God restores. Because David humbled himself, the joy of the Lord was restored to him. His heart and soul was revived. The presence and power of God returned upon him, and his influence of the Lord returned. Now, I want us to notice verse 17. It's our memory verse this month. I hope you learned it. Says, the sacrifices of God. Now, this is David speaking. His heart is shattered. He's broken before God. He's just confessing. And he says, the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. A broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. I want us to notice quickly the significance of sacrifices. He says the sacrifices of God. In fact in verse sixteen he references the sacrifice of God. He says that thou desir that for thou desirest not sacrifice. Else I would give it. Thou delightest not in burnt offerings Now, I got studying this and looking at it carefully, and a question came to mind. He says in verse 16 that God does not desire sacrifice, and he does not delight in burnt offerings. And I said, wait a minute. What do you mean God doesn't desire sacrifice? He doesn't love. Man, he spent the first five chapters of the Bible, the law of God, Leviticus now, given a whole series of sacrifices that he instructed Israel to bring The Bible is uh uh the the idea of offering a sacrifice is all through scripture, all through the Bible. It was God's idea to bring a sacrifice. David says he doesn't desire a sacrifice. He doesn't delight in burnt offerings. Sacrifices to God we can find all the way back shortly after the creation of man. In Genesis chapter 3, when Adam and Eve sinned against God, The ate of the forbidden fruit. And they hid themselves, and God came at the dew of the day and said, Adam, where art thou? He says, Have you eaten of the fruit? I'm not quoting exactly. And he said, Lord, I was ashamed. And they had made them what was Adam Lee's solution to the shame of their nakedness because of their sin? Their solution was what? Leaves. We covered up fig leaves. God shows up, he confronts uh Adam and deals with it there, they get things right. By the way, I can't help thinking about this. And the first thought comes to my mind: the love of God, the first thing God did when man sinned was take steps to restore that relationship. That's the love of God. And the Bible says that God took coats of what? Skins And made uh garments for Adam and Eve. What they had come up with was inadequate. And God took coats of skins. Now the last I checked, you're taking the skin off of something, it's dead. Right? Something, some critter died. Now we're not told what it was. He just says coats of skin. Some critter died so that Adam and Eve could be presentable to God. Now, I can't prove this. I have a sneaking, I have a strong suspicion that those skins were lambskins. Or sheep, perhaps, because that's the picture of the Lamb of God who gave himself to take away the sins of the world. Nevertheless, There was a sacrifice made. And God is the one that did it. And you go all the way through, Abraham. Oh, Cain and Abel before that, and that became an issue. Abraham, Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Job. All through Scripture, sacrifice after sacrifice after sacrifice, at the insistence of God. And then the wall of Israel sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice, burnt offerings Now, and then David says here in Psalm 51, he says, thou desirest not sacrifice. David's broken over his sin. He wants to be restored to God. He wants God's blessings again. He wants God's presence in his life again. And he's coming to God. And he said, it's not a sacrifice that's going to restore what was missed, what was lost. There's various reasons for bringing a sacrifice. In the law, particularly, there was some sacrifices were an expression of gratitude to God for blessings. They would come and God had blessed them greatly, and maybe they would take a portion of their harvest. Maybe God blessed their tomato plants. Like he's blessing Tim's better than Wilbur's. But um they would take maybe a a percentage of them and they would bring it to the temple and Offer it up to the Lord as an expression of gratitude because God's been so good to me. I want to give back to God. Some sacrifices were an expression of gratitude for God's blessings I think that's a good thing. Some sacrifices were an expression of their dedication to the Lord. Abraham offering up Isaac, what a dramatic event that was And it was an expression of Abraham's dedication to Christ, even to do something that outwardly was so unreasonable. Abraham says, God, I trust you. And I'll follow your instructions. It makes no sense to me, but I'll do it. It was an expression of Abraham's dedication to Christ. Of course, the Lord stepped in and he didn't have to offer Isaac, but it was an expression of his faith in God. Some sacrifices were for confess were an expression of my confession and my repentance of sin. That's what the majority in the law were. Sin. Somebody would do something, say something they ought not to say, say a bad word, or they'd get mad at their neighbor, or they'd steal something from Walmart. Not probably not Walmart, but um And they get convicted that's not right, and they go and make it right, and then they would bring their sacrifice as an expression of their confession of their sin and the repentance of their sin and bring it. And all of those sacrifices pointed to the coming Lamb of God, who would be the ultimate and final sacrifice for sin. So there's various reasons they gave sacrifice, but my question is this, why does David say God doesn't desire a sacrifice. We have it all through Scripture I think a sacrifice is an I hope you'll get this, because I think it's vital to understand what's being said here. A sacrifice is an outward ritual Or maybe a display of an inward attitude, a condition of my heart and soul. The sacrifice itself, Hebrews tells us, particularly chapter 10, the sacrifice itself, just in and of itself, was meaningless. He says the blood of bulls and goats is just temporary. It doesn't take away sin. It was an outward expression of an inward attitude that I'm can uh I'm repentant, I'm I've I'm contrite over my sin, I'm sorry. I want to repent from my sin and I'm trusting in what the Messiah has done so that I can be forgiven. That's what the ex uh the sacrifice was an expression of The outward expression in and of itself was valueless. You follow everybody with me? You follow what I'm saying? Let's bring it into our context. For instance, now these aren't sacrifices, but I'm trying to illustrate what I'm trying to say. A person gets baptized. If they've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, that baptism is meaningless. So what do you get if I get if I'm not saved? What if a person gets uh one gets baptized, but they've never been saved, they've never personally trusted Jesus Christ as their own personal Savior, and they get baptized. They've never been saved, but they get baptized. What does that baptism do for them? It gets them wet. That's it. Nothing more. But if somebody trusts Jesus Christ their personal Savior They come to Christ as an old sinner, and they know they're a sinner, and they're they're under the judgment and wrath of God, John chapter 3, and they see that Jesus died and Satisfied God's wrath and paid that judgment, took responsibility for their sins, and they put their faith and trust in Christ, receiving them as their personal Savior. They're born again, they're born in the family of God, they're forgiven. And they get baptized. Oh, now it has significance. It's an expression of what took place. My heart and soul, when I trusted Christ, I was crucified with him, buried, and risen again. Now I'm alive in Christ. Now, the baptism doesn't do that for me. It's simply a display of what Christ did for me. You follow me? Are you with me? And that's what these sacrifices were in and of themselves. They were meaningless. A person could have done some sin and committed adultery and they covered it up and hid it And come and bring some sacrifice and in their heart they're not repentant. They're holding on. They're cherishing whatever the sin may be. And they offer a sacrifice, thinking, well, I'm holding on to this, I'm not repentant, but I'm going to give this sacrifice. It did them zero good. You with me? So David comes to God under intense conviction of his sin. Hiding it, putting on a show, lying. And he comes and he says, you know, me offering this oxen on this altar and leading it out and burning it. That's not that's not gonna make things right. I've got to get it right here. This is where the sacrifice has to take place, and that's just an expression of it. The significance of sacrifice is not in the object itself. It's in the attitude of the heart. Mere outward motions of Christianity are of no value. I couldn't help but think of my father. And I know I reference him probably maybe too much. But my daddy was a very religious man. And he went to church And he was what that denomination referred to as baptism. He was baptized as a child. They poured water on his head. And he was a member of the church and he was involved in the church. He was a very religious man, but my daddy was lost. And he never trusted Christ as Savior. His faith and trust was in what he was doing for God, not in what Christ did for him. And you know what all that sacrifice? You know what all good all that sacrifice did for him? That's a 30-year-old man, broken man. Family collapsing He nailed his knees in the basement of our home there in Harleysville, Pennsylvania, called out in God. Be his Savior and trust in Jesus Christ as personal Savior. That is what changed everything. David says it's not the sacrifice. Now, question, is there a place for sacrifice? Yes. If the heart was where it ought to be. Is there a place for Christian service? Is there a place for faithful church attendance and membership? Is there a place for teaching Sunday school and running buses and singing in choir and going so? Is there a place for that? Yes! But not to make me right with God. That is the result of me loving the Lord. Welcome with them. Are you with me? The significance of sacrifice was not in the object itself, it was in the attitude of the one bringing the sacrifice. David is saying here, if I'm going to have revival, it has to be more than just a show. If I'm going to have God's blessings, it has to be more than just a ritual I go through. If I'm going to be right with God, it's not just some religious thing I do. I'll delight us not. For thou desirest not sacrifice. Else I'd give it. Lord, if it was just doing this, I'd do it. The sacrifices of God, verse 17, are a broken spirit. Broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. That tells us the importance of the heart. As significant as the sacrifices were, the important thing was the heart. The word heart and spirit here in verse 17 are used synonymously. They're two references to the same thing. Every aspect of our relationship with God begins with the heart, begins in the heart Salvation begins in the heart, that if thou shalt confess the Lord Jesus Christ and believe in thine heart. Thou shalt be saved. For with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. That's the result of what's taken place in the heart. And with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. It's believing in my heart that brings righteousness through Christ. The importance of the heart. I'm trying to tell Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church all the stuff we do. And we do a lot of stuff. All of that has to begin in our hearts. Humble before the Lord, in love with the Lord. In fact, Matthew chapter number uh twenty-two I think it is. Uh uh Jesus uh somebody asked uh Jesus, what's the greatest command? And his immediate his answer was immediate, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine Our heart, soul, and mind, and body, and spirit. The heart Proverbs twenty three, verse twenty six, the Lord says, My son, give me thy heart Let thine eyes observe my ways. Give me thine heart. God wants your heart. The heart is a composite of the mind, emotions, and will. The way I think, my intellect, the way I think is a result of my heart. My attitude is a result of my heart. Anybody here ever get a bad attitude? I don't mean right now, I mean at some point. You know, we know it when we have a bad attitude, don't we? Sometimes say, all right, I'm not going to talk to anybody because I got a bad attitude right now. You know how you fix an attitude? Change your heart. It's a heart. A heart is a composite of my Mind, my thinking, the way I think, it's a composite of my mind, my emotions. The condition of my heart is going to affect affect me in the in what I think is funny. And what makes me angry? And what I laugh about, what makes me cry, what I love and what I don't love. What brings joy and what brings sorrow is all part of the condition of my heart. Say, oh, it's my circumstances. No, no, no. I've been doing this long enough. I've seen people in identical circumstances, two different people in identical circumstances have two completely different responses to their circumstances You know why? Condition of the heart. My mind, my attitude, the way I see things, the way I think. My emotions, what I like, what I don't like, what my priorities are. What I'm willing to do. And by the way, that's my will also. My emotions, my mind, my emotions, and my will. What I'm willing to do. It's my desires, the decisions I make, the values I have, the priorities in my life are all a condition of are all a result of the condition of my heart. Every choice I make, every decision I make, everything I laugh at, that which I love, that which I hate flows out of my heart. By the way, Jesus was very, very clear in Matthew and in Mark. He said that sin comes out of our heart. Out of the heart of man. The Pharisees had this big deal. Oh, don't eat with unwashing hands, and you gotta do that, and you can't bring this in, it has to be that, and it can't be this And Jesus said, I think this is in the Greek, you knuckleheads. He said, it's not what goes into a man that defiles him. What comes out of the heart? For out of the heart proceedeth adulteries and drunkenness and dishonesty, and he gives this list of horrendous things. He said it comes out of our heart. The importance of the heart. Told in Proverbs chapter 4, keep thy heart with all diligence. For out of it are the issues of life. When my heart is right, then the various aspects of my life will be right. When God has my heart, God has all of me. All of me. He says, son, give me thine heart. David said the sacrifices of God are not burnt offerings and bleeding oxen. Sacrifices of God are a broken heart. The condition of the heart. The Bible warns us over and over about hard hearts. Hard hearts. Pharaoh had a hard heart. And the condition of his heart affected how he treated the people of God. He refused to submit a hard heart. I put this down. A hard heart is despised by God. Pharaoh was. A hard heart refuses to submit to the Word of God, the will of God. I will not do what God says I should do. That is a hard heart, my friend. Be very, very careful about that. If I know what I'm supposed to do, if I know what God expects of me, if I know what God instructs me to do, and I do not do it. Brother, you're dealing with a hard heart right there. Am I right or wrong? I'm not trying to impress anybody. I'm not trying to tickle ears. I want God's blessings. I want revival. And we'll never have revival the hard heart. Right or wrong Pharaoh had a hard heart. He refused to submit to the will and word of God. He refused to repent from known sin. That's called rebellion. Refuse to forgive others. That's bitterness. A hard heart refuses to trust God. That's pride. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6, trust in the Lord with all thine heart. And lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him. In all your ways submit to Him. In all your ways let Him lead you and direct you. He'll direct your paths. Heart, heart, heart. David had a broken heart And he says God was delighted with that. You say, God wants me, God wants me to have a broken heart. What kind of God wants me to have a broken heart? I tell you what God wants. God wants me to have a broken heart about over my stinking rebellion and sin. God doesn't want to crush us. He doesn't want us to be happy. I mean, it's not that God doesn't want us to be happy. It's not that he wants us to be miserable and walk around and say, oh. He wants to bless us. Jesus said that you may have the joy that I have But he knows we'll never have the joy of the Lord while we're entertaining a hard heart. And that sin steals God's joy, it destroys my life. I've got to be broken over it A broken heart God won't despise. He turned from his pride, he humbled himself, became broken and repentant over his own sin. He became tender and merciful to others and was kind. He had a total trust and submission to the Word of God. The sacrifices of God, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Not how much money we put in the offering plate. By the way, I'm not saying don't put money in the offering plate, all right? But that's not going to make things right. It starts where? In the heart, not the wallet. Broken heart. Um there was a fellow, let me get his name here. Will Rogers. Anybody recognize you old people. Thank God for old people. I'm I'm becoming one. He was known for his laughter. But did you know Will Rogers was also known for his weeping? I read about him. I read an event. He was at the Milton Berry Institute in Los Angeles. He was putting on a little show. And there was a hospital nearby that specialized in rehabilitating polio victims, people with broken backs, and other extreme physical handicaps. He went in there and he got everybody laughing, all these people with this extreme physical ailments, tragic And he got them all laughing. And for a brief period of time they forgot about their condition. And they said suddenly he left the platform and he saw these people on these beds and in this horrendous condition. And the account that I read said that all of a sudden he left the platform and he went out a side door and he was gone for a period of time. And everybody sat there. And one of the folks, the janitors in the back, happened to walk into a little janitor's closet just off the platform where he was at. And he said, Will Rogers was in there weeping. And sobbing over what he saw the people were dealing with, it broke his heart. The janitor quickly slipped out and he said, after a moment or two, he came out, his face was washed. He said, You never, he said, I'd have never known what I just saw. Well Rogers came back out and got everybody laughing again. What he saw and those people broke his heart. What I'm saying. If we'll see ourselves before a holy God and see how simple we are, that ought to break our hearts. See how hard-hearted and unkind And self-centered we become. How crass and rude. David said, that breaks our heart. Oh, that's when God responds. What is it? What is it that makes you laugh? What is it that makes you angry? That's a good indication of the heart What are your priorities? What's most important in your life? That tells me the condition of my heart. What do I have little value for? What do I have little interest in? Tells me a lot about my heart. Broken the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. A broken and contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. Is there anybody with me? I want revival. I want my life to please God. I want my home and marriage to please God. I want our church to please God. We need God to send revival and stir us. Restore us. Amen or not. Father, please bless our invitation. I pray you take these thoughts I pray you'd help us to respond. And Lord, if our hearts are hard, I pray you'd break them. And Lord, I know what I'm asking when I say this, and I pray that you would do what you need to do. To bring us to the point where you can bless us again. We can have your power and the joy of the Lord, regardless of our circumstances. God revive us again is our prayer. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder if there will be some this morning say, Preacher, I gotta be honest. And this is between you and God, so please. She said, I gotta be honest, a lot of my Christianity is just going through the show, putting on a show. I'm afraid a lot of my Christianity is going through the motions. And maybe this morning you join me and say, I need God to send revival to my heart. I need my heart broken over my spiritual condition. I want revival. I want God to bless and use me for His glory. I want my home and marriage, my church, to be what God intends for it to be. You'd say, preacher, pray with me. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. Wonder how many of our folks on this last Sunday of August would kneel on an old altar and ask God to send a revival. Ask God to do what He needs to in our hearts we can have revival. Talked about our country last week. I'm not praying for revival in our country. I'm praying for revival in our homes, our churches. The other will take care of itself. There's some here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. God doesn't want you to hear to hell either. You say, Preacher, pray for me, I've got to get this settled where I'm spending eternity I don't want to play games anymore. I want to settle. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I need to get this settled about where I'm going Heaven or hell. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know God's forgiven me and saved me. Any like that? Uplifted hand. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Stir us and help us to respond in faith in Jesus' name.