2 Samuel chapter 7. I want to begin reading in verse number 8. And I want to read down through verse number 17. Now we've been already through this. this section here, but we skipped over a very important passage deliberately. But this is, if you remember, just to get the context David has this intention of building God a temple to replace the tabernacle. The tabernacle was God's idea. God instructed that, told them exactly very specific details how to do that, how to transport everything. Well David's got this beautiful home now that he's living in And um he gets this idea and he intends fully to build God a temple, a building, a more permanent structure than what the tabernacle was. Hiram says yeah Or um uh not Hiram, uh Nathan says, yeah, uh, that's a great idea. Do it. Well, God immediately intervenes And God says, no, you're not going to do that. He forbids him. And then God gives this fairly lengthy explanation As to not just why David's not to this, but then he talks about what God has done. David, God explains and rehearses what David, what God had done for him Bringing him to this point in his life, and this point as King of Israel. And then he references things that God is going to do. And that's one I want to look at tonight. Notice verse number 8. I want to begin reading and then I'm going to, as I said, read down through verse 17. Notice he says, this is God speaking. So keep in mind the context. Now therefore, so shalt thou say unto my servant David. This is God instructing Nathan. Thus saith the Lord of hosts: I took thee from the sheepcoat And from f from following the sheep to be ruler over my people over Israel. I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest And have cut off all thine enemies out of thy sight, and have made thee a great name, like unto the name of great men that are in the earth. Moreover, I will appoint a place for my people Israel and will plant them that they may dwell in a place of their own And move no more, neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more as before. Now listen to what God's promising here. Verse 11, and as since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies. Also, the Lord telleth thee that he will make thee an house, and when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. And he shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. And I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commit iniquity I will chasten him with with the rod of men and with the stripes of the children of men. But my mercy shall not depart away from him as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee. And thine house and thy kingdom shall be established. What's the next word? Forever. Forever before thee, thy throne shall be established forever. According to all these words and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David. I want to look at this section tonight, and this is referred to by theologians as the Davidic covenant. And there's the very, very significant promises that God gave to David in this passage. that um that will affect really the rest of the history of man on planet earth. So let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us some more of a Bible study tonight than preaching really. So let's pray, ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, that we're able to study our Bibles. We thank you that we have copies so freely And Lord, as we look at this very strategic passage, I pray that you would help us to understand what you promised David so many years ago and how that affects our future. And so I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit tonight, and I pray that you would be the teacher here, and not just my own understanding, but Lord, you would teach us And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and again I ask, Lord, for the filling of your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. David's intention was to build this temple for God. God immediately intervenes. He denies permission. If he uh God stamps on his intention, deny. And he goes into this explanation, not only the reason for his denial, as I said, but God turns around and God gives David this tremendous promise That uh did you ever throw did you ever throw a rock in a in a still water? Uh I I was down at Jenning uh I was down at Savage River Reservoir last evening just before dark and it was just beautiful, perfect. That water was like glass. And you ever take a rock and you throw it in the water when it's still like that, and the ripples that go out, and they'll go for a long way out. Well, that's kind of the way I see this. God gives David these promises. And the ripple effect of that through the rest of the Bible into the New Testament and into the future All from these promises God gives here to David. Theologians refer to this passage here, and particularly these promises we're going to look at, they refer to it as the Davidic covenant. Davidic covenant. And I'll be honest with you. I believe this passage is so important. This Davidic covenant is so crucial to understanding, particularly prophecy. It really deserves a lot better study than I'm able to give it tonight. And it's a tremendous study, and it's very, very important. Now, if you notice, we refer to this as the Davidic covenant. If you notice, that word covenant is not used in the passage here. Anybody notice that? That's not in there However, if you would, turn over, and we're going to look at a lot of verses. We're going to get in a New Testament a good bit tonight. But keep your place here. But if you would, go to Psalms 89. Psalms chapter 89. An Israel Ethan is an Ezraite. He's writing this under the inspiration of God. And he references David, and he references these promises to David that we just read. Now this is years later, he's coming back, and look with me at Psalm 89, look with me at verses Verse number three. This is God speaking from the pen of this Ethan fella. I have made a what? I have made a covenant with my chosen. I have sworn unto David my servant Now listen what he says. Thy seed, he's summarizing these promises to David, thy seed will I establish forever. And build up thy throne to all generations. Selah. Now word sila simply means I mean it's various definitions has this idea. Just stop and think about that. Pause there for a moment. And then if you would, come over to verse 28 of Psalm 89. He says this, God again speaking through Ethan the Ezraite, he says, My mercy will I keep for him, David, forevermore. And my covenant shall stand fast with him. His seed also will I make to endure forever. Now look at this. And his throne as the days of heaven. One more place here in verse, in chapter 89 of Psalms, verse 33. He says again, he says, nevertheless, My loving kindness will I not utterly take from him, David, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail. My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that has gone out of my lips. Now that last passage we read, would you agree with me? That sounds like God saying this is definite This is going to take place. This is going to happen. When God says something like, My covenant I will not break, nor alter the thing that is going out of my lips, mark it down, it's going to take place. So three times here we have this word covenant used in reference to these promises that God gave David in response to David's desire and intention to build a temple to the Lord. The Davidic covenant. Now, you hear Bible preaching much, you're going to hear that word covenant used on occasion. Now, the question is this: what is a covenant? When God makes a covenant with man, as he does to David here, what is he doing? Anybody want to help me out here a little bit? What's your understanding of what a covenant is? A promise. That would be pretty much the root of it. Sometimes people, the reason I ask, sometimes people will refer to as a covenant as some sort of contract between two people. Now, I'm a little ahead of myself on this. There are some conditional covenants that God gives. In other words, God makes this promise, God makes this, gives this assurance that something's going to take place conditional upon the behavior of the people He's given it to. If you do this, then I will do that. So, but a covenant, this is my definition for a covenant. I put it down this way: a binding agreement, a solemn commitment And again, as I said, there are two types of covenants in the Bible: a conditional covenant, where man has a responsibility for that promise to take place, or an unconditional covenant And that's where God's going to do it regardless of what man does. God's going to do this unconditionally. God gave a number of covenants throughout the Bible. Different Scholars, Bible scholars will debate how many and they'll have ones that maybe others will say is really not a covenant. But there's several that stand out God made a covenant with Adam right off the bat uh when he told him not to eat of that. But if you do, you're going to die. It was some a type of a covenant. There is a Noahic covenant, a covenant he made with Noah. Anyone want to say what was the covenant or the promise God gave Noah? It's not going to flood the earth again. The rainbow. By the way, the rainbow is God's, not man's. And so uh when God uh made this covenant with Noah, though the theologians refer to it as a Noahic covenant, that he's not going to flood the world again. Tell you the way it was rain and Sunday, I claimed that promise because uh God made a covenant with Abraham, the Abrahamic covenant, and that has to do primarily with the promise of Israel that that land is theirs. And for eternity that land was theirs. And by the way, that land still is theirs today. The Abrahamic covenant. There is a Mosaic covenant with Moses. And then Jeremiah introduces the new covenant, which of course is the Lord Jesus Christ, atonement, and the new man and the new promises there. So covenants are throughout the Bible. God made various covenants. Some were very general in nature. Some were conditional. Others were unconditional. Some are very specific. God's covenant here with David that we're going to look at here for a few minutes. was a very specific covenant. He's very clear. There's no question as to what God is promising David. And also this Davidic covenant, this Covenant God is making with David is unconditional. You'll notice here it's not based upon David's behavior. Now he referenced Solomon in there, and he says if Solomon doesn't listen to him, he's going to chasten him. But the promise in and of itself is unconditional, the promises that God gives to David. It is very difficult to overstate How important this covenant with David is in understanding the prophecies concerning Jesus Christ and concerning the future of Israel. In fact, about all of the Old Testament prophecies concerning the future of Israel and the coming Messiah Find their roots back here in this covenant God made with David. This is significant, what God tells David here. We cannot overstate the importance of this covenant. In this covenant, God gave three promises. One he gave concerning the nation of Israel. Look with me again, if you would, come back here to Samuel. Look with me again, if you would, at verse number 10 and 11. 2 Samuel 7. He says, Moreover, I will appoint a place for my people, Israel. He's got a land. He's got a location for them. and will plant them, that they may dwell in a place of their own, and move no more. Neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more as before time. And as since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel and cause thee to rest from all thine enemies, also the Lord telleth thee that he will make thee a house. So he makes this promise to his people, Israel, that he's going to plant them in the land, and that land will be theirs. And get this. He says, there's a coming day There's a day coming, look how he says it there, neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them anymore. Let me ask you a question. Is Israel experiencing this absence of affliction by the children of Israel today? No. They've got missiles coming in by the thousands. They are hated around the world for no other reason than simply they're God's people, Israel. And so that promise has not yet been carried out. Now that's important. Let me ask you a question. Does God keep his promises? Yes. Because if God has not yet fulfilled this promise, does that mean he's not going to fulfill it? No, all it means is this, that it has yet to be fulfilled. Now keep that in mind. That's significant. Then he makes this promise, he gives this covenant to God. He's making a promise concerning the nation of Israel. Let me just throw this out: God's not done with Israel yet. He made that promise. Look at verse 12 and 15. Then he have this we have this promise concerning David's son Solomon. He says in verse number 12, he says, and when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, what's he talking about there? David's going to what? He's going to die. When you die, and you pass away. Don't you like that phrase for God's people, sleep with thy fathers? What a neat way to describe the death of a believer. I will set up thy seed after thee Which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. And he shall build a house for my name. So we know this is Solomon he's referencing here. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. Then he goes on and he makes this little conditional statement here It's not conditioned the throne of Solomon is going on forever isn't conditioned upon this behavior, but he says this. I will be his father and he shall be my son If he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the stripes of the children of men. By the way, God's a good father. And God chastens his children. Sometimes we sometimes, and I mention this uh fairly often, but sometimes folks will criticize us, say, oh, you believe once saved, always saved. And say, Yeah, the Bible teaches that That's what everlasting life is. And then they'll make the statement, so you believe a license to sin? And my answer is always absolutely not. God never gives a license to sin. What God does is if his children sin, he chastens them. He disciplines them, corrects them, does what he needs to do to get them back in line. And that's what he's saying here. I'll be a father to your son, your seed. And if he commit iniquity, I will chasten him, I'll discipline him, I'll correct him. But my mercy shall not depart away from him as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee. So He makes this promise concerning Solomon. Now, this is what I want to zero in on tonight for the next little bit of time we have. Is this covenant or this promise with David himself He references the nation of Israel. They're going to be planted in the land. It's theirs. He references David's offspring, his seed, Solomon, and God's going to establish his throne, the continuation. But now he makes three promises to David himself. How many people remember me saying as we began this study and throughout this study, I've said this David is one uh uh uh word that's something like this, something to this effect. The fact that Jesus' throne The throne that Jesus will sit on in the millennial reign is named after David. To me, that is tremendously significant. What kind of man is David? What caliber? Of man is David, that God would name the throne that the Son of God sits on after that man. That to me is an amazing, amazing thing. And this is where it comes from. The fact that the throne that Jesus will rule, that authority. Is named after David. Now, three things God promises to David here, and they're all found in verse 16 Again, I hope I'm able to convey the importance of these promises and how significant they are through Scripture. Verse 16, he says, and thine house And thy kingdom shall be established forever. Now the first thing that God's first aspect of God's covenant with David is this enduring lineage That David will have. What do we mean by someone's lineage? David's lineage. Not his ancestor before him, but his His offspring, his continue, his generations to follow him, the line of the generations that come from David. And God says he's going to have an enduring lineage. Thine house and thy kingdom, now we'll reference the kingdom here in a minute, shall be established forever. The word house there is not talking about a literal building God is talking about David's descendants, I guess is the word I want here. David's descendants. And he's saying that David's descendants will continue and endure forever. That's restated, if you would, come to 2 Chronicles, and we're going to look around here. Keep this place here in Samuel, because we're going to be keep coming back here. But go over to 2 Chronicles chapter 21. I think I got the right reference I wrote down. 2 Chronicles 21. And verse 7. Howbeit? Let's go up to verse 5. Jehoram was 32 years old when he began to reign. He reigned eight years in Jerusalem. And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel. Is that good or bad? That's bad. Like as did the house of Ahat. For he had the daughter of Ahab to wife, boy, that's not good, and he wrought that which was evil in the eyes of the Lord. Good king or bad king? Thumbs down. Bad. Now look at the next statement, though, the next verse. How be it? I mean, this guy's doing evil like Ahab did. Howbeit the Lord would not destroy the house of David because of the what covenant he had made with David as he promised to give him a light to him and his sons forever. Anyone want to guess what reference that's referring back to? 2 Samuel 7, 16. When God said, I'm going to establish your house. It's going to endure your house, your lineage forever. And so God refused to snuff out A descendant of David simply because of the promise and the covenant he made with David. If you would come back to Psalms there, I should have told you to keep your place there, Psalms 89. It's restated again here that God is not going to snuff out the descendants of David, the lineage of David. Psalm 89, verse 3. I have made a covenant with my chosen. We just read this a few minutes ago, but look at it again. I have sworn unto David, my servant, look at this, thy seed, thy descendants, thy lineage Thy seed will I establish forever. Come over to verse 29. His seed, speaking of David, his seed also will I make to endure forever. Verse 36. His seed shall endure forever. Now, if God says something one time, you mark it down, it's going to happen. If God says something over and over and over and over, you mark it down, it is doubly sure it's going to happen. And God promised David that he would have descendants, would be forever till the end of this world as we know it. Thy seed shall endure forever. So God gave this promise to David that he would have a lineage that would last throughout the history of man. Now here's an interesting thing. This lineage of David that he promises here, anybody want to guess what that leads up to, but then continues on through. Anybody want to guess who that leads up to? The Lord Jesus Christ. Now there's some interesting verses in the New Testament. Now, again, this is more of a Bible study tonight, but if you would, go with me to Romans. Chapter number one. Romans chapter one. You say, why is this so important? Hopefully you'll see this as we uh bring this together. Romans chapter 1, verse number 1. Sometimes, anybody here ever just read through verses and you really don't pay attention to what they're saying? Then later on you come back and say, oh wow, that's a significant statement. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I think we do that sometimes, these little phrases that are in the scriptures, and we we don't stop and think about the significance of what's being said. Look at Verse 1, Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God. Now look at this, which he had promised afore, this gospel that he promised before by his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. Concerning his son Jesus Christ our Lord, look at this, which was made of the seed of David According to the flesh. Do you know Jesus Christ was a descendant of David? In fact, he referred to himself as the son of David. Now, again, this boggles my mind That Jesus Christ, God would refer to the Son of God, deity in the flesh, and refer to him as the Son of David. Man. David. And so here you have that, if you would come back to Revelation chapter 22. All the way at the end of your Bible, last chapter of the last book of the Bible. And in verse number 16, Jesus speaking, and he says this, I Jesus, have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. Alright, so he's winding down the letter, uh, the book of Revelation. And he says this, I am the root and the offspring of David, of David. For all those years, David's descendants, as they reproduce and go on down the line And it culminates in the Lord Jesus Christ, who we're going to see in a minute, will sit on the throne of David And so this Davidic covenant, in this Davidic covenant, God promises David that he would have an enduring lineage And that line of David's descendants would lead to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now come back to 2 Samuel. I hope you kept your place there. Now don't set your Bible down because we're going to look at a few more verses here in the time we have. Verse 16, the first part he says, And thy house and thy king thy house shall be established. So that's the enduring lineage of David. Then look here. He says, Thy house and thy kingdom Shall be established forever. So not only does God promise David an enduring lineage, but he promises an eternal kingdom. Look, that word forever, thine house and thy kingdom shall be established forever. If something lasts forever, how long does it last? Now you don't define a word with the same word. Never ending. That's that's pretty that's pretty that's a pretty amazing statement Your kingdom is forever. In fact, he uses the word forever three times. Twice here in verse 16. It says, Thy kingdom shall be established forever. At the end of the verse, he says, Thy throne shall be established forever. If you go back up to verse 13, I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever, forever, forever Now that doesn't mean David's kingdom is going to be functioning at all times. This kingdom that he's referring to here is not functioning now. We don't have a descendant of David sitting on a throne in Israel at this point. So he's not saying, and history proves it's not uh it's not going to function at all times. But he is saying this, that kingdom will always be in place, at least in the plan and purpose of God. And that one day coming, that kingdom will be re-established, will begin to function again, be restored. You follow what I'm trying to say? And so God is promising to David that the his kingdom that is established under his rule Will continue not necessarily be functioning, but will be there throughout history. In fact, the Jews were clinging to this promise. That one day, this kingdom that was established with David on the throne, one day that kingdom will be restored. One day that kingdom when the wicked and the gentiles no longer afflicting the people of God, one day that will be a restored. Now again, I'd like you to come with me to the New Testament. And this time, I'd like you to go to Mark chapter number 11 Mark chapter eleven and verse number nine. I know we're jumping around here a bunch, but I want you to see these. And when we read through these, we read these little statements. We don't think about the significance or what the statement is rooted in. Mark chapter 11, verse number 9, the Bible says, And they that went before, this is the triumphant entry, Jesus coming into Jerusalem, and they're singing and carrying on and laying down the palm branches and all this. And they that went before, and they that followed, cried, saying, Now these are the Jews. They're excited. Jesus is coming into Jerusalem. Now look at what they're anticipating. Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Look at this next statement. Blessed be the kingdom of our Father David. That cometh in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. So they're throwing these palm leaves down. They are singing and shouting the praises of God. What are the Jews at this point when they're doing all this, what are they anticipating? They're anticipating this kingdom that God has promised David. Jesus Christ, he's of the lineage of David. He fits the bill. He's the right man and the right family. And he's coming into Jerusalem, the city of David. And in their minds, finally, the kingdom of David, this authority that's been established, is going to be re-established. Under the rule of Jesus Christ. There's a problem there though. They missed this interlude in there called the church age. And they completely misunderstood Isaiah 53, where Jesus would be a suffering Savior before he's a reigning king. And within a few days, what are they doing? Now they're putting Psalms down, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, the kingdom of David. A few days later, what are they doing? Crucify them, crucify him. Their misplaced dreams, their misinterpretation of what was taking place shattered what they were anticipating. And so they fully, the Jews fully anticipated, and they're still, the Orthodox Jews today are still looking for that Messiah that will sit on the throne of David. That established this kingdom of David. Come over to Acts chapter 1 real quick. This is after the crucifixion, after the resurrection And Jesus is meeting with his disciples one last time before he ascends to heaven, and they are still holding on to this Misapplication of this promise that God gave to David thousand years before. Acts chapter 1 And verse number six. When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, Jesus. This is the disciples, eleven of them, asking Jesus. When they they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Look at this. Wilt thou at this time restore again the what? The kingdom to Israel. What are they referring back to? That promise that God initially gave to David that his kingdom would be an everlasting kingdom. They fully expected death. So are you starting to see these promises to David are pretty significant in the life of Israel They're pretty significant in um in uh uh in the government of Israel. And here's the thing if these have not been fulfilled yet and God makes a covenant that they will take place. That means we anticipate what? Future. Future. And I want to suggest this. I'm a little ahead of myself here, but I want to suggest this. The Old Testament prophecies of the coming Messiah and the coming kingdom are rooted on this covenant they made with David. That the his n his lineage would be forever, his uh uh kingdom would be forever. Now, one more real quick, if you would, come back to 2 Samuel. And verse 16: Thine house and thy kingdom shall be established forever. One last one here before thee. Thy throne Shall be established forever. Now, this ruling authority that the throne represents, when he used the term throne, it's the ruling authority of David That has not always been exercised at all times throughout history. In fact, it's not being exercised now. The throne of David, that authority, is not being exercised here on earth in Israel now. But it is established by David. That authority is in place One day it will be restored to Israel with Jesus Christ ruling with this authority. So everything about the Davidic covenant from a New Testament perspective, looking back, everything about this Davidic covenant with the New Again, from the New Testament looking back, is pointing to a day when Israel's re-established in the land The kingdom is re-established. The throne is reestablished with Jesus Christ on that throne. That is the millennial reign. That's still to come. It's still to come. It's established by God and will be restored with Jesus ruling in this authority. It would come again last time. We're going to look at a couple more verses, then I'm done. Luke chapter number one And notice with me verse number thirty. This the announcement of the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ to Mary. She's telling her you're going to have a child. Of course, Mary's the virgin at this point It's going to be miraculous. Verse 29 says, when she saw him, this angel, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. Now look what Mary's told. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor with God. And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name Jesus. Now look at this next statement. He shall be great and shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God, look at this, shall give unto him the what? The throne of his father David. Now father means flesh, offspring of David. David is his ancestor. Think about that. Here, Jesus Christ, right at his very before he's even born, the angel tells Mary, Jesus Christ is going to fulfill that covenant that you Jews have been holding on to all these years. One more, Acts chapter 2. The church is established now. Peter has been filled with the Holy Spirit. Peter stands up and begins preaching. And in the very first sermon, under the power of the Holy Spirit, Peter says in verse 29 of Acts chapter 2 Men and brethren, now he's speaking out to the great crowd. Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the patriarch David. That he is both dead and buried, and his sepulchre is with us unto this day. Wherefore, being a prophet And knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, covenant of David, 2 Samuel 7, 16 Knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, he would raise up Christ to what? Sit on his throne. Jesus Christ is coming back again, and he is going to fulfill these covenants that God made with the nation of Israel. It is important to understand, now I know we're being doctrinal here tonight, but I hope you're getting this. It is important to understand, the church is not Israel. We are an interlude. We are a parenthesis in the history of Israel. God has set Israel aside for their unfaithfulness. He has not abandoned them And he will not annihilate them. These promises are still open, unfulfilled And just as the Jews anticipated that coming kingdom, you and I, as New Testament believers, can anticipate the return of Jesus Christ and the re-establishment of the throne and kingdom of David. Under the authority of the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. God's covenant with David is the basis of all our prophecies of the return of Jesus Christ. Tribulation period, the millennial reign, the Jesus Christ ruling from Jerusalem, from the throne of David. All finds its root in a man two, three thousand years ago, that said, I want to build God a temple. He's I'm living in a beautiful house. He's in a tabernacle. I want to build God a temple. God says, oh no, no. I'm not interested in a temple. Solomon, yeah, he can build me one, but that's not my concern. David, my concern is I have a tremendous plan for the nation of Israel and you are the one I'm starting it with. Isn't that something? Isn't that something? If I can learn from David, if I can learn to have his faith, what do we what have we what have we been learning about David? He was a man After God's own heart. Now I tell you, I think this. This is what I take away. When God sees a man or a woman that has a heart for him That God responds to that. Now, He's not going to give you and I a covenant with our own throne, our own kingdom. All right, that was David. But I am saying this Our love for the Lord, our compassion for Christ does not go unnoticed by God. He responds, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord. To understand the significance of the nation of Israel and the history of this world. And I pray you'd help us to be faithful. I pray you'd help us, Lord, to understand the promises of a coming, the returning Savior, and the coming kingdom, and that we'll have a part in And uh uh we just pray you'd help us and teach us. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. I'm not trying to give an invitation on something like this, but maybe tonight you think, boy, you know, I'm trying to live for God, I'm trying to serve the Lord I don't know if God even sees. I don't know if it bears much. I'm telling you right now, we have a heart for God. We have a passion for God. God sees that. And God responds to that. And let's just maybe tonight ask the Lord, God, give me a passion. Give me a heart for you. To love you and serve you and trust you and that you can use me in whatever capacity that you have planned. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together Heads about eyes are closed. I don't know how God may have spoken to your heart tonight. But maybe