Have you ever been in a storm? Have you ever have you ever I mean been in a really bad storm? where the lightning was crackling all around you and and uh thunder and and uh uh well that's what we're gonna talk about. Because all of us, all of us will experience storms. And as somebody has rightly said that you're either, if you haven't had one, you're going to go in one Because you're either getting ready to go in one or you're coming out of one. I mean you're always one of the other. And so I want to talk a little bit about uh uh what we what we need to do when we get into storms. The storms of life, they come and there's no question about it. Uh some of you will be going through and maybe you are going through and and some of you are are getting ready to go through some really tough times in your life And uh it can take a take so many different forms. I mean there's different kinds of storms and for different reasons. Storms come into your life for a reason. There's not it's not a an accidental thing as far as God's concerned. And so when the storms come, we need to know how to, you know, how to uh uh take advantage of it in one sense of the word, or we need to understand uh what we can do to survive the storm with the least amount of damage. Because usually when the storm comes, there's a there's a little bit of damage that's going to going to occur uh in your life. And so you need to know how to how to handle that thing. So I thought we would we would look at these verses in Matthew chapter fourteen. I'm going to read uh uh several verses here, but I'll allow you to remain seated and as I read. I'm looking in verse 22. So it's Matthew chapter 14 in verse 22. And it says in straightway Jesus constrained the disciples to go into the ship and uh into a ship and to go before him and to the other side while he sent the multitudes away. Now he'd just finished uh doing the miracle of the the br the bread and the and the fishes And he's fed the five thousand, you know, and so forth. And so now the multitude is uh being dispersed, and he and he as he says, he's constrained his disciples to get into a ship and go to the other side And when he had sent the multitude away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray. And when the evening was come, he was there alone. But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, for the wind was contrary. And that's what we tried to depict there. Now that's some wave. But you know, uh out in the sea you can get some pretty good sized waves. In verse 24 it says, But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, for the wind was contrary And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them walking on the sea. And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit, and they cried out for fear. But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer. It is I, be not afraid. And Peter answered him, he said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid. And he began to sink And he cried, saying, Lord, save me. And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand, caught him, and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore did thou doubt And when he were come into the ship, the wind ceased. And then they were uh in the ship They, I'm sorry, then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth, thou art the Son of God. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you, Lord, for these folks who've come out. Many of them have been out of every service, and I thank you, Lord, for their faithfulness and And I know, Lord, according to your word, you're going to bless that faithfulness. So I I just uh thank you for them. Lord, I thank you for these young people that have come Uh most of them have come every night and sat there, listened to what has been said. Some of them have responded to the invitation and I thank you, Lord, for them. Lord, you've been good to us this week. We've had good crowds, and we've had four that have made professions that we know of. There's been other decisions. We're we're just grateful that you're working with us, Lord, that you haven't given up on us In spite of her failings, you still haven't given up on us. And we thank you for that. We ask you now as we uh get into the message that you'll help us. And Lord, I ask you once again to fill me with the Spirit of God. I can't do this without you. And uh we pray that you'll work in the hearts of each one of us tonight and help prepare us for the days when things look black and gloomy And when the thunder begins to sound, the lightning begins to strike, that that we'll have a an anchor that'll hold us fast. As we go into the storms of life. Thank you again for all you do. In Jesus' name, amen and amen. There's several places in the scriptures that talks about storms and boats and Paul experienced, you know, a uh one situation where his boat was wrecked and Well you can go back to to to Jonah and he just got in the storm back there. You know, the there's there's different storms that's mentioned in the scriptures. In this particular one, we see the disciples, and I know it's the very first thing, and this is important to understand this. It says, and straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into the boat and uh into the ship and to go before him to the other side while he sent the multitude away. It's important for us to notice that Jesus constrained him Now I'm not exactly sure how he how he did that. Whenever I read the words and and just it to me as I read it It's it sounds like the Lord is saying, All right guys, I want you to I want you to get in the ship and go on to the other side And it's almost like the somebody, maybe maybe it was Peter, said, uh, Lord, have you uh have you looked at the horizon? Uh it looks like those are storm clouds. It looks like we may be going to get a little bit of a breeze out here And uh the Lord just simply said, Peter, get in the ship and go to the other side. Now maybe that was the way he constrained them. Uh I don't think the constraint was physical. I don't think he booted them into the ship. Uh but I believe that he made it strong enough that they understood they're g to get in the ship and go to the other side while he m uh sent the multitude away. It is also a time for him to spend some time in prayer. You know it The Bible says that Jesus right now is seated on the right hand of God the Father in heaven where he ever lives to make intercession for us. Aren't you glad that you have someone that has the inside To the Heavenly Father, praying for you. There's just something about that. It makes me feel good. Hey Well, I uh you know, I can handle anything as long as Jesus is praying for me. And this is what he did. Now the disciples may not have been aware of what he was going to do. He said, I'm going to send the multitude away. He didn't tell them, I'm going to go up here and pray for you. And it doesn't even say that he's praying for him, but I have a feeling he was. For you see, he looked at the clouds, and he didn't even have to look at the clouds to determine whether there's going to be a storm or not. Because he's God. And he knew there was going to be a storm. And he knew that in the middle of that lake out there, and it was something like about twelve miles across. And He knew that they were going to get in the middle of the lake and it was going to break a storm and the wind was going to be contrary to them and they're going to be uh pulling on the oars and trying to make headway and they're not going to make any headway because the wind's contrary to them. And he knew that and he knew that the fears were going to start building up in their chest. And he knew that there was going to be uh this uh uh this concern about the the very life And they were going to be thinking, well, you know, if the Lord had been here, why it'd have been a different situation, but he's not here. What are we going to do? You know, and and I could see the panic beginning to build up in these the the disciples' uh hearts concerning uh their their very life. You know, we can take a lot of things, but when it comes down to a life decision or to a a life situation, life and death situation You know, it it brings a little bit of concern in your heart. And sometimes the storms of life that we go through puts us in that kind of a position. And we need to realize that there's some things that we can look at that will be a help for us at that very moment. And one of the things that you need to understand is that that providence Place them in that position. Jesus Christ Himself, God, place them in the position that they were in, in the situation they were in, in the circumstances they were in, God was involved in that process. When you go into the storm, I want you to understand it's not a surprise to God. And when you go into the storm, it's not only not a surprise to God, but it's also you need to realize that there's one that is seated at the right hand of God the Father, and he's praying for you Now I'm talking to Christians basically, but the same truth is is true even for the unsaved. Because he's he He is concerned about the loss, and he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And when the storms of life hit in your life Usually it's an it's an opportunity for you to look up and and to and to say, save me, Lord. Save me, Lord Providence. God's will, God's action, God's work in their life brought them to that position. That's a comforting thought. If you're a Christian. The second thing you need to realize is that uh that prayer, his prayers protects us in that position. Now we've already mentioned a little bit about that, but just just understand that when Jesus prays for you and when he's praying for you to uh there's there's a reason for it. I said a moment ago that that the storms of life are for a purpose. Sometimes that purpose has to do with correction. You know, I I think of uh uh of Jonah And uh Jonah and the whale, the great fish. And the storm that he went into was for a reason. And that was that was uh the the storm for uh see what can I say, what can I call it, a correction storm It was a storm meant to correct him. Remember? God said, I want you to go to Nineveh and I want you to preach those people. Because there are a bunch of wicked people and they the The the Ninevehes were known for their wickedness, for their cruelty. They were so cruel that that they would take the their enemies whenever they would conquer a people When they go into a city and conquer a city, many times they would take the leaders and skin them alive And then they would cut off her head and hang their heads on on poles around to to be a witness for her uh so that people would fear them And no and Jonah, he knew what kind of people these pe these uh Ninevites were. And so he he decided I I'm not going to do it. I'm going to go to Tarsus. And so he takes off, and and you know, we don't really know exactly where Tarsus is, but some say it was on the on the west coast of Spain. Well, that's a long way from where God wanted him to go Yeah, o opposite direction. So he he goes down and he gets on a boat heading for Tarsus. And so when he gets on the boat though, all at once there's a huge storm and he's down there taking a nap. Uh, we know the story of Jonah and the and the whale. He you know, they finally threw him over because they figured he was the reason for the the the storm and everything and they were about to lose the boat and all the the cargo and everything and so they tossed him overboard And the s the fish swallowed him and the storm in his life was a corrective storm. And sometimes that's a that's how how you know it sometimes it takes a a real storm in their life to get our attention. And so we, you know, uh I'll tell you, when you get on your knees, uh you you have a tendency to look up. When you've been beat down and the storm is just hammering you and and the thunder and the lightning is coming all around, it seems like the the circumstances of your life are just just you know are just everything's falling apart Your boss is mad at you because you came in late one day when you had a flat tire and and your wife when you got home she didn't have supper ready and you griped at her and she got mad at you and Now both of you are mad at each other and your your kids are are uh causing you some problems and and you've got this problem, you got that problem, and this is happening and and uh yeah And man, it's the storm, it's just it's just beating you down. It may be that God's trying to get your attention, you know. So there could be a corrective storm. But it can also be a storm that he's using to wake you up and to draw you closer to him. A storm that that uh uh makes you uh have to trust him more. There's just different things that God can do. I don't know whether you've been through any storms lately or not, but whenever you go through one and you look to see and just see me is there am I going in the in the am I going the right direction That God wants me to go 'cause I don't want to get in the belly of a whale. I don't want to be eat up by the ass stomach acids in the in a big fish. I don't w don't want that. I don't want the stink of the of the inside of a whale. I I mean I don't know about you, but I don't like that stuff. Protective. And uh I had another name. What was that? One of them was for correction and the other one is for hang on I got it. It's coming in slowly perfecting. Corrective storm or a perfecting storm? To draw you closer to him. To you know sometimes storms come into your life when you've got some things in your life that just are not quite where God wants you. Maybe it's the wrong kind of music you're listening to. Maybe it's uh an attitude you have about your kids, or your your kids have an attitude about their parents Or maybe you know, it could be any one of a thousand things, but you know when when God is dealing with you and you know that things are not quite right and and God has already spoken to you about 'em and you kinda uh But sometimes it it's a corrective and sometimes it it's uh it's for the purpose of perfecting you. Putting you into in a temptation situation that is going to uh increase your faith. The next thing is that his presence comes to you in that place. Let me read a couple of verses of scripture once again. It says in verse 24, but the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, for the wind was contrary. Isn't it You know, I was I was I was teaching the pastor today and I was really teaching him some s deep stuff. And I found that he already knew it, so it blew me out of the water. What was I what was I talking about? All right, go ahead and laugh. One of these days you'll be eighty-three, all right? You're eighty-three, I'll I'll laugh at you. We'll get get back at you. I had something there I I wanted to say. Um Yeah, I I tell you, I it just went completely away. It had to do with with his presence. I've I it'll probably come to me hang in there. Um I'm still thinking on it. I'm trying to get it. It's you know, it's here running around in my head and I just can't seem to pick it up. Oh well. So anyway, his presence will come to you in the in the deepest, in the worst, and the darkest. Did you notice the watch? Here is a fourth watch. That's from three to six in the morning. And that's the darkest time in the day, is those those hours right before the dawn. And it was at that particular time that the that this uh storm really uh got hit its hit its high point. So you have the waves. Do you ever stop and think that uh They didn't have searchlights back in those days. And they're out in the middle of a of a sea, they're six or seven miles from the shore. And so they can't see the shore. All they can feel is the wind blowing in their face. The darkness has has gathered itself around 'em. If they had a light it would have been a lantern of some sort. And that'd be about all they would have. I don't know, but when when when you're in a dark place And you're in a helpless situation, at the mercy of the ways, uh that's a scary situation. But it's in those times that that Jesus manifests himself to you in some way or another. Oh, he's not going to come in a vision and and uh Uh you know, he's not he's not gonna do like he did Peter here, where he came to him physically. He's not may not do that to us But you know there's something about his presence in a person's life. Whenever you're in a hard situation, there's something about how he can manifest himself or how he can how can he can he can touch your heart and let you know that he's there. And he's saying Peace be still. And you know that that God's in the whole thing. Have you ever have you ever experienced something like that? Where it just seemed like that there's no way out of it I can tell you a couple of things. But maybe someday. But then then there's something else. Our storms bring us closer to him. He's uh he became nigh unto these people. I think of the three Hebrew children. It was kind of a dark day when when they gathered them up, you know, to put them in the fiery furnace. And Jesus presented himself to him and walked around in there and protected him. You know He may not do things just like that. Do you know he even performs miracles like, you know, real miracles even today? It's amazing. I was thinking about uh Tyler, my grandson. Uh he he and his wife were missionaries to to uh Scotland. And uh I mentioned I guess uh maybe folks have even prayed for uh Katie, uh had cancer, stage four cancer and was expected to die and and that was a kind of a dark time. And uh they requested prayer. And so churches all all over the country That they that knew them prayed for. And then the word came that the storm had passed And she had been apparently miraculously healed because there was no sign of of cancer in her body. Uh they had gone through some you know s uh some of the uh um treatments and so forth. But when when the came final thing came down, they found that she was clear. They also they told her, well, I'm sorry, we hate to tell you, but you'll never have any children. And that was another dark day in Tyler's life. And uh he asked us to pray. And lo and behold, one day she came in and she said, You know, I'm pregnant. And they had a nice little little guy that is is a joy of my heart anyway, the great grandson, you know, and he's such a blessing. Such a easy going kid. And now she's pregnant again. So they've got two children now. They just uh Uh we got a note that there's might be a problem, uh water on the heart of the one that she's carrying and and we just got word just uh uh just before we we came over here that uh that the kid's all right. She'd gone to the doctor and everything was okay. You know, those are that now that may have just been a little skirmish. It was a pretty big storm to them But what I'm saying is that through the thing, he handled it right. He went to the Lord and said, okay, Lord, I understand you've called me to Scotland. So I know that you're going to get me there and I know that you're you know my life's in your hands and we're just trusting you. And uh just God knows what He's doing in our lives And so when the problems come, we just say, Lord, I want to trust you in this thing. Peter, I'm amazed at Peter and his faith You know, he's he's always been run down a lot of times by preachers because uh he w he is sort of, you know Sort of trumpish, I guess you could say. Maybe I shouldn't say that, but you know, he's he sort of says what he thinks, you know what I'm saying? But it's amazing. When they saw Jesus on the water, why uh they were afraid. Some thought he was a spirit. And he said, fear not, it's me. And Peter said, well, Lord, if it's you, then bid me come to you. And Jesus said, Come. And I can I can listen, I can see Peter, you know, I can see him standing in that boat, and when Jesus said come I can see him just go like that, and he's there he is, he's on the water. I think that's the kind of guy he was. He just jumped in I don't think he went down. He's on the water. And he starts walking. But just like the rest of us Sometimes we we we get the man the Lord is really doing something in my life. Look at this. I can't believe how he's used me and everything. And then some circumstance comes up and we begin to doubt. Man, did the Lord really do? Woo! And he started going down. And that's when he cried out, Lord save me. You know, if you're here today and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, that's all the Lord's waiting for. He's waiting for you to realize that you're sinking. The truth is you're already sunk. But when you realize that, you need to call out, say, Lord, save me. You say, well, is salvation just that simple? Well, it's simple enough. With the heart, man believeth unto righteousness. God is God's looking at the heart. That's what he's really concerned about. He wants to save you. And he just simply says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation, and that's what he wants. Just simply a person to say, Lord. I know I'm sinking. I know I'm gone. And I and I ask you to save me. When Peter began to sink, when he began to sink, I really don't think he got down to his waist before he cried out. I think when he began to think, all at once He's, you know, it's starting to the water's starting to be soft. And he's starting to, Lord, and at that moment, the Bible says that Jesus reached out his hand. They went into the boat. Something happened when he got to the boat, there was peace. You know, I I I like to look at uh at types as I look in the scriptures And I feel like that I I think, personally, I think that the boat represents the church. You know there ought to be peace in the church. That's where the Lord is, and that's where God's people are, and that there should be a unity and a peace within the church. And that's what happened when he got in the boat. There was peace. The storm was subsided, and they went on to the shore that they were supposed to go on. One of the things about the storm is this. Find yourself in a storm and you feel yourself beginning to sink and you cry out, Lord, save me. You can believe one thing, and that is he is going to bring you through the storm. He's going to bring you through the storm. He'll bring you through it. Over in the book of Ezekiel, there's a uh where Ezekiel is given a vision and he's taken to the temple. And as the Bible says that the waters are coming out from the altar, down by the altar, and the waters, the Bible says, was to his ankles. And so he uh he stepped into the water. The water was to his ankles. And then the Bible says that that uh the next step was uh up to the knees And uh then it says, and he brought him through them. And then he he was up to the thighs, and finally it was waters to swim in. But at the end of each one of those positions, why it says that he brought him through. He brought him through. He brought him through. And that's one thing you can have confidence in. Storms don't last forever. And if you've if you have put yourself in the providential care of God, He'll bring you through. If you're here and you're saved, he'll bring you through. You don't have to worry about that part of it because he has put you in the storm for his purpose. To perfect you or correct you. But he'll bring you through. In either case. If you're here today, And you're a Christian and there's you know, your your life is just sort of sh shallow, uh, Christian you know, you just You're just getting along and that's about it, but you're really not sold out to God 100%. You need to put yourself in his care And know that He'll bring you through. You don't have to fear the storms that you think are out there if you sell out to God. Because He wants you to just simply give yourself to Him and He'll bring you through. If we have the lights out, I'll show this chalk drawing. Oh excited thoughts, so you have to get up for the women. Well maybe tonight you sort of feel like you're in Peter's place there. Maybe there's some things in your life that's really really got you got you fearful. Maybe there's some storm clouds that's beginning to gather around you and you you feel like that you you're you know, you're in a position that you don't want to be in. It's getting Kind of scary. You know, one of the things that I mentioned a moment ago is how how the church, I believe, is a picture of the boat. It's trying to, you know, it's trying to get to its its destination, just like the church here. We're trying to reach the lost for Christ. But we have the winds that are contrary to us. This world, you know, that that uh hates God. There's a lot of lot of things that that uh are against the church where there's constant b battles in court battles and stuff. What you preach, what you can't preach. I mean the s the church is in in the beginning of of some real storms that I believe are coming. Hopefully it won't it be stayed for a while. But the one thing about it is that that God is going to bring the church through. There's going to be that time when When he's gonna s not just say to Peter, but he's gonna say to all of us, Come on up. He's gonna come in the clouds, the Bible says. And the call is going to go out to come. And the dead in Christ shall rise first, and we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the air. And so shall we ever be in with the Lord. That's the church that that's going to take place. Oh, you're part of the church. Have you been born again by the Spirit of God? Do you know beyond a shadow of a doubt if you were to die right now, you'd be in heaven? And if you can't answer that in the affirmative, you can't say, yes, I know I'm saved. Then what is it? You know, Peter was rebuked when he began to think. And God's rebuke to him was this. When Jesus rebuked him, he said, O ye of little faith, what has happened to you? Where's your faith at? And then he reminds them, don't you remember the feeding of the 5,000, the miracle of the loaves, where I took the five loaves and fed the multitude and the fish and fed the multitude? Don't you realize who I am and what I can do for you? You're here today and you're you know, you're just Maybe you've got some problems that nobody knows about. Some storms you're in and your next, you know, your your mom doesn't know it, your dad doesn't know it, your your friends don't know it But you know it. Right up here at this old fashioned altar, there's a good place To kneel down and say, Lord save me. Lord help me. I need it I need help. Maybe you're a Christian. This is the place to get it done, is right up here at this old-fashioned altar If you need somebody to pray with you, there'll be somebody here. But if you're lost here tonight, oh listen, this is the time. Jesus came to seek and to save that which is lost, and he right now is reaching down out of heaven, spiritually speaking. And he's saying here, come unto me. Come unto me. All you that labor are heavy laden, I'll give you rest or or come now. Let us reason together. saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, you know he can forgive the worst if you'll just come to him. And he can save to the uttermost if you'll just Come to him. Will you do it tonight? With heads bowed and eyes closed, can we just have part of the lights on? With heads bowed and eyes closed, let's all stand to our feet. Heavenly Father, we pray now that you'll take the message. And speak to hearts. Lord, we we take you at your word. We know that if we'll call upon you, that you'll save us. We know that you you have a desire. to take us safely home, put us in the ship of Zion. So we ask you, Lord, to speak to our hearts today in Jesus' name. Amen. As the pianist plays