Peter chapter five verse thirteen. We're winding down our study of the book of First Peter, maybe uh two or three messages uh at the most left in this. But I want us to notice verse number 13. It says, the church that is at Babylon, elected together with you, saluteth you. Then he adds on, and so doth Marcus, my son. We're going to talk about Marcus in another message, but I want us to consider tonight The church that is in Babylon. The church in Babylon. Let's pray together, ask the Lord to teach us and speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, thank you for the Word of God. And I ask now, Lord, as we finish out this Lord's day, we've assembled together, we've done some singing, testifying. Lord, we've laughed, we've rejoiced. And now we have our Bibles open before us, and I pray, as we finish out, that you would speak to us from your word. Lord, I pray that you would speak your word through me to each of our hearts and lives as we always desire. I yield my will to you. I present my body as a conduit for your spirit to speak through, and that you would prepare us for the week ahead to be a good witness. uh to love you and love one another and serve you. And so please fill me with your spirit, I pray with all my heart. In Jesus' name, Amen. Peter is closing out his message here and he's uh giving these salutations to the s the the believers who are scattered abroad. Go all the way back to chapter one, the beginning of chapter one We noted uh repeatedly throughout our study that this letter is written to uh believers very, very early on in the history of the church, and they are being persecuted intensely. They've been run out of their homes by unbelieving family members. They've been run out of their communities by the uh the Pharisees and in some cases the local governments there uh and intensely persecuted them, violently persecuted them, losing jobs, losing families. In some cases, losing their life, beaten physically, for no other reason than being a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's hard for you and I to grasp in our society, in our time, what it what it's like to be intensely persecuted because of having faith in Christ. But nevertheless, that's who that's who he's writing to It's a fairly lengthy letter, not the longest in the Bible, but it's not the shortest either. And he covers a whole gamut of a Christian life, suffering. assurance of salvation, authority, submission, husband and wife relations. He covers the whole gamut of the Christian life And now he's winding down and he's giving these greetings to these persecuted believers from two particular individuals. We noted there in verse 13. One of them is the church at Babylon. They send greetings, salutations, salute them. And the other is Marcus. And as I said, I want to probably next Sunday look at Marcus there. I think that'll be an interesting study. But they're writing to him. Notice he says that the church that is Babylon elect together with you saluteth you and so doth Marcus. What's happening here is Peter is on behalf of these the church at Babylon and Marcus on their behalf. He's sending greetings. He's sending uh he's he's sending their love to uh these believers. Um the folks down in uh Australia, New Zealand, they love Miss Kathy They love her down there. She went with me the first time. They've gotten to know her over the years just through praying. And they all said, You said and when I was leaving, send your love uh to your wife, send your love to Kathy, send our love to Kathy And so I came back, and how I loved her uh for for and on their behalf when I got back. And uh but anyway, um So that's what he's doing. He's sending their love on their behalf. He's sending concern to them. This Marcus and the Church of Babylon is concerned for these persecuted believers. They respect them Notice the verse there, it says, the church says, Babylon, elect together with you, saluteth you. That word saluteth. What do you think of when you have the word salute? You think of what? You think of a military salute. It's not what he's talking about. They're not doing this. The word self means this. It has this idea to embrace He says, what he's saying is, these folks here want you to know that they're embracing you. They're concerned for you. They love you. They respect you. They want you to know they're with you. These persecuted believers, they wanted them to know, hey, we're with you in this. We're not ashamed Of you in your persecution. We're not afraid to identify with you in your persecution. And so it's a tremendous statement on behalf of this church and Marcus that they are uh uh they identify with these believers who are being persecuted. Now I want us to consider this church at Babylon. That caught my attention. So I was studying down through here And I thought, uh, the church at Babylon. And uh got looking it, got study on it, and I found there's a lot of discussion among Bible scholars and in various commentaries as to who and what this church at Babylon is. I noted that some suggest that the church at Babylon is not a church at all But Peter is actually referring to his wife. And when he says the church at Babylon saluteeth, what he means is his wife is saluting them And saying it's it's it's referencing a very well-known Christian lady and Peter's wife. Now, Peter did have a wife. The Catholic Church wants us to believe that Peter was the first pope, never had a wife, and that he was unmarried. The Catholic Church is wrong. Peter did have a wife, and by the way, the church never did have a pope and does not now have a pope. Jesus is the head of the church, not a man. And that's a topic for another subject sometime. But Peter did have a wife. If you have your Bibles here, I want to show you some things I found interesting. If you would, come with me back to Mark chapter number one. So if you have some Catholic friends and they suggest that Peter was the first pope, that he had no wife, was never married, take them to Mark chapter number one And look with me, if you would, at verse number 29. Now, I don't know about you, but I believe the Bible, when there's a conflict between church teaching and Bible teaching, I'm going with the Bible Now notice what the Bible says here, verse 29, Matthew, or I'm sorry, Mark chapter 1, it says, and forthwith when they were come out of the synagogue They entered into the house of Simon. Who's Simon? Peter. Simon and Andrew with James and John. But Simon's wife's mother. Lay sick of a fever. And anon they tell him of her. And he came and took her, Simon's wife's mother by the hand and lifted her up, and immediately the fever left her, and she ministered unto him. Now to me, I don't know how you can get any clearer than that. Simon's wife's mother Somebody said uh any guy would be a knucklehead to have a mother-in-law and not have a wife. And um so uh but uh Simon was married. Simon had a wife. Take your Bible and turn with me quickly to 1 Corinthians. Chapter number nine, and we find something else about Simon's wife, Peter's wife. He was married, he had a wife, and 1 Corinthians chapter number 9, and come down to verse number 5. Paul is writing to the church at Corinth. And he's making the case that there's a lot of things that Paul could have done, but he did not for the sake of the gospel. For instance He tells them, we won't look at all this, he tells them that he could have went without working. He was a tent maker. He said, I could have went without working and just taking support from your church and just taking it from you. He said, but I don't want to be I didn't want to be burdensome burdensome to you. It's a small church, new church. He said, so I made tense, I worked. I could have just taken from you, but I did it And then he says there in verse number five, notice what he says, have we not power? Now the word power there has the idea of ability or the right The authority. Have we not power to lead about a sister, a wife, as well as other apostles? So he says, listen, I could have married and gotten married and had a wife. He said, I chose not to for the sake of the gospel. He remains single. But look what he says to a wife, as well as other apostles, and as the brethren of the Lord, and Cephas. Who is Cephas? Peter. And Paul is referencing Cephas. He's referencing Peter having a wife. Now notice what he says here. He says, have we not power to lead about? That phrase lead about has this idea, to take with us wherever we go. Paul said, I could have gotten married and taken my wife with me wherever I went. He says, just like the other apostles did, and just like Cephas. You know what this verse is implying? That Peter took his wife with him when he went around preaching on his journeys, on his missions. He took his wife along with him And so uh Peter did have a wife, and apparently she uh traveled with him when he went uh to uh different places that God led him The early church writers, I found, said that Peter's wife was martyred for her faith. That she gave her life for the cause of Christ. In fact, the one writer, this was in early church history, one early church writer wrote that that when Peter's wife was martyred, that Peter was right there with her, apparently being detained because of his faith, because of his preaching. You know Peter was martyred for his faith also In fact, legend, history tells us that they were going to crucify him just like Jesus. He says, I'm not worthy to die the way my Savior did. I want to be crucified upside down. But apparently his wife was martyred, was executed before he was. And the one writer, one ancient Church writer wrote that just before she died, she died, she was executed in Peter's sight, right there, and just before she died, Peter cried out to her, Remember the Lord He was encouraging her to stay faithful that God had promised a home in heaven and a reward in heaven. So Peter was a married man. He had a wife. Apparently, she was a godly lady that traveled with him as he went and served the Lord. Apparently a woman of great conviction. Great faith in God was willing to give her life for the faith. And so Peter did have a wife. So come back here. And so I found as I got study in this church at at uh Babylon, the church at Babylon, uh I found that some Bible writers and commentators say, well, it's not really a church at Babylon. Uh what Peter's talking about is his wife there Now, I don't know. It looks to me when the Bible says church, it means church. I've found it's best just to take the Bible for what it says. I'm convinced God says what he means and means what he says. I think if Peter was referring to his wife, he would have said, My wife saluteth you. Mrs. Peter, whatever her name was. Isabel, I don't know. And uh see but it says church. So I reject the idea that the church at Babylon is not a church at all. Peter's wife, I don't think that's the case at all. I don't believe that for one minute. Some others have suggested that when he says the church at Babylon, what he means is the church in Rome. The Roman church. And their argument is this that both the Jews in this time frame, both the Jews and the Christians, referred to Rome as Babylon. Because of its wickedness, because of it it was so antagonistic to the Jewish faith. It was antagonistic to the Christian faith. The church at Rome. They felt that Christians were a threat to their worship of Caesar. So the outlaw of Christianity and you've read about and heard about the lions, the great um uh uh the not cathedrals, what did the Uh the Colosseum and uh they tie the Christians up out there and they'd starve the lions and let them out and they come out and tear them to shreds And uh so many of the early Christians and even the Jews referred to Rome, the city of Rome as the Great Babylon Very similar to we might say a very wicked city. We might say that place is Sodom. Anybody know what I'm talking about? There's certain cities we would say, oh that place is just Sodom. We'd refer to it with that term. And that's how they would refer to Rome In fact, in Revelation chapter 17 and 18, the Bible obviously referring to the city of Rome refers to it as Babylon. Babylon. So that was a nickname or a term they would use to refer to the church at Rome. However If the Bible says the church at Babylon, my thinking is I'm going to believe it's the church at Babylon. There's no reason to think it was any other place than Babylon. Um there actually uh uh I believe he's saying there's actually a church there in the eastern city of Babylon. In other words, Peter means exactly what he says. The Jews were in captivity in Babylon for 70 years. They were allowed to return back to Jerusalem. I referenced this this morning a little bit. They rebuilt the city. Many of the Jews came back. However, many of the Jews remained in the city of Babylon even after they were allowed to leave and come back. They had lived there 70 years. Many of them had grew up in that city. Great. Large city, very wicked, but very large. Many of them had grew up there. They had investments there. Many of them chose to stay there. And here these many years later, there was still quite a population of Jews there in the city of Babylon, 500 miles from Jerusalem. And uh we have reason to believe that many of the Jews in Jerusalem, surrounding Aries, got saved And they immediately became burdened for their family members in Babylon. And so no doubt there was communication back to the families and friends back in the city of Jerusalem. They're sending messages of the gospel. They're sending messages of uh the Lord Jesus Christ, his resurrection And the gospel was reaching the Jews in the city of Babylon. And we have no reason to think that Peter did not end up in Babylon preaching to these believers And a church that was established there. Now, granted, we're not given any information in the Bible about this church, but I'm here to tell you there was a heap of churches back then that the Bible doesn't reference at all. And so I said all that to say this. I think when Peter said the church that is Babylon saluteth you, I think he meant a church in the city of Babylon, wanted to identify with them, let them know they love them, let them know they had They support them, they respect their faith and their their their conviction. And I've got a sneaking suspicion that in a city like Babylon, being a believer, they had their own share of opposition. And they knew a little bit what these believers that Peter's writing to were going through, because in a city like that, there's going to be opposition. And so no doubt they experienced some of their own persecution. So we have this church at Babylon. Far away from Jerusalem, 500 miles away. Somehow, I believe, Peter made his way out there, took his wife with him, perhaps. He got out there, he's preaching to that church, he's getting to know them, he's writing this letter back to these persecuted believers there throughout Asia Minor And he wants them to know that the church here in this wicked, pagan, ungodly city, this church here, supports them, respects them, cares about them. Loves them. Wants them to know that they're on board with them. Now, I want to give you three thoughts real quick. I'm kind of rushing here a little bit tonight, but I want to give you three thoughts here on this church at Babylon, real quick. Number one I want us to consider the church's unity in Christ. The church's unity in Christ. What I mean by that, in the New Testament, you don't find a Jewish church. You don't find a Greek church. You don't find a Babylonian church. You don't find a Roman church You know what you find in the New Testament? You find the church of Christ. And I know we have today, and I'm I'm not going to go off on anything but they'll say, oh here's a that's a Korean church, that's a black church, that's a white church, that's an Asian church, that's an Ind I don't see any of that in the Bible, all I see in the Bible is the Church of Jesus Christ Regardless of ethnicity, regardless of nationality, regardless of color of skin, regardless of background, regardless of wealth, regardless of education We are one in Christ. And the church is the body of Christ. It is not a body of ethnicity. So here in the city of Babylon, pagan, um ungodly And yet in there, no doubt, was some Babylonians and Jews that got saved, and they were a church in Christ. The unity in Christ. Take your Bible if you would. Keep your place here. I told you we're going to look at a bunch. Galatians, chapter number three. Now, I'm not going to go in a campaign against churches that identify themselves as nationality or whatever, but I'm here to tell you, you don't find that in the Bible. We are one in Christ. We are one in Christ. Thing I love about the church, thing I love about our church, you can have on one pew a very, very wealthy person, you can have on that same pew next door to them, right sitting next to them, somebody that is not very wealthy, and yet they're one in Christ. They love each other, they praise the Lord together, we serve the God each other, we respect each other. We're one in Christ. One in Christ. I'm glad that church doesn't exclude anybody. Get this. The church does not exclude anybody because of the color of their skin. Or the physical features of their body. I'm glad a church, you can be uh skinny and be a part of a church and Not be skinny and be a part of a church. You can be tall or short. You can be good looking or um let me show you this verse here in uh uh Galatians chapter 3 verse 28 Notice what Paul says to the church at Galatia. He says, there is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither bond nor free. There is neither male nor female. Look at this last statement. I underline this in my Bible. For ye are all one in Christ Jesus. Christ Jesus. When Peter says the church in Babylon saluteth you, he doesn't say the Babylonian church salutes you. He's referencing Babylon as the location of the church, not the identity of the church. Christ is our identity. Christ is who and what we are. Somebody comes and gets saved, baptized into the membership of our church here, they're voted in from another church Uh whatever. Uh doesn't matter what they look like, doesn't matter how rich they are, how poor they are, doesn't matter how uh tall they are, how short they are, doesn't matter how educated they are, doesn't matter What they can be red or yellow, green, purple, yellow orange Uh what other color? Green? They can be anything, and and they're all part of the body of Christ. I told this before, but when I came here back in '93 about uh I was praying. I wanted to start a bus ministry so bad, but we hardly had anybody and and I was just praying, God, uh stir hearts and people started getting saved. We were picking them up in the cars. And uh afterward I had three, four people. I think Helen was in on that. Uh come in Sunday morning, I need you to go pick up these folks, go pick up these people, I got to say, go and our cars were going back and forth. Finally one of the men said, uh, Pastor, what if how about we get a bus? Well that's what I was wanting the whole time right from get-go, and I said, that's a great idea. And uh went to a preacher's fellowship shortly Shortly after we got our first bus and uh they had testimonies from the preacher. Anybody, anything going on in your church? And I'm telling you, I was so excited. Young preacher, boy, I got up and says, Oh, we're praising the Lord. We got started a bus ministry. We got a bus And we're running a bus ministry. And afterward, one of the fellows who knew the church and knew that we were just rebuilding, he came to me, pulled me aside. He said, Uh Brother Leatherman He says, you're never going to build that church on a bus ministry. I said, what do you mean? He says, you got to go after the people with money. You gotta go over after after the wealthy people, the educated people. You've got to go after folks like that if you're gonna build a church. I didn't say anything just out of respect there. Maybe I should have. I came back and I thought, you know I'm not going after poor people. I'm not going after rich people. We're going after people No no no qualifications, no nothing in front of it. Uh we're not going after we're not going after uh uh uh Asians, we're not going after Africans, we're not going after Europeans, we're not going after Australians, we're not going after Mexicans, we're not going after Americans We're going after sinners And he says, the church at Babylon wasn't a Babylonian church, it was a body of Christ right there. So my first consideration tonight is the church's unity in Christ. Unity in Christ. Second thing, when I see this church that is at Babylon, I put this down. I want us to consider the church's bond in Christ. Now this is what I mean by that. Babylon was 500 miles away from Jerusalem and from where these recipients of this letter were living There's 500 mile difference. Now, in our days, you know, you could fly that, get there, and without too much difficulty, 500 miles. How long take to drive 500 miles? Ten hours, something like that. You could drive there And uh in a day or whatever, back then, 500 miles, that was that was a distance. And yet, this church all the way out there in Babylon was telling these churches here that they loved them. They supported them. They wanted to encourage them They honored them and respected them. I think there's a bond between churches that are faithful to the gospel and the doctrines of the Word of God. There is a bond there. Do you ever go on vacation? Anybody here ever go anybody here ever go on vacation? Yeah. Ed and Carolyn, they just live on vacation. You ever go on vacation and you say, We gotta find a church. We need to attend church on vacation. You need to attend church on vacation. Let me try that again. You need to tend church on vacation. We don't take vacation from our Christianity. But anyway You ever go on vacation and say, we've got to find a church? And you go to that church and you say, Good night. That's just like our church back home. You say, oh, preaching the same thing and uh kindred spirit. Anybody know I know some of y'all are saying, no, there ain't no church like this. I agree. But uh but you know what I'm saying? You get in there and there's a kindred spirit. There's the same presence of God. There's the same gospel being preached. There's the same Bible doctrines being preached. There's the same song. There's a kindred spirit there. And I think that's what's taking place here. You have a church on one side of 500 miles away, and yet they're supporting and in love with the other church. Listen, there's no competition between churches. We love and support one another. Brother, if they're preaching the gospel, they're holding to the scriptural doctrines, they're standing right, doing right, brother, they are our sister church with us. And um uh we were down there in uh in New Zealand, in Auckland. I tell you, God in churches on fire for God. Preaching the same old King James Bible, preaching the same old gospel, holding the standards. Young people, look sharp down there, singing songs that glorify the Lord, not the world. And I'll tell you, it was just a bond there. Just a bond there. Listen, we're not talking about compromise. If I have to compromise for unity If I have to compromise the Word of God, if I have to compromise biblical convictions and biblical truth to have unity with another church, then that is not scriptural unity These are churches that are bound together, unified together around the truths of the Word of God and the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Again, take your Bible with me if you would. Go to John chapter number 17. John chapter 17 Now I love Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, but we aren't the only church in the whole world. There's other good churches down in Dominican, man, Brother Siddler, others, good churches, all everywhere I've gone If you look hard enough, sometimes you've got to go aways, but you can find good churches. Talking about unity, churches unified. Now there's a lot of talk about unity. Not all unity is biblical unity. And I said it before, I want to say it again, I want to be absolutely clear on this. If I have to compromise this book and the teachings of the Bible to be unified with another church that is not scriptural unity Look in look in John chapter 17 and look with me if you would at verse 21. Jesus is praying This is the great, we talk about the Lord's Prayer. This is really the Lord's Prayer here. He's praying for the disciple. He's praying for future believers. And look what he says in verse 21. Verse 20. Neither pray I for these alone, the disciples right there, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word. In other words, believers down through the years. Look at verse 21. That they all may be what? One. Unity, right? All be one. That's unity, right? Sure. That they may all be one. But then he qualifies it. Doesn't just say one, just you know, whatever. That they all may be one as thou, Father, art in me and I in thee. That they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me. Now look at this. And the glory which thou gavest me, I've given to them. Look at this. That they may be one, but he doesn't stop there. He qualifies it that they may be one even as we are one, Father and Son. Question Is God the Father and God the Son? Are they in unity? Yes. Perfect unity. Question, does either of them, God the Father or God the Son, do either of them compromise biblical truth to be one? No. They are one in doctrine. They are one in faith. They are one in conviction. There's no compromise there. If I have to compromise the truths of the Word of God, and this might not be popular in our day and age, but I'm here to tell you, if I have to compromise the truths of this book If I have to compromise the gospel to be unified with another quote-unquote church, then I am unscripturally unified. I was invited years ago to speak at a meeting. And uh it was kind of an ecumenical thing. Oh all churches getting together. Uh uh actually a fellow had come to our wild game dinner. He liked what we were doing. He said, I'd like for you to come and speak at this. And uh we talked a little bit and uh I said, you know, I really can't. And he goes, well why not? Now generally on the phone I'll just say something like, well, you know, I just I just it won't work out I'll just be very vague. But this time I thought, you know what? I'm going to explain to them why I can't do this. And I said, well, let me tell you why. And I said, I hope you understand. I said, you know, you got people in there. Some of these guys are preaching that the way you get saved is by being baptized. I said, you got some fellows in this, some some churches and religious groups that don't believe the Bible is the Word of God. You got some that believe that you got to pray to Mary to get your prayers answered. I said, you got a whole gamut. All this stuff is not scriptural And I said, I don't not try to be judgmental. I'm not certainly not better than anybody else. But I'm obligated before God to stay loyal to the Word of God. I cannot compromise that And I try my best to kindly and graciously explain to him why I couldn't do this. I'm telling you, the guy got mad And he says, or who are you to judge me? I said, I'm not judging you at all. I'm just going by what the Bible says. I've got to be true to this book. And uh he didn't hang up on me, but it was awfully close to it. And I'm telling you, we cannot compromise the Word of God just to get along with another religious organization You follow what I'm saying? And that's not popular and people don't understand it. But um the church at Babylon Man, they were supporting them, they were loving them, they were honoring them, they were respecting these persecuted believers as they were starting churches there across Asia Minor, and they supported them, not that not compromising doctrine. But they were one in their truth, one in their uh convictions and their faith in the Word of God And so I see here this church of Babylon saluteth you. I see that uh the unity uh in Christ, and I see a bond in Christ here And last of all, let me end with this. I've got to quit. I notice that there is a distinction in Christ. The church that is at Babylon, elect together with you, saluteth you. Here is a Babylon was a very wicked city. You need to understand this. I mean, this was an ungodly city, and we don't need to go into details. And here's the thing: in the midst of one of the most wicked cities on the planet at that time was a body of believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. God had saved them out of that wicked lifestyle. God had saved them out of that violent, perverse paganism. And God had changed their lives. And now you had, you know what a church is? A church is a called-out assembly. These are folks that have trusted Jesus Christ together, had banded together through baptism and their convictions, their doctrines, they had banded together. And they were distinct from that wicked world around them. The church, notice how he says that, the church that is at Babylon, not part of Babylon. Very distinct, very distinct. Church in the midst. And I want to remind you that we are not better than anybody. Sners are sinners But when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, as a body of Christ, we are not the same as the world. Jesus said, Come out from among them and be ye what? Separate. A called-out assembly. And that's an assembly gathering together in the midst of a very, very wicked city. But being very distinct in their Christianity. I just have a conviction. I just got it in my head. Maybe I'm old school. But I just got it in my head that Christians ought to be distinct from the world. There ought to be a clear distinction. Um years ago we uh we put our radio station up in ninety-nine and um Sometime a couple years went by and we got a card and a letter at Christmas time we got a little card from a local family here in the in the town. They didn't attend our church. I knew 'em. They didn't attend our church, went to a little different church. But they liked our radio station. And uh the misses had sent a Christmas card and had a little money in there. Praise the Lord. Uh she sent a card with a little money in there for the radio station. And uh we were grateful, helped us, and she wrote a note. And she said something to this effect. Now I'm going to quote her exactly here in a moment, but she said something to this effect. I'm so grateful for 887. FBN is such a blessing. Enjoy the music, the preaching. And then she ended with this statement. This is one quote exactly what she said. She goes, 88. 7 FM is distinctively Christian. And what she was saying is, when you turn on that station, you don't get confused as to what kind of station you're listening to. It's a Christian station, distinctive. I believe Peter is saying this church that is at Babylon, not part of society, not part of it. It was distinct. It was distinct in their commitment to Christ. And we ought never, we ought to be very, very careful. And I've tried, maybe I've maybe I've erred on the side of caution. I hope so. That's deliberate But we do not want the smack of this old sinful world. We want the presence of Christ. We want to represent Jesus Christ. We want to be clear. Jesus told the disciples, and he tells us, that we are the salt of the earth. The thing about salt is it's fundamentally different. than the food you put the salt on. Right? Yesterday we had eggs and uh pork chops, fried potatoes and onions And toast. And um I got some salt and pepper and I sprinkled that salt on my eggs. And I've said this before. And man it makes them taste good. Anybody here like salt on your la eggs? How many people like salt on your potatoes And salt on ice cream and salt on ink watermelon. Watermelon. I never in my life have gone to a store and found egg-flavored salt. Right? That would be meaningless Salt is fundamentally different than what you put on. And what I'm saying is this: the church is a salt of the world. That means we're fundamentally different than this world. A part of the body of Christ. You follow what I'm saying? And so there was the bond of these two churches together, these churches, they're bound together in doctrine and truth and conviction. There was unity. And then there was distinction. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our church. Help us to learn from this church at Babylon. The love they had for other like-minded churches, or the love they had for one another, not it's no no d no divisions in the church over uh wealth or any of that. Thank you, Lord. Help us be like that. And then, Lord, our distinction in this old simple world. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, preacher, I need God to give me a love for my brothers and sisters in Christ. And just love for one another, regardless of their background, their personality, their their uh standing and whatever. I need a love for others. Any like that, preacher, I just want to love God's people and our church here and other churches. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I want our church to be distinctively Christian. I want us to be like Christ, but maybe you say, Preacher, I need to be a little more distinctively Christian in my life. And maybe God's dealing with you on that matter. And there's some areas say, you know, this really isn't Christian in my life. I need to make some adjustments. Any like that by the up of the hand. Preach or pray for me. I need to be a little more distinctively Christian in my life. God bless you. God bless you. And that's probably a lifelong endeavor for every Christian. Father, bless our invitation now. Help us, Lord, as we go into this coming week. Just anneal to old Aldern and uh and uh be what you want us to be in Jesus' name. Let's stay