Matthew chapter 8 and uh verse number 5. The Bible says that when Jesus was entered into Capernaum There came unto him a centurion beseeching him and saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home, sick of the palsy, grievously tormented. And Jesus saith unto him, I will come and heal him. The centurion answered and said, Lord, I'm not worthy that thou shouldest come under my roof. But speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed. For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me, and I say to this man, go, and he goeth, and to another, come, and he cometh. And to my servant, do this, and he doeth it. When Jesus heard it, he marveled. And he said unto them that followed, Verily I say unto you, now listen to this statement from the lips of the Lord Jesus. I have not found so great faith. No, not in Israel. And I say unto you that many shall come from the east and the west And shall sit down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. But the children of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Jesus saith unto Centurion, Go thy way. As thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee. And his servant was healed in the selfsame hour. We have the same incident recorded in the Gospel of Luke, verses 7 through 10, almost verbatim, we're told again of this event. For Jesus Christ encountered this centurion. I'd like to speak this morning, and I know we're a little short on time, so I'll get right to the point. I want to speak this morning on the faith of a veteran. The faith of a veteran. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the service this morning. My heart's been stirred. See these men and women who have put themselves on the line and willingly served I pray you bless each one and their families. And Lord, I pray for now for us as a church and as Christians, God, that you would stir our hearts to follow the example of this great veteran here in the Bible. And Lord to have faith in you. Lord to trust you with our soul, with our lives, our homes, our future Fill me with your Spirit is my prayer with all my heart. Yield my will, present my body anew now for this message. Pray that you would be the preacher, Holy Spirit You would speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. On November 11th, 1918, the 11th month On the 11th day of that month, at the 11th hour, 11 o'clock in the morning, World War II ended. After the war, Congress declared this date, November 11th, to be a national holiday. Can anybody tell me what was what we refer to now as Veterans Day Somebody tell me what was its original name? It was originally what? Armistice Day, correct 1953, Congress renamed the day. After World War II, they renamed the day to Veterans Day. Now, what is the purpose of our nation? Having a special day referred to as Veterans Day. What's the purpose? The purpose is to honor The men and women who served in any branch of the military honor those who serve. Now, sometimes folks get Veterans Day and Memorial Day mixed up. Veterans Day is a distinct Uh uh Nash, it's a distinct holiday, distinct day, separate from Memorial Day. Memorial Day we honor who? Those who gave their lives, those who have served and are dead. Veterans Day, we honor those who have served, or many times those who still are serving. So I'm very grateful for a nation. I'm very grateful for a nation that honors their veterans Now, in our text, and I wish we had time we don't go over and look at Luke chapter 7, the same text, same event, we have our Lord Jesus Christ honoring a veteran in an extraordinary way. He makes a statement about this veteran that you don't find him making that about anybody else in all of his ministry He says there, notice in verse number 10, he says, he marveled and said unto them that followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. He's looking at this veteran, this centurion. And he says to him, You have displayed. Now think about this. This is a Roman soldier. He says, You have displayed The greatest example of faith that I have seen in all of Israel. I've never seen it even in Israel. The greatest display of faith. That's not coming from a rabbi. That's not coming from a mother to a son. That's coming from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Creator of heaven and earth. declaring, honoring this man as someone with the greatest faith in all of Israel. Now think about that. He is saying that he had a greater faith than any one of God's people living at that time. He is saying, and if you'll notice there, it says he said to them that followed, that would be his disciples among others, he's saying to them. I say unto you, I am not found so great a faith. You know what he's saying? This soldier, this veteran, has displayed a greater level of faith than even Jesus' disciples did. And even the disciples. There's an interesting statement here that, to be honest with you, I don't know that I can adequately understand it or explain it, but it says in the beginning of verse 10, it says that Jesus heard it. He marveled. Jesus marveled. Now I marvel at the fact that Jesus marveled. I got looking up that word marvel, it means to be surprised. It means to be impressed. The emphasis of the word itself means to express admiration for, to admire someone. Now, I have a hard time in my mind reconciling Jesus Christ being surprised by anything. Right? You follow my thinking on this? The Bible clearly teaches Jesus is, now here's a big theological term for you, and I say this often. I like to use big words every now and then, just so everybody knows how smart I are. That uh I have uh uh I are a Bible college gradu I are a graduate of the university. But we refer to Jesus Christ, we use the term being omniscient There's a good one for you. The word omniscience simply means to be all-knowing, to know everything. Would you agree with me? If somebody knows everything, it's hard to imagine them being surprised by anything. But nevertheless, the Bible says Jesus marveled at this man. And the interesting thing is, I don't believe if I'm understanding this correctly and looking at it, he's not marveling Just at the degree of faith that's being displayed. Now, you understand, you pay attention there, you understand what's taking place here. This centurion, this veteran, has a servant He's very, very ill. He comes to the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, Will you make my servant well? Jesus says, I'll come and heal him. He says, Listen, you don't need to come to the house You don't need it. You just speak the word. You just say, be healed. And my servant will be healed. He says, I understand. I'm a man of authority. I can just speak a word, and others will respond in obedience to what I speak. You, knowing who you are, Knowing your authority, your power, if you will just speak the word, my servant will be well. And Jesus steps back. Ah And he looks to those around and he says, I've never seen such great faith. Now, I think Jesus is admiring, if we want to use that term, he's marveling. Not just at the degree of faith. That's a pretty strong faith. That's great faith. You just say, hey, you just speak it, it'll be done But I think he's also marveling not just at the degree of the greatness of the faith, but I think he's marveling at the person expressing that faith. This is not necessarily someone you would expect to have a comprehension of who Jesus was, of Jesus' authority, Jesus' power, Jesus' person. And then to be fully confident that whatever this man says is going to happen, even a servant being healed from a distance without him being there. And Jesus is marvels at this. Jesus marvels at this. I think it's the fact that it's a Gentile, not a Jew, not one of God's people, putting God's people to shame. with his level of faith, but also the fact that this is a soldier, this is a centurion, this is a man of war. And here he's expect expressing great faith in God. There's a saying, now again I'm not military, so I'm getting all this second hand, but I understand there's a saying within certain uh uh sections of our military, it goes like this. Trust God, but all others we verify. Anybody over here that can? I know you've heard that. Yeah, we trust God, but every we don't trust nobody else. It's only God And here you have this guy, and he's expressing a faith and a confidence in the Lord Jesus Christ. That not one of God's people have expressed. And he says, He admires that. He honors that faith. Now I'd like for you, and I'm going to have to abbreviate this quite a bit, but I'd like for you to write three words down. And I think these three words, if we can get a hold, if you if you walk out of here with nothing else but getting these three words, I believe it will help us in our Christian life, those of us that know the Lord. Military, non-military, civilian If we can get these three words, it'll help us be a better Christian. It'll help us be a better person. I'll give you three words, then I'm going to try and, in the amount of time I have, quickly just kind of make some statements about them. Write this word down, compassion. Compassion. How many people agree with me? We could sure use a little bit more compassion in our world. I've said this often, compassion is the missing ingredient to so many homes, so many churches, so many communities. compassion. Write this next word down. Humility. Humility. How we could use a heap of humility How many people agree with me? I think humility would help Washington DC a good bit. I mean across the board. Across the board. I think how many people agree with me? Humility could help our ministries Good bit. You say, oh, Christian yeah, pride. Uh humility, our homes. It changed the whole atmosphere atmosphere of our homes. Humility. Number one, you got it written down, compassion. Did you get that Number two, write down the word humility. Humility. Let me give you a third word. Then I'll come back and just try and briefly touch on these. Here's the third one: confidence. Confidence. Confident that Jesus Christ is who he claims to be, that Jesus Christ will do what he promises to do, and I can trust him. I can trust him. Because of who he is. Because of who he is. Now let me just quickly, again, I I'm I'm I'm saying this to myself. I gotta be brief. We want to be brief here. Number one, notice his compassion. He has compassionate faith, this soldier, this veteran. The faith of a veteran. He has compassionate faith. Now the Bible tells us he is a centurion. There are four centurions mentioned in the Bible. Every one of these centurions mentioned in the Bible are revealed to us as men of great character, men of great sense of duty. Centurion. Now what is a centurion? The the typical definition, the understanding of a centurion, of course, was a Roman soldier and uh he had responsibility. The most of the definitions will be he had responsibility over one hundred men, centurion, one hundred men under him He was responsible for them. He directed them. He led these 100 men. Now I did read another uh resource I was going to, and they suggested that perhaps in this case here, and I don't know where they come up with it He may have been responsible for six groups of a hundred men. Six hundred men may have been under him. Now, be that as it may, I'm not sure. But whatever the case was This was a man who was trained in warfare. This was a man who was not only trained in warfare, but had been trained to such a degree, had been um uh successful in that training to the point that he was entrusted with a good number of men underneath him And with that in mind, it's interesting to me that this man showed tremendous compassion. For his servant. Compassion. The part of a soldier, a highly trained soldier in warfare and weaponry. And yet he shows compassion to this servant of his. The word compassion We think of compassion, we understand that compassion is a form of love. Compassion is a form of love That stirs one to show mercy to another. Did you ever read in the Bible, or did you ever hear this statement, somebody that's in distress, and they say something like this: Have compassion on me I pray that your heart would be stirred and you would have enough love in your heart and soul to show some mercy to me to help alleviate another's suffering. Compassion cares about the well-being of others. I tell you, it's such a blessing as a pastor. And I would like, uh uh, I wish I could be a better example of this myself personally, but it's such a blessing as a pastor to have folks in the church, to see and experience folks in our church showing compassion to others that have needs. Preacher, I got somebody here. Boy, they're hurting. I'm trying to help them. Will you pray? Uh there's somebody they don't they don't have a place to live and and uh what Is there something we can do to help them? Compassion cares about the well-being of others. I want you to notice, uh, first of all, the expression of compassion here that this soldier shows, this veteran shows. I mentioned he's a centurion. He's a highly trained soldier. He's proven himself to the point where he's given authority. He's been trained to kill people. You understand that. You understand. That's what soldiers do. They kill people and destroy things. I'm not real high on the killing people, but I like to destroy stuff. I could get into that. But he has been trained his whole trading, his whole life, his whole occupation, so to speak Has been to defend his country to the point of taking lives and destroying. He's trained in weaponry, swords, shields. And yet he shows compassion to his servant. I've noticed in over the years, I've noticed that Some of the most hardened combat veterans that I've met are often some of the most compassionate people I've ever met. I have a dear friend of mine. I haven't seen him in a long time. He's not well. He's preached here a number of times. Good friend of mine, Chuck Coffee. Anybody remember Brother Chuck Coffee? He's a Vietnam War veteran. He's a Marine. He's in combat many, many times, and for three days he had gotten somehow, he had gotten himself behind the enemy lines. And for three days he was declared, officially declared, missing in action. He told me one time he was preaching here for us, and this was a number of years ago, and we had gone to lunch. And we were in the church band, we went to the lake to a lunch at a restaurant, and we're driving back, and just out of the blue I mean the boys were small, they're sitting, I'm driving the van, he's in the pastor's seat, Kathy's behind me, the boys were younger, they're sitting there on the front row right behind him, and he's talking, and and all of a sudden, out of the blue, he started spilling his guts. About experience he had behind the enemy lines in that three days and three nights where he was missing in action. He started telling us things he had to do. Number one, to keep himself alive, and number two, to get back on the right side of that enemy line. And he got pretty graphic. Back to the point where he's making the sounds and stuff. I'm driving like this I got some hotel. I look back at the boys. They're like this. I looked over at Brother Kaufki, he's like this. I said, you alright? He goes, yeah. I said, is that good for you? What just happened? Did that help you? And he says, you know, sometimes, sometimes I just gotta talk. So sometimes I just gotta tell it. And he felt comfortable enough with us and for whatever reason. But you know, you get to know Chuck Coffee. He's one of the most compassionate, caring guys. That guy will cry over another's heartache, another sorrow. At the drop of a hat, he'll just weep. So caring, so compassionate. He's very ill. He doesn't get out hardly at all. But I've noticed that sometimes The people you here's where I'm getting at. Sometimes the people you expect the least to be compassionate sometimes are the most compassionate. Most care. Here comes this centurion, highly trained killer, veteran, military. And he comes to Jesus Christ over this little sermon. So I noticed this expression of compassion coming from this fellow. Kind of catches you off guard maybe a little bit. Number two, I notice the extent of his compassion. Notice what it says up there in verse numbers five. It says Jesus entered Capernaum. There came unto him a centurion, and I think it's interesting, it doesn't just say a man, but it points out this is a centurion beseeching him. Now that word beseeching is a word that refers to prayer. But it is a very unique Expression of prayer. He is beseeching the Lord Jesus Christ. It has this idea. He is begging Jesus Christ. He is pleading with the Lord Jesus Christ. If you'll get resources out and look how that word is used throughout the Bible, you find that phrase beseeching the Lord has this idea to pray or make a request with earnestness, with intensity, with passion. In fact, the one I was looking up the use of the word and the one definition suggested to pray with desperation. This fellow is desperate for his servant's life He is beseeching the Lord. Now, I don't know about you, but that is not my how I would picture a military man. Desperately begging this religious teacher, this spiritual leader, Jesus, desperately begging him and pleading with him I beseech you. He meant business. He meant business. There's a lot of things this centurion could do. He had authority. He could command men around. He could accomplish no doubt some tremendous things. But there was one thing he couldn't do. He couldn't make this sick servant well. He couldn't make him well, and he found somebody that could. And his compassion, now get this, his compassion stirred him to do something that would not be typical of a man like him. And that is to beseech somebody to make them well. To plead with desperation What I'm trying to say is this, compassion will stir us to do things maybe we wouldn't naturally do for behalf of others To help others. I put this statement down. Compassion for others, buckled with faith in God, is a powerful force. Can I speak to our church folks here just for a moment? You know what Oakland area needs? You know what Garrett County and surrounding areas needs? It needs a church like ours and ours To care enough to do what we need to do to reach this area for the Lord Jesus Christ. To trust God with compassion and get out and do what we need to do to see people saved. If hell is real, and it is. If heaven is real and it is. And if Jesus Christ is the only way for a man to have acceptance with God, escape hell, And surely God's people would have compassion. Come to the Lord and say, Lord, please save our community, save my neighbor, save my family member, save my co-worker. Compassion. Come and beseech the Lord. So I see this veteran, first of all, he has uh an expression of compassion from someone like this. The extent of that compassion that he would humble himself and beseech the Lord then this is where it gets very interesting, at least in my mind, the object of his compassion. Who is it that he's so concerned about? Who is it that he is that he is stirred to act out of character? And maybe even embarrass himself in front of others, beseeching this man. It's his servant. It's interesting. It's not his wife. It's not a family member, his own child. It's a servant. And again, if you'll do a study in the Word of God about the uh servants in this position in the Roman uh economy, in the Roman society. This servant would have been considered in Roman society as the lowest form of human life. The servants were considered, a servant in a household like this in Roman society was considered a disposable tool. If it was no more benefit to me, if it was no more use to me, if it did not benefit me in some way, then I just threw it away. If it did not profit me, if it did not help me in some way, I just threw it away. It was disposable. I got looking up the Roman law back in that time as for servants and how it applied. Servants, this young servant here, this servant that he's referring to, had no was considered to have no personality. They were considered to have no ancestry. In other words, when they were taken in as a servant, as a slave, they no longer had any ancestors as far as The law and society turned. They no longer had family. They were simply a tool possessed by, in this case, the Roman Centurium. No personality, no ancestry. They had no possessions. They owned nothing. They had uh, in fact, their own body was not considered their own They had nothing. Nothing. And when that body, that servant broke, when it was unable to perform the duties that were demanded of it. You throw it away. Just destroyed it. Some cases they would sell them off to the gl to be gladiators and Entertain the masses by giving their life to lions and brutal, deadly entertainment, violent. That's the person that this man is pleading to the Lord Jesus Christ for. Someone that society considered had zero value. Now this is a little off-subject, maybe, and this might be a bit of a rabbit trail. When I got studying that, you know what I thought of? I thought of the unborn child in the womb of so many. No body of its own. No ancestry. It's not a living person. It's no personality And it's going to interfere with my life, and it's going to interfere with my income, and it's going to change my lifestyle and and uh my uh uh quality of life by this child coming into the world. Well, I'll just row it away! And I'm telling you, in both cases, whether a servant or an unborn child, that is ungodly and wrong. Wrong. And so again, there's something surprising here in this centurion One, that he would care so much about someone else being a trained killer. Number two, that he would be willing to humiliate himself to some extent in front of others To plead on behalf of this servant, and then the fact that he would care that much about someone like this. Compassion. Compassion I'm telling you, we live in a world that desperately needs compassion. We live in a world where people, young and old, are treated as if they're nothing. I love our bus ministry. I love our bus ministry. And I'm not just limiting this to bus ministry and not it's not across the board, but I'm telling you, sometimes we bring in kids on the buses. Sometimes We bring in kids on the buses that are coming from a home where they are considered nothing more than something in the way And the sooner they're out of here, and the sooner I can get rid of them, the better they are. I'm glad there's someplace they can come to where, like that centurion, people care about them. People love them. People. I want to remind our church folks, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is not a museum to put on a show how great we are. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is a spiritual emergency room where people can come who are hurting, who are desperately need forgiveness of sin and purpose in life We can point them to the great physician and we can beseech Jesus on their behalf that God make them well. Compassion What was the second word I gave you? Humility. I see in this centurion, this veteran, that Jesus honored humility. Humility. He says there in verse number 7, I've got to quit. Look what he says in verse 7. Jesus said to him, I'll come and heal him. I tell you, we could talk a lot about that. Aren't you glad Jesus is willing to come and heal folk? Aren't you glad Jesus come and make people well and help save souls, forgive sin, change lives? Yeah, I'll come. Yeah, I'll come and heal them. You don't have to ask me twice. It's the whole reason I can't. And then look what the centurion says, verse 8. Then the centurion answered and said, I can hear him say, Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Lord, hold on. You don't need to come. I'm not worthy for you to come into my house. Now I don't know what the case was I don't know what the specifics were I should say that prompted this centurion to say, I'm not worthy for you to come in my house. But you know what that tells me? The fact that he said that, you know what that tells me about him Tells him about him he knew he was a sinner. This here is the pure, sinless Son of God. This is the most holy being in existence. Jesus Christ without sin. He says, uh, I know what I'm like. I know what my home is and Jesus, I know you can make this my servant well. I know you can. I'm asking you to. But you don't need to come to my house because I'm not worthy. I guarantee you, I guarantee you, when he said, I'm not worthy for you to come to my house, that caught Jesus' attention. That caught Jesus' attention Pharisees were hounding Jesus Christ constantly about how good they were and about how righteous they were. And about how holy they were. And we don't feet eat with sinners, and we don't do that, and we don't go there, and we do this, and we tithe, and we do this, and we do that, and we're better than everybody else Jesus hears this veteran say, I'm not better than anybody else. I'm just an old sinner. I don't deserve you to come to my house. You don't need to come here. I'm telling you, that statement is one of the greatest expressions of humility you're going to find in the Bible anywhere. Can I remind you and I, not one of us deserves even the least of God's favors. We've sinned against a holy God. We've taken his name in vain. We've blasphemed him. We've lied. We've broken his commands. We love stuff more than we love the one that gave us our very life We don't deserve anything he does for us. We're just an old sinner. I remember, I say this almost every message. I apologize, but I remember the night I got saved. And it was like I was the most wicked man that had ever walked this planet. God have mercy on me What an act of humility on the part of this veteran. I don't deserve for you to come here, Lord. A humble faith, a humble faith. This was a man that had great authority, yet before the Lord he humbled himself. Faith and humility go in hand in hand all through Scripture. Faith and humility are two of the most important characteristics. In our spiritual lives. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we have got to get a hold of this, trusting God in humility. There's no room for pride. I say this so often. We all say it. God has sure being good to our church, but it's not because we're wonderful. It's because he's wonderful. God has blessed us. Humility, we need that in our homes, in our ministries, in our hearts and lives, in our country. It's kind of like to me he's beseeching the Lord. Sometimes we pray. And it kind of reminds me of being down in a in a uh When we lived in Colorado and Boulder they had a uh a plaza downtown. It was like the streets were blocked off and there was like cobblestone. It was all shops around. I think down in Cumberland they have what do they call that? Um Outdoor mall, yeah, and uh they had a name there. I can't remember. But you'd go down there and people around there was musicians, you know, they have a little hat out and people go by and throw them. And uh there'd be these little shops And I was thinking of this, it's kind of like somebody comes up to the shop and there's these items that are on the shelves on display for sale. And you walk up to that shop there and you see these items on the shelves for display and you decide you want one. And you want that. And you reach for it, but your hand smashes up against something that's invisible. It's what? Glass plate in between Shh. And I want that and I like it, but I can't get to it because there's this glass pla uh glass pane in between uh myself and the desire, the thing I want. And I can't get to it because of that glass. That reminds me a little bit of a Christian or a person in prayer. We want my servant to be well. I want this need to be met. I want this my mother to be saved. I want my coworker to come uh to have their needs met. I need these bills paid And I come and I, that's what I want, and I reach for it to the Lord and I pray, but I don't get it because there's something between me and the Lord. You know what that is? It's pride. And pride will keep our prayers from being answered. Pride will keep the Lord from being involved in our lives Pride is the greatest enemy to the to humanity that there ever has been apart from Satan, and he's the author of pride. You want to get your prayers answered? Want God to forgive your sins, save your soul from sin in hell? You want God to use you? You want needs to be met? One thing we've got to learn to do is to get rid of that pride. Humble ourselves before the Lord. I'm not worthy. Lord, I don't deserve this. I don't deserve this. I've sinned against you. I'm just coming, trusting your mercy and your grace. To do this for me. We want God's help. We want God's blessing. We've got to learn to humble ourselves. Let me, I gotta end with this A confident faith. Speak the word. Did you see that there? Look there in verse the end of verse 8. But speak the word only. Are you looking at it? Watch. Follow along as I read it. But speak the word only, last part of verse 8, and my servant might be healed. So it says. My servant could be healed. No, what's it say? My servant. You know what that is? You could write in the margin of your Bible, confidence. He was absolutely certain that Jesus Christ could do this. He was absolutely certain if Jesus would just speak the word, my servant. Everyone else wants to means us to get rid of him. Everybody else just says, lob his head off, just get rid of him, kill him. He's nothing. But I love him. He means something to me. He's a human being. Lord, you just speak the word. I know who you are. I know your power. I know your authority. Lord, if you just say, be well, my servant, be well. Jesus says, whoa. I've never seen faith like this, not in all of Israel. Not one of the disciples has expressed that level of confidence And my authority and my power and who I am. Not one! And hear this old veteran. He believes who I am. He understands who I am. He understands my authority, my power. I tell you, when you and I get to the point that we understand who Jesus is, and the authority he has, not just over humanity, but over all of creation. I love that. I love that event where Jesus in the boat and the storm hits and the s and the disciples, many of whom are hardened sailors. They're they're shipmen. They lived on the sea. And they're scared to death. We're going to die. Lord, don't you care we die? Jesus steps out and he looks out. I don't know if he spreads his hands out or not, but he speaks out to the storm. It's raging. The rain has fallen. The wind is blowing, tossed. He says, peace! Be still. He fell at his feet. What kind of man is this? as authority that even the wind and sea obey him. That old veteran understood that. He already knew that. Well it took the disciples so long to figure out somehow this guy got it. Maybe it's because he had authority. He understood what it was means. He knew who Jesus was. He said, that sickness, that palsy, He's the one that created everything that exists. He could just say it and it'd be well. I never saw such fate. Never saw such fate. We have a we put our faith in everything else but Jesus Christ. We put our I'll figure it out. Ah, I can handle this. You know, sooner or later every one of us runs up against something that we can't handle. Sooner or later, every one of us has some sick child that the doctors can't do anything. Nobody can do anything. Sooner or later, every one of us runs up and says, man, I messed up bad. I'm under God's judgment. There's nothing I can do about it. Man, I die like this, I'm going to hell. There's nothing I can do about it. This man learned that Jesus Christ can do something about it. You can make it well. I read I have a little news article here. It's from 1910. Does anybody remember back? I didn't think so. The human fly falls 60 feet to his death. Charles Miller was twenty-eight years old And he was referred to as the human fly. This guy could climb anything. On 1910, he was in New York. He was at 8th Street and Broadway, and there was a building there referred to as the Hamburger Building. Now I have no idea what that's about. It doesn't exist anymore. And uh he had asked permission from the authorities if he could climb just with his hands and fingers, he'd get crevices and he'd climb, and he wanted permission to climb up that thing The several days and weeks before he had climbed several other buildings uh successfully. And this day he asked permission to climb up that and they said they refused them. You're not allowed. Well he went in the building and he climbed down. I think it was the sec second story. uh window, he climbed out and he began climbing up that thing. Just in little cracks between the bricks and stuff. And he got about sixty feet up and he was transitioning, the story goes on He was transitioning over on a different position to go up another section of the building. And he lost his grip, lost his Grip. And they said he struggled and scraped and began to fall. Next thing they knew, he fell down onto the sidewalk. His head was crushed, his body was crushed, they rushed in the uh hospital, and he died in the hospital Charles Miller, 28 years old, the human fly, fell to his death. You say, what does that have to do with anything? Why are you telling us that? Afterward they got looking. Some folks came back and they said, why do you mess up? He climbed a lot of different buildings. He never had trouble. Why here? This wasn't especially difficult. Why do you mess up? And they got looking, they came to this conclusion. As he was transitioning himself into a different position, he was moving over in a different position, there was a crevice there, and that crevice, a spider, had built a spider web across that looked just like The brick and mortar, same color, and looked at, and they believed what happened was he reached over and grabbed for what he thought was a ledge, and it was just a spider web. And his weight had shifted, and he struggled, could not recover, and he fell to his death. You say, what does that have to do with anything He lost his life because he put his faith in something that wasn't real. He was trusting in something that had no substance, could not hold him. And what I'm saying to you and I is, there's a lot of things the devil presents out there, the world presents out here, that you and I can trust in, and I'm telling you, it's nothing. It has no substance. Only Jesus Christ is worthy of us putting our trust in Him. Am I making sense? You follow what I'm saying? I'm telling you, I talk to folks every week. And they're trusting in the spider web of baptism to wash away their sins, get them to heaven. I'm telling you, it's a spider web. It has no substance. That baptistry, as portant as it is for a believer, that will not save your soul or my soul. Amen or not. Church members, you go down the list. Only Jesus Christ has the authority. To forgive my sins and give me eternal life and accept me into heaven. Only Jesus Christ has the power to meet my needs and answer my prayers Don't come to me and pray. Don't pray to me. Come right to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'm telling you, these denominations that have their people coming and confessing their sins and praying to priests and religious authorities, it is a spider web. We need to go right to Jesus Christ. Amen? The faith of a veteran. Marveled the Lord. Wow. What about you and I? What's your faith then? Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray you'd use these thoughts somehow to help us on this Veterans Day. To trust you. Maybe the salvation of our soul. Maybe the Uh the needs in my family, in my home, my friends. Maybe there's someone else without Christ that we need to come to. Lord, you're the one that can make a difference. You're the one that can speak the word And change the whole situation. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many this morning say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. But I've got some needs in my life that are beyond me. I have some things that need to take place, friends that need Christ, or needs that need to be met. I need the Lord Jesus Christ to help me. I need Jesus Christ to speak the word and take this situation and change it. Any like that by the uplifted hand? No one else could heal this sermon. No one else could, but Jesus. And you've got a situation no one else could help, but I'm telling you Jesus can, if we trust him, have faith in him. How many of them this morning would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved, but I need compassion. I need the Lord to teach me to care about others And that's just I find my heart gets so hard. I need the Lord to help me be compassionate. Any like that, but let's be honest. I need the Lord to help me be compassionate. God bless you. It's a great need. How about humility How about confidence? There's some this morning say, Preacher, I'm not sure my sins have been given on my way to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me I need I need Gord to save my soul. Any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know my sins Now, Father, please bless our invitation. Have your way. Help us to respond in faith. In Jesus' name. Amen. Jennifer, let's stand together. Jennifer.