Verse that we read all together a few moments ago. I'm just going to read that again. And uh how many folks had a good Thanksgiving? Raise your hand. How many folks ate too much on Thanksgiving. Very good. We went down, told the Sunday school class, uh my wife and I went down to Tennessee to see our youngest son, Daniel, his wife Harley. We were able to spend A few days with them. They very much enjoyed it. Nashville, Tennessee. They asked me to stay and make some records when I was there, but I told them I was too busy. Maybe some other time we could do that. But we had a great great time. Any how many guys got your buck? Anybody here got your buck? Alright. Two, three, guys. All right And uh do do does count? Oh, noes. Anybody anybody here break their nose shooting the gun or anything like that? Well, we won't deal with that. I want to talk this morning a little bit about uh a very, very, very important uh truth. concerning our salvation. If you would notice John chapter 10, verse number 28. Now are you listening? Are you listening, young people? I need all the young people's attention up here. Everybody's attention up here. And also I'd like to say this. Uh years ago, and I had mentioned this over different times throughout our ministry here, but years ago, uh they had an article, it was probably 10-15 years ago, I came across this article, it was talking about movie theaters And they were saying they were having a problem in movie theaters that people would get up and walk in and out and people would talk real loud and do different things in the movie theater, distract from the movie and and all of that and they were saying we need to have some sort of etiquette for movie theaters that people went through those types of things. Now I haven't been to movie theater one time since I got saved, never went back So I don't know about movie theaters, but I know this. What's going on here in God's house is ten thousand times more important than anything going on in a movie theater And so if that's an issue, you know, uh in a movie theater, we don't want to distract, we don't take anything, don't walk in and out, then um surely we understand that in a church service during the preaching time uh we need to give our attention to the word of God. Everybody on board with me on that? Everybody follow what I'm saying. And so we just say now if it's an emergency, you know Take care of it out there. And I said all that to say this. The subject this morning I believe every service is very important, but today's extremely important concerning our salvation. We've had a number of folks, a good number of people this year trust Christ as Savior. Many of them are growing in the Lord. I've had several folks in this past uh several months uh s mention to me and have questions about the subject we're dealing with this morning. So if you would notice there again, verse number 28 and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand Very clear statement by the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to talk this morning about God's gift of eternal life And the subject is this, the eternal security of the believer. In other words, this is what I'm saying. The Bible very, very clearly teaches a saved person can never ever lose that salvation. It is secure. And I want to show you from the Bible on that. So let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of this very important subject. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. I yield my will. All my heart. I pray that you would be the preacher this morning, dear Holy Spirit That you'd open our hearts and minds, that we could walk out of here rejoicing not just in the fact that we got saved, but rejoice in the fact you keep us saved. We don't have to worry about that. Please bless now, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. For four years I worked on dairy farms, two in particular. I started when I was twelve years old, worked at one farm for two years and another farm for uh the second two years. Um they milked about forty, between forty and fifty head of cow, so it was a fairly significant uh operation, at least in that day and in that area. Uh and we had of course pastures and meadows and whatnot that we would put the cows out in. Inevitably There would be some time when a cow, well there there was the milk cows and there was calves and some heifers and whatnot there, and inevitably there would be some cows would get out of the fence They'd find maybe a w a strand that was loose somewhere and they'd get their head down underneath that and they'd push in underneath and they'd get out. Or maybe a a car would plow into one of the posts somewhere, knock a post down during the night. We didn't know it. Cows would get out. Part of my job as a hired hand on the farm was to uh make sure that the fences were secure. Are you listening? To make sure that the fences Are secure. That the cows can't get out. Because the cows have a tendency to wander If a tenancy, if you ever s if you ever drive by a uh a meadow or something, a pasture, there's a cow there, he's got a whole field of grass, and he's stretching his neck as hard as he can to get the grass on the other side of the fence. He's got a whole field there behind him. Anybody ever see that? That is us. And we j cows like humans often have a tendency to wander. In fact, we sing about it in one of our hymns. Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. My job, one of my jobs as a hired ham was to keep the meadow secure so the cows couldn't get out. We didn't do it flawlessly, but I felt like we did a pretty good job I'm here to tell you this morning, God keeps the meadow of salvation secure. It's secure. Though we have a tendency to wander, though we have a tendency to fail God, even as saved people, the meadow of salvation, the fence of God's security is secure. God keeps it. Now I want to show you from the Bible how this is true, this matter of eternal security. Why do people doubt their salvation? Why do people have an insecurity? about their salvation, sometimes even people who have genuinely trusted Christ. Well, sometimes people doubt their salvation or are insecure in their salvation because their faith is mixed with works In other words, some people believe that you have to be saved, but you also have to be baptized. That is faith plus works. That is not Bible salvation. You're here this morning and you're trusting in the fact that you were baptized, whether as an infant or as an adult, even as a Baptist, if you're trusting in the fact you were baptized for your salvation, I've got some horrific news for you. You are not saved. Baptism does not save a person. So it's not faith plus baptism, it's faith alone. So some people are insecure about their salvation because they never genuinely trusted Christ in the first place. Maybe they're trusting the fact, well I accepted Jesus Christ and I'm keeping the commandments. I trusted Jesus Christ and I attend church. I trusted Jesus Christ and I give money to missionaries It's not trusting Christ and something that saves us. It's trusting Christ, period, that saves us. And so that's a factor in making sure that I've genuinely been saved. Other people doubt their salvation, and this is what I've run into this past summer a few times. Were folks that I believe genuinely trusted Christ as Savior. They accepted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, but they were taught wrong. Maybe a preacher who does not understand salvation. Maybe a preacher does not know his Bible. And there's denominations out there that part of their doctrine is that you can lose your salvation. And they were taught this: that you accept Jesus Christ your Savior. You're saved by grace, but you have to live it, or you're going to lose it. How many folks have ever heard that? You've got to live it, or you've got to, or you're going to lose it. Listen, salvation is all of grace My works have no part in the salvation of my soul. Nobody gets to heaven because they lived it. The only way people get to heaven is because Jesus died, was buried, and rose again, and they trusted him as their personal Savior. And so there's a lot of there's a lot of uh confusion out there about that. And uh people are not sure. I think there are genuinely saved people who are in churches that teach they've got to live it or they're gonna lose it And they never have that security. They never get to the point where they say, Yes, praise Lord, I know I'm going to heaven with that. I'll never have to worry about that again And they go through their daily lives not really sure about whether they're actually going to make it or not. Now, when a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior genuinely and sincerely believes in the Lord Jesus Christ, their personal Savior, they are saved and God keeps them saved. They cannot lose that salvation. Now, this matter of eternal security, I'm going to make a few statements, then I want to give you what the Bible says, some clear teaching on what the Bible says. Number one, this was by way of introduction, the matter of eternal security, that I cannot lose my salvation, that is a vital truth That is important for a person to understand. I hope you'll have your Bible handy this morning. I hope you'll have a pen in hand. And maybe you'll be able to jot some of these things down. I think it will help you. And uh my experience has been I have never seen a Christian grow as God intends for them to grow in their Christian life. until they understand that they are safe, that they are secure. I've used this illustration before. And by the way, everything I'm saying this morning, I've said a hundred times over the years. But there's an illustration, I believe it was the Golden, um, is it the Golden Gate Bridge, the Golden Bridge out in California? What's it called? Home Gate Bridge. They say back whenever that was built years ago That when they first began building that, and I don't have the statistics in front of me here, when they first began building that, they had no safety net underneath. There was no security as far as the workers' safety was concerned While they're building that thing, and again, I don't have the figures here, but a great number of people, workers, fell to their death as they were building this bridge. There was no safety net there And so as you know they're going through and they decided we need to do something about this. And so they came up, they put a massive net underneath where all the workers were and they spread it out. That way if somebody would slip and fall They'd be caught in the net and they'd be okay. Now some people were concerned that because that safety net was there, the workers would get careless. And that they would actually see more people falling into the safety net because there was security there, that if it wasn't there, they'd be more careful. But you know what they found out to be true? When that safety net was in place, the workers could work much more confidently And they actually ended up with less people falling into the net than what fell before the net was there. You follow what I'm saying? So this matter of understanding the Bible teaching that I am secure, that God has me in his hands, I am safe, I'm not going to lose my salvation. My experience has been the people that understand that grow much stronger and serve the Lord much more effectively than those who think they're going to lose their salvation all the time. Follow what I'm saying? There's much more confidence there. There's much more security. So it's an important truth, and I hope we'll understand this. I put this down. It is a misunderstood truth. Um people say this, oh, you believe and once saved, always saved, that's a license to sin. They don't understand what eternal security is. In fact, a person, I'll go so far as to say, a person that says, well, if you believe once saved, always saved, that that's a license to sin, that person doesn't even understand what salvation is. Person, nobody gets saved so that they can sin. We get saved from sin. That's part of what we're being saved from. Not to sin, we're being saved from sin. Not just its judgment, not just its consequences. But we want to be cleansed from the sin. I've said this a thousand times. When I trusted Jesus Christ the Savior way back in 1979, I wasn't even thinking about heaven and hell I wanted to be saved from my sin that was destroying my life. The last thing in the world I want to do is go back to that or live in that sin. And so it's a very misunderstood truth. And many times there are some passages in Scripture, if you take them out of context. They appear to teach that a person can lose their salvation. But if you keep them in the context, they're given there very clearly. Not talking about the salvation of the soul. For instance, and I don't want to take a lot of time on this, maybe some other time, but in Matthew chapter 24, one verse they use often is this, that he that endureth unto the end shall be saved. Now say, see that? You've got to endure. You've got to live. You've got to live it out until the end. And then if you're living, you're right with God, then you'll go to heaven The problem with that verse is that passage is not talking about the soul's salvation. It's talking about the tribulation period. And God's physical judgment on the earth and those that survive the tribulation period, those that endure, will be physically survived, they'll be saved physically from the judgment that is taking place on the earth. It's not talking about individual soul salvation, and it's particularly directed at Israel. Again, in Hebrews chapter 6 and in chapter 10, there's references there that on the surface appears to say a person can lose their salvation. But if you look at the context, he's addressing Jewish people who never were saved in the first place. Jewish folks, Hebrews who had heard of the gospel, who had been convicted of their need of Christ And they rejected it and they w refused it is who's being addressed there. So this matter that a person can lose their salvation is a very important truth, this matter of eternal security, I should say. It's an important, vital truth. It's a misunderstood truth. And I hope that you'll uh give your attention to this here this morning. Here we go. Let's look at some verses And uh I want to uh uh uh give you why we believe, why we're absolutely convinced, and very clearly the Bible teaches that a saved person can never lose their salvation. By the way, let me throw this out here. I'm trying to go down through my list here real quick. Let me throw this here out. There's a world of difference believing in the world of difference in believing the facts of something. And trusting in something. You follow what I'm saying? It's one thing to believe something is true, it's another thing to be trusting in that. Let me illustrate what I'm trying to say. And again, I've used all these many, many times. Suppose you go to an airport. And you're standing at the gate and there's uh the planes out there and you got the little gate to go down the ramp and get on the plane. You've got your ticket in hand, everything's paid for, everything's taken care of, all you gotta do is get on that plane And it's gonna fly you to um where do you want to go? Colorado. You're gonna fly to Denver. So you got the ticket, it's all paid for, somebody else paid for it, they gave it to him, and you're gonna go, you're gonna fly the car. You stand there and somebody says, You believe that plane can fly you all the way to Colorado? The Denver airport out there? And you say, oh yeah, I believe it. I know it's I've seen planes fly and all that. I believe that that plane is able to fly me to Denver, Colorado Is that plane going to fly him? He can stand there all day long. But he's not going to make it to Denver until he does what? Gets on the plane! Believing the facts that that plane can fly me there is not going to get me to Denver. I've got to actually get on the plane and trust the plane, rely on the plane, depend on the plane. to get me there. See the difference? Now, I've got to believe it first of all, but once I know that's true, I'm I'm convinced that thing's true Then I'm going to trust it. I'm going to get in there. I'm going to sit down and I'm trusting that pilot and the equipment and all that. I'm depending on it, trusting it to get me to Denver. That's exactly what salvation is, except we're not going to Denver, we're going to heaven. And I know they say West Virginia is almost heaven. It still ain't heaven and Colorado ain't heaven. I've been in Denver. It ain't heaven. What are you saying? I'm saying this. A person can believe that Jesus died for them, was buried, and rose again. They can believe that Jesus can get them to heaven. They can believe those facts in their head all they want But they're never going to make it to heaven until they actually trust Jesus to get them there. See what I'm saying? Alright, I'm trusting that, I'm accepting, I'm putting my faith, my trunk, confidence, and trust in Jesus Christ And I'm trusting him to forgive all my sins. I'm trusting him to get me to heaven. So there's a difference between just believing facts in my head And trusting in Christ with my heart. With my heart. Depending, relying, depending on Christ to get me to heaven. And once I accept Jesus Christ, here's let me take that illustration another step farther. Suppose I get on that airplane And I sat down, seat belts on, they go through the rig and remote, and that plane starts taking off, and I grab around the seat in front of me and hold on for dear life. Does that make any difference in me getting to Denver or not? No, I don't have to hold on to anything What are you doing, sir? I'm holding on or I'm gonna fall and die. No, you don't have to. You don't have to do anything. The plane is doing it all. The pilot. We're doing everything. You just sit there and relax. We'll get you there Uh supposed to the guy in the back standard. What are you doing, sir? You gotta flap it or you lose it Doesn't work that way, does it? What do you do? You get on the plane and you do what? You relax. Just set out. The plane is doing the job. The Pilot is doing what needs to be done. When I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, spiritually I just sit down I relax. It's in Jesus' hands. He's the one getting me to heaven. He's the one keeping me. And I know that either the rapture or I wake up on the other side of death, I wake up, I'm in heaven. Because Jesus is getting there. I'm way ahead of myself on this message, but this is what I want to say. Jesus is the Savior. Jesus is who gets us to heaven. And Jesus never fails. Anybody here of a plane rack? Didn't make it to its destination, that plane will crash? Sure. But Jesus' plane never crashes. The salvation plane never crashes. He never ever fails. So just believing the facts. I may be talking to someone this morning, I don't know. that just had all the facts about salvation. You know Jesus died on the cross and rose again. You know there's a real heaven. There's a real hell. You know the only way to escape hell and go to heaven is by accepting Jesus as Savior. You know all those facts. You have all those facts in your head, but you've never actually trusted him And you ain't never going to make it to heaven, my friend. I hate to say that, but you've got to make the decision to accept him and trust him as your own personal savior. Now once we do that, we're safe and we're secure. Now here's where I want to real quickly in the time I've left, I want to give you some verses. Number one, I hope you'll write this one down Saved people have been born into the family of God. Saved people have been born in the family of God. Turn with me if you would in your Bibles to John chapter 3. John chapter 3. You have a fellow comes, the Lord Jesus Christ, his name's Nicodemus. He comes by night, for whatever reason. And he compliments the Lord. He's got some questions. He says in verse 2 of John chapter 3, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God, for no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. And Jesus, as his custom was, cuts right to the chase. He gets right to the point. And in verse 3 he says, Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be what Born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Now that really, Nicodemus didn't even ask the question. He simply made a mistake, but the Lord knew what was going on in his heart and mind, and so he says, Nicodemus, you need to be born again. If you don't get born again, you're not going to see the kingdom of God Well Nicodemus saith unto him, verse 4, how can a man be born when he's old? He says, What are you talking about? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born? He had no grasp as to what the Lord was talking about. Jesus answered, explains to him, he says, Verily, very last saying to thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. Now here's a question. Some people say, well, being born of the water and of the Spirit, that obviously means baptism. That does not mean baptism. There's no reference to baptism here at all. That's not even what's being talked about. So when Jesus says you must be born of water and of the Spirit, he explains in the next verse what he's talking about. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. And that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. When Jesus said in verse number 5, born of water and the Spirit, he said, listen, this is basically what the Lord was telling him. Listen, you've got to be born physically and spiritually. Be born of water. When a child is born, a woman's water breaks. And that which is flesh is flesh. He's saying, listen, there's a physical birth that takes place, and there's a spiritual birth that has to take place if a person is ever going to get into the kingdom of heaven. It's very simple. It's a pretty obvious truth. You've got to be born physically. Then once you're born physically, you must be born spiritually. And then he goes on and explains to him He said, that which is born of the flesh is flesh, verse 6, that which is born of spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I say unto thee, ye must be born again. Salvation is a spiritual birth into the family of God. The moment a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, they are born spiritually. They immediately become a part of the family of God. They become a child of God. And so, I have two boys. We were down in Tennessee, as I said. We saw Daniel, another son lives out in Missouri, Samuel. Both those boys were born to Kathy and I. They're born into the family of leathermen. Is there anything, let me ask you this, is there anything those boys could possibly do? To cease being my child. Nothing. You say, preacher, they've got to obey you perfectly, or they will no longer be your child. Now, they obeyed us perfectly. No. You cannot be unborn, right? You cannot cease being someone's child. And when a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, I am born into the family of God. I am now a child of God. Somebody says, oh, but preacher, you're wrong. Everybody's the child of God. No, everybody ain't a child of God. Until a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, they are outside the family of God. They are unsaved. They are not one of God's children. When I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, there's other references through Scripture that refer to the new birth and being born of incorruptible seed, Peter talks about. And so a child can never be unborn. No matter what he does or does not do, no matter what I do, I cannot cease to be the child of God. I was born into his family. I'm his child. We'll come back to that and touch on that here in a minute. So number one, a saved person cannot lose their salvation, first of all, because they're born into the family of God. It's impossible to be unborn It's impossible to get outside of that family no matter what I do. Number two, jot this one down. I like this one. A saved per a lost person never has been saved. A lost person never has been saved. If you would, turn with me to Matthew, chapter number seven. Matthew chapter 7. He's addressing the Pharisees here, and they thought they were pretty good and they were doing this and doing that and they weren't doing this and they weren't doing that and they thought they had all their ducks in a row. And the Lord comes along and he says, Listen, you're deceiving yourself. Look at verse number 21 of Matthew chapter 7. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. If you reference this in the margin there, John 6. 40, where the will of God is to believe on him uh whom God sent, the Lord Jesus Christ, the will of God is to get saved, is talking about there. But many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done? Many wonderful works. They sound pretty good. Look at verse number 23. Then will I profess unto them, I, what's that next word? I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. These people here in verse number 22 were not saved people that lost their salvation. These are people who were never saved in the first place. I never knew you. He doesn't say, I knew you, then I didn't know you, now I'll know you again. Because I never knew you. You never were saved in the first place. All these good works and all this lifestyle you live, you never got saved. You never did the will of God in the first place by trusting Christ as Savior. I never knew you If a person dies and goes to hell, it's not because they were saved and lost their salvation. It's because they never got saved in the first place. I never knew you. So, number one, saved people have been born into the family of God. It's impossible to be unborn out of God's family. Number two, lost people never have been saved. There's no indication anywhere that a saved person loses their salvation and needs to get saved again. Number three, jot this down. It is not God's will that a saved person should be lost. It is not God's will that a saved person should be lost. Come with me back, if you would, to John again, the Gospel of John, this time chapter 6. Now the Lord's very very clear in this passage. John chapter six. And I want to begin reading in verse number 37. John chapter 6 and in verse number 37. Notice what the Bible says. And I have this underlined in my Bible. All that the Father giveth to me, all that the Father giveth me shall come to me. And him that cometh to me, look at this next phrase. I will in no wise cast out. I put in the margin of my Bible, once in, you can't get out. All that the Father giveth to me, shall that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me in faith, trusting me, I will in nowise. What's that phrase no-wise mean? Under no circumstances at all for any reason. I am not going to throw them out. Now read on. For I came down, this is Jesus speaking, for I came down from heaven not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me. And this is the Father's will. Jesus says, I can't. I'm not doing my thing. I'm doing God's thing. I'm doing God's will. And this is what his will is. Which he has sent me, that of all which he hath given me, I should lose nothing. But should raise it up again the last day. This is the will of him that sent me, that everyone which seeth the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life, and I will raise him up at the last day. Do you catch that in verse 36? That of all which he hath given me, all the people that have believed on Christ, God has given them to Christ. All the believers that trust Jesus Christ Savior, He's given them to Christ. And that Jesus says, I should lose nothing. According to verse 6, if someone loses their salvation, who is it that's losing it for them? Look at verse 39. I'm sorry. Who is it that's los if they're losing their salvation, who is it that's losing it? It would be Jesus losing it And he says, I should lose nothing. In other words, my salvation is dependent upon Jesus doing the will of God. Are you following me here? How many folks are with me? Say amen. How many folks are not with me? Stay asleep. Jesus is saying, everyone that believes in me, God gives them to me, so to speak. And of all that God gives to me, I will not lose one of them. I'm not going to cast them out. I will not lose any of them, but I will raise them up in the last day. This whole passage is very clearly telling us that our salvation, the security of our salvation, is not based upon us not losing it. It is based upon Jesus not losing it. And I remind you again Jesus never fails. He's not going to disobey God. He's not going to fail God. My salvation is in Christ's hands and it is secure. It is safe. And so, it is not God's will that a saved person should be lost, and Jesus is not going to fail God. Um, if Jesus lost one believer, Could we say that he was doing God's will? No, because it says that his will that I not lose one of them. So if one person lost their salvation, Jesus would have failed God completely. So when people flippantly say to you, listen to me, when people flippantly say, and just off-handed say, well you gotta live it or you gotta lose it, They very clearly do not understand the role of Jesus Christ in a person's salvation. It is Jesus Christ that saves. It is Jesus Christ that keeps us saved. And so we cannot just throw things out. Well, they lost it. Well, I used to be saved, but I lost it. Do you realize what you're saying about Jesus Christ when you say that? You're saying Jesus Christ failed God the Father? That's blasphemy, my friend We are secure in Christ. It cannot be lost. If one person lost their salvation, Jesus failed God, He is no longer qualified to be the Savior, and everybody is lost. In fact, I'd go so far to say this: if one person loses their salvation, then we've all lost it and we're all doomed. Because our salvation is dependent upon the integrity of Jesus Christ Not on our integrity. And so we the Bible very clearly teaches that when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I am safe, I am secure, I am in the hands of God. and Jesus will never ever fail me. Let me give you another one. What's this? Number four? This one's so simple it's it's staggering. A saved person has eternal life. Come back to John chapter 3. Here it is, the golden verse of the Bible, John 3. 16. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have what? Everlasting life. Let me ask you a question. If something is everlasting, how long does it last? Forever God gives me, when I accept Jesus Christ, when I believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, God, I'm not going to perish. We'll touch on that in a moment. And God gives to me as a gift, the gift of God is eternal life, everlasting life. Life that lasts forever. Notice what this verse does not say. It does not say, for God sold the world, gave his only begotten son, and whosoever believed in him should not perish, but have probationary life. Anybody ever here, well, don't raise your hand, I would venture to say there's probably some folks here that at some point in your life you've been on probation. Don't raise your hand. Um, what is probation? You've got to live it or you're gonna Lose it. You go to jail, they say, all right, we're going to let you out on probation for six months. You mess up, you're back in jail. It's a probationary period. You've got to prove yourself worthy to be left out. That is not what God says going to heaven is like. God doesn't say, all right, I'm going to save you from hell, but you've got to live it, or I'll send you right back. It's not what the Bible says. It doesn't say I'll give them probationary life. It doesn't say, for God so loved the world and gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him should not perish but have temporary life. Doesn't last for a little while. Oh, you messed up, sorry. That would be temporary. If I was saved, God gave me everlasting life, and 25 years down the road I messed up. And I lost it, it wasn't everlasting life. It was temporary life. Are you with me? I mean people say that's pretty obvious. Sure. So when a person flippantly says, well, you've got to live it or you're going to lose it, they are completely undercutting one of the keywords of salvation everlasting. You've got to completely redefine that word If you're going to teach that a person can lose their salvation, you've got to explain away the word eternal, the concept of eternal. The concept of everlasting, if you want to say a person loses their salvation, you've got to completely redefine those concepts. Because they are repeatedly associated with our salvation. Everlasting life, eternal life. You can't get around that. So when a preacher preaches that a person has to live it or they'll lose it, They are just simply saying, I don't understand what everlasting is. I don't understand what eternal is. Or they're saying, I'm just going to completely redefine that whole concept. Because the two cannot go hand in hand. By the way, either the Bible's right or man's right, I'm going with the Bible. Alright? So a believer has eternal life. We can give scores of birds and night. Let me give you another one real quick. I like this one. A saved person is in Christ. Turn with me if you would to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And notice with me, if you would, verse twenty-one. Again, this is a Key verse in this matter of salvation, a good verse to underline, a good verse to memorize. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21. For he, God, hath made him, Jesus, to be sinned for us. In other words, when Jesus is on that cross, he took all our sin and he took responsibility for our sin. He took all responsibility for all our sinful actions. Isn't that an amazing thought? Who knew no sin? Jesus didn't know any sin. He never committed sin, but he took responsibility for our sin. Look at this. That we might be made the righteousness of God. What's those last two words? In Him. In other words, God is saying this: when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, Jesus Christ takes responsibility for all my sins, all my failures. And he gives to me, he puts on my account all the righteousness and goodness and purity of Jesus Christ. I am in Christ. In other words, and there's other passages along these lines, when God sees a saved person, we got uh Ken here, Ken Spranza. When God sees Ken Spranza as a saved man. He sees all the righteousness of Jesus Christ. He is in Christ. When God sees friends, and from God's perspective, When he sees skin spraying, so he sees a man who is good and pure and holy and as righteous and as sinless as Jesus Christ the Son of God He's in Christ. Karen says, who in the world are you talking about? That's not that's not how he practically lives his life, trust me. But um I'm teasing But that's how God sees him. He is positionally in Christ. And God sees him. And every saved person I am in Christ. I'm secure. It's not how I live my life that determines whether God accepts me or not. It's whether I'm in Christ or not. If I'm trusting Christ and I'm in Christ, then God sees me as Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ takes all the responsibility for my sin. Am I making sense? You follow what the Bible clearly teaches here. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 5 and 6 says that we're seated in heavenly places. As far as God's concerned, the same person's already in heaven. As far as God's concerned, we are as secure, we are as sure of being in heaven someday as if we were already there. It is that certain. It is that we are that we can be that confident that I'm going to heaven as if I'm already there. My wife calls me up, she goes, where you at? I said I'm at church. How do you know you're there? Uh I'm here. Well that's the way we are, except we're not there yet, but as far as God's concerned, we're already there. It's that certain. You follow what I'm saying? How do you know you're going to heaven? Because God said I'm already there. As far as he's concerned. You go back before the beginning of time, and God knew that Dennis Leatherman on May 7, 1979, at 10:30 at night, would accept Jesus Christ as Savior. As far as God was concerned, he's already there Because he knew that I was going to make that decision to trust Christ. We are secure. Do you see what I'm trying to say? That when a person says you can lose your salvation, do you see all the Bible truths that have to be altered? All the clear statements that have to be redefined for that for that statement to be true. A saved person is in Christ. I am in Christ as a saved man, and if you've trusted Christ saved it, you are in Christ as much as Noah was in the ark. When Noah went in that art, how many people know the story of Noah? Alright. When Noah went in that art, did he have to hang on while he was in there? No. Uh did he have to doggy paddle? No. Uh what did Noah have to do? Just alright, he built a boat. He did all that. Then he got into it, and the judgment came, and he got into the ark. Uh what do you do? Just be in it. And by the way, the Bible says God closed the door. You know what that says to me? He couldn't have gotten out if he wanted to. Now, why in the world would he want to? But it was the he was in the ark. He was safe. He said, You or I are in Christ. All Noah had to do was get in the boat. Once he's in, he's fine. No more danger, no more fear, no more threat. He's safe in the ark. And when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm in Christ. No more fear, no more dread, no more danger. I'm safe and secure. It was the Ark that saved Noah, and it is Christ that saves you and I from hell. The Ark saved Noah from the flood, it's Christ that saves you and I from hell. Let me give you a couple more real quick, I'm running out of time. Number six And we won't have time to turn to all these references. A saved person is sealed by the Holy Spirit. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 13, and Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 30. The Bible says that a believer is sealed by the Holy Spirit. The moment I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit seals me until the day of redemption. In fact, let's real quickly, we've got a minute or two, turn over there to Ephesians, would you? And look at chapter 4. And verse number thirty Ephesians 4. 30. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Now, what does he mean that we are sealed by the Holy Spirit? It's the same idea, and I've used this a hundred times over the years, the same idea. How many folks this past fall you canned some vegetables? Anybody here canned vegetables? Green beans? Something like that. You can them and you heat them up and you go through the process and you put that little uh lid on there and it's hot and as that cools you wait for that lid to do what? You're waiting for something Waiting for it to seal, and you know it's sealed when you hear a pop. It's sealed. See, I can do all kinds of things you didn't know about. And those those green beans are good. You don't have to worry about them going bad. They're sealed. They're up. They're good. They'll last a long time. The Bible says when a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit of God, in fact, the night I got saved, I heard this No, not really. But the Holy Spirit of God seals that person. I I told a guy this, it was a Seventh-day Adventist fellows. We were talking about this and I I used that illustration. He goes, Oh yeah, but you can break that seal. I said, what's that verse say? Sealed until I break it. No, that's not what it says. Sealed unto the Day of redemption. I said, when's the day of redemption? He says, that's when the rapture takes place, when we're redeemed up out of here. I said, now the Holy Spirit promises that he will seal the believer. They cannot lose their salvation until the day of redemption, until the day that we go into the presence of God. Why would it be until that point? Why does he say until the day of redemption? Because the day of redemption, we get our glorified bodies. We no longer have a sinful nature. There's no danger of us messing up. But as long as there's the reality of you and I messing up, we will. And the Holy Spirit of God keeps us sealed, keeps us saved until that day, then he doesn't have to seal us anymore because we can't mess up. We can't do anything from that point on that would disqualify us. You see what I'm saying? I'm sealed. You're sealed. Every time you get those green beans out, and you get them out, and they've made them last summer or maybe last year, just stop and say, praise God, I'm sealed and safe by the Holy Spirit of God. Can't lose it. We can't lose it. The Holy Spirit seals us. Let me give you others very, very quickly. Number next, a saved person's kept by the power of God. 1 Peter 1, 3 through 5. The power of God keeps us, not our power, not our determination, not our discipline, not our integrity, not our lifestyle. It's not what keeps me saved. It's the power of God that keeps me saved. Number eight, a saved person's name is in the book of life. Revelation 17:8 says, From before the foundation of the world our name was in the book of life. Doesn't mean that God chose us to be saved. It means that God knew when we would get saved. He already had it there. Salvation is not a temporal thing, it's an eternal thing. And then the last one, and this is the one that steals it for me. This is all these are just so clear, but John chapter 6, our text for this morning, we all read it together. Jesus answering said unto them, I give unto them eternal life. And they, let me make sure I read it correctly. John ten twenty-eight. And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish If we didn't have any other verses in the Bible, if we didn't have any of these others we look at, and there's scores more that we could go to. If we didn't have any of them, if all we had was this one statement by Jesus Christ, I give unto them eternal life. And they shall never perish. Perish means die and go to hell. If that's all we had, we would have enough to know I can never ever lose my salvation. Never perish. That word never is a fascinating word. The word we get our English word from is a fascinating word. There is no stronger word in all language That expresses the fact that something cannot happen. Here's the idea. It's broken down, and I'll just give you the summary of what that word never implies. Not at all, by any means, in any case, at any place, at any time, for any purpose, whether male or female, perpetually and eternally ever. Says it's not going to happen under any circumstances in any period of time applying to any person This is not going to happen. There is no stronger way to express the fact that something is not going to happen. He says, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never, under any circumstances, At all for any reason in any place, male or female, perpetually and forever, they will not perish. Now that's just not coincidence that he used that word. That was deliberate. God wants us to understand that when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I am safe, I am secure for eternity. In fact, all through scripture, the word saved is always past tense. It's never been saved. It's never going to. It's past tense. S-A-V-E-D. It's already happened. It's already done. It's already settled. Paul says, I am saved. Past tense. If he was still a chance of going to hell, he couldn't say he was saved. Suppose a person's drowning. Suppose this is land up here. This is all Deep Creek Lake out here. And I'm up here on land. Um suppose I'm out here fishing. Chuck and I are fishing. I'm catching him, he isn't. And also we look out and help save me help and we look out and somebody fell off the boat and the boat left, didn't realize they fell out, and they can't swim and they're drowning out there. Oh save me. They're calling us, looking us, trusting us to save them. Good night, Chuck. They're drowning. We gotta do something. Alright, Chuck says, I've got a book on how to swim. I'll get it. He grabs it. Hey, here's a book, how to swim. Question, are they saved? No. And by the way, people church is full of unsaved people and the preachers telling them how to live a Christian life, they ain't getting saved. Right? Here's how to swim. Shh. Done do a bit of good. Chuck says, I know what to do. I'll go in there. He dives in. Can you swim, Chuck? Good. Uh he dies in. Shh shh shh. He gets out there beside the person. He says, All right, you do what I do. Just follow my example. Shh. Come on. Is that person gonna is that person saved? They're gonna drown. They can't follow his example. They can't read the book How to Be How to Swim. So I said, Chuck, you knucklehead, get back here. I dive in. I swim out there. I grab him. Flip them over on their back, get their head above water, and I start paddling back. And I've got them up there. And we get halfway back and the guy, oh thank you, man. I was scared. I was so scared. Blankety blank and he cusses. Question, is that guy saved? Not yet. He cannot, at no point can that person say, I'm saved, until he's on shore. He cusses. I said man don't talk like that, alright? Listen, we need to get you to short Get him up on short. Thanks, man. I'm saved. Follow what I'm saying? If I could lose my salvation, and Jesus is my Savior, and Jesus is saving me from drowning, and I do something stupid as a Christian, and Jesus says, whoop. Can I say I'm saved? No. I couldn't use the past tense term. Oh Lord, I'm sorry I didn't mean to say that, God, please forgive me. All right. I wouldn't know whether I'm saved or not until I made it to shore. But all through the Bible, the term saved is past tense. It's already happened. None of us are on shore yet. Physically, we're not there yet. But the Bible says we're saved past tense. You know why that you know what that means? That means we're going to make it We can't lose it. Jesus is going to get us there. And you say, well, what if I sin after I got saved? Question isn't what if you sin after you get saved? You are going to sin. Any man says he doesn't sin, he's it doesn't sin, he's a liar, the Bible says. You say, Well what about that? Has no effect on whether I get to heaven or not, and has no effect on whether I'm saved or not, but it does have effect whether I'm in fellowship with God or not. Remember was it last week we talked about God chastening the sin in the Christian? After I'm saved. And I'd sinned, I deliberately sinned. God's going to chase me. He's going to discipline me. He's going to try and correct me. He's going to do everything he can to get me to submit, repent of that sin and correct me. But he is not going to send me to hell. Let me come back to my boys, and I've got to quit. I jokingly said our boys always did everything I told them to. Really they did. They really did. Sometimes, more often I care to admit, they did things they were not supposed to do Now we had a little process we went through for discipline. And we just say this, we exercised biblical discipline as taught in Proverbs. Wait a little process. We'd ask them make sure they knew what they did wrong, make sure they understood it was wrong We told them why we were disciplining them. The Bible told us we loved them. We didn't want them to live this way. We wanted to correct their behavior, so it won't happen. And we administered the Board of Education to the seat of learning. But they never ceased being our boys. We did discipline them. But I never got a gun out and put at their head and pulled the trigger and shot and killed them How many people agree? That would be ridiculous. That would be hateful to do that. But that's the very same thing people are saying when they say if you get saved, then God will send a saved person to hell if they don't live right. God disciplines us. He corrects us. He chastens us. Absolutely. In fact, if a person isn't with discipline, then that person's probably not saved. In fact, they're not saved. But God doesn't send them to hell for peace's sake. He doesn't send his child to hell because he failed to live up to the standard. That's what Jesus Christ did for us. So God will correct us, He will discipline us, but He's not going to send us to hell. How many people are glad? I took a long time and I hope this was helpful. Because understanding that God not only saves me from sin in hell, but he keeps me from sin in hell is vitally, vitally important. And if you've accepted Christ as Savior, you don't have to go around hoping and thinking, and oh, I hope I live it good enough. I hope God will accept me in the end. No, no, no. You're already accepted in Christ. Now live. Live right, do right, just out of love for God. But don't want to go around fearful. And if you're here this morning, And you've never accepted Jesus Christ, it is vitally important you accept Christ. Because you are under the judgment of God right now. All you need is for your heart to stop beating. You'll die and go to hell. That's Bible. You need to accept Christ as Savior. Then those of us that have, let's live for Him because we love Him. We rejoice in what He's done for us. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless and help us. I trust, Lord, that this feeble attempt at this great truth would be helpful to many, many people. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I'm saved, I know I'm saved? I'm glad that I cannot lose my salvation, but I'm not living for the Lord like I should as a Christian, and I need to straighten that up. I need to turn that around. God's been so good to me, and I want to live for Him And I want to be the kind of Christian he saved me to be. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, I just want to live for God like I should. I need help. I need some my Christian life needs attention. How about it? Hands up. God bless you all around. All around As there's some this morning say, Preacher, you know I know I trusted Christ, and I always was fearful that maybe I wasn't living good enough as a Christian. That I might lose it. And you say this morning, I'm going to accept by faith the promise of God. I can never lose my salvation. And I'm going to go on and live for him because I love him, not out of fear of losing what I have. Is there any like that Preacher, pray for me. That's what I want. God bless you. A couple hands. God bless you. Secure and safe in Christ. Is there any this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved? I'm not saved. I need to settle that. I need to get that matter taken care of. Pray for me that God would help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I've got to get that settled. I gotta make that right. Any at all? How about it? Any at all? Father, bless our invitation. I went a little long, Lord, please speak to our hearts and help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together