Corinthians chapter number nine. You're getting these these great jokes on even on Christmas Day. How about that? Verse number fifteen is my text for this morning. First Corinthians 2 Corinthians chapter 9, verse number 15. You've got it there. I'd like for us to read this together in unison, if you would. Verse number 15. Everybody have it? Ready? Let's read it together. Here we go. Thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift. I think I saw about every hand went up. You opened a present this morning. I want to speak this morning on the greatest gift that was ever given. The greatest gift ever given. God's unspeakable gift. Let's pray together, ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, we thank you for this Christmas day. We celebrate the birth of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Lord, you became a man. You became one of us. And you were tempted in all points, just as we are, yet without sin. And then as that sinless, perfect, holy Son of God. Lord, you gave yourself on that cross to be judged for our sins, to be our substitute. Lord, the fact that you rose again and you're at the right hand of the Father now is undeniable evidence that the price has been paid. And that your holiness has been satisfied. And we come to you this morning in the name of Jesus Christ, not in our own righteousness, we have none. We come to you in the name of Jesus Christ and we thank you. And I ask now that your presence would be here in this service I pray that you would speak to our hearts and challenge us and Lord change our lives and we'd be more like Christ. Lord, if there's any either in the service or tuned in that do not know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, Father, if today is just a holiday And Jesus is just the name. I pray that today that would change and it would be a relationship would be established. Between the sinner and a savior. So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart this morning, I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. Dear God, you speak through me and have your way. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. I believe I believe One of the fundamental characteristics, maybe the fundamental characteristic of Christmas is that of giving. is that of giving. Uh we save money up all year long. Put some money up so that we can buy gifts and give them at Christmas. Giving. I believe a fundamental characteristic of Christianity is that of giving. God giving himself as a sacrifice for our sins. God giving his son. Of course, say it with me, John 3. 16, altogether. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Would you agree with me? Christianity begins with giving. God giving His Son for us. It's a fundamental characteristic of this day we celebrate, the birth of Christ, God giving Jesus Christ. It's a fundamental characteristic of Christianity, God giving man a Savior, God giving sinners an opportunity to be forgiven. To have eternal life, to have purpose and meaning beyond the material things of this world, but to be able to live for something above and beyond just what we see and feel And then to have eternal life in the presence of God for all eternity. What an unspeakable gift God has given to us. Giving. And in response, we give ourselves back to Him. We give ourselves to God. He gave us His Son. We believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. He forgives us, saves us. miraculously transforms us into a child of God. And we in response, out of gratitude and love to the Lord, we give ourselves back to Him Paul in Romans chapter number 12, he pled with the believers in Rome, those Christians in the city of Rome as he wrote to them That great epistle, Romans, he wrote, and in chapter 12, he pled with them that they would present themselves back to God as a gift to God. He says, I beseech you therefore, brethren. By the mercies of God that ye present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God. And then he says this, it's your reasonable service. Anybody here ever get a Christmas card for someone and you forgot to get them a Christmas card and you felt kind of obligated, I need to get one and get them a Christmas card. Come on now, be honest, it's Christmas Day Or somebody gave you a gift and it's like, good night, I didn't get them one. You slip out, you run to sheets, get something, and you come back and give it to them. When someone gives us something, when someone is generous to us, Our natural response, the decent thing to do, the reasonable thing to do, is to give ourselves back, to give back. Amen or not? God gave us the most amazing gift, the greatest gift ever, Jesus Christ And we trust Him and we receive that gift by faith, and God forgives us and saves us, gives us eternal life. And we in response say, Lord, I give myself back to you I give myself to you. For me, it was August 25th, 1985, and I mention this occasionally here. Down at the Highland Park Baptist Church in Chattanooga, Tennessee, at the altar on a Sunday night, God had been dealing with my heart, and I was saved, and I was trying to live for him, and I was preaching and serving I traveled as an evangelist that summer, but I was holding on to my life and my plans and my will. And I wanted to serve God, but I wanted to serve him my way And I wanted to live for God, but I wanted to live for Him my way. That night God got a hold of my heart. And now at that old altar, and I say, God, I just give myself back to you It's not my way or my will, go where it's your way and your will for my life here out God gave to us such a tremendous gift, and we give back to him ourselves, ourselves. And then also we give ourselves to one another Over and over through the New Testament, we find the Bible saying that we are to serve one another, to love one another, to exhort one another. As we give ourselves to the Lord in love and gratitude for what he's done for us, that spills over into our relationship with others, and then we love and give and give of ourselves to others. Greatest gift ever given. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a lot of things that folks do for other people I'm grateful for everyone. I'm grateful for the veterans out on the field today serving our country on Christmas Day. We're very grateful for that. Amen or not? We're grateful for the healthcare providers and the EMTs and the folks make things possible out in the cold and giving themselves and we're grateful for that and that's a wonderful thing But I'll tell you the greatest thing a person can give their life to is to give our life to the Lord in bringing others to the Lord Jesus Christ. This morning as I was having my devotions, I thought of our missionaries off on the foreign fields. Many of them away from families in foreign countries and strange cultures. I thought of the Kellys there, over where they're at, and a very difficult, very dangerous uh place with all those girls. And they're sell celebrating Christmas away from home on a foreign field for one reason and one reason alone So that God can use them to bring others to Jesus Christ. What a gift to give back to God. And so God has given to us his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, and we give ourselves back to him and to others to be a help and a blessing to others. Our passage here that Pastor Matt wrote is about giving. The whole context here is giving Back in uh earlier in chapter 9, back in chapter 8, and then through chapter 9, he's writing to this church that's in the city of Corinth was the name of the city And there was a church of believers that Paul had won to Christ, and he had organized this church, established it, and then he had moved on on his missionary journey. Now he's writing back to them. And they had made some commitments at a previous time. They had made some commitments, and it's what we would call in our day, now that term isn't used here, but what we might call our faith promise given. They had made some commitments to support Paul and others that were taking the gospel to the unsaved. And Paul was writing back to them in response to that commitment And he's first of all thanking them for making that commitment. And he's encouraging them, he's commending them for that commitment. But there's something about the Corinthian believers that Paul was a little, my impression is, he was a little uncertain maybe about is whether they would follow through with that commitment. And he's writing back and he's urging them and encouraging them to say, listen, you made this promise, you made this commitment to support these people. Now you need to carry through with that. You need to follow through and make sure you actually do it. If you would, look there in chapter 8, just real quickly with me. And verse number eleven, he states it pretty clearly. You can get the gist of what he's saying. Chapter 8, verse 9, or verse 11, he says, now therefore perform the doing of it, your commitment. your promise, perform the doing of it, that as there was a readiness to will, boy, you were right on the ball. You were ready to make that commitment. You were ready to promise that So there may be a performance also out of that which he has. So Paul maybe, implies to me, he's a little concerned about their character. It's one thing to say I'll do something. It's something else to follow through and actually do it. Now if you agree with me, the doing of something is often harder than the promising of something I have a little placard on my uh desk, just a reminder to me on a daily basis, and um uh Betty Gallagher folds our bulletins for us on Sunday morning. She always comes in the office there, talks to me a little bit, and she always knocks it over. And uh, but anyway, that has nothing to do with Christmas, but uh she always comments on that. But anyway The little placard says this, and it's a reminder to me. It says this, good intentions make promises. Good character keeps promises. Anybody in the world can make a promise, right or wrong. Anybody in the world say, oh, I'll do this, or I'm going to do that, or I won't do this, or I'm going to do that. Promising things is easy squeezy. But performing it, carrying through and doing what we promise, that is where character is required And Paul's writing to them, and he's writing to them about giving in general. And he builds on that idea that they had made this promise, now they need to follow through. And he builds on that and he urges them to give. Notice there, Pastor Matt read it earlier in ch uh verse 6 of chapter 9. He says, This I say, he which soweth sparingly reap also sparingly. He which soweth bountifully reaps bountifully. Every man is according as he purposed in his heart, and so let him give, not grudgingly of necessity, for God loveth a cheerful giver. And he goes on down through there, and he's urging them and encouraging them in this matter of following through and giving. It's a fundamental characteristic of Christianity to give of ourselves. It's the fundamental characteristic of Christmas to give of ourselves. And then on the last verse of the chapter, verse 15, which we read together a few moments ago, he brings it all together. And he's telling them the basis of our giving of ourselves to the Lord and to others, the basis of all of that. Is God's great gift to us. And He's in so many words, he's saying this: God has given us such an unspeakable gift How can we not give of ourselves to the Lord? Now uh to me The most selfish person. How many people here ever met a selfish person? Anybody ever meet a self-man there. Do you ever walk away and say, man, they are so selfish? Anybody say that? Um I won't ask how many of us have ever been selfish. We don't talk about that. But uh others. And uh I'll tell you who I believe is the most selfish person in the world. A hands down in my mind is the person who will receive Jesus Christ as Savior, receive this gift of forgiveness, eternal life, salvation from hell Purpose and meaning, receive all of that from God, and then not live for God one day. And not give God one day back in appreciation. The natural, the only reasonable response to God's great gift is to give myself back to the Lord. Give myself back to the Lord. He saved us. And so Paul's writing to them and he and he's laying the basis of their giving. He's saying we give generously to the Lord and to one another because God has given so generously to us. Now let's take a few moments, real quick, and let's look at this verse number 15 Thanks be to God for his unspeakable gift. I want to first of all consider the glory of this gift that God has given us. Thanks be to God for his unspeakable gift. What is this gift that Paul is talking about? What is this gift Paul is referencing? Somebody talk to me. What is this gift? It's Jesus Christ, none other than Jesus Christ. God has given to you and I his Son to be our personal Savior. To be our guide in life, to be our protector, our provider. He has given to us That opportunity. The glory of this gift is none other than Jesus Christ, God's gift to man. Most people that I come across, I've been doing this for a little while now. And uh I say most. Let me say many people that I come across have this idea about Jesus Christ and about salvation. They have this idea, I have to earn my salvation. I have to do something that's good enough. I have to live a certain lifestyle. I have to avoid certain things and make sure I perform certain things. If God is ever going to accept me, I must earn. I must merit my salvation. Something I have to do so that God is obligated to accept me and give me eternal life. That is unscriptural. Salvation is not earned. God does not accept us based upon our performance. God accepts us in the person of Jesus Christ. What a glorious gift. What a glorious gift God has given. People believe we must live up to a certain standard before we can ever be accepted by God. Now let me say this, God does have a standard. Our God is a holy God, and that's forgotten in much of Christianity. And that little babe lying in a manger, and we sing about, oh holy night, that was a holy child of God. And God is holy, completely separate from sin, cannot tolerate, cannot uh uh pass over. Uh he is holy, he cannot tolerate sin. Perfectly holy. And the only standard of acceptability to our holy God is perfect holiness. The tragedy of it is none of us have that perfect holiness. None of us can live up to that standard that a holy God requires. And so God gave his son. We talk of the death and burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ, and so we should. That's the gospel But I want to remind you the life of Jesus Christ, that 33 and a half years that he lived here on earth, that has a role to play in our salvation also. In other words, Jesus kept God's law perfectly. Jesus fulfilled the requirements, the standard that God requires. Jesus fulfilled that perfectly in how he lived his life for you and I. Then he died on the cross to take away the sins that we've committed. You follow what I'm saying? The positive and negative aspects of God's requirement. He requires holiness. Jesus says, I'm holy for him. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, 21, it says that he hath made him, Jesus, to be sin for us. That we might be made the righteousness of God in him. How many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. Do you know the moment you trusted Christ, the righteousness of Jesus Christ was put to your account, and when God sees you, He sees you as holy and sinless and perfect and righteous as His Son Jesus Christ. Say, preacher, I know me, I ain't that way. No, we ain't that way, but that's how what our standing before God is So God gave us this gift. God does have a standard. God does have a standard of acceptability. But Jesus Christ met that for us. That's the glory of this gift of Christmas. That Jesus Christ met that standard for us. God offers us the gift of His Son to satisfy this demand of God on our behalf. Jesus is a gift. Salvation is a gift. Forgiveness is a gift. Eternal life is a gift. It's not something we earn, it's not something we purchase. It's a gift given to us by God, and it's Jesus Christ a number of years ago. Uh I was out with Brother Jerry Vogel. How many folks remember Brother Jerry Vogel, worker here here many years, faithful. She lives down south now. And um We were out knocking on doors, I think it was one Thursday night in summertime, and we were out on the backside of Krelin back there, back snowy creek, cross the creek up in there And we were just going door to door. We'd pull in and knock and talk to people and went to another one. We finally got to this one house, knocked on the door, a man came out. He had like a screened in porch there, Airy. He said, Come on in, sit down. He's by himself, an older man. And uh we got talking, introduced ourselves a little bit, and he thanked us for coming by, just friendly, welcome as can be. And I asked him the question we always ask. We talked about church and different stuff, and he said, yeah, he goes a little bit. I asked him this question. I said, sir, let me ask you this. You died tonight, God forbid, but if you died tonight, you know for sure you'd go to heaven, not to hell? Began to weep a little bit and he said, my wife just died a few months ago. She is he said she was the best Christian I've ever known. He says she was in heaven, and before she died, I promised her that I would do whatever I needed to do to be able to be with her someday in heaven. He goes, I don't know, I'm going to heaven, but I'm trying. I'm trying to do everything I can so I can be my with my wife again in heaven. I said, sir, there's nothing you can do to get yourself to heaven. He said, what do you mean? I said, there's nothing you can do. You're a sinner. I'm a sinner I said, but the Bible tells us it's already been done for you. I explained to him the gospel, how Jesus died for us and rose again. And I said, sir, going to heaven, having eternal life is a gift that God offers you. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God Is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And I said, God offers you that gift. And I said, I have no doubt in my mind. God sent Brother Jerry and I by your house this evening So we can tell you about this gift that God has to offer you. And with an open Bible, he bowed his head and received that gift, the Lord Jesus Christ, by faith. The glory of this gift is Jesus Christ. The greatest gift ever given is Jesus Christ. The difference between biblical Christianity and all other religions is biblical Christianity, salvation is a gift A gift. It's not something to be earned. It's not something to be purchased. You can't give enough money to buy this gift You can't work hard enough for it. If you had 10,000 lifetimes, you could not live good enough to earn the favor of a holy God. God gives us a gift. What a glorious gift, Jesus Christ. Second thing I notice here in verse number 15, not just the glory of this gift. But the greatness of this gift. Notice what he says. Thanks be to God for his. What's that next word? Talk to me now. Unspeakable gift. Now I don't know what you think of when you hear that word unspeakable. Say, oh, we can't speak about that. That's not the idea here. It means this. We might use a term something like this, indescribable This gift is so glorious that words fail to adequately express Who all that Jesus Christ is, beyond the ability to describe. There's no way a preacher could preach a hundred 50,000 sermons on Jesus Christ and still not say everything there should be said about Jesus Christ. He's indescribable. He's unspeakable. The greatness of this gift. Hey, there's a lot of, there's many good gifts given, right? People give some amazing gifts out. I saw an advertisement the other day. I was reading an advertisement where this organization, and I think there's some big money people behind it, obviously But they give houses to wounded veterans. Would you agree with me? That's a great gift. Imagine somebody gives you a house. I mean, they build it brand new and they present it to veterans. They meet certain criteria. Wow, what a great gift that would be. Others will uh uh uh uh donate um uh bodily organs. Somebody will give their kidney, Brother Paul, who was it, Bud, gave his kidney for balls. And uh what a what a thing to do, what a great gift To offer that something like that a house for a veteran or a uh a bodily organ to another Food for the hungry. There's people out this morning out serving food on Christmas Day to homeless folks. Would you agree with me? That's a wonderful thing to do. Shelters to folks out in the cold. Listen, there's a lot of great gifts that people can give, but the greatest gift ever given is the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, the greatness of Jesus Christ, it's great because it's an undeserved gift. I'm going to remind you this morning, and I say this very deliberately. We do not deserve Jesus. We don't deserve Him. The things that we have said, the words that have come off of our lips. We don't deserve Jesus. The deeds that many of us have done, I look back over my life in shame. And I thank God, giving his son Jesus Christ for me and the things I've said, how I've used his name, and the words that have come off my lips, and the deeds these hands have done, and the things I've done. And I look up and I say, I don't deserve Jesus Christ. Some of the places I've gone. And some of the uh and hatred and bitterness in our hearts. Unforgiveness. We hold on to unforgiveness, to someone that has done us wrong, and we will not forgive them. Then we look up at the Son of God who offers me the greatest forgiveness that ever has been. I hang my head and I say I don't deserve Jesus Christ. Things we've done, the things we've said, the people we've hurt. The filth that we've indulged in, the hypocrisy that we have displayed before a holy God We don't deserve Jesus Christ. We don't deserve Him. Throughout the Gospels, you meet people that come to Jesus and they fall before Him and they say, I'm not worthy. Man came and asked Jesus if he would heal his servant. Jesus said, I'll do it. The man nearly broke down and said, I'm not worthy for you to come in my house. I don't deserve you. I don't deserve this. Peter, when he saw Jesus calm the storm, peace, be still, and the storm stopped. Peter fell before Jesus Christ. He said, I'm not worthy. I'm here to tell you on this Christmas morning, we don't deserve this gift that God has given to us, Jesus Christ. We've blasphemed his name. We've judged God. We've condemned others. We've been so self-righteous that I am the one that makes these decisions. No, we're not. If you would take your Bibles, keep your place here real quickly. Come with me to Jeremiah chapter 17 Old Testament. Actually, let me have you turn. Let me let me If you would, go to Romans. I'm sorry, Romans chapter number three. Jeremiah 17, 9 says, the heart is deceitful. We are all as an unclean thing. The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. People say, oh, we need people need a higher self-esteem. I tell you what, our problem is we think too highly of ourselves. Our problem is our own stinking pride. Our problem is our own stinking self-righteousness. And if it doesn't fit my mold, if it isn't done the way I judge it should be done, then I condemn it all. It's nothing but stinking pride. We don't deserve Jesus Christ. Look what Paul said to this believers in Rome in verse number 10 of Romans 3. He says, As it is written, there's none righteous, no not one. There's none that understandeth. There's none that seeketh after God. They're all going out of their way. They are together become unprofitable. There's none that doeth good. No, not one. Their throat is an open sepulchre. With their tongues they have used deceit. The poison of asp is upon their lips. The things we've said about others and the lies we've told Their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood, destruction and misery in their ways. The way of peace they have not known. There's no fear of God before their eyes. Now we know what things soever the law saith, it saith to them that are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law should there no flesh be justified in his sight. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. The more I understand God and His holiness, the more sinful I realize I am. And verse 23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Like the old Baptist hymn, Amazing Grace, how sweet the sound that saved uh Wretch like me. I remind you this Christmas morning we don't deserve Jesus Christ. God gives us this unspeakable gift And we don't deserve it. I want to remind you it's not only an undeserved gift, it's an unperishable gift. I guarantee you there's some gifts that were opened maybe by children this morning that by tonight they'll have perished. Right or wrong? We raised two boys. Those gifts hardly lasted until sunset, I'll tell you right now. Hey, wear them out. Spend all night trying to put that stupid bite together By the next day it's bent up, tore up. Come on now. Ever do this? You have all these gifts, you spend hundreds of thousands of dollars, get all these gifts, and the kids are playing with the boxes I knew that I just got them the box. Unperishable. There's a lot of gifts we give. In fact, all of the gifts we give are perishable. But the gift of God is unperishable. Eternal life is a gift that will never perish. And I know folks in our community and everywhere I've lived, there's been religious folks that have criticized us and and condemned us because we say That salvation is eternal, that salvation is secure, that salvation cannot be lost, but we continue to say that because that is what the Bible says This gift that God gives to us in the person of Jesus Christ's eternal life is unperishable Jesus put it this way, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. If a person is saved, they're saved. They're secured. God gives us this unspeakable gift of Jesus Christ, and we receive him by faith to be our Savior, and we have something that will never, ever, ever, ever perish. You say, preacher, I didn't live good enough to stay saved. You didn't live good enough to get saved. What makes you think you're going to live good enough to stay saved? It's not us living anything. It's a gift. Jesus lived it for us. It's an unperishable gift. Anything that is eternal is imperishable. And he life is unperishable, and eternal life is unperishable. And it's an incomparable gift. There's nothing this world offers that compares to having sins forgiven and eternal life. I'm going to remind you of this, I say this fairly often. I'm going to remind you of this, there's no person in this world worth going to hell for Say, preacher, if I get saved, I'll lose some friends. I'll tell you, this gift of eternal life is far greater than any unsaved friend that would not be glad that I got saved. By the way, if somebody's not glad that you got eternal life, if somebody's not glad that God's forgiven you, that's not much of a friend in my mind. This uncomparable gift, there's nothing this world has to offer. I tell you I lived 19 years out in the world And just about every pleasure this world has to offer, and just about every vice that this world provides for a teenage boy, I engaged in, and I'm here to tell you Knowing Jesus Christ is 10,000 times better than the life I lived in the world and in sin. Nothing compares to salvation. You're under the sound of my voice, and you've never trusted Christ, and you know you need Christ, and you say, no, I have to give up too much to be saved. You're a fool! Jesus said, if your right eye offends thee, pluck it out. It's better to go to heaven with one eye than go to hell with two. If your right arm offends thee, cut it off. It's better to go to heaven with one arm than go to hell with two. If your foot offends thee, cut it off. It's better to go to heaven with one foot than go to hell with two. Now, he's not saying we've got to pull our eyeballs out and cut our arms and legs off to get to heaven. But what he is saying is there's nothing this world has to offer that compares to going to heaven. Nothing worth going to hell for, not even an eyeball. It's an uncomparable gift. Nothing compares to it. Remember old Jim McRoby, Nina McRobie's husband. Cancer in his liver. He inadvertently accidentally puncture his liver, and the cancer spreads through his body. Beside his bed, he trusts Jesus Christ as Savior. He started listening in, he was bedridden, he started listening in on Chassette Apes. I visited him just not long before he died. He made this statement. He said, Pastor Leatherman, if getting cancer in my liver And bringing me to the end of my life is what it took to bring me to salvation. Listen to this. It's worth it. It's been in heaven now many, many years. This past May visited with Ron, um Joe Mackenzie, Ron's brother-in-law. In a hospital bed on the ninth floor of Ruby Memorial, I opened my Bible, showed him how to be safe. And there in that hospital bed he bowed his head And trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. And some point later on, he's now with the Lord. But several weeks later, he had told one of the family, It's about time I came to Christ. Took me long enough. You know what he was saying? It's worth it. It's worth it. I've done a heap of funerals in my time. I mean a lot. I stood by the bedside and sat by the bedside of a heap of folks that have died on their deathbeds. And I never one time, listen to me, I never one time had one person on their deathbed say to me, oh preacher, I wish I'd have rejected Christ. I never one time had a person on their deathbed say to me, Oh preacher, I wish that'd have lived in sin more. I wish that I'd have neglected God. I wish that'd have ignored the Bible more. Never one time. I've had scores and scores and scores of times people on their deathbed say, oh preacher, I wish God had got saved sooner. Oh preacher, I wished that had lived my life differently. Oh preacher, I wish that had taken this more seriously. What I'm trying to say this morning, this great gift of Jesus Christ and eternal life that God gave to us began on Christmas Day 2,000 years ago. It's an undescribable gift. It is unperishable. And there's nothing in this world that compares to it. Number one, this glory of this gift is Jesus Christ. The greatness of this gift, it's beyond description And last of all, and with this, the gratitude, our gratitude for this gift. Look what he says. Come back here. Thanks be to God for his unspeakable gift. Thanks be to God. I'm thankful we have a God that loves us enough to do what needed to be done so that I can be forgiven and have eternal life, have purpose in life. I'm glad God loved me enough to do what needed to be done. And any transaction of a gift There is always two participants, at least. There has to be at least two participants in any transaction of gift. Number one, there has to be a giver Right? This is deep stuff here now. If there's a transaction of a gift, number one, there has to be a giver. I'm here to tell you this morning, God's the giver. And if there's a transaction of a gift, there has to be a what? A receiver. Somebody that accepts it. Somebody that takes it. Now, when somebody offers you a gift, I offered my wife that broken drums. Somebody offers you a gift You have a choice. You can do one of two things. You can either accept the gift, say thank you, and receive it, and it becomes yours, or you can what? You say no, thank you. Not interested. I'm fine, I'm good. I'm here to tell you. God looks down to mankind. He offers his son, and he'll do everything that needs to be done so you can be forgiven, have eternal life. He's done it. It's all paid for. I'm offering it to you. All you need to do is take it. Just receive it. I'm good, God. That's great No thanks. Or yes, Lord, I'll take it. I'm so thankful. May 7, 1979. I didn't have much sense. I didn't have any sense. I'm glad that one night I did one thing right in my life. I bowed my head and I called and I received that gift of eternal life. Hands down, the greatest thing that has ever happened in my life And if you're saved here this morning, you would say the same thing about the day you were saved, right or wrong? Um Theodore Roosevelt. I was reading about Theodore Roosevelt this week and the Spanish-American War. He put together a group of fellows who was kind of like a private army, sort of. I guess you might describe it, but the Rough Riders, anybody here ever hear about the old Rough Riders? Theodore Rezovel, he put these guys together I mean they were just uh men, you know, some of them were ex-soldiers, others were outdoorsmen, some were artists and professors. They got stirred up about fighting the Spanish. They all went down to Cuba Man, they had some great victories. They really won the war. He came back a war hero, and the Rough Riders were just legends. And their battle with Spain. One day, as Colonel Theodore Roosevelt came to a gal, her name was Clara Barton. And she was overseeing the work of the Red Cross there in Cuba where the battles were going on. And he had a bunch of men that were wounded, seriously wounded, a bunch of his rough riders, and he needed some food and supplies for him. And he approached Clara Barton and he wanted to buy food and supplies for his wounded soldiers. And she refused. She said, I will not sell these supplies to you. He was put off. He was a little frustrated with her. He was going to pay with his own funds. It was a kind of a private army As he left, he approached one of the people there working. He said something to this effect, probably not the exact words, something to this effect. I don't know what her problem is I offered with my own funds to buy the supplies my troops need. They're wounded. And she wouldn't sell them to me. And the fellow said, wait a minute, mister. You go back there and ask her to give them to you and you'll get what you need. She will not sell them. She will only give it. He turned around and went back and he said, Would you give me the supplies I need for my men? And she said, Absolutely. Everything you need is yours. Listen, you come and try and earn your salvation. God ain't going to give you salvation. You try and buy it and you try this and you try that. The only way a person ever gets saved is by receiving it by faith. By faith. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for this great gift on Christmas morning. The gift of the Lord Jesus Christ. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning would say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I know I'm saved. God saved me. I can take you to the place I have a scriptural basis that I've received the gift of God that's eternal life by faith. I've got that settled You'd say, Preacher, I need to work on giving myself back to the Lord. Out of gratitude, out of appreciation, responding in a reasonable way to what God has done for me. I really need to live for Him. I really need to get some things lined up. Any like that, by the uplifted hand on this Christmas morning, preacher, I don't want to be a selfish Christian. I want to give myself to the Lord, my home. My interaction with others be a blessing. I just want to give myself to the Lord. God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I have someone that's very dear to me. I love them. They're a good friend. Someone I care about. And I don't believe they know Jesus Christ as Savior. I'm afraid, without being judgmental, but I'm afraid that they're still in their sins. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be a good witness to this gift. I'd be a good testimony of God's great gift that He's offered. Is there any like this, preacher? I'm thinking of someone. They're heavy on my heart. Oh, I want them to know Christ. I want them to have this gift. God bless you. Hands all around. So there's some this morning, maybe here in the audience or online, listening by way of radio. You've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. You've never received this gift. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me I need Jesus as my Savior. I need to get this settled. Is there any at all, by the uplifted hand, any at all? Preach and pray for me. I've got to get this settled. I can't play with this anymore. Gotta get it set, O Father, blessed now our imitation I ask in Jesus' name