Three and I want to read down we're right in the middle of a message actually and so I want to start reading and I'm going to read down verse one down through verse six. Exodus three Verse 1 down through verse 6. Notice the Bible says, now Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian. And he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb. The angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush And he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt And when the Lord saw that, he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here am I And he said, Draw not nigh hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Moreover, he said, I am the Lord God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. We're talking about the call of Moses, the call of Moses. So let's have a word of prayer And we'll briefly review, and then I want to pick up on some new ground here. Father, I ask you to bless our continued study in the life of this great man. And God, how you used him so many thousands of years ago, and yet the lessons for us today. So I ask, Father, that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I yield my Mind and my will to you, I ask that you would guide my thinking by preaching. I present my body anew, I pray Th alma heart you'd fill me and speak through me and be the teacher tonight and and touch our hearts, stir our hearts, help us to learn And then be stronger in our faith and and grow in our in our in our walk with you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We're talking about the call of Moses. If you remember, we went back into chapter 2 And we noted the preparation of Moses for this call, spent forty years in the wilderness, and all that he learned there. And we spent a good bit of time talking about how God was preparing Moses uh for this ministry had this work for his life. Then if you remember last year we got looking at the purpose of the call. And I tell you there's some tremendous statements here back in chapter 2 Verse 23 and I and I want to pick up a little bit where we left off. I didn't give everything I really wanted to last week, but if you would Notice at verse twenty-three, it says, And it came to pass in the process of time, after these forty years went by, he's been out in the desert, he's been out in this Midian wilderness um married to um uh jethrows and uh he's had some boys while he's here and um he's just being a shepherd of all things So it came to pass in the process of time that the king of Egypt died. And the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up to God by reason of the bondage. And so now the door is opening. Go back. The king that wanted to kill him is off the scene. It's a new king. Time has gone by. And so God's opened the door here. But The Israelites, if we remember, they were anticipating under this new administration that maybe their burdens would be lighter. Maybe this new king of Egypt would lighten up a little bit, and the exact opposite happened. And if you remember, we tried to point out the importance. Our trust must never be in man, it has to be in God. And they were looking to man to do something for them, and he failed them completely. And so they cried out to God because of this bondage. And it says that God heard their groanings. And we said that groaning was something, it's not a verbal expression. It's just a noise we're making out of a broken heart. Now here's where I didn't get to last week, and I want to point out. Look at the last part of verse 24. God heard their groanings. And uh God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect unto them. So the thing I wanted to point out in this, and this is the reason God is calling Moses, which we'll get here into in a moment, Lord willing. But it's because God remembered his covenant. That word remembered there, it doesn't mean that God had forgotten about his covenant, right? Anybody here ever forget something? It's like every 45 minutes on something. A large I found I've I've done a little study of myself And um I found that a large percentage of my time is spent going back to get stuff I forget. If I could have all that time back that I went retracing my steps to find forget get something I forgot, I'd uh I'd have a lot more time. Yeah, I think so. And so uh so the point is God doesn't forget stuff. It's not, he's not saying God had made this covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and then 40 years went by, and it's like, oh wow, that's right. I had promised Israel that I'd bring them out of the I completely forgot. I'm here to tell you, God doesn't do that. Alright? There's only one thing that God ever forgets. And that's our sins. When we confess our sin, when we forsake it, God says He puts them behind. There's a song they play. uh uh a lot is um uh we say uh I forget all the wording, but it there part of it goes like this. What sins are you talking about? I don't remember them anymore. I'm glad God forgets our sins when we confess them. Now again, that doesn't mean that he forgets that they're happened. What it means is he puts them behind his back and they are no longer a factor in our relationship with God. They're no longer an issue. between God and I. And so God being omniscient, he's still aware of them, but he deliberately puts them behind his back. Did you ever have something where you deliberately try to not remember something? You deliberately try to forget. What happens when you do that? You remember it even more. You think keep thinking about it. I'm trying to forget this. Well, God is the only one that can deliberately put something out of his mind and not recall it again. Isn't that something? So God, the only thing God ever forgets in God's mind is our sins that He does deliberately. God never, ever, don't miss this point. God never, ever, ever forgets his promises. And that's what he's talking about here. God had made a covenant, a promise to Abraham, Isaac, and he repeated it to Isaac, repeated to Jacob. That he would one day bring them out of this 400 years of bondage. In fact, he gave it down to the year. And so when it says that God remembered his covenant It doesn't mean that he's uh he had forgotten it. It simply means this, he is now acting on it. The time is up. It's been on his mind, it was there, and now it has this idea, and I think you know what I mean by this term, it has this idea bringing it to the forefront of your mind. How many people understand what I'm talking about when I say that? I mean it's always there. I'm I'm all right now. It's on my mind. Did you ever get up in the morning, you have something I know I need to do today, and you just keep it there. You deliberately try to keep it there in the front of your mind I don't know about you. My boys are grown. They've moved out, scattered all around. But they're always on my mind. How many parents know what I'm talking about? They're always there, all through the day. I mean, just they're always there on my mind. And so God, Israel, is always on God's mind But now it's time to act. He's remembering. He's bringing it to the front. All right, now we're going to act. And I'm here to tell you, God's people are always on his mind. He doesn't forget us. He doesn't forget our promises. And when the time is right, God steps in and he acts. Do you ever have something, maybe a prayer request or maybe a promise you're holding? And it just seemed like, God, you forget about me? God, you forget? David says that in the Psalms. I think you've forgotten about me, God. God never forgets. God never forgets his people, and he never forgets his promises. And so he's going to act on it. He's going to act on this promise. So he uh remembered their covenant. Then look at verse 25. It says, And God looked upon the children of Israel Again, he wasn't ignorant of their situation. That word looked upon means to observe very closely. To give very careful attention to. Now the time is coming up. They're going to come out, and God is focusing in in a very careful way into Israel. To me, again, I got looking at that phrase, I looked upon the children of Israel, how that's used, and I come up with this picture in my mind. It's a playground. And a mother's there and she has maybe two or three children and they're scattered out on the playground and they're uh uh playing around with slide and climbing around and racing around, playing around with their friends But the and the mother's there, maybe she's reading a book or talking to a friend or nowadays texting, um, but her eye is always on the kids, right? She's watching them closely. She has her eyes. She might be doing something else. I tell you, mothers are the experts at multitasking. Am I right or wrong? And her eye is on those kids. Looks like she's doing other stuff. Looks like she's maybe not paying attention, but her eye is on those children. That's the idea here. God's looking upon them, He's paying attention. And God's assuring them That uh he's paying attention. Psalm 34, 15 says, The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ears are open to their cry. So God didn't forget Israel. He didn't forget what He's promised them. He's still got his attention on them. And then verse 25 makes another statement, and this is interesting. And God looked upon the children of Israel, and look what it says. And God had what? Respect unto them. Now, what in the world does it mean that God had respect unto them? Again, I did a study on that word respect and how it's used in different ways. It means this. One of the definitions of that word respect there is this idea to discriminate Now generally in our society, our cultured, discrimination is good or bad In our culture it's bad, oh don't discriminate, don't discriminate. And I agree we ought to be we ought to treat people fair fairly, right? Regardless They're regardless of their nationality, background, whatever. Wealth we ought to treat everybody fairly, we ought to be respectful to everybody But that's not the idea. The discrimination here is not always bad. In fact, again, with the mother, let's come back to the mother again. Every mother discriminates in her care for her children. I would venture to say, I mean a decent mother doesn't feed her kids ice cream for breakfast. Right? Well, maybe she might, I don't know. Not a bad idea. Milk, right? Dairy. But um but we use discrimination. No, you we want to eat healthy. We want to be careful of the place we go to. We want to be careful. In fact the Bible says we ought to be careful about uh who our friends are. Make no friendship with an angry man. We have to be we use discrimination in a positive way. And so God, which says he had respect unto Israel, he was discriminating. In other words, they had a position with God that the Egyptians did not have. I say this often, a saved person's no better than an unsaved person, right? We're no better. We're sinners just like they are. We deserve hell. Just as much as the unsaved person. We're no better than them, but we're not the same as a believer born again God is now my family father. I have a relationship with God, the Creator, that the unsaved person does not have. And I think that's the idea here. When God had respect unto them, he saw them differently than he saw the Egyptians. We're told in Jeremiah and other places, I think Jeremiah, Ezekiel, we're told that God loved the Egyptians. But they did not have the relationship with God that the Hebrews did. And God had respect. It means to to know personally, to be set apart, have this special special attention of, the special care of, the special intervention of. I'm telling you, I'm convinced if unsaved people knew The privilege that a believer has, they would want to be a believer also. If they knew the opportunities we have as the children of God. If they knew the resources we have as a child of God in prayer, in his presence, the indwelling Holy Spirit, all the respect that God gives to his children, that special care, that special attention. I'll tell you, I believe the unsaved one would want it also. I'd like to believe that. And so God had respect. God had respect. Now we come to the actual call. So our first point was, several weeks ago, was the preparation, Moses' preparation for the call, 40 years in the wilderness. We looked at that. Then we had the purpose because of God's promise, Israel's condition, God's promise to them, God's respect and care he had for them. That's why he's going to call Moses to bring them out and fulfill his covenant to Abraham. And uh uh and uh Isaac and Jacob and them. So now we have the particulars of the call. We have the prep, the purpose, now the particulars. What all goes down When Moses gets this call from God. This is one of the most fascinating events in Scripture. And to be honest with you, you're probably going to park here for a little bit because there's a lot of stuff here In these next chapters here that we're going to look at, God's plan for Moses' life is now taking shape. God had a plan for his life from day one. When he was conceived in the womb, God had a plan for his life. And now the preparation, all that's been going through, now that plan is beginning to come together Now the purpose for Moses' life is coming together. And I am absolutely convinced it is very, very important for every one of us to understand that God has a plan for every single life. God has a purpose for every single life. Your life and my life. Now listen, God's not going to call any of us to lead a nation out of slavery and bondage, lead hi uh the Jews out of slavery and bondage uh into a promised land. Moses call Moses' purpose in life is not the same as my purpose in life and not the same as your purpose in life. And by the way, my purpose in life is not going to be the same as yours, and yours is the person next to you. God has a very distinct, unique plan and purpose for every single life. And it's important to understand that. Let me give you some scripture. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Jeremiah. Now keep your place here. We're going to come back here. Jeremiah chapter number 29. I'd like for you to see this verse because you may, I would advise, understoring this verse in your Bible. Jeremiah Chapter number 29, if you get to Ezekiel, you've gone too far. Jeremiah 29, and of course Jeremiah is a prophet to Israel, God's people And notice what he says in verse number 11. Jeremiah 29. Notice what he says in verse number 11. Just curiosity. How many people already have this verse underscored in your Bible? Good. Look what it says. For I know, now this is God speaking to his people. In this context, the Hebrews. In the context of our day, it would be us, God's people. For I know the thoughts that I think towards you, saith the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give you an expected end. That expected end is the planned out, my purpose. I have thoughts I had towards you. The word thoughts there, and it's interesting, it's used throughout the Old Testament here in the same with the same idea Plans and purposes. I know the thoughts, my the plans I'm thinking for you, the purpose I've thought for you. To bring an expected end, to fulfill that purpose and plan I have for your life. I don't know about you, but that encourages me that God has a plan for my life. Sometimes people say get discouraged and they say, Oh, I just don't even know why I'm even here. Why is, you know, well, I just don't I don't have any purpose in life. That is a lie of the devil. God has a plan, God has a purpose for every single life. Moses at this point in time had no idea what it was. He thought he did back when he was going to deliver them, but he blew that So in his mind, I'm done. But God wasn't done. And God still had a plan. And it plans starting to come together. Come with me, if you would, to Ephesians chapter number two. And by the way, this is true for you and I. I believe it's true for every young child that's conceived and born. I think that's one reason why abortion is such a horrendous, horrendous sin. Cut off a life. God has plan and purpose. Ephesians chapter 2, and of course we're familiar with verse 8 and 9, right? Everybody familiar with verse 8 and 9? For by Grace are you saved through faith and not of works, lest any man should boast. Now, but we stop there, but verse 10 goes on. Verse 10 says, For we are his what? Workmanship created in Christ Jesus. I circled that next word. Unto What? Good works. We're not saved by our good works. That's not what makes me acceptable to God. Oh, I got baptized and I give this money and I'm a church member and I do right and I pay my bills and And I love my neighbor and I do all this and I do this and I do that and I don't do this and I don't do that. And that makes me acceptable to God. God says, nope, that's not what saves your soul, that's not what it makes you acceptable It's by grace through faith in Christ. But then he says, but the purpose for our salvation, he saves us For a reason. Well, so I don't go to hell. A whole lot more than that. He saves us unto good works. God has a plan for every person. God has a purpose for every soul he saves. One thing I pray and talk about fairly regularly is I want to be the person God saved me to be. I want to fulfill the purpose that God saved me to fulfill. And so God has a plan and purpose for every person that's born and for every soul that's saved. God has a plan and purpose. And God had a plan and purpose for Moses. God has a plan and purpose for you. It could be any number of things, but he has a plan. He has a purpose. So, um uh God has a plan and purpose for every life. Now come on back here to Exodus. I hope you kept your place there Moses is graduating from the school of hard knocks. He is graduating from the wilderness of Midian. He's got a wife and two boys, a father-in-law, and all of that, but he's coming out of it. But that does not mean there's no more learning, right? Doesn't mean that he's not gonna, there's no more development of Moses' faith. We're gonna see that all through his life. He's constantly learning. He has his ups and downs. There's constant development of his faith. But this phase of his life in this wilderness where he's learning character He's learning what faith is. He's learning what integrity is, what humility is. He's coming out of that phase now, and uh there's plenty of postgraduate work to be done But nevertheless, he's coming out of the school of hard knocks. This is a major turning point in Moses' light. It is the probably turning point in his light. All previous experiences, the time at home with his parents that first twelve years. 30 years or whatever he spent, uh 28, 30 years he spent in the universities of Egypt and in Pharaoh's household. And the 40 years in the worst, all that was preparing him for this point in life. It's preparation for this moment. God calls him to lead Israel out. Several thoughts I have on this call. The first thing I notice that God attracts Moses' attention. Look there at verse number one. Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the back side of the desert, and he came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb. So would you agree with me? Sounds like his daily routine. Just doing what he does. Gets up in the morning, gets the sheep, takes care of them, and he's just been doing this for Forty years, nothing different, day after day after day. Just another day being a shepherd in the wilderness of Midian. But God does something. And the first thing God does in the call of Moses is he gets Moses' attention. Notice the place where he gets Moses' attention. In fact, the Bible makes it, kind of puts an emphasis on here as to where it was. When God confronted him, God attracts his attention. Notice the place. First of all, it's the backside of a desert in verse number one. I thought, what in the world is the backside of a desert? The idea is this, it's a very remote region of Midian. It's way out on the fringe. I mean, uh, um, uh, excuse, excuse the language, there ain't nothing out there. Right. It is barren, it is uh it it is uninhabited, it is lonely. There ain't nobody for miles and miles and miles. I think God's pointing out here he was alone. He was alone. He had the sheep, but he was alone. God got his attention when he was alone, a lonely, uninhabited area. No one else was around. You know what I found God usually speaks to people when they're alone. Very seldom in a crowd carrying on, going on, carrying on everything. It's when we get alone and and we and we maybe feel forsaken. And it's just quiet, nobody else around. A lot of times, if we'll let God, that's when He speaks to us. I believe it's very important when we have that daily devotion time and every Christian ought to have that daily devotion. Every Christian ought to get on the backside of your desert and just get alone with God. And let him speak to you from his word and pour your heart out to God. Now Moses wasn't we don't know that he was praying there, he was working, but he was alone. Remember when Elijah was depressed and discouraged after Jezebel was going to kill him? And he went up in the mountains, he got in a cave, and God sent uh a strong wind, but God wasn't in the wind. Then there was an earthquake, I think it was, God wasn't in the earthquake. But when he heard God, it was what? A still small voice. Elijah was by himself. He was alone, separated from all others, and he was quiet. And when he got quiet, when he got alone, then God had opportunity to speak to his heart. I think we have devotions. This is just being real practical. I think you ought to turn the radio off, put the phone aside, turn the TV off, get somewhere where you're alone, and then just let God speak to your heart through His Word. Amen? When I was in Bible college, we had uh one bedroom apartment, I've told you this before, one bedroom apartment, there was eight guys living in a one-bedroom apartment. You know, they're all seventeen, eighteen, nineteen years old. I'm twenty something. And uh I'm telling you to find a place uh to where you could be alone and quiet with God was challenging. There was one room in the house you could close the door. Bible says get in your closet. Jesus said pray in your closet. Well this was a water closet. Spent a lot of time on my knees with an open Bible over there. There's an old uh eagle claw bathtub in there. And I lay my Bible there and read and pray. Get alone. He was on the back side of desert. He was alone with God. I tell you, our society, we live in a culture now in a society where people are uncomfortable being quiet. Right? Just always has to be some sort of noise. That radio has to be, and I'm all for the radio. Pray for our radio. I'm all for that. But sometimes you just need to be quiet. And that's when God spoke to Moses. And he said, Well, God never speaks to me. Get alone with them, an open Bible Open heart, let him speak to you. So I notice the place here, it's the backside of the desert, but it also says, look there in verse at the end of verse number one, it says, the backside of the desert, and he came to the mountain of God. Even to Horeb. The mountain of God. What in the world is this mountain of God? The word Horeb It's the name of this mountain of God. The word Horeb means desolate. Again, another emphasis on the fact that Moses was alone. He was out of the way. He was quiet. But this mountain of God, apparently this mountain of God, just on the surface looking at it without doing any digging Is some significant place of God's dealings with Israel. It's known as the mountain of God. Why is Mount Horeb known as the mountain of God? No, that was no, it wasn't Mount Horeb. I'll tell you here in just a second. Now it's probably a mountain range. So Moses is here, he's on the backside of Desert, he's there at Mount Horeb. Just quiet and God calls him. A number of years later, sometime later, maybe not a number of years, but sometime later, he's going to be back up on this mountain And that's where God's going to give the covenant. It's called Mount Sinai, where the law was given. And so Moses, all the way back out of the way, he's going to go back to Egypt. God's going to lead them through all the everything. He's going to pull them out. And they're going to end up back on this same mountain, and it's called the mountain of God. The mountain of God. It's the place of Moses' call. And it's the place of God's covenant. God's going to give the Ten Commandments at this very exact spot. Now I wondered, and again, I have no idea, and this is probably dumb. But I wonder when Moses went up on Mount Sinai and he's going to get the law or the commandments from God, I wonder if he went over and looked at the bush to see if it was still there Because it didn't burn up, right? We're going to see that. It is not consumed. And so that bush might have still been there. And I don't know if it was me, I'd have gone by and I probably would have bowed my head and said, Thank you, Lord, for stepping into my light When I go back home, case, I haven't done it for a number of years now, but I used to a lot. When dad was living home, still living, I would go back and I'd see him, and I always took time to drive by the house where God saved me Of course it was years ago other people living in there they've changed it a lot. But I pull up and it's a little cul-de-sac and I would pull in there and I can see the window up in the attic there. where my room was, where I knelt there and prayed. And it's just a special place for me. And so he's on this mountain that's going to become very, very significant, that's known as the mountain of God. He's going to end up back here. The next time he comes here, he's not going to be alone. He's going to have over a million Hebrews with him. At the foot of the mountain. But that's where God meets him. The place. Desert, quiet, desolate place that's going to become very, very significant to Moses. And then notice the person. God's getting Moses' attention. Notice the person that God uses to get Moses' attention. Look at verse 2. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. So the angel of the Lord is the one that God uses To get Moses' attention and get him stop and look and see what's going on. I got looking at that phrase, the angel of the Lord, 64 times in the Old Testament Does God refer to this angel of the Lord 64 times? Whoever this angel of the Lord is, they show up a bunch. In the Old Testament, particularly in the history parts of the Old Testament. Well, who is this angel of the Lord? Well, he's obviously a literal being It's a literal person that shows up. He's not just symbolic terminology here. It's not some sort of uh um uh some sort of uh uh imaginary friend. This angel of the Lords is an actual real literal entity The word angel, anybody want to take a guess what the I mean just the definition of the word? Anybody want to guess what the word angel means? Messenger. Messenger. In fact, I always like to point out every chance I can that in Revelation Chapter 3 and 4, the seven churches, the pastors of the churches are referred to as angels So I'm just saying your pastor as far as God's concern is an angel. And um but a messenger. Right? I know I heard some of y'all say, yeah, fallen. Um And uh tend to agree. So whoever this angel of the Lord is, number one, they're an actual real literal being. Number two, there's some sort of messenger, obviously, from God. They've got a message they're bringing from God. But notice the angel of the who? Notice the word Lord. There's something unique about the spelling of the word Lord. What is it? It's all capitalized. Huh. A lot of times the Bible reuse the term Lord, sometimes in the Lord Jesus, other times just masters or whatever, and it's not all capitalized, but In a lot of instances, the word is all capitalized. There's a reason for that. There's a significance to that That means that that word Lord is God's personal name. It is Jehovah. So this angel, this messenger of the Lord is Jehovah. Does anybody know what Jesus' name means? The name Jesus. Jehovah is salvation. It's the same as Joshua. Jehovah is salvation. And we don't have time. I wanted to, but we don't have time. But if we would go through and study this angel of the Lord, capital O L, capital O, capital R, capital D This angel, Lord, if we would study it through there, you would find people responding to this angel as if this angel is God himself. Gideon offers sacrifices. Samson's parents. They treat this angel Lord as if it's God Himself. And the conclusion we come to is the person that God used to call Moses to lead Israel out of Egypt, the Hebrews out of Egypt, the person is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. This is what I'm gonna use that I'm gonna use you are gonna be so impressed with your angel I'm going to use a word just to prove I have a little education. This is what in theology it's called a theophany. Anybody ever hear of that word? Theophany. If you've been in Bible Institute, you've heard it. A theophany is a, here's another thing. How many people are impressed so far? Man, this guy's something else A theophany is a pre incarnate appearing of Jesus Christ. So, what do we mean by pre-incarnate? Incarnate means taking on flesh. So, in other words, it's an appearance of Jesus Christ before Bethlehem. Before Mary, he shows up in the Old Testament, and he does numerous times, in a physical appearance. I'm here to tell you, this is none other than Jesus Christ Himself is meeting with Moses. The eternal Son of God is meeting with Moses. Man, I'm telling you, this is big. He's alone. He's the backside of the desert. It's on this mountain. Nobody else around. It's desolate. It's quiet. And Jesus Christ Himself shows up there in this fire. And so the angel of the Lord appears on him. So we got the place, we got the person, and God's getting his attention. That's what all this is. God's getting his attention. Then we notice, I put it this way, the particular way that God gets his attention. This is unusual what God does here. We don't find any other We don't find this happening this way anywhere else. All through Scripture, God's getting people's attention, but never like this Jesus Christ shows up. Look at verse 2. The angel of the Lord, Jesus, appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. And he looked, alright, God's got his attention. That word look there has the idea inspecting carefully. And he looked And behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not what? What's that mean? And it burned up. It was on fire, but the leaves are not gone. The little branches aren't turning to ash. There's no there's no uh uh what's that goes off uh sparks embers there's no embers uh going up off it's just the bush there like there's nothing wrong with but it's on fire I'm wondering, I'm using my imagination, I'm wondering Moses there with the sheep, he's miles and miles from anybody else. And uh he's taking care of the sheep and off in the distance he sees like this glow, this fire going on. And um he's I mean, I imagine lightning strikes, stuff like that happens in the wilderness. But it keeps going, it keeps going, and finally He thinks, what in the world? And he looks, and that bush is not burning up. It's engulfed in fire, but the leaves are fine, the branches are fine. None of the grass or anything around the bottom is burning. And he's thinking, I never saw anything like this before. What in the world? And so he goes over to check it out. What I'm trying to say is this God knows how to get our attention. God knew exactly. What would capture his attention. And he uses this burning bush. Now, this is a miraculous event. I got looking up what people smarter than I have said about this and wrote about it, and not one person suggested that there's any natural explanation for this. In other words, it's not like, well, there's a kind of bush that burns, but it never gets consumed. There's no natural explanation for it. There's no scientific explanation for it. This is a full-blown, double-barrel, bona fide miracle. God is doing something that is humanly and naturally impossible. To get Moses' attention. To get Moses' attention. So it's a miraculous event. The other thing I notice about this burning bush is that it's a symbolic event. In other words, God's using fire here in a miraculous setting, a bush isn't burning. But we find throughout the Old Testament, particularly, throughout Scripture, but in the Old Testament, fire is symbolic of the presence of God. God is making a statement through his son Jesus Christ. This bush is burning, but it's not being consumed. The message is this: you are in the presence of God. Um when Israel came out of Egypt, if you would, are are you here in Exodus? Come over to chapter 13. It's down the road a little ways and Uh they've been through all the plagues of Egypt, and they're finally coming out, and um they're making their way uh across here, getting ready to go up to the promised land. And they're not in the wilderness yet. As of right now, they're still on track to go directly to the promised land. Look at chapter 13, look at verse 21. And the Lord went before them, the Hebrews, they're out of Egypt. Look at verse 20. They took their journey from Sukkoth and encamped in Edom at the edge of the wilderness. And the Lord went before them. By day in a pillar of a cloud to lead them in the way. So who went before them? The Lord. Capital L, Capital O, Capital R, Capital D. That's the one that's with Moses. So the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud and led them in the way. They followed this cloudy pillar. Huge. And it just moves ahead of them, and they're all following this thing. Now look what happens. And by night, in a pillar of what? fire, to give them light, to go by day and night, so they could travel at night, if that was the Lord's will. He took not away the pillar of the cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire by night from before the people. That f uh and by the way, the pillar of cloud during the day was the same pillar as the fire, but in the day you didn't see the fire. At night it's dark, you see the fire, right? And so what God was doing for the nation of Israel is, listen, I'm with you. I'm with you. You just follow me. You just trust me. I'm with you. I'm with you. I'm with you. And that's what God is making a statement to Moses. He's going to call him to do something Moses is convinced he can't do. He thought he could before. Now he's convinced he can't. God says, I'm with you. Here's my fire. Here's the presence. This fire is symbolic of my presence here. We won't turn there. But um uh when God met with Moses on Mount Sinai in chapter 19 It says the butt the Bible says the the mountain was on a fire. God was there. The presence of God was there. Then we jump to the New Testament. And we have a handful of disciples, 120 disciples, they're meeting in an upper room. Jesus has been crucified, buried, he's resurrected. Nanny's ascended to heaven. In Acts chapter 1, they're up in a uh they're in a uh a room, the door's shut, they're praying. And lo and behold, in Acts chapter 2, the Spirit of God falls on them. Right? You with me? Remember this? Pentecost. And something heard a mighty rushing wind. And something appeared above the head of every one of those disciples. What was it? Tongue of fire, little flame of fire, appeared above their heads. You know what that was? That was symbolic. And we don't go, we don't we don't seek this flame of fire over our heads. Why? Because now we have the very presence of God in us. And I think God was using that Old Testament symbolism of fire for these New Testament believers saying, hey, I am with you. I'm in you. You have my presence now. I'm telling you, they come out of there on fire for God, fearless. And just turn the world upside down. And so God, this uh uh the uh the place he meets with them is a lone, quiet, desolate place, no distractions. He gets Moses' attention in a very peculiar way, with the fire representing the presence of God. And I'm going to have to stop there. Here's my challenge. Here's my invitation to all of us How about we do this? And I'm telling you, I'm convinced this will help every single one of us. Discipline ourselves and schedule every single day A time to find a backside of a desert, so to speak. A quiet place where we can be alone, no distractions. And get on our knees or get some in some sort of position where I can focus on the Word of God and let God speak to my heart. Read it slowly, carefully, let God speak to my heart. And then pour my heart out to God. And pray and tell him your concerns and make your requests and confess our sins and worship him and pray for one another. And spend a little bit of time with God. And I'm telling you, if we do that, you'll be surprised God will show up They'll show up. And you'll realize, and I don't, and some of y'all know what I'm talking about, and I'm not trying to be sensational or spooky here or anything, but I'm telling you, there's times in that private devotion that the presence of God is there. In a very unique way. Anyone know what I'm talking about? The presence of God is there. I'm telling you, there's nothing like it in the world And God uses that then to lead us and direct us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to learn from this experience of Moses. Just alone with you. He didn't expect it. He wasn't anticipating this, but God, you showed up. I pray you would do that for each and every one of us and lead us in our lives, in your will, your plan, your purpose on a daily basis. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some say, Pastor, I need to make sure, I need to discipline myself, I need to get this down To spend time daily with the Lord. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I just got to get this established. God bless you. I'm telling you, it'll help us. Maybe you already got it I want to encourage you to keep that in place. Guard that. And let the Lord lead you. Let the Lord direct you. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask, and help us to learn from this. In Jesus' name. Amen.