Um but anyway, so I'm going to read just one more scripture verse here, and then uh we'll have the message this morning. Verse sixteen, all scripture is given by inspiration of God And it's profitable. And I'll stop there for now. It's profitable. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you, Lord, that it's profitable to us. Lord, I pray now that you would bless this service this morning. Pray Lord that you would hide me behind yourself. Lord, I want you to just take over the service this morning. Um Lord, if I there's anything I'm about to say That would go against your word, I pray you'd keep me from saying it, Lord. And again, likewise, if there's anything that you would have me to say that's not written down in my notes, I pray you'd bring it to my mind And uh Lord, I just pray we would all be able to have open hearts to what it is you have for us this morning. And uh Lord, speak to us. And if there's someone here that does not know you as Savior, I pray, Lord, you'd use your word to draw them to you this morning. It's in Jesus' name. Men. With a uh new year, of course this is January, and again I already mentioned this, it's at what point is it no longer a new year? Anyway, um with it being a new year in in January especially People tend to set goals at that time. We call New Year's resolutions. Everyone knows what I'm talking about. You know, gym memberships spike. January first every year. And then people give their monthly donation the rest of the year to the gym. Um, you know, and we all set goals at the beginning of the year. Uh we're gonna go on a diet, we're gonna go to the gym Uh maybe there's some other goals we set, you know, relationship goals. I'm going to spend more time with my family, or I'm going to do something like that, or uh reading the Bible through in a year. That's a good one Um there's there's goals that we have. Everyone knows what I'm talking about. I think it's one reason the Lord gives us the calendar. You know, there's there's days and there's times and seasons and opportunities for fresh starts, things like that. That's good Uh but one uh common uh goal, common resolution I guess you would say, is people uh want to get better with their money. They want to get better with their finances and so This is the year we're going to start saving. This is the year we're going to start investing. This is the year we're going to try to uh maximize our profits. We're going to try this new thing. And at the beginning of every year, you know, every YouTube video, every uh because YouTube is newspaper of today. That's what that is now. Uh but anyway, every article you read or see or watch or anything, it all has to do with where to invest this year, where to put your money this year. Um I was watching one thing that said AI of t is in twenty-five, what Bitcoin was in two thousand thirteen. Um cool, that's fun. I have no idea. Um but it's it's cool to watch, it's entertaining. So uh but people will say, you know, well this is a good year to invest in real estate. This is a bad year to invest in real estate. Um the goal of investing is to get a return on your investment. Right? That's why you know if there was a a machine and you knew if you put one dollar in you'd get two dollars out every time we'd all be in front of that machine all the time, just constantly getting a return on the investment. Uh that's not how it works though. And and and not just with uh money. We want to invest in like I said every year we're gonna invest more time in, you know, one resolution might be I'm gonna invest more time in my family. Spend more time with family, more time with my wife, more time with my kids, and we're going to invest in that. Why? Because we want to see a return on that investment. We want to spend more time with our family so we can get to know our family better, so we can have more enjoyment with our family. uh we can have stronger relationships with our family with our family members, things like that. Um there's uh you know uh all kinds of things that we want to invest in at the beginning of every year. We get all excited I'm gonna invest in we're gonna spend some money, we're gonna spend some time and invest in this new diet, whatever it might be. And of course by January tenth, it's over Um and well maybe not, not for some people, I guess, but you get you get what I'm saying. And you know we want to invest time and effort in this thing. And if you do, usually it works. Um, you know, if you make up your mind, I'm gonna restrict my calorie intake, I'm gonna focus on this diet this year, and you do that, if you actually really do stick with it, it might work Maybe not, but maybe you you get the point I'm trying to make. If you know you say I am gonna invest time and put uh energy and effort and money and time into my family. I'm going to start spending more time with my wife this year. I'm going to spend I'm going to purposely block off extra time for my kids this year And you invest into your family, you're probably going to see a return on that. You're probably going to see a return on that investment. And that's a good thing, right? um you're going to see a stronger relationship between you and your kids and you and your spouse. And that's a you know, maybe uh I'm going to spend more time with Uh my parents this year want to spend more time with that. Me and my wife were talking, it's been a little while, but we're saying how we want to start spending more time with our parents, make it a point to drive out to to see them more often or drive down to Virginia to see uh her parents more often. And we're gonna we're gonna try to sp spend more and there's an investment there. Um and the point is you want to put more time into something, put more effort into something because you want to see that thing grow or change or or improve in some way. You know, you you you can talk about going to the gym, but if you don't actually do it, then it's not going to happen, right? You can talk about things, but until you actually put in the investment you're probably not going to see, well you're not, you're not going to see a return on investment that you don't make. And so I'm thinking about that this year. People are Some people were saying, you know, um this year is the year for uh meme coins, which a lot of people don't know what that is. It's a form of crypto um that's just basically you get on the bandwagon and it goes up and then it tanks and then everyone loses their money and they wonder why. Um it's it's kinda that's happened with a few things here recently. A few years ago, and some of you will know what I'm talking about, that happened with the GameStop. Everyone jumped in and bought into it and the stock went up through the roof and then everyone lost their money and wondered why. If you do it that way, really what that is is gambling, in my opinion, that's what that is. But people are always trying to figure out where to invest their money, where to invest their time. I heard one guy say, you know, one of the greater investments you can make is things for yourself, you know, like taking care of yourself physically, taking care of your family, and so on. Okay. Now, if you put in an investment, if you put in time, not all investment is money. If you put in time into something, that's an investment. That's time you could be doing something else. If you're going to say every Saturday I'm going to spend with my my my wife and my kids. That means that you can't work that day, right? So you're taking time away from work or away from some other project or something and putting it into Something else. If you're going to invest time, that's what you do. If you're going to invest in your home, the term sweat equity. Do you know what I'm talking about Um you're putting effort into your in and labor and work into your home, into your property And then it goes up in value. You put work into it. You put time into it, maybe put money into it, and you get a return on that. Here's the thing. With investments There's not really any investment that I can think of except for one, which of course you probably already know what that is, we're going to talk about this morning. There's not really many that you are guaranteed a return on your investment You could put a lot of money into Walmart stock and it could be the next Kmart. And you could lose everything. You you know what I'm talking about. You could y it's like, oh Walmart will never fall. Well Kmart did, you know. Um you could put all your effort into to say, you know, I'm going to invest all my money into Bitcoin, and then it tanks. You you n you mean you think, well, this looks like it's pretty secure You you could put all your money into the bank and then there's a run on the bank. I mean y we we've seen things like that happen in history and Not really anything I can think of where you're guaranteed a 100% guaranteed return on your investment. Even exercise, right? So well if I go to the gym, I'm gonna get in shape, I'm gonna lose weight. Till you break break your neck or something. You know? Uh um there there was I was I was in I was in in practice once, football practice, this was a long time ago I was walking in a straight line on the gym floor because there was a tornado warning outside, and so we were practicing inside, and we were just supposed to walk to our blocking assignments. I was walking in a straight line and broke my foot I don't know how I mean it just gave way and it broke and there was a a stress fracture. It looked like a big seven going down from my pinky toe all the way down. Anyway, whatever. Well, uh I I was exercising, I was doing working out, right? And it and it didn't improve my health. It made my health worse. Um true story, I know someone who actually uh he died, he had a heart attack while he was walking on his treadmill. So don't walk on your treadmill. No, no, I'm kidding. I'm kidding. But the point I'm trying to make is if you invest in the thing, it's a pretty good chance that you'll get a return on that. That's why you're doing it But it's not a hundred percent guarantee. I can't really think of anything that is a 100% guarantee except for what we're going to look at this morning. And verse 16 is that thing. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. It is profitable. It's not it might be profitable. The scripture is profitable. You invest your time, your effort, your energy into the Word of God, and you will get a return. It is a profitable thing. And that's what we're looking at this morning. You may put time and effort into your home Put that sweat equity into your home. And you you're making you you build a deck, you do the driveway, you make the yard look good, and put energy into these things, and and then the housing market crashes You know, or or something. It's not a hundred percent guarantee that you're gonna get something out of that investment. You go buy a really nice car, a Mitsubishi, mirage, it's real nice, it's nice and blue, it's beautiful It's a good car. Then it gets hit and it rolls over and it's done. You just never know. Um you put time and effort into something and it can be gone just like that But I promise you, if you put an investment into the Word of God, you're gonna see a return on that. You will. It's more secure than stocks, more secure than bonds, more secure It's more secure than any investment. It's more secure than I'm going to put this investment into my family, into my my marriage, into my health, whatever the investment is, it's not a guarantee, but this one is. You put the effort into Scripture and you will get a profit. Whatever area of your life you apply it to. So if you apply Scripture to the to those other things you're investing in. The scripture is going to show you where the how to make the profit. It's pretty cool. If you apply the scripture to your finances. It'll show you how to use your do your finances and you'll be better equipped that way. You'll get a return on your investment. You ever read the Bible in the morning and then later on in the day The thing you read that morning applies. Do you know what I'm talking about? You read something in the Word of God and you're like, oh, okay, and you might not even really like you're you're paying attention to what you're reading it, but you you have no idea what's coming on later in the day And then something happens, you're like, oh, that helped. That was an investment that you made that morning, and you saw a return on that investment later on in the day. Pretty cool. So, if you don't invest in something, can you get a profit out of it? Well, no You know people like, oh man, we should I wish we'd have bought Bitcoin in two thousand thirteen and sold it, you know, this year, whatever. Um that'd have been cool if You would have. But you didn't. I didn't. I didn't even know what it was. I don't think anyone knew what it was, except for a few people. Yeah. So the point is this. Um if you inv oh I wish I would have invested in Microsoft back in the sixties, seventies, whenever it happened. I have no idea. What was it? When was Microsoft? Seventies, eighties? What was it? 1908? What? 80s. Huh. That technology's been around. So anyway, if if you would I wish I would have invested in it back then. But if you didn't, then it doesn't really matter. You can say you wish you would I wish I would have done this, I wish I would have done this, but if you didn't, it doesn't really matter. So when we have trials come up in life, or we have uh obstacles come up in life, and we think, man, I really wish that I knew what the Bible had to say about this. Well, you could have I think sometimes we we we think the Bible we we look at the Bible like, okay, well it's got all the answers, which it does. So when we have a problem, all right, then I'll go look for them. When really what we should have been doing is putting in a little bit of time every day, putting in a little bit of investment every day. You know, because that's you know that's how you see investments grow. you know, you little by little over time it grows up into something bigger. You know, that's your 401k or whatever, that's that's what that is. You put it a little over time and it grows as time goes That's how the Bible is. So there are short-term investments and short um there is I mean there is a a a a very quick turn on investment. You read the Bible that morning and it applies later on the day But that's not all it is. It's a long-term thing as well. So wherever we apply Scripture, in whatever area of life we apply Scripture, we will see a return on investment in that We just gotta read our Bibles. If you want to know what the whole point of the message is this morning, is just read your Bible. Just put some time into reading your Bible. I've heard people say things like, Well, if you're I had a man tell me once, if you're not reading 20 chapters a day, you don't love God. I was thinking and I was like, I don't know, seventeen, eighteen, I'm like, well I don't love God then I guess. Because I wasn't reading twenty chapters a day. I mean that's a lot, right? I heard someone else say, well, you have to read through your Bible every year. If you don't, then there's something wrong. Okay? Those are people's like what people are doing that works for them. I get it. Um, best way I can best suggestion I can give is just do it. Just do something. You know, you can say, oh well, you really should be reading twenty chapters a day, but if you're not reading one It doesn't matter what you think you should be doing, you're not doing anything. You y y y you know what I'm saying? Well, real it's like taking financial advice from a YouTuber. There might be a couple that might know, but the majority of them, they're like, it's not where you go to get your financial advice. So if you want to, well, how much Bible should I read? Just start reading it. And you'll figure it out later. Maybe it might end up being just a chapter a day. It might be three. It might be five. It might be maybe you read through your Bible in a year. Maybe you read through it twice a year. Um there's someone that I know that he reads through it every sixty days. That's a lot. That's a lot. That's great. Just do it. Just read it. If it's a page, if it's a just do it. Because it it's it's like how it's like saying, well, how much should I save? How much money should I save Just start it. Just start saving. If it's just a little bit, you just start saving for and then when you need it, you'll have it. You'll have something. Just start reading your Bible. Just start investing time into it. Well, how many times a day should I read? Just start with when you get up. Just read. Well should I read morning and evening? If you can, yeah, do it. Just do it. Just read your Bible. If if you if invest just a little bit of time, just five minutes. Over time, that's way more than no minutes. Just read it. Well, should I also, along with my Bible, should I also study a commentary with it? Sure, if you want. But just read your Bible. Well, well, should I also be reading reading Christian literature? Sure, go for it, but start with your Bible. Start with your Bible. We do the Baptist breads, right? Should you also Pastor says this all the time It's not to replace it, it's to supplement. So should I read this with my Bible? Sure, go for it. But start with reading your Bible. You have got to invest some time into it. One of my favorite parts of the day is is the morning when I first wake up, even though I don't like mornings. I'm starting to Sort of. Um in the mornings, this is my little routine. My alarm goes off an hour before I wake up. Okay. Is anyone else like that? Is there I have three or four alarms going all the time. Am I the only one? And they go off a minute after each other. So that way if you hit snooze the next one goes off immediately. Am I am I the only one that does it you do that? It's a process. Now, um how many of you wake up just like immediately? Like as soon as you wake up, like like as soon as your eyes open, you're wide awake Perfect example. So you're as soon as you wake up, you're good to go. Right, now watch. He's not a short guy. He's a he's a pretty tall guy, right? But if we compared body mass I'm like three times his size. Right? I'm like our diesel bus out there. You gotta plug that thing in two hours before it get you get it gets going. You gotta it's cold outside, plug it in Let the blocks start heating up. That's good. And then we'll turn it on an hour before we actually leave. So it takes time to heat up and everything. And then it can get going. You try to move that thing just middle of winter, go out there, it might not even start. If it does start, it's going to sound like there's little hammers underneath of there going clack, clack, clack, clack, clack. Does anyone know what I'm talking about? That's me That's me. But you get in your little four-seal in a car, zmm, it fires right up. I don't know if it sounds like that, but it fires right up and it's good to go Okay? That has nothing to do with what I'm preaching this morning. I'm just telling you why it takes me that long to wake up in the morning. But one of my favorite parts is becoming the morning, and this is what That's what I was talking about. Yeah, my alarm go this is my routine. See how quickly I forget things. This is bad. This is my routine. The alarm goes off an hour before I wake up. Then I get up, get in the shower, go downstairs. and have coffee and me and and Courtney will sit and and read the Bible on our phones. We have the app right there, Bible app, and we'll read through the Bible in the morning. And drink coffee, we'll pray together. I love it. I spend and I made that a point. And if I did not do that If we did not do that, one we wouldn't see each other much. It's like really probably we spend more time together that hour than we do like the rest of the day. So we wouldn't probably see each other much. But also It's like a guarantee we are going to read the Bible together. That alarm goes off, coffee's brewing, drink the coffee, we're reading the Bible together. My wife would not be the same if we didn't do that, and I really believe that. One, it puts us on the same page together. You pray with your wife, you really can't be mad at her. She really isn't mad at you. You read God's word with your wife and things are just better. You know what I mean? That's an investment Could I sleep a little longer? I could, but I'm choosing to make the investment into God's Word. And into my wife at the same time. And caffeine into the system. It's good. You gotta make that time It really is like I'm not a morning person at all. I'm not at all. It if I wake up at three, at seven, at nine Doesn't matter what time I wake up in the morning. I'm not really awake until around lunchtime. It's just the way I am I is I'm an autopilot right now. Autopilot's on I don't even know what I'm saying. Um But uh you make that investment in the morning and it pays off. It does And so wherever you apply that principle of God's investing in God's Word, your life will be better. I believe that we ha one of the reasons that we have a good relationship, me and my wife, is because of that time. I really believe that. And days that we miss, we miss, yes, sometimes. Not often, but sometimes we do. Those are usually pretty bad days. Does anyone else know what I'm talking about? Those are usually pretty bad days. Now, Paul, let me get into scripture here. Verse 16, he said, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. Scripture is profitable in every area of life. But he lists four specific ones here. I won't spend much time on them. But he lists four specific areas. Doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness. Those four. The Scripture, if you put time into it, will profit you in these areas. In every area. But he highlights these. What is doctrine? He said it's probable for doctrine. What is doctrine? It's what we believe, right? Like well, a pastor has his uh Bible doctrines class he teaches. And he'll go over like the doctrine of of man, the doctrine of of of God, the doctrine of salvation. He goes over these different doctrines, right? We wouldn't know any of that without the Bible. Because we have the Bible, and because he has invested so much time and effort and energy and money and resources into learning the Bible. He's able to very well teach that doctrines class. And he's able to apply those doctrines that he learned from the Bible to himself. He's able to understand them and learn them and teach. Is everyone with me on this? This area specifically of doctrine, we would have no clue what we believed if we never read the Bible. And you can go off of what someone tells you, but that's going off of what someone tells you. The way you really know what you believe, hopefully you got that from the Word of God. And if you didn't get it from the Word of God, you really don't know what you believe anyway. The scripture will profit you. It will give you a a sense of confidence and a sense of security knowing what you believe and why you believe it. We just went through uh with the teens, we spent about, I don't know, five weeks on Sunday mornings. Why do we use the Bible we use? Why do we use the King James Bible? Do we just randomly pick it off a shelf? No. We there's there's a re there's several reasons for it. And we went through that. And I tell them this. And we went through same thing, we went through Baptist distinctives. What's different about Baptists from from um denominations, what's you know, what why do we believe what we believe? We went through that. We went through a series on the fundamentals. What are the fundamentals? You know, stuff like that. Why do you believe this? Because it mom because mom and dad taught me doesn't work. You've got to know what you believe and why you believe it, and you've got to be able to base it off of the Word of God. And if you don't invest the time into the Word of God, you won't know what you believe. And there's profit in that. There's a return on investment in that. If I invest time into studying God's Word, I'm gonna get a return in that area of doctrine. He goes on, doctrine reproof. Boy, this one's tough. Reproof. And correction as well. Reproof and correction are profitable things We just don't always like them. But they're profitable. If we put time into the Word of God, it will reprove us. It will show us where we're wrong. It'll show us where we're right. It'll correct us if we're wrong. It'll show us how to correct what the we are doing wrong. Do you ever wonder, is this right or wrong? This thing that I'm is this right or wrong? Someone's trying to get me to do this thing. I don't know if it's right. I don't know if it's wrong. Well, you know the Bible will show you that. And even if it's not the exact thing you're wondering about is not in the Bible word for word, the principle I guarantee you is in there. And so if you invest time into the Word of God, you'll know if the thing is right or wrong. It gives reproof, it gives correction, it's a profitable thing. Instruction in righteousness. It teaches us how to live right. It teaches us what not only what is right, but how to do it, how to live it. It's great. It's awesome. So, verse 17. I want to focus on this for just a minute. Well, let me back up. Verse 16, this is what we've been talking about. All scripture is profitable, right? You put time and effort into the investment, you'll get a profit on it. What does that look like? Verse 17 says, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. That is your return. That is the profit. It's profitable in doctrine. It's profitable in reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness. But verse 17 is the return. That the man of God may be perfect, truly furnished, and all good works. If you invest time into God's Word, that's what you'll get. The first one there is perfect. Now this isn't sinless perfection, right? It's the same type of thing when we're talking about in Job. In the book of Job? Job in the book of Job. Yeah. Job says he was perfect and upright. It wasn't that he was sinless, but he was living the way God wanted him to live. He was in God's perfect will. We could put it that way maybe. He was doing what he was supposed to do, and when he did sin, he would immediately get things right with God. He was in it he uh is standing He's perfect, right? Not not in sinless, but he would make sure he had kept a short account with God on things. If there was a sin, he'd get it right immediately, and he was right where God wanted him to be. Perfect. You can't be there without God's word. If you're not going to invest into God's Word, you can't be in His perfect will. You can't live the life God wants you to live. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. You've got to have God's word. if you're going to live the perfect life that He wants you to live. You've got to invest the time into it. You've got to read that scripture in the morning, read it later on in the day, meditate therein day and night, then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Something like that. I might have misquoted it. That was Joshua. You've got to spend time in it. And if you do, you'll be equipped to live the way God wants you to live. You can't You can't be in the center of God's will if you're not investing in His Word. And so, you know, we'll sometimes we'll have a young person or not young person, we'll have someone come and say, You know, I want to know God's will for my life. Well, if you're not reading the Bible, you can't know. God's not going to show you what He wants you to do. If you're not reading what he wants you to do. It's in there. I've told the young people this a lot of times. At least 90% of God's will is written in black and white. It is. Ninety per cent of God's will is already written down for you. You've got to read it Now some of the other stuff you know that that might not be written down, but if you do the 90%, the 10% you'll figure it out. God will show you, you'll figure it out. So like I've got to read it I've got to read it. Not just go off of what my parents say about it, my pastor says about it, someone else on YouTube says about it. I've got to read it. Have you ever been sitting in a service, whether it's here or another church, and you hear the pastor uh say read scripture, but what he says doesn't actually match up word for word what's there I know I've done that several times. I'm talking to the teens and I'll read a verse. This happened once. I never told them. But there was a we were going through our series in Proverbs, and I misread the verse. I left out the word not and so it completely changed the whole context around. And so I preached for like twenty-five minutes something wrong, but then caught it at the end, and I was like, uh huh, so I bet you don't know what I left out. I left out the word not. So the whole way I just preached that, and I like I turned it around like I did it on purpose, but I didn't. So that was like all the I don't know, four or five years ago. We were still doing the prob our beginning of our proverb study on that, so it was a long time ago. Anyway, I don't know why I'm telling you that. See, confess your faults one to another. That's what's happening. Thank you, sir. Thank you But I can't be in God's will. I'm not going to read his word. I can't go that's what I was saying. I can't just go off of what the pastor says, the verse says That's why he wants you to bring your Bible and follow along with him. Because it is very possible, and it happens, where he might leave a word out, or or I might leave a word out, or you've got to see it for yourself Anyway, second one is this. He said that the man of God may be perfect. Second one is that it was truly furnished. Furnished. If you have a if you if you move into a house, you move into an apartment and there there's nothing in it, you need to furnish it. You need to put the the sofa in there, you need to put the coffee pot in there, then you need to put the Keurig in there. And then you need your your espresso machine in there, and then you need your pour over coffee kit in there, you need your coffee grinder, and you gotta furnace your house Does anyone else furnish your house that way? No, maybe a few. We we we really actually cleaned up a lot. We W it was ridiculous. We had no counter space left because of all of my coffee stuff. I I'm not kidding ya. I had two different Keurigs Um we had uh the one that would grind you know that sheets where it grinds the beans and then it it it the the right there grinds the beans and then puts it in the c then you get the coffee. You know what I'm talking about? I don't like those as much by the way. I like the older coffee better. But anyway, I had one kind of similar to that. If we'd grind the beans and then make the coffee right there, it was okay. But then I also had um the pour over. That was probably still my favorite. Um and then I had the espresso machine. Of course I got a regular coffee pot And we cleaned up a lot. We really did. All I have now is my French press, my coffee pot, and my pour over. I know. Doing good. So but you gotta furnish your house. And if I want to furnish my life I've got to put the furniture in it. The furniture in it. The way to be completely f it'd be weird if you walked into a house and there was only one piece of furniture. Right? If you walked home into your house today and there was just the table, but the chairs were gone and the couch was gone and everything was gone, it was just the table, or it was just one chair. Just one no couch, no no no coffee stands, no no chair n just one chair. Well that's not a fully furnished house. It's not a thoroughly furnished house. Now, don't misunderstand me. I said just start reading. If you want to start reading your Bible, you gotta start somewhere. I'd start in John, start in Proverbs. But that's not a complete furnishing You gotta have the whole thing. And if you have a couch but no table or chairs, or if you have a fridge, but no coffee pot, you're not complete If you have a coffee grinder but no coffee pot, I need to get off the coffee, but you get the point. You've got to have the whole thing. And that's how the Word of God is. You've got to have the whole thing So if you invest time and effort into the Word of God, it will give you everything you need. It will truly furnish you. With everything you need to live the life that God wants you to live. You can't just read Proverbs every day and that's it. That's a great place to start. At some point, you're gonna have to invest in the book of James. At some point, you're gonna have to invest in the book of Isaiah. I'm jumping around, but you get the point At some point you're gonna have to uh invest in Malachi. You're gonna have to. And that's how you're gonna get the complete furnishing. Anyway, you you you you need the whole thing. Now you can't get all at once. I don't I can't I don't know of anyone who can when they first get an apartment and buy the whole furnishing all at once. Some people do and they go in debt over that, which you shouldn't do, but that's besides the point. Um you're going to build that up over time. When I got my first apartment, I had one chair and an air mattress. and a card table. I was doing pretty good. I had a place to sleep, an apartment. Within a year, I had a table and a couple chairs. Um and I had a bed, not an air mattress, I had an actual bed, and I had a like a little two-piece loves thing. And over time it built up, it furnished over time. And and that's how the Bible is. If you sat down and read through the whole thing at one time, first off that's impressive. And you're probably going to sleep somewhere in there. Okay But but it's it's it's gonna cramp. You it's something you've got to invest in over time. It's a long term investment. You get short-term benefits with it, but it's also a long-term investment. And then the last one was what it produces. Look at uh verse 17 again. The man of God may be perfect. Through be f furnished unto all good works. If you invest time into God's word, the return on that investment is good. And it's not just good for you. It's good for everyone around you When you do good works, who are you doing the good works towards? Of course you're honoring the Lord, but it's affecting people around you. You're doing good works for people, doing good works unto people, you're being nice to people. Good works. Right? When I invest time in the Word of God, it equips me to live the perfect life that God wants me to live, gives me all the furnishings I need to live the way He wants me to live, so that I can do good works, and people will see that, and glorify my Father which is in heaven. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven. So if I invest time and effort and money, and that's why you should I think you should go to Bible Institute and get do the Bible Doctrines class that he teaches. It costs like I don't remember what it costs, a few bucks, whatever. I think you should invest time into getting you buying a Bible, you should or money into buying a Bible, and I think it's that kind of stuff is good But why? So we can li have everything we need. Now if you don't go to Bible Institute, if you don't do those other things, you still have the main thing, right? And that's what I was trying to say earlier. Like, just read this. If you do those by the way, if you do those other things and don't read this, you're it's not going to do much for you. You can go you you can go get a a four-year degree, you can go get your masters in theology But if you're not reading the Bible First off, that doesn't even make sense. But you get the point. Read your Bible. That's I told you right at the beginning. This is the whole point of the message. Just read your Bible. Producing it will produce good works to help you live the life God wants to live. So We can talk about investing all we want, but unless we actually invest, we're not gonna get anything out of it. We can talk about reading God's Word all we want. But unless you do it, you're not gonna get out of it. It does no good sitting on the coffee table. It looks nice. It it it doesn't matter if you download the app to read your Bible through in a year. There's apps for that. It doesn't matter if you download it. It doesn't matter if you go back there and buy one of those really nice Bibles that we got that were made available to us. They're and that's what this one is, uh bearing precious seed, I think is where we get them from. They're really nice, wide margin, great for taking notes. But if it just sits on your desk, sits in the dash of your car, it's not doing anything for you You've got to invest the time into it. If you just take a few minutes in the morning to get your Bible out and read it, Well you might not read through it three times in a year. You might not the Bible reading calendar we have back there on that table, it is a little intense. You might not be able to do all of that. If you can, you should probably But just start by doing it. You just put a little bit of time. Man, you'll get a return on that investment. Now uh one more thing I want to point out and I'll be done, and I left this for the end on purpose. Look at verse 15. You talk about a return on investment. The scripture will profit us in every area, but this is the biggest. Verse 15, that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation. True faith, which is in Christ Jesus. You know how I knew how to be saved? Because someone invested time into the scripture and learned how to share the scripture with me And the scriptures made me wise unto salvation, and then I put my faith in Jesus Christ. Someone took the time to learn how to show me the time to learn the Romans Road and show me how to be saved. I was a kid when I was saved. A Wednesday night teacher. W what showed me how to be saved. The less lesson was about hell scared me to death. I didn't want to go there. And so she took a Bible, went through Romans, showed me how I could be saved. She invested. And so now I'm asking myself and all of us to invest some time in the Word of God. It showed you how to be saved. Showed you you were a sinner. I had not known sin except by the law. You know what I'm saying? I'm misquoting scripture. Please forgive me. That's why I'm the assistant pastor. Oh it's a bad joke, I'm sorry. Okay. The law makes us to know we're sinners. The law is our schoolmaster. Scriptures made us wise unto salvation, showed us we were sinners. There's a place called hell. We don't want to go there. There's a lake of fire. We don't want to go there. Christ died for our sins. He who knew no sin became sin for us. That we might be made righteousness of God in Him. That's Bible. Someone invested time into this and learned how to show it to me. Now I'm investing in it. You invest in it so that we can share it with others so that they can have salvation. And if you don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior, boy, you're missing it. Take the step to put your trust in Jesus Christ. Make that decision. I'm going to place my trust in Him. I promise you, you won't regret that return. You won't regret that return on investment. Heads bowed and eyes closed. No one looking around for just a moment. Now, is there anyone in here that by raise of hand you would say, you know what, I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven, and I don't know that I have that home in in heaven if I were to die. I don't know that I have that salvation that he's talking about. Something happened to me. I do not know for sure. My sins are forgiven. I have a home in heaven. And I'm concerned about that. Would you pray for me, Pastor Matt? If that's you, could you just slip your hand up, put it right back down, I won't embarrass you or call you out or anything like that. I'll just I just want to pray for you later. Anyone like that at all? Alright, now let me ask you this. Actually this is more of a more of a challenge and less of a question, I guess. Is there anyone that would just say, you know what? I'm going to start investing in God's Word. Just a little bit of time every day. And maybe you already are, you want to just keep investing, that's good. Can't if that's you, would you just raise your hand? Pastor Matt, I want to invest time in God's Word. Every day. That's good. You can put your hands down. That's not saying we're going to read twenty chapters a day. That's just saying we're going to start doing something. Just start reading something. Promise you you won't regret it. The person that invests ten dollars a month after fifty years has way more in investments than the person that invested no dollars a month The person that invests just a few minutes. Hey, if you can do more, do more. But just the person that invests just a few minutes every day into reading and studying this book. Boy, the return on investment they'll have. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the day that you've given us. We thank you for your word. I pray we would take this seriously, invest time and effort into reading your word every day. And in Jesus name