Amen. Matthew five, six, and seven is one sermon as we uh as we understand, the sermon on the mound. Jesus is not preaching to lost people in this sermon. It's not an evangelistic message It is a disciple message. I like to put it this way. Jesus is discipling his disciples. Now what do we mean by discipling somebody? What are we talking about? Somebody give me a little feedback here tonight. What are we talking about when we're discipling somebody? Alright, we're teaching them. What else? Instructing them. We have the idea of giving information, giving knowledge, and that primarily probably is the case. But discipling is a little bit more than that. We are molding and grooming and maybe mentoring a person to be a follower of Jesus Christ. So these are folks that are already disciples. We noticed that in the beginning of chapter 5. They've trusted him as their personal Savior. They've already made that decision. Their salvation is settled. Again, this is not evangelistic. Now, having said that, later on in chapter 7, particularly, he does deal with the matter of salvation. But it's not evangelistic message. And he is taking these disciples, he is teaching them and helping them understand what God expects from a disciple of Jesus Christ. I've been putting it this way throughout this message, this series I've been putting it this way. You claim to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, then this is what will be true in your life. And that's what he's addressing here. Now we get to chapter 6, and I pointed this out in the previous message, but I'm looking at chapter 6, and I see this basically broke down this chapter into two subjects. Verses 1 through 18, he's dealing with our relationship with the Lord and the sincerity of our relationship with the Lord rather than just putting on a show. He made this statement at least three times. Be not as the hypocrites In our almsgiving, in our prayer, in uh our fasting. Don't just put on a show. Don't just put out there and you know make it look like I'm something. It needs to be genuine. It needs to be sincere. So he deals at length with that Then the second half, verse 19 through 34, the first half is our relationship with the Lord. The second half is our relationship with the world and the things of the world. uh primarily materialism and the things of the world getting a grip on our hearts and taking over our thinking and becoming priorities in our lives and getting us out of sorts. If I'm a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, one thing I have to watch out for is materialism. I have to be careful that this world and the things of this world do not get a grip on my heart. And I believe that's what he's addressing here. Now the second half, I see two divisions in this in the second half here Verse 9 through 24, my attitude towards the things of the world. Remember, we looked at verse 19, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth. Verse 20, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Verse 21, he summarizes what he's saying. For where your treasure is, there will your what Heartbe. And so he's talking about our attitude towards the things of this world and not putting our heart in them, investing ourselves in them. Then verse 25 through 34, he talks about our anxiety in this world, worrying about whether I'm going to have enough stuff, whether I'm going to have a house to live in and food to eat and clothing to wear. He says you don't need to worry about that, and we'll look at that in at length. Verse 19 through 21, he's talking about investing in eternity. Now we get to verse 22. And I'm looking at this. The light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light. If thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness? And I'm wondering, what is he talking about? Is he just injecting a completely different subject into this? Then notice if you would, verse 24, he comes back to the subject. of uh God and things. He says, no man can serve two masters, hate the one, love the other, hold the one, despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon Mammon, there would be money and things of this world. So he kind of, verse 24, he's obviously connected to verses 19 through 21. And here this is in the middle. I looking at it, it sounds kind of like something out of Proverbs, where Proverbs you just have these lists of statements and they're not necessarily connected together, just observations of Solomon and I'm looking, I thought, well maybe the Lord just injects this in here. But the more I got looking at it, the more I'm convinced he is actually, this is all one subject. The previous section and verse 24 is all one subject. And here's my first point tonight is this. I look at this. I see the Lord is making, first thing the Lord does, he makes a comment concerning the eye. Look here at verse 22, the first part. The light of the body is the eye. Now I think what the Lord is doing here, and I'm pretty convinced of this, he is illustrating In verses 22 and 23, the truth he stated in the previous verses. And he's using the eye to illustrate the difference between investing in treasures above And laying up treasures below. And he makes a statement. He says, you know, the eye, the light of the body is the eye. Now, what does he mean by light? The word light there is also translated other places in the New Testament as a lamp or a candle. Now, bear with me. Come over to chapter 5 of Matthew. Look at verse number 15. We already preached on this some time ago. But in Matthew 5, verse number 15, he says, Neither do men light a what? Candle. And put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. That word candle comes from the exact same word you have where he says here, the light of the body is the eye. So the idea here is when he talks about the light of the body, in other words, he's talking about the candle Otherwise, it's kind of like when you walk in you you say, Will you turn on the light? You don't say, will you turn on the bulb Well you turn on that electric thing there. He just referred to it as the light. I think that's what he's doing here. He says the light is the key uh the eye The light of the body is the eye. The candle of the body is the eye. Then the word eye there has the idea of vision. Now, I think when he's making this statement about the eye, he's setting up his illustration. I think what he's saying is this: just like you have a candle in a room. And you light that candle, that light, uh, the light of the room is that candle. In other words, It illuminates the room. It provides information for me, so I know where the sofa is, I know where the uh end table is, I know where the grandkids left the toys laying in the middle, and I know where they're at, and I don't step on them. The light of that room is the candle is the that candle. And that's what he's saying here. It's a general statement. Concerning the function of our eyes, how they play in the dirt daily world. The eye provides light so that I can see and I can function in the world appropriately. If my eyes aren't functioning or I don't have eyes, I'm going to be very limited on what I'm able to do Have to be very, very careful. So he makes this very general statement here, and he says the light of the body is the eye. How many people understand what he means in that? Let's break it down bite-sizes. Alright, we understand. Alright, the light of the body, my light. The eyes provide information so I can function. I don't stub my toe and do all these things. Alright, so he lays that down. Now, the second thought is this. He addresses, and this is where the application comes in, he addresses the two condition our eyes can be in The light of the body is the eye. Alright, Lord, we get that. We understand that the eyes enable our bodies to see and function without problems. Now he says, now your eye can be in one of two conditions. If therefore thine eye be what? Single, the whole body shall be full of light. Then in verse 23 he says, if thine eye be what? Evil. So we have two conditions here. My eye may be single or it may be evil. Alright, what is he talking about? I got my commentaries out. I looked up uh other sermons. I tried to see what other guys who are smarter than I am, what they thought this was, what he was talking about. A lot of them suggested when he says, if thine eye be single, what he means by that. is if your eyeballs are healthy. If you have healthy eyeballs, they're complete, they're functioning the way they should. So if that eye be single, if your eye is healthy, it's functioning the way it should, uh then the whole body shall be full of light. You'll have all the information you need, you'll have all of that, and you'll be able to function, your body's full of light. And that makes sense. If my eye is functioning properly, then my body can function properly. I know where that step is, so I can know where to put my foot. I know where that door handle is, so I know how to reach out and grab it. I know when somebody's offering their handshake to me. I know where their hand is. I can reach out. I can function properly if my eyes are healthy. Alright? So far, so good, right? But I don't think that's what he's saying. I don't think he's talking about healthy eyeballs because the reason being, one is the context, and two, because of the meaning of the word. And I looked up that word single. And you know what the word single means and how it's used other places? Anybody want to take a guess what it means? Single. One. Just one single thing. And so if your eye be single, your uh then uh therefore if an eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of lay. What's he talking about? Well, he's talking about, I believe, focused on one thing. If my eye be single, if I focus on that one thing Then my body can function when I'm going. When we were little, I used to uh this is gonna be hard for you to believe, but when we were little, I used to make faces at my sister I know it's hard for you to believe that I would ever do anything like that, Brionic, uh Victoria, but uh I used to. And I crossed my eyes. And what do you think my mother said to me when I crossed my eyes? my eyes. They're gonna stay that way. And you know what I found out when I crossed my eyes? I tried this this afternoon. You know what I found out when I crossed my eyes? It's kind of hard to tell where that step is. You know why? Because my eyes are looking two different directions at once. They're not single. We talk sometimes about somebody be having double vision Things aren't lined up. The Lord says, if your eye be single, you'll be able to function the way you should. You'll be able to uh uh your body be able to do what it needs to do. And you say, what does that have to do with anything he's talking about? What did he talk about in verses number 19, 20, and 21? Lay up for yourselves treasures upon in heaven and not on. Uh. Here he's talking about two different things to focus on. Two different areas to invest my life in Look at verse number 24, the last part. You cannot serve God and mammon. What's he saying? He's saying you can't be focused on two different things. You can't focus your life on things of heaven, lay up for yourself things in heaven, and then also lay up things on earth and think you're going to be able to function properly as a disciple. What did James say in chapter 1? He says, For the uh if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God to give to all men liberally. Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering, for he that wavereth is like a wavering See driven with the wind of toss, let not that man think he received anything in order. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. It's the same thing the Lord said. So if you're going to have double vision, if you're not going to focus on one thing, you're not going to be able to focus on one thing the way God intends for you to function. You're not going to be able to be the disciple God intends for you to be. You must be single, your eye must be single For that body to function as a disciple does. So he addresses two conditions. One is the I must be single, not I don't think he means healthy and complete and functioning the way it should, although it'd certainly be included in it. But he's talking about zeroed in on one thing. One thing Now he uses the other term in verse number 23. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. The word evil, again, I got looking that up and a lot of uh suggested that the word evil there means unhealthy. It's undysfunctional. It's not operating the way it should. You go into the eye doctor. I was in the eye doctor, it's been a little while ago, probably a year ago. And he's checking. I've always had trouble with my eye. My right eye has always been weaker than my left eye. It's always been a little bit of an issue. And man, he went through everything and pshh, blowing air in your eyeballs and pulls them out and looks at them, sticks them back in. I mean he just went through the whole thing. And you know what he told me? He said, This is amazing. Your eyes are getting better. I said, well, praise the Lord. And he says, no. He says, and you get older, you tend to, if you're nearsighted, you tend to improve your eyesight as you get older. He says, but that your eyes have improved so much beyond that, that doesn't explain it I said, wow. And um and he he thought maybe I lost weight has helped me my eyesight. So wow, so if I lose ten more pounds, I'll be able to see what you're doing on the back row back there So some have suggested if an eye be evil, it's unhealthy, it's not functioning right, and if your eyes aren't functioning right, your body's gonna be full of darkness, you're gonna be stumbling around, you're not going to be able to operate the way you want. And that may be what he's talking about in Matthew chapter 7. In fact, it's just right there. So let's look at it. Look at verse 17. He uses this same term. Matthew 7 verse 17, he says this, even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit. What does he mean by good fruit? Good, healthy, um how would you describe it? Uh healthy uh Tasty, it's good, it's healthy, it's complete, it's what it ought to be. Good fruit. Then he says, But if a but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit, same word. So in that case, it's talking about something that's not healthy. It's dysfunctional. It's not the way it should be. And so is that what the Lord's talking about here? That upper dysfunctional? I don't think the context supports that I think evil here has the idea, and by the way, as I was looking up the definition how it's used different places, it has this idea of being sin. This is my definition. sinfully distracted. In other words, it's not focused on one thing. It's distracted over here, it's distracted over there. In fact, that phrase, evil, if your eye be evil, is used at least three times in the Bible. We've got time, so let's take a look at that. If you would, turn with me to Deuteronomy Chapter number 15. I think here we're going to see how this is playing into the subject that the Lord is dealing with in the previous chapter, laying up for yourselves treasures. in heaven, not treasure in earth, where your heart is, where your treasure is, there your heart will be. Uh the verse 24, can't serve God and mammon. Talking about being single-minded, single-focused. Deuteronomy chapter 15. Look at verse number 7. I'm going to read down here to kind of get the context. Verse number 7, Deuteronomy 15. If there be among you a poor man of one of thy brethren within any of thy gates of thy land, which the Lord thy God giveth thee, Thou shalt not harden thine heart, nor shut thine hand from thy poor brother. So he's given instructions to the Israelites how they're to function in their society. And he gives some very clear and unique instructions. Verse 8, but thou shalt open thine hand wide unto him, and shalt surely lend to him sufficient for his need in that which he wanted. Now look at this. Beware that there be not a thought in thy what? Wicked heart Saying the seventh year, the year of release is at hand. Now, question, I'm going to ask your, see how well you know your Old Testament teaching. The year of release. The seventh year. The year of release is at hand. What is the year of release? What's he talking about? The Sabbath year and what takes place in the Sabbath year? You're forgiving debts. All the debts are forgiven. If land has been uh outside the family, it comes back into the family. It's a stabilizing thing that the Lord has established. And he's saying here, listen, you've got wicked hearts And you be careful. If somebody comes along and they're very poor and they need have some needs, don't say, you know, next year is the year of release. They're going to be forgiven all after forgive them all their debts. I'm not lending them anything. I'm not going to to make them owe it to me because I'm not going to get it back. You follow what he's saying? And he says, don't let your wicked heart make you selfish. Don't let your wicked well let me let him say it the way it is here Beware that there be not a thought in thy wicked heart, saying the seventh year, the year of release is at hand, and thine eye be evil. Against thy poor brother, now givest him not. And he cry unto the Lord against thee, and if he sin unto thee, thou shalt surely give to him And thine heart shall not be grieved when thou givest unto him, because that for this thing the Lord thy God shall bless thee In all thy works and in all that thou puttest thy hand unto. What is this evil eye? Thine eye be evil. What he's saying here is this, he's cautioning them, don't get your eyes on the temporary material things. You keep your focus on the things of God and the things that are eternal and you help this person and you be godly and you be Christ like you die to yourself. And you help them out. God will bless you. God will take care of you. It's almost the exact same thing he's saying in chapter 6. He says, listen, lay up for your treasures in heaven. Don't serve God in Mammoth. And then the last part he says, don't worry about what you have to do Eat or clothing, God will provide that for you. And it's the same principle. And so this evil eye is getting my eyes off the Lord, getting my eyes off the things of God getting my eyes off of uh uh eternal things and getting my focus on temporary things And that becomes an evil eye. Let me give you another verse. Proverbs 23. Come over there real quick. And he touches on this same subject. Not as clear, maybe, but still you can see the principle here. Proverbs 23 I'm going to begin reading in verse 1. We're going to go down through verse 7. Proverbs 23. Verse 1, I'll read down through verse 7. Look what he says. Now pay attention to the context. This seems a little disjointed through here, but it's pretty much one subject. Well, now set us to eat with a ruler. Consider diligently what is before thee, uh, and put a knife to thy throat if thou be a man given to appetite. Now, just a little aside here. I put this on the side. This is unrelated, but it's a good thought. Be aware of my own weaknesses. He said, if you're a man given to appetite, which Never mind. But um uh if if you're a man given to appetite, you need to beware of the fact that I'm given to appetite. And so do what you need to do to make sure that you don't indulge that. You need to know what your weaknesses are, and then do what you need to do to safeguard yourself against your own weaknesses. Do you see that there? Has nothing to do with what we're talking about. So, but anyway, look at verse 3. Be not desirous dainties, for they are deceitful meat. Now look at verse 4. Labor not to be rich. Seems from thine own w wisdom. Look, wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? For riches, and we could say things of this world, material stuff. Certainly make themselves wings and they fly away as an eagle toward heaven. Does that sound a little bit like what the Lord Jesus said? Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth Where morph and rust that grow up and steps break in and steal, it's going to be gone. Eat not thou, verse 6, the bread of him that hath an evil eye. Neither desire thou as dainy meats, for as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. Eat and drink, saith he to thee, but his heart is not with thee. Now what's happening here? And again, it's not as clear as perhaps the Deuteronomy statement was, but what I think he's referencing here, here he's talking about this fellow that has an evil eye. He says, you be very, very careful Now you don't get caught up into the thinking of this guy with the evil eye. His evil eye is all his focus is on his riches, is on the stuff. on his uh material things. Now don't get caught up in his uh his uh uh what does he say his deities Be not desirous of his dainties, for they are deceitful me. So again, the idea here. I'm trying to find out what the Lord's talking about. He says, if the eye be single The whole body shall be full of light. If thine eye be evil, the whole body shall be full of darkness. What does he mean evil eye? Well, the two places here we've seen already, the evil eye is looking on temporal stuff, not eternal things. One more. If you would turn to Deuteronomy tw or I'm sorry, Proverbs chapter twenty-eight. And verse number twenty two He that hasteneth to be what? Rich hath an evil eye, and considereth not that Poverty shall come upon him. Set down a little bit about laying up treasures on earth For moth and rust uh corrupt and thieves break in and steal, it's not going to last. Notice what he says here. Uh and consider not that poverty shall come upon him. What's he talking about? When the Lord says, now we'll go back to Matthew here, this is, he said, makes this statement on trying to think, what is he talking about? What does he mean, a single eye, an evil eye? Believe what he's simply saying here is I need to f I need to focus on one thing. If I'm going to function as the disciple Christ wants me to be, if I'm going to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, I must have a single eye, not an evil eye. I must not be looking at the things of this world. The temporary things, the things that are only going to last while I'm alive, I need to focus singly on the things of God, the things that are eternal. I can focus on one objective, and that's a single eye, and I'll be able to be the kind of Christian I ought to be. I can focus on several objects. And be dysfunctional. I've never seen a Christian strong in the Lord, uh serving God consistently for a long period of time, over an extended period of time. uh that was constantly getting caught up into the fads and the things of this world and stuff of this world. Every Christian I know that has been strong and sp uh as spiritually strong and live for God an extended period of time was focused on Christ and Christ alone And everything else was just necessary. They did that, but they lived for Christ and Christ alone. That brings me to my third and final point. If you would look here, the Lord makes a conclusion. Concerning the consequences of our focus. Look at verse 23. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. Now here's his conclusion. First part of verse 22, he made an opening statement, just made that comment. An eye, the eye is the uh the light of the body is the eye. Then he says, you can choose one of these two types of eyes. Single or evil. Then he concludes with this. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is thy darkness, how great is that darkness? And what does he mean by that? I think he's just summarizing. Now it's worded a little awkward there, what he say. I believe this is what the Lord is telling us. Let me ask this before I give it. How many folks here you you're saved and you know it? Say amen. I would assume, now I'm not going to ask you to answer this. But in your own heart, answer this question. And I think I know what the answer would be for the overwhelming majority of us. Would you consider yourself a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, not just a believer? But I've come to the point in my life as a Christian where I've decided I am not only going to trust Christ as my Savior, but I'm going to follow Him. I'm going to live my life as a disciple of Jesus Christ. Two different things. It's possible for a person to be a believer, get saved, and never become a disciple. We see them all through the gospels. But as a disciple, if I come to the point in my life where I'm going to live for Christ, Christ says, if that's true, if you're my disciple and you want to live your life according to my principles and I be Basically say, I'll be Lord of your life, and you're going to live a life of submission to me as your Lord. That is the disciple. If that's the case, then you and one thing alone. Because if you're looking at everything else in this world and if the lights of this world and the bells of this world and the pleasures of this world and uh all of that, if they have your attention and they are a priority in your life You will not be able to function as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he's summarizing that here. And I put it this way. What I am focused on determines how well I function as a disciple of Jesus Christ. I'm going to try and illustrate and end. Remember Peter, they're out in the storm. Peter and disciples are out in the storm. Jesus is not with them. They left him back on the shore. And he compelled them to get in the boat, and he sent them to the other side, and he goes up and he prays. How many people remember the story? The disciples are out in the middle of the s of the lake of the sea The storm blows up, and I mean it's bad. And they look out on the water and they're struggling and trying to keep that boat up, and they look out in the water, and what do they see out on the water coming towards them? They say the Lord Jesus Christ walking on the water. What did they think he was? A spirit. And they are absolutely terrified. And the Lord says to them, Be not afraid, it is I. And Peter, as he always does, is um what's the word I want? Uh yeah, but I mean uh uh impulsive. I mean you don't stop and think about what he's saying. Lord, if that's you, compel me to come out for you The Lord said, I I think the Lord has a little sense of humor. Lord says, come on. You don't know what you're asking. Come on out. And to his credit, Peter exercises tremendous faith in God. And he steps out of that boat. And he is walking on the water. Now I've and I've said this before, but every time I go through this, I think of this. We see pictures, little children's cartoon books, and it's nice and calm. You know, and Peter's walking on this mirror water, it's just smooth as can be. There's a storm going on. I mean there's swells going up and down. He's getting out of that boat and he's down in the water. And then a wave comes and he's walking on these waves and it's up and then the next step is down And the Bible says that he, when he saw the wind and the waves. He began to what? Sing. When he got an evil eye Got his eyes off of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he started looking at this world and the circumstances he was in and the situation he had gotten himself into. And began to sink. And he was not functioning as God, as Jesus had called him to function. The Lord says, you come on out to me And when he got his eyes off of the Lord Jesus Christ, he wasn't no longer coming towards the Lord Jesus Christ. He was sinking. His body was being filled with darkness, so to speak. I think what the Lord means, he says, that I be single, the whole body shall be full of light. And I be evil, the whole body shall be darkness. And if the light of thy body is darkness, how great is that darkness? It says you're completely out of the will of God. You're stumbling around, staggering like a man drowning in the ocean. Get our eyes off of the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't lay up for yourself treasures in on earth. Lay it up in heaven. This heav. Listen, if you're focused on the things of this earth and you've got your eyes off the Lord Jesus Christ, you're not functioning as a disciple. Your whole body's full of You can't serve God in mammon. You've got to make up your mind. As a disciple of Jesus Christ, am I going to best my thing uh my life in the Lord Jesus? Am I going to stay focused on him? Am I going to serve him? Or am I going to horse around with the world? I was going to play around, be double-minded, and have an evil eye and invest the uh myself in things that aren't even going to last another 50 years. They'll be gone. I'm going to serve things. Mammon. No, if you're going to be my disciple, you've got to be focused on Christ. Apostle Paul, I believe, had a single eye. He says, For me to live is Christ. Nevertheless, uh for for I'm crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live. Yet not I, but Christ lives within me. The life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God. Single focus. You read through the testimony of Paul. Uh all he ever told you know it's interesting. I thought of this when I was down in New Zealand on the mission trip. We're driving around from meeting to meeting. We're flying up to Auckland. It's just beautiful, beautiful country. I got thinking about Paul's record of his mission trips. And Paul never talked about the scenery. He never talked about the stuff of the world around there. All he ever was focused on was what? Reaching people with the gospel Everywhere he went, it was about the gospel. It was about the gospel. It doesn't mean we should enjoy that stuff, but I'm saying Paul was so focused, single-eyed On Christ and God's will for his life. He said, what do you mean to break my heart? I'm willing to die for Christ down in Jerusalem. What? He was single eye. I think one of the most focused men that I've ever met in my life, as far as the gospel is concerned, the most focused man I ever met in my life was Dr. Lee Robertson. His life was consumed by the Lord Jesus Christ. Everything. I just read a biography of this just recently. And everything about his life was Jesus Christ and him alone. And I thought, man, that's disciple. That's discipleship You say what? I don't work a job. No, no, no, we we have to do all these things. And the Lord talks about that later on. Yeah, we work and we work hard and we have a good testimony and we honor the Lord, rejoice in the Lord But as far as my purpose and what I'm investing in and what I'm serving, it's not this world. It's Christ. It's Christ. I want to have a single eye, I don't want to have an evil eye. I tell you, this world is so alluring. And they can make it look so good Just thought of this. First time we went down to Dominican, Kathy and I, the church sent us down 1999, I think it was And we stayed in, Dr. Creed had organized it, and we stayed in. They said it was the nicest motel in Santo Domingo, or at least one of them. And we're excited, went, we like nice motels, this is going to be awesome. And uh as far as price-wise, it was uh very cheap of by American dollars. And we got there, man, it was elegant, remember Kathy? And the f and the foyer was just beautiful and they had this big cage with all these rare birds in it. And uh everything was uh it was just amazing This is awesome. This is just amazing. And then we got beyond the facade and we got into the rooms and it was like Motel Six, Economodge, you know. And had all this show there. And I thought that is exactly the way the world is. And we've got Christians in our churches all around the world just getting so captivated by the world And so they invest in it and they start serving it and they get their eyes off the Lord. And you know what they find out when it's all said and done? Economage. Wasn't anything what it appeared to be. Wasn't anything what I thought it would be like. Reality never lives up to fantasy. Never does. Never does. And that's what the Lord's saying. Christ is real. Heaven is real. Serving God is real. It's eternal. It's enduring. Invest in that. Focus on that. Serve the Lord. I believe that's what he's teaching. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd spur our hearts. And Lord, whatever role you have for us in this world as your disciples, whatever ministries and Responsibilities you've given us in this life, I pray you'd help us to do them with our eyes on you. Lord, don't let us do what Demas did and fall in love with this temporary world. But help us, Lord, to stay focused on Christ. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed and I'm going to say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. I consider myself a disciple of Christ. I want to live for Him. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me tonight and this Wednesday night that my focus will be on Christ and the things and the situations and others and stuff. I can block that out and keep my focus on Christ. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I want to live for Christ in Christ alone, as we say. I know that's our desire. If I'm a genuine disciple, that's my desire. And God will help us. If we ask Him, He'll show us what we need to do to safeguard and put that knife to our throat so we don't get caught up in the dainties of this world, but stay focused on Christ. Christ. Father, you know our hearts. Help us, we pray. We all have our struggles, we all have our weaknesses. We need you to help us, dear Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verses of invitation. And maybe on this Wednesday night it might be good just find a place in altar and say, Lord, I want to stay focused on you. I don't want the things of this world and the bright lights and stuff to distract me and the Even the necessary things of everyday living, don't let them get my eyes off of Christ. Invest ourselves in things of God in eternity and have that single eye, a single eye. Christ in Christ alone