Ezekiel in chapter number thirty-eight, please. Ezekiel chapter thirty-eight And I think it was Miss Betty. Is that that Miss Betty right here? Oh she's She said, uh Brother Rossi, did you know the pastor has a cat? Snitched on you. Now I have a book. I collect such things because people give them to me in churches. I have a book on cat psychology. They actually have cat psychologists, believe it or not. I mean why not? They have everything else for animals and uh treat 'em better than they treat people and And uh I have a cat psychology book and I read some of the habits of a cat. When a cat is rubbing against you He is basically marking you for ownership. He's not saying, you know, oh, I'm so glad to see you. And if a cat's rubbing against you when you come home, they're scolding you for being away So, you know, I hear people who use this uh it's really a I don't know, it's a it's sort of a mythical term, a cat owner. Nobody owns a cat They own you. So when you come home, they mark you for ownership. So it's about time you got in here and uh there's something else. Anyway, he told me when I saw him, how it all happened, and I said, That's fine. I was real sick And uh for over a year and uh went through a a uh program and it was back in oh seven and oh eight and lost most of my vision I couldn't see for about three or four months and um I got I got very very sick and so one night I went out for a walk and this cat started following me And a little kitty cat. And he and he just followed me and I said, Come here. And and uh I was real sick and went over and sat on the front steps of the house and he came and sat right next to me just like a little dog. And uh I thought, well, this is actually a nice little cat. Now I was sick. Okay, so when uh my son came out and said What's going on here? I said, this cat's really unusual. He acts more like a dog than he does a cat. He said, Oh, okay. I'll be right back. And he came back and he got a big old uh pail of water. Doused him and he took off running. He said, You'll you'll thank me for this later. But anyway, so you're gonna ruin all your sermons if you start befriending a cat So he got rid of 'em. He didn't hurt 'em or anything, and by the way, I've never hurt one li intentionally, so uh I d I might have ran over a few, but I don't know. So but uh I I never will do that on purpose anyway. I'm a true Animal lover and tree hugger at heart and all that stuff. Alright. Ezekiel chapter 38. Ezekiel 38, please. Let's look at it together. We're looking at a very, very unusual chapter of the Bible And it's very involved, it's very important, and it's very much relevant to what is happening in our world today. Let's stand together for the reading of the Word of God. And we had uh such a wonderful time at Danny's today and Pastor and I uh met with Brother Schofield at Tennies. We had a wonderful time of fellowship and learned a lot about Brother Schofield, told me a lot about his life and And just had some amazing stories of how uh God saved his dad and that just a great, great, encouraging story. So uh appreciate that, Brother Comstock or Brother Comstock He's down at church the open door. Brother Schofield, all right, so and I appreciate that so much. All right. Ezekiel 38, please, verse 1 And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, set thy face against Gog, the land of Magog, the chief prince of Meshech, and Tubal. And prophesy against him. And say, Thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal. I will turn thee back and put hooks into thy jaws, and I will bring thee forth and all thine army, horses and horsemen. All of them clothed in all sorts of armor, even a great company with bucklers and shields, all of them handling swords, Persia, Ethiopia, and Libya with them, all of them with shield and helmet, Gomer And all his bands, the house of Togarmah of the North Quarters, and all his bands, and many people with thee Be thou prepared, prepare for thyself, thou and thy company that are assemble unto thee, be thou a guard. Unto them. I'll stop reading from there, and I'll be looking at the Word of God tonight Keep your Bibles open because we're going to look at some things that I believe are being set up that are being put in place right now. It is amazing how much is being set in motion around the world for the coming of Christ For the one world system, for the beast and the antichrist, and all that will happen, but more importantly, for the glorious appearing of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm not looking for the Antichrist. I'm looking for the Son of God. I'm not watching for him. I don't care what he looks like. I don't care who he is. Uh we're not going to be here. And when he's revealed. But all these things are happening, and especially something that is, I believe, all the players Are getting clearly positioned for something that is called the Ezekiel thirty-eight war. It is the battle of Gog, may Gog, Tubal and Meshach And they will descend down upon the people of Israel and the mountains of Israel. We'll learn that in just a little bit. We're going to find out what happens when the world finally comes against God's people, and what is the result. I can tell you this, one of the smaller nations in the world, that tiny nation of Israel, once again is going to confound their enemies. They're going to win. Say amen to that. And I I always like to be on the winning side. How many like to lose? Anybody? You wake up in the morning and say, Wish I could lose a few th no nobody likes to lose. We all like to win. And I've seen some of the most mild manner church members, uh, just very quiet, reserved people, get them out on a ball field, get them on a volleyball court Get 'em uh doing anything and suddenly they transform into very competitive people. And it's amazing to see why because the human spirit that God gave us wants to win. And I'm going to speak on the subject of the Ezekiel 38 war. Father, help us to hear from thee. Thank you for what you will do tonight Help me to get through this as quickly as possible. May uh my words be clear. Give me give my mind clarity. And may our thoughts be conveyed very, very clearly and distinctly as we study your word. Thank you for what you'll do tonight. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Everyone said together. You may be seated. Thank you for standing for so long. If you study your Bible from Ezekiel chapter 36 to 38, and including 39, You will find that there is a divine trilogy of truth that is revealed, especially dealing with the last days. Ezekiel chapter 36 deals with the return of God's people to their land. You understand that the land of Israel was a desolate place. No one was there. Mark Twain, the famous writer, went to visit Israel and said that this land was fit for neither God nor man, and no one could live there. He said even foxes couldn't even live in that desolate, awful place. That's what he saw about the nation of Israel. And so uh the return of God's people to Israel in chapter 36, chapter 37 deals with the restoration of the people of Israel. Most of us here know a little bit about the dry bones prophecy where the bones come together Bone to his bone. They stand up eventually as an exceeding and great army as God breathes on them and as God uh puts life into those dead bones, meaning the whole house of Israel that have been carried off and destroyed, and the nation that had become desolate. So we see the return and the restoration Chapter thirty-eight and thirty and thirty-nine deal clearly with the redemption of Israel. How God finally comes And gives them victory once and for all over the nations of the world. If you study this chapter of the Bible, you're going to find out Uh but uh it is very clear that God has a plan for the Jewish state. He has a plan for the Jewish people. We learned last night uh about the dry bones prophecy a little bit, and we learned about the fact that that in May fourteenth of nineteen forty-eight, uh God uh allowed the United Nations with uh with a unanimous consent to take a vote and declare the Jewish state and declare Israel as reborn once again. You understand no other nation has ever done that. No other nation has gone into extinction and gone uh into oblivion and come back to life again. They retained their culture. They retain their language, they retain their religion, they retain uh the Torah, they retain the festivals and all that God gave them, and so the Jewish people are alive and well. That in and of itself is a modern day miracle. More importantly, that is indeed a fulfilled prophecy given over two thousand years ago. Now we find That God made it very clear, uh Christ made it clear when these things were gonna happen and the and even all these things came to the end He said, This generation shall not pass away till all these things be fulfilled. He said that all the times of the end, that generation that sees them They won't pass until uh all the uh the end time events would come to pass. One of the great events in the end time is what is known as the Ezekiel thirty-eight war. It is the northern war. It is the war that will occur between Israel and some of the nations around it, some specific nations that are very clearly mentioned and seen in the Word of God. I want to speak four or five things about this chapter. First of all, who are the people of this war? Who is this war waged against? Ezekiel 38 reveals clearly that this is against the Jewish people. God said uh very clearly that the people of Israel will be attacked by a coalition of nations. Look at verse number eight, please. God said after many days Thou shalt be visited in the latter days, thou shalt come into the land that is brought back from the sword and is gathered out of many people. Who's that? Well, the next verse, the next phrase says, Against the mountains of Israel which have been always waste. Clearly, it is Israel who is going to be attacked I can tell you this right now very quickly that uh the greatest dictionary of the Bible is the Bible. The Bible is a self-interpreting book If you'll read far enough, God always explains. If you have a strange and unusual verse, instead of just saying, Well, I prayed about it and God gave me a vision and here's what it means. No, you just keep on reading And God's word will explain itself. How many believe that? Amen. Just keep studying, keep reading, and you will find that to be true. So it's the people of Israel And God made it clear that there would be attacks in verse eight, verse number fourteen. God said that, Therefore, son of man, prophesy Sandagog Thus saith the Lord God, in that day when my people of Israel dwelleth safely, shalt thou not know it. And he said it again The people of Israel, he said it again, verse 16, and then again in verse number 18. Verse 16 said, Thou shalt come up against my people of Israel As a cloud to cover the land. It shall be in the latter days I will bring thee against my land, that the heathen may know me, when I shall be sanctified in thee, O God. before their eyes. So clearly there's going to be this coalition of nations. It's not only a coalition, it is a well defined coalition of nations. Do you know that every nation uh that is mentioned and and defined in Ezekiel thirty eight, every one of those nations is an Islamic nation They are not only Islamic nations, they are Shia uh Shia Muslims. There are two houses of Islam. There is the Sunni House, the House of Sunni, and the Shia house The Shuny how the Sun the Shunies are the radicals. They're the ones who believe uh in some crazy eschatology. I'll get to that in a moment. And they believe in some things and their goal and their uh religion Is the destruction of the Jewish state. So the people of Israel will be attacked. Israel will be in relative peace at this time. Look at verse number 11. God said, Thou shalt say And he's speaking about Gog and Magog throughout this chapter. Thou shalt say, I will go up to the land of unwalled villages. I will go to them that are in rest That dwelt that at rest that dwell safely, all of them dwelling without walls, having neither bars nor gates. They would be in peace. Most of us know uh that they would be these uh unwalled villages as well Now I can tell you this right now, uh that the big uh watchword in the Middle East is peace, peace, peace Trump several weeks ago called for a summit. There were over twenty uh Arab nations present. Most of those were Shias, and they came together uh and signed up and they agreed on a peace summit. with the nation of Israel. Not to attack them, but to stay together. On the sideline, they also had another agreement that some people don't know about. Their agreement was if any of those nations is attacked then you might as well attack them all because they're going to band together. And so they said, we'll bring peace to Hamas, we will bring peace to the Gaza Strip. We will rebuild the Gaza Strip, and they're already beginning that literally today. They are trying to go in and set up safety and security there so they can begin developing the entire Gaza Strip. Uh there was some memes out several months ago with Donald Trump and Elon Musk sitting on the shores with high rises behind him in the Gaza Strip with Trunk towers written all over them. They were memes, but that really is his desire is to set up that uh that seaside uh resort and that seaside Mecca there in the Middle East. Now understand As well. God speaks about the land of unwalled villages. Many people think that the Ezekiel war cannot happen until all the gates and all the fences of Israel come down. I don't believe that. I believe he should be very specific. He did not say an unwalled country. He said to a land of unwalled Villages, plural, and the same word is used for the word that we come up with the word kaboots for Uh the kabutas were attacked on Octo October uh October seventh, two thousand twenty-three. Those villages, most of those, had no security Most of the people had disarmed. They relied on uh the uh the police to take care of them and the IDF to watch over them, and they were attacked and slaughtered. More than fourteen hundred people were murdered Viciously and ruthlessly, and many of them taken off into the Gaza Strip, and many of them never to return. They died. in that awful place in captivity. So they were the people of this war. Who were the players in this war? Who was involved in the war? Of Ezekiel chapter 38. Well, first of all, God made it very clear. He said he was going to do something very special. Look at verse 4. He said, I will turn thee back And put hooks into thy jaws, and will bring thee forth in all thine army, horses and horsemen God was going to put hooks into the jaws of these nations and bring them in. I know the pastor does. How many of you like to fish? Boy, I like to fish. I I I enjoy fishing. It's great. And it's really great when you're reeling in and your rod not only gets a nibble, when your rod bends in half. It's awesome. In the Chesapeake Bay, you get a big old you know thirty, thirty-five inch rockfish on the line, especially if you're using light tackle, and it just goes over like that. You start working and the main thing you gotta do right away You gotta get his head turned around. They'll run all the way to the Bay Bridge from my house, but if you get 'em turned and finally get 'em coming toward you without him getting a hookout Now you've got him, keep the rod tip up, start pulling him in, reeling him in, he may run another time, but you keep that head turned around That hook is in his jaw. God made it clear he's going to put hooks in the jaws of these nations and bring them down. They think they're doing it, but in reality God Himself is the one who's going to put this all in their mind and bring them in to fulfill His word. And here they are, these nations. They are a number of these. They first of all he said there's Gog, the land of Magog, the chief prince of Meshach, and Tubal And prophesy against him in verse number two. These lands are clearly identified through history and through study. This is almost assuredly the end the land that we now call Russia. It is the far north, according to chapter 39. And so uh it's far above a lot of all the other nations, and if you draw a line straight from Jerusalem and goes straight north, you eventually will hit uh the city of Moscow. And so straight up is Russia. And so that's one of the players in this uh in in this uh conglomerate. So they first of all there is Russia and uh we know that Russia more and more is becoming an Islamic nation. In nineteen ninety one There were 300 mosques across the USSR. 300 mosques. In 2006, there were 3,000 mosques across the uh Russia In two thousand sixteen there were twenty uh twenty five thousand uh mosques across Russia. All these people calling on Islam today, today. Now there are now more than twenty million people who are in Russia at this moment who call themselves the followers of Islam. I can tell you, Islam, you see all those peaceful peaceful salams uh uh Islam. So I'm thinking of Salami. I'm saying uh peaceful peaceful Islamists. There are peaceful Muslims and y and there are some indeed. If you look at Christianity, think about it like this. If people call themselves Christian, I'm a nominal Christian. I go over here to the You know, the church where they have the Mass once a week and they they don't preach in the Bible and they say the the Mass in some other language or whatever and they take the communion and this and that and they and they just kind of live out their life There are is also those who call themselves Christians or denominations who do not even believe that the Bible is the Word of God and the Pastor whether he or she. Amen. It doesn't matter. They might have a little homily on Sunday morning and make people feel good. Then you have a church that might be a little bit closer to the real thing, a little stronger, and then you have A fundamental independent Baptist church like this. This church believes the Bible is the Word of God. This church believes that the Great Commission is for us to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. The problem is if you take uh Sunni Muslims and they convert over to Shia Islam, and Islam means submission. That's what the word means. And submission to Allah and to his prophet Muhammad. So if you start to uh move toward there are many Muslims across America. They go to a mosque once in a while Uh they're not a Catholic, they're not a Jew, they're not a Protestant, so they're a Muslim. And so uh they're not uh they're not active. And so they would say they're a Muslim But it wait, if they still have a crisis in their life, they start to get right with their God, they start going becoming more conservative They might join a group more like a Shia group. They might go to the mosque more often. They might start to pray three times a day. uh at the mineresk and go there and pray uh toward Mecca and then if they really get after it and they're full blown and become radicalized they might become A jihadi. A jihad means the struggle. And it it used to be uh the struggle between ourselves and our wrestling with God. That's what they call jihad But now jihad is the war against infidels, the war against the unbelievers, the war against what they call the Sunday people, that's Christians, the war against us. Russia is becoming increasingly Islamic by nature. Of course the second nation It's obviously he begins to mention these nations. He says, Gog, Bagog, verses two and three. In verse number five, Verse number five, the first word, the next nation mention is what? Persia. And Persia is clearly, without any doubt. Persia is the Islamic Republic of Iran. In 1979, the Shah of Iran was disposed, or the Shah of Persia was disposed. Ayatoli Khomeini took power and the Khomeini's came into power and Islamicized the nation. They became a radical Islamic State. No women were uh no longer allowed to cover, show their faces in public. They had to cover their heads and and wear burkas and other uh oppressive things. Women were not allowed to drive a car and uh Well, never mind. And women were not allowed to ha drive a car, some probably shouldn't, but anyway, uh women were not allowed to drive a car And uh on and on. There were all these extreme laws uh where uh the entire nation came under the Sharia, which is a Sharia law which is extremely intense and run by the Islamic State. Uh in the uh eighties, a young man named Mahmoud Ahmadinejad uh came into power as the president. He was a young man similar to Adolf Hitler. He was a corporal, he was no he was a nobody, had a little uh little army gear on, but somehow he ascended to power and became the president of the Islamic State. Mahmoud Ad Ahmadinejad was one of the first ones to introduce the world to eschatology that is called uh the the Twelver. He was c known as a Twelver. He was known as a man Who believed in the 12th Imam? There was a man who was known as the 12th Imam in Islam who disappeared in a well as a young boy. He they call him the hidden Imam, and he is coming back someday as the Makdi. They believe the Mahdi will come back, set up the caliphate. March them to Mecca, march all the Islamic people, and bring the entire world under Sharia law and the whole world will be under the demitude, meaning we must all submit to Allah. Some of your brains I can see are smoking. It's coming out of your ears. But I'm telling you, everything I'm saying to you tonight is absolutely documented. It is absolutely uh on the conservative side, not the fantastic side. I'm telling you the truth. And this young man introduced us to what the uh what the jihadis believed They believe they must have chaos, they must have war, they must have uh all kinds of terror going on, because only in that atmosphere can the twelfth Imam return and set up the caliphate where it is one world under Allah and his prophet Muhammad. That's a whole nother story for another night. But I'm saying that uh these men, uh one president after another, the last president of Iran was uh known as Ibrahim Raissi, he was known as the butcher of Tehran, he was a hardliner, he refused to meet with anyone from America, from the Western world. You understand that every year, every year The uh Iran has Death to America Day. They have Death to America every uh November and they get it into Tehran in in the square in the in the square of their of the uh capital tehran they chant all they death to america the great satan death to israel the little satan all they they chant that they Hate the West and they hate you and they hate America. Iran is currently sending troops. Still, even after the recent uh uh even after the recent Jewish attack on their nuclear site, I mean they're in they're they've been reeling. They've been in trouble ever since But they're still rebuilding their nuclear program. They still are uh sending troops into the Syrian border and into Lebanon, just north. of Israel, they still have a plan. The third nation would be uh so we have Russia, we have Iran Certainly, uh Ethiopia, Libya, and then he said in verse six, Gomer and all his bands. Verse five and six talks about Gomer and Togarma. These are clearly N uh Turkey. This is primarily the country of Turkey. We think about Turkey as a fairly peace-loving Country, Turkey now tonight has the the eighth of the ninth largest standing army in the world Uh Turkey has a new president several years ago. His name is Recep Erdogan, and Mr. Erdogan is another hardliner. He is a Shia Muslim. He hates Israel. He wants Israel gone. And he is against everything that Israel is doing. He is uh against the Jewish state. There is uh there is Ethiopia. which is Cush, uh, in verse number five. That's certainly the Sudan area. Libya, which is known as Put. Also in your Bible in verse 5, Gomer, that's probably Turkey and Togarma. Now understand, these nations have already had closed door meetings, backdoor meetings about how they can finally take away the Jewish state They're all pushing for the two-state solution. They want the two-state solution there in the nation of Israel. When they get their foot in the door, their great desire is to push Israel. How many ever heard this phrase? From the river to the sea. That means from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean Sea, they want to push every Jew completely out of Israel and declare it all the Palestinian state. I can't talk to you about the Palestinians right now. They are basically nomads. The people, most of the Jewish, or excuse me, most of the Arab nations They say, well okay, let's move uh the Gaza people and the Palestinians, let's move all these refugees to your country. You know what they all said? No. The only ones who have welcomed them are the Jewish people. But they want to k destroy them and kill them anyway. So those are side notes. Now several months ago at the UN General Assembly, the ambassadors of Russia, Iran, And Turkey, with several others, met in back rooms making plans while uh Mr. Netanyahu, Benjamin Netanyahu, was making his speech. The other nations involved are some of the uh nations that we would call the Stan countries. Is is Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, uh I can't pronounce some of them, Afghanistan, and of course one major player that's rising up is Syria. Their president, who was formerly uh a man whose name was last he was they called him Jalani. Jalani was uh an al-Qaeda terrorist. He was a part of all the groups that hate Israel He is now the standing president of the country of Syria. He hates Israel. He hates everything about it. And these people all together, they are going They are going to come against Israel perhaps sooner than people would ever imagine. There is currently tonight what they call a ring of fire that is surrounding the nation of Israel. That ring of fire Are these nations or the proxies of these nations that I have just mentioned? These groups such as Hezbollah When the war started back in October of 23, Hezbollah had more than 150,000 rockets trained at Tel Aviv. Uh they found out the iron dome was very difficult to pierce. They backed up, they had they shot or lost probably half of their arsenal But they still have more than seventy five thousand rockets that can be shot at any time at the Jewish state. The consensus is they're regrouping And instead of just Hamas coming in from the south as they did and attack the Jewish state, instead they're putting together a plan where they will overwhelm Israel with force from all directions, with rockets, with forces, with aircraft, and their hope is at once they can uh overwhelm the Jewish state and destroy the nation of Israel. Well there are the players. Where's the place of this war? Look at chapter 38. I'm going to hurry here. You're going to get interested in a moment. Clue back in. If I lost you. How many are still here? All right. Do I have ten minutes? Do I hear fifteen? Uh I have to have another fifteen minutes. It's gonna take a little bit longer, at least. So I'll hurry. I don't want to be all night. And I know I'm giving you a lot of information, but I want you to listen very carefully. This is happening. This is happening. This is happening right now. This is not in theaters near you. This is happening. This is taking place and transpiring tonight. All this is coming into play It's all happening and lining up exactly like God said over 2,000 years ago. Ezekiel was a man who was among the captives by the river Kebar. He was there prophesying to the people of God. The heavens were open. He saw visions of God. And these are one of the uh six major prophecies that Ezekiel saw uh throughout a span of about twenty-five years. This is one of the primary prophecies that this man was able to see. And understand that as these nations gather together, let's look at where it's going to transpire. Chapter 38 Verse number eight. After many days thou shalt be visited. In the latter years, thou shalt come into the land that is brought back from the sword. That's Israel. And is gathered out of many people, that is Israel, against the mountains of Israel, which have been always waste. But is brought forth out of the nations, they shall dwell dwell safely, all of them. Look at what will happen. Thou shalt ascend and come like a storm. Thou shalt be like a cloud to cover the land, thou and all thy bands. And many people with thee. This is an overwhelming force that's going to come on the mountains of Israel. If you go north uh in the the country of Israel, the state of Israel, eventually you'll go far enough north, you'll be, there's the Sea of Galilee. Uh it goes all the way up to the very north where Mount Hermon is up there, and all the way at the top of Israel, you'll be coming up to the border. Of Lebanon. I've been on that border. I've looked across. I've seen the blown out vehicles that are there from the various wars And over there in Lebanon and that part of the world and keep going around the Jewish state and over to the northeast you will hit the Syrian border and they are going to come from the north and descend so many. It's gonna be like a cloud. Well I would imagine that would include aircraft and things that would cover the sun. And so come in like a storm And they're going to come in like a cloud. God reiterated that again in chapter 39 and verse 4. He said, Thou shalt fall upon the mountains of Israel, thou and all thy bands. And the people that is with thee. Now I have a friend who told me he believes this is the Battle of Armageddon. But the Battle of Armageddon, the kings come from where? From the east and they come in and this massive two hundred million man army. Most people believe that's gonna be China or the Asian armies coming over from and cross over the Euphrates River that will be dried up. Also, uh, wait a minute, the last time I checked, it is called the What of Armageddon. What is it called? The Valley of Armageddon. So and I've seen it. And it it's a massive, beautiful valley. That extends down uh on one side is Mount Carmel, on the other side uh is Talmageddo, and uh way down all the way down through this valley, huge valley. It literally is a place that uh that There can be such a battle that the horse that the uh the blood runs up to the horse's bridle. I've read some things about that. We think, how could blood be that high? Well, a horse when it bends over, his bridle goes and it's about that far off of the ground. So that's a lot easier to understand, isn't it? Uh how that much blood could be in one place. The Bible is a literal book. It's not figurative. It is literal and must be taken literally. So The place for this war, and they're going to come down in verse number 12 and back to chapter 38. Why are they going to come? Verse 12, to take a spoil, to take a prey. To turn thy hand upon the desolate places that are now inhabited, and upon the people that are gathered out of the nations which have gotten cattle and goods that dwell in the midst of the land. If you've been to Israel, you've noticed one thing. It's incredible. It is so bountiful. It is so Uh incredible what God has done. They have taken technology. They are so smart. How many um, let's see, how many Pulitzer Prize winners uh have there come from the Arab world Who how many great scientists have come, have done medical achievement or musical uh achievement? How many of them have come World of Islam, uh if you close your eyes, you'll see all of them at once. It's a big fat zero. It's Israel That has brought medical advancement, all kinds of technology, all kinds of great things into the world and they literally figured it out in the fifties how to irrigate the entire country and if you were to go down through the Jordan Valley and drive all the way down you will see uh the Jordan River and yes uh the Sea of Galilee on your left On your right, you will see the land of Israel if you're heading south. So you're heading south, and there to your west, all the way down is beautiful, lush crops and vegetation and everything else. On your left. across the river is nothing but rocks, an arid desert. That's what Islam gives you. Amen. Gives you starvation and poverty. And they want that. They want to take all that vegetation and all that technology. And now Israel has the largest natural gas reserves in the world. They found them a few years ago right off the coast, uh not far from Tel Aviv in the Mediterranean Sea. So that's what they're after. God said they're coming for a spoil. Let me hurry. Verse thirteen We won't elaborate, but there are some protesters of this war. Verse number 13, Sheba, Dedon, the merchants of Tarsus, with all the young lions thereof, shall say unto thee, Art there come to take a spoil? Hast thou gathered thy companies and take a prey, to take away silver and gold, to take away cattle and goods, to take a great spoil The the the verse is dealing with some nations will say basically what are you doing? Why are you doing this? There are some scholars who believe that the United States might even be involved in that group. They might protest But they are not going to engage. Nowhere in Scripture do I see the United States coming in and helping their only ally in the Middle East. I don't see that. Israel is standing all alone And this massive force is coming against them. Well wait. The protesters, they will protest but not engage. But what is the price of this war? What is going to happen? I'm coming down. I'll be applying in a moment. Verse 18. What is the price tag for this war? It shall come to pass at the same time when God shall come against the land of Israel, saith the Lord God, that my fury Shall come up in my face. Did you hear that? The fury of God is going to come up In his face. For in my jealousy and the fire of my wrath have I spoken. Surely in that day there shall be a great shaking In the land of Israel. Here's the shaking, so that the fishes of the sea, the fowls of the heaven, the beasts of the field, all creeping things that creep upon the earth All the men that are upon the face of the earth shall shake in my presence, the mountains shall be thrown down, the sea places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground. Now I'm not sure what that means. I think it personally, I believe it's just God just sends a massive earthquake right in the middle of this battle And somebody says, What's that? A man all of a sudden the whole land starts shaking. It's shaking so bad that the fish of the sea feel it Every uh wall falls down, buildings start falling to the ground. Why? Because they have come against God's people, and here's what God said that uh when the when all this happens My fury shall come up in my face. I mean God. Have you ever seen somebody get so mad, so angry? That they got red in the face. I had a buddy growing up, and when he got red in the face, you didn't want to be around him. Say amen. Let's just get out of here. He just gets mad. And I'm saying that It's clear that God says, I've had enough. Do you know that he that toucheth Israel toucheth the apple of his eye? No, I'm saying the apple is basically the pupil. It's the center of the eye. And I can tell you this, that it's not a smart thing To go up to a you know uh uh Pastor Mike, if you don't mind just standing up just for a second, I'll use you for illustration promise I'm not gonna do anything, but because you're way too big. But I mean Can you imagine me walking up, hey, and poking him right in the eye. Hey, big boy, try this out. That would really be dumb, say amen to that. I mean, he would put me in a triple reverse helicopter spin, or he might just say, come here. Hold me up and give me a little body slam. You just hurt my eye. I'm not gonna poke him in the eye. I'm not even gonna go by and hit him or push him or slap him. That would be a dumb thing to do And uh he's way bigger than me, and I happen to know he's a power lifter and all that stuff. I was here at a men's meeting. I thought uh mental note, don't mess with him. So I'm saying to you that this is a big man. Thank you, brother. You can sit down. You know You don't want to poke God in the eye. You don't want to put your hand in the face of God and mock him and ridicule him And when you touch Israel, when you mess with Israel, when you fool with the Jewish state, you are in a very dangerous spot. We have a lot of young people uh because they're listening to bad information, young people in America, even Christians, are starting to embrace anti-Semitism. You better be careful with that You better be careful. You better turn Candace Owens and Tucker Carlson and all them all that are coming against Israel and standing against the Jewish state. You better understand God has a a covenant with his people and he plans on keeping it. Not because they're better than us. Not because they're holier than us. God has a plan for them. They are the ones who gave us the Messiah. They are the ones, guess what you have in your hand? Hold up your Bible. Can I see it real quick? If you have one, hold it up. You know the majority of the Bible was given Through the Jewish people, they gave us the Word of God. They have given us the law. They have given us the commandments. taught us about the sacrifices which show us Christ. They have given us through uh Joseph and Mary, the the must the the Messiah, uh the Lamb who was born to take away the sin of the world God's plan runs through Israel. And if you want to know what's going on in the world, quit looking at Wall Street. Quit listening to you know I don't don't get me wrong, I I love America and um you know I've always been a a big fan of of Mr. Trump. I'm wondering what he's been drinking or something in the last few months. He's not real clear on some things. He's vacillating on the Jewish state. And I would say to him, Mr. Trump Do not vacillate in your loyalty to the Jewish people. I believe that's the only reason God hasn't judged us for the murder of sixty million babies out of the womb, for the sin of America For the sodomites that are roaming our land, for the ungodliness that is a part of our land, the drunkenness and hedonism as a part of America. We have kept our covenant and our uh agreements with Israel, and I believe that's why God has let us just stay to this day. I believe that with all my heart. The purpose The purpose, there's a price tag. Let's back up the price tag. Let's look at it very quickly in chapter 39. Well chapter number well verse number twenty of chapter thirty-eight. So the fishes of the sea, the fowls of the heaven Creeping things. The mountain shall be thrown down, steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground. Verse 21, I will call for a sword against him throughout all my mountains, saith the Lord God. Every man's sword shall be against his brother. They're going to start killing each other. They'll start killing each other with friendly fire. And you understand, especially the Vietnam War, so many of our soldiers were killed by friendly fire. And they will literally uh shoot and maim one another, uh or rather they will stab and sword uh and chop one another with the sword. And he said, I'll plead against them with pestilence, blood. Rain upon him, and God said that the many people that are with him, an overflowing rain, great hailstones, fire, and brimstone. I mean, God is going to judge these people. And God made it clear, look at chapter 39, verse 2. At the end of this war, he said, I will turn thee back and leave but the sixth part of thee. Five out of every six of them are going to die on those mountains of Israel. They're going to come against the people of God, and they're going to pay the ultimate price. For dealing and messing with the Jewish state. Their weapons, in verse number 9, their weapons, they shall dwell in the cities of Israel. They that dwell shall go forth. And set on fire and burn the weapons, the bows, the arrows, the handstaffs, and they shall burn them with fire. Seven years. Have to burn up all this military hardware, all this equipment. There's some preachers that have a good theory that would say that this probably somebody sets off a nuclear weapon And because of that, it's radioactive, so they've got to burn it all. The land is uninhabitable for a number of years, seven years in their burning, and they will bury the bodies. For seven months. Massive graves. Verse number fifteen through number seventeen. The passengers that pass through the land when I see it a man's bone They shall set up a sign by it till the barriers have buried in the valley of Hamongog. And the name of the city shall be called Hamona. This shall they clean thus shall they cleanse the land. Now I'll close. The price tag. It's a massive price tag. This is the total amount of all the people that come. Five out of six of them were going to die in this battle. I believe it will make some of the battles of World War Two, some of the awful events, some of the battles of World War One and even the War between the states and America, it'll make some of those battles seem like a Sunday school picnic. They'll die, hundreds and thousands of people in one battle. And the price tag is far greater than any nation is ever willing to bear The placement of this war. Now, this is controversial. When is this war going to happen? I have good friends who truly believe this is the Battle of Armageddon We're still friends, but unfortunately for them they're wrong. But I know I'm not saying I mean someday we'll see. But um We're still friends. There is some disagreement. I can only be so dogmatic as when this war occurs. Some believe it's the end of the millennial reign of Christ. Some believe it's at the end of the tribulation period. And each one of those those theories are have weight. But I personally believe this war is going to happen before the tribulation period. I truly believe this war Could start any time. I do not believe. Listen carefully, because you might get upset about it if you don't listen carefully. I do not believe That the rapture of the church is the beginning of the tribulation period. I believe it's around it But the signing of a seven-year peace court, peace agreement, found in Daniel chapter 9 and verse 4, 927, God said he shall confirm a covenant with many for one week. That's the 70th week of Daniel that Daniel prophesied of, and that 70th week is indeed the tribulation period. How many believe that? That's the seven years of Jacob's trouble. Clearly. And I believe this, that the rapture is imminent. It can happen anytime And he's second. There's nothing holding back from the rapture. In fact, 2,000 years ago, the Apostle Paul prophesied and said, in a moment At the last trump, in the twinkling of an eye, shall all be changed. He made it clear the rapture is going to happen anytime. And if the rapture were to happen The restraint of this world will be removed. The Holy Spirit will not be working as he is now because He said that where I am, there ye may be also. Hey, how many believe this? The comforter who came is going to be with you always. So he's going with us. We're going with him. And the active power of the Holy Spirit, as we know it New Testament style, the indwelling spirit It's going to be gone. That's going to happen according to First Thessalonians chapter 5 and 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. Only he who now leteth will let Until he be taken out of the way, the restrainer of evil, the sin. Do you know how much salt and light you and I are in this world? You know that we make a difference. You say, I don't know if I make any difference at all. Yes, you do. You and I make a difference. I heard a man that For 30 years watched someone and got saved. For 30 years he watched his life. Never knew he was being watched and Watch, I've had people tell me, I've been watching you for years, preacher. It's time for me to get saved. We are making a difference. One, we're out of here. The world's going to do exactly what it wants. Do I have an amen? People are going to run to the AI. They're going to run the technology. They're going to run to the new AGI, the quantum computing systems that are being built today as we speak. Uh you know you understand that Mohammed bin Salaam came to the White House yesterday, the crown prince of uh Saudi Arabia made a commitment of one trillion with a T One trillion dollars to invest into AI under Donald Trump's administration. Trump is the AI man. He's after it. And folks, we're setting up I'm off course. Hurry up, I'll hurry. Thank you. I heard you. I'll get done. But the placement He said it's going to be verse 16. Clearly he said, in the latter days of chapter 38. He made it very clear, verse number 80, he said, after many days thou shalt be visited in the latter days. Thou shalt come into the land. He said it's going to be later on. And he said it would happen in verse 16, the same thing. It shall be in the latter days. It's going to be in the end times. And we know that this war is going to occur. Listen carefully. Well, how could it be that we could see this war? And the rapture. Or how could it be that we can have the rapture and then this war? I have people who think it's going to happen you know during the millennial reign. Wait a minute. The last time I checked, I don't know if they're going to be burning weapons and bodies for years during the millennial reign. I think all that stuff's going to be over with Not sure that's all going to be happening. Some would say it's the Battle of Arnageddon. I've already said it's not. I don't think so, because that's in the valley. This is up in the mountains. How many believe the Bible knows the difference between a mountain and a valley? Amen? And so they're separate wars. And these are all happenings that may take place. And I use the word may. Because I cannot be dogmatic. There are some things we do not know, but we do know this is a part of the entire picture of prophetic events that are taking place right now. The Abraham Accords that were signed several years ago, they've added at least three new countries in the last A few weeks. There's several more getting ready to sign up. And Jared Kushner, who they say is a genius. Nobody knows where he came from. He's just a genius who showed up, Donald Trump's son-in-law. is making this all happen. He is Jewish, by the way, and I think the Antichrist has to be a Jewish man. He's going to be in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. Who's going to go there unless he is a Jewish man? Is everybody okay? And we understand that there is the placement of this in the priority, finally. The priority. What is the priority of the Ezekiel 38 war? I would encourage you and implore you not to get stuck on some of the details, because they can be confusing. And not be dogmatic about some of the details. We can be dogmatic, there is going to be a northern war. Amen? And there are going to be these northern nations, these Islamic nations, that are going to attack the Jewish state. That is going to happen. And it's going to happen in the latter days. And it's going to happen exactly like God said, and it's going to be a massive force covering the ground like a cloud in the mountains And they're going to get shook up so bad, whether it's an atomic blast or an earthquake, uh it's going to be something like the world's never seen. That's all gonna happen. And could it be before The tribulation? Could it be before or after the rapture? I think all these things are the questions. But here's what's certain. This is what's certain tonight. The reason I preach this message is because I believe this is going to happen all of it very soon. What I preached about last night is going to happen. Very soon. You see, preacher, people have always been bad. They hadn't been this bad, brother. They haven't been this wicked. Do I have an amen? And it's getting worse and worse. By the by the day, seemingly. Now, there's three or four things. First of all, prophecy. Why do we study this? Why should we even be involved in this? Reading this at all. Prophecy reassures the believer. I didn't give you this to scare you tonight or make you afraid. I gave you all this to know the fact of the Lord is doing exactly what the Lord said he was going to do. And one fourth of the Bible is Bible prophecy. So if if if God all those other prophecies came true around Christ, how do you believe the rest of them are all going to happen? So number one, it reassures the believer, I'm here to tell you something. You're going to have a brand new body. We're going to be in heaven. No more sickness, no more pain, no more tears, no more sorrow. How are you looking forward to that new body? Shh, brother, this one is a this one is a mess. Uh I'm trading this in for a new model, say, man, like that. And it that's already paid for, by the way. No no car payment. And Instead of limping around and barely get out of the bed and having to go over to that guy who whatever he does, the chiropractor or sort of ish and uh that guy that helped me out yesterday instead of going over there, I won't need that, neither will you. We're gonna have a brand new glorified body, throw those glasses away, say amen to that, throw those contacts out, throw those hearing aids out, no more looking for the batteries, nobody's hearing aid squealing going church or anything like that. It's going to be perfect, glorified bodies in the Lord. This is reassuring. It reassures the believer. It is, it reveals God's faithfulness. It reveals the faithfulness of God. There are some thirty-one thousand 102 verses in your Bible. There are some 1,260 promises in your Bible. There are some 6,468 commands. And did you know that there are 8,000 prophecies in the Bible? 3,200 of those have been fulfilled. More than 3,100 of those. Are yet to happen. So if 3,200 had been fulfilled, how many believe God plans on fulfilling the rest And prophecy refocuses our eyes on Israel, and prophecy reminds us that we're on borrowed time and that Christ is coming back. How many of you look forward to his appearing? I do. I truly do. Imagine this the worst day you've ever had in your life at work. The boss is just giving you grief. And all of a sudden, what happened to him? Where did he go? I didn't even see him take his clothes off. They're just laying right there. Won't be needing them anymore, say amen to that. We're going to be clothed in white robes, amen. Won't need any of the stuff that we have on our body. It's all going to be laying there in piles. Gone. Absent from the body Present with the Lord. I didn't hear anything. Did you? No, I didn't hear anything. Did you say no? I don't know. They just vanished. And then, of course, the big lie will come over the computer. And tell us what happened and how it all took place, and there was a some kind of a wormhole that opened up and everybody went in. Who knows? That's what they'll say. They're dreaming something up. And we'll all be gone No more members here, the saved people, no more church members. If you're lost and you come to church, it's gonna be empty. You won't be able to call Pastor Leatherman and say, Pastor, what do I do? Be too late for that. We're reminded of how close we are. To the coming of Christ. How near his return. And he said this: when these things begin to come to pass, then look up And lift up your heads, for your redemption draweth nigh. I'm stirred. My wife and I talked on the phone today, said, honey, I think the Lord's gonna come really soon. You're not going to wake up one morning and have this rapture feeling. You're not going to call your friend, man, I feel like this today. Me too. Oh, I feel something. You feel something? Oh yeah, I feel something. It's not going to be like that. Whatever you're doing, doesn't matter. He's coming. And it's not going to be all based on my world or yours, it's all going to be on his time. And without warning, suddenly We're going to be present with the Lord forever and forever. And by the grace of God, we'll see him as he is. I'd like for us tonight to bow our heads for mold in prayer. Nobody looking around Some of us here that are not ready for that event and not sure that you've been saved. There may be one or several to say, Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure that I've been saved, and I want the Lord to forgive me and make me his child forever. Please pray for me. It's time for me to get right. I'm not sure that I'm saved. By the grace of God, please pray for me. Can I see your hand? Please don't be left behind. Please don't take a chance on that. And be one of those who are deceived and lied to. I believe America will be the first nation to go way into deception, because to whom much is given, much shall be required. We have Bibles and tracts and literature and preaching and internet and TV. We have so many media means of hearing the Word of God. We have churches that are open and and allowed to be here without persecution. But are you saved? Are you sure? But if you want here and say, I'm not sure about it, but I need to settle it tonight. Can I see your hand, please? Anybody like that at all? Others here would say, I know that I'm saved, and I need to start living like this is going to happen. I need to start living like Jesus is coming soon. I need my life and my priorities and my habits and my just what I do to reflect that I believe he's coming soon. Could I see your hands, please, around the room. Nobody's looking. There may be some questions, and that's all right about some of the things I said. But how many believe in general you believe that I preached the truth to you tonight? Could I see your hands, please? Might be some things you might differ a bit on, but that's okay. Study. Study to show thyself approved. It's all right. But all around the room, we know these events are happening now. Lining up quickly. And I think the greatest thing we can do is to pray and Call on God that we might be revived and see our our friends saved and other people won to Christ before it's forever too late. Like as our sister begins to play whatever she has selected, let's stand together