Bring this together as I said. Notice verse 10, James chapter 5. Take, my brethren, the prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord for an example of suffering, affliction, and of patience. Behold, we count them happy which endure. Ye have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy. We're talking about the happiness of endurance. In fact, if you remember, we pointed out the word patience is used about five times in these just few verses right here. And so he's wanting to teach us to be patient. So let's pray. I want to give you a few thoughts and uh we'll be on our way then. Father in heaven, I ask now you'd bless our time and your word. I pray with all my heart, I ask tonight that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit And God, if you could use this old tongue and just speak through me, use that tongue to communicate this important truth of being patient, of being steadfast. of staying at it. And we ask you to help us now in Jesus' name. Amen. We pointed out last week, verse number 10, we noted that he uses the uh example of the prophets to challenge the people he's writing to, Paul or uh James is writing to under the inspiration of God here. He used the prophets as an example to the believers to stay faithful, to be patient, to stay at it, to not quit. And if you remember we pointed out he noted their service. Verse 10, he said, Take my brethren the prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord. These are men and women who these are men primarily, some women included. Boy, that was a grand entrance right there. Wow. And uh can you imagine that all the time you pray for Emily, good night twins all the time. But uh He says, listen, these people were active in their service. And when he's challenged us to be patient, he's challenged us to stay at it. It's a challenge to uh to be active in the service of the Lord, not an inactive patience just sitting on the sidelines. Then he noted their suffering, if you notice there in verse 10 He said they have spoken the name of the Lord for an example of suffering affliction. We do not have one record of any man or woman of God used throughout the Bible that was lazy That was simply sitting on the sidelines, that just lived a life of ease. Every one of them were very, very diligent in their service for the Lord, and every single one of them suffered some sort of trials some sort of opposition, some sort of adversity. And he sets them up and he says, I want you to look at these folks throughout the scripture, these prophets of God. They were very, very active in the service of the Lord. They were out there. They were getting after it. And they suffered opposition and they had affliction and they had trials, but they would not quit. And they just stayed at it and they stayed at it and they stayed at it. He see he's saying this. They found out what God wanted them to do, and they refused to quit. They just stayed at it. And so he says, I'm I'm setting them up as an example. I want you to see them And then we of course we notice their steadfastness. He says, uh, and of patience. And the word patience there has the idea of being steadfast and going at it. Now we get to verse number 11 And I just want to tack a few thoughts on to what we started last week. Again, it's a little repetitious. He's drilling this into them. of a not quitting and getting after it. So our first point was this. We notice the example of the prophets. Our second point in our overall message is from verse number 11 is I want us to notice the honor of endurance. The patience of the prophets, the examples of the prophets, I mean, and then the honor of endurance. Look at verse 11, the first part. Now, notice the wording here: Behold, we count them happy. which endure. Now you gotta look at that and think about that for a little bit. He's saying we count them happy which endure. Who is it that is doing the counting them happy? Who is it considering these people happy? Is that one enduring, or is it somebody observing them enduring? It's those observing them. We count them happy which endure. He's saying we see these people who are s who are not quitting. They're serving God faithfully year after year after year. They're going through difficulties, they're going through trials, there's opposition, there's affliction, but they refuse to quit And he says, we count them happy. Now what does he mean by that? I got looking at this, and it is actually a pronouncement of honor. That phrase, we count them happy, has this idea: to hold them in high esteem We count them happy. They are what we would consider what a person ought to be. We count them happy. It has this idea. We think very highly of them We honor them. We consider them blessed. We count them happy. The phrase that that statement comes from, we count them happy. is used another place in the Bible. And I want you to turn there with me to Luke chapter number one. And I'm just trying to get the idea behind this statement so we understand a little bit what the Lord means by this. Luke chapter number one. Here we have Mary, and she finds out that she is going to bear the Son of God. She is going to give birth to the Son of God. And she makes an interesting statement in Luke chapter 1, and notice verse number 48 Luke chapter 1 and verse 48. Verse 46, she begins this statement: My soul doth magnify the Lord. 47. My spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. Now look at verse 48. Mary speaking, when she finds out she's going to give birth to the Savior. For he hath regarded the lowest state of his handmaiden For behold, from henceforth all generations, now look at this next statement, shall call me blessed. That comes from the exact same phrase we got in James chapter 5. From this henceforth all generations shall count me happy. So call me blessed. Consider me blessed. How many people here agree with me? What a phenomenal blessing Mary had to give birth to the Savior of the world. Would you agree with me? What a privilege. What an honor. How happy. She would be, to be the one that God uses to bring the Savior into the world. That's the idea behind James chapter 5, verse 11. We count them happy. What a blessing. What a rejoicing. What an honor to be a to to be able to say I was faithful to God. I did not quit. I stayed there. We said we count them happy. that endure. It's a pronouncement of tremendous honor. And the word endure there simply means I think we understand what to endure something is. It has the idea of persevering. Of holding fast under trial. He's enduring. He's pressing on. It has more than just the word endure here is more than just holding on. It has this idea behind it. It has the idea of going forward under great duress. Not just holding my ground. Alright, we'll just hold hunker down here and we'll just wait this out and endure. It includes that, but it has more of an idea that we're taking heat, we have incoming But we're going to press forward. We're going to keep on pressing forward. And he says, we count them happy. What a blessing it is to have somebody That not only does not quit, but keeps pressing forward even when everything is against them, even when they're going through incredible opposition, refusing to be stopped I like what Jesus says about the church. He says the gates of hell cannot stand against the church. Isn't that a wonderful thing? That's the idea here. Just keep pressing on. I tell you, the church throughout the years has faced some opposition. Read church history. And the persecution and the trials of afflictions that God's people have been through over the years. And by God's grace, the church presses on The church goes forward. Here we are, 2,000 years later, and still going forward, trying to do all we can, get the gospel out all around the world And so we we count them happy, uh which endure. We count them uh uh uh to be greatly honored, greatly blessed. Turn with me if you would, uh, just a few pages back here in the book of Hebrews. And chapter number 10, we have a little ill an example of what he's talking about, I believe, in Hebrews chapter 10. And in verse number 32, I'll be honest with you, it is one of my favorite subjects to preach on. Just staying at it, not quitting, going on. And what a challenge it is to me. Hebrews chapter 10. Look with me at verse 31 of Hebrews 10 says it a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. Now look at verse 32. But call to remembrance. I believe Paul is the penman of the book of Hebrews. Of course, God is the author. And he's challenging these Hebrew believers and he's reminding them of something that had taken place shortly after their salvation. He says, call to remembrance the former days, back when you first got saved is what he's referencing. In which, after ye were illuminated, you heard the gospel, you understood it, ye, what's that next word, endured a great fight of afflictions. Partly whilst ye were made a gazing stock both by reproaches and afflictions, and partly whilst ye became a companion of them who were so used. He's saying, Listen, don't you quit. You remember back when you first got saved, as Jewish believers in the Messiah, the other Jews persecuted you and they turned on you and you're families disowned you and your businesses fired you and you were ostracized and you were targeted and you were run out of your homes and you were run out of your towns You remember how you endured that and you stayed faithful and you press forward. He says, remember that. And what he's doing is he's saying, listen, we count you happy that you did that. What a blessing. Don't lose that endurance. Don't lose that focus. Don't lose that commitment. And he's challenged them to do exactly what James is talking about. Look at chapter 12 of Hebrews. Here he's referencing the Lord Jesus Christ. And he kind of touches on this same thought in verse number 2 of Hebrews chapter 12. Now I like Hebrews 12 too as we've used a phrase in here as our motto these 20, almost 23 years now. But look at verse 2, Hebrews 12. Looking unto Jesus. I like that. The author and finisher of our faith. Now he goes on and look what he says. Who, for the joy that was set before him, what's the next word? Endured the cross. Jesus did not enjoy the cross. He endured the cross. For the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, I want to suggest to you Jesus, the holiness of Jesus Christ. despised everything about taking the world's sin upon him. Remember when he prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane, he said, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup Pass from me. He didn't want to, he didn't, he was holy. He was pure. He was goodness in his purest form. And as he took the sins, your sins and mine and every sin of mankind, took that upon himself and took responsibility for that, he despised that. He endured that shame. He endured that condition. Why'd he do that? So that you and I couldn't be saved. How many people are glad the Lord stuck it out and went through with that? What's the old song say? He didn't come down. Amen. And that's what James is saying for you and I. He says, listen, we count them happy that endure. What a tremendous privilege. What an honor. It's an honorable thing. To press on and uh to endure. Nobody honors quitters. Nobody admires quitters Nobody honors quitters. Nobody uh considers quitters to be happy. Oh, what a boy, I'd like to be happy like him. He quit Oh, I'd like I I'd like to be like her. She walked away from me. It was tough, it got too hard, and she walked away from it. That's who I want to be like. Nobody does that. Nobody honors people who give in and quit and walk away and retreat. I enjoy reading biographies. I was talking to Brother Rusty about different books and I have uh probably 25 or 30 biographies in my library back there right now, and I've mentioned this recently, but I'm reading again biography of George Whitfield. What a tremendous man. I highly recommend a neat guy, a neat book. And um I read it two or three times. But uh I got looking at my biographies, and you know what? I could not find one biography of a quitter Nobody says, oh, this guy quit. He gave in, walked away from it. I think I'll write his biography so all the generations can see what a wonderful guy he was. Nobody does that. He doesn't say here, we count them happy, we count them honored that quit, that give in, that walk away. No, he says we count them happy that what? Endure. The honor of endurance. The honor of endurance I was in uh uh we were in New Zealand the other a month ago and I was down in Wellington, the very first meeting we had down there, and we had meetings all day Sunday, we preached all day Sunday or Saturday And then Sunday we had a morning service, and then we had lunch on the grounds, and we had an afternoon service. And while we're getting ready Sunday morning and folks were coming in Uh there was this older couple, I could see him coming up the walk and the pastor was there, and he says, uh let me introduce you to this couple And I said, okay. He said, now I don't have my numbers here exactly right, but he said the man, and you could tell he was very, very elderly, he said, that man, and I want to say he said he was 95 years old Very elderly man. He had a cane and he was walking and it was obvious he couldn't see. On his arm was a woman. He said she, and again, I'm not sure I have the numbers right here, but she was like 89, 90, 91 years old in that range. He said he can't see, and she can't hear He said, but they're in every service without fail. They will be in church Sunday morning. He goes, There's a lot of people, they may or may not be there. He says, but one couple I know is going to be there is brother so-and-so and his wife. He can't see, she can't hear, but they're in church. I said, wow, that stirs my heart. You know what? We saw them. You know what I did in my heart? I honored them. I count them happy. They endure. They're faithful. We got folks that get wax in their ear. They can't go to church. You know, oh god, why I can't go to church. My my neighbor's cousin's dog is sick. I need to stay home from church. Nobody admires that. Nobody says that's the kind of Christian I want to be. You know, I I I don't want to put anybody on the spot and I don't think I'm embarrassing her. I want to honor her, but Sue T Garden is a blessing to me. Faithful. Faithful. We come up with a thousand reasons why we can't do this, that, or the other for the Lord. I'll tell you one thing. Any way she could possibly can, Sue T. Yarn is going to be in church. What a testimony. That's what James is talking about. The honor of faithfulness, the honor of diligence, the honor of steadfastness, the honor of endurance. I guarantee you, uh uh Sue and others uh like her, Brother Miller and others here, I could name many, many folks. I guarantee you sometimes get up Sunday morning that old back and that side and that leg and uh aching and moaning So no, I'm gonna be there. I'm gonna be there. Isn't that a blessing? That's what James is talking about. Nobody honors quitters. Nobody says, oh, I want to be like the Christian that quits. The honor of obedience. And then the honor of endurance. So we have the uh example of the prophets. They went through it. They didn't quit. They stayed faithful. Uh the honor of enduring, we count them happy that endure. We bless them. We honor them. And then last of all quickly, I noticed in this last part of verse 11, he note he gives The uh uh patience of Job. The patience of Job. Look here at verse 11. Behold, we count them happy which endure. Ye have heard of the patience of Job. What's he talking about? The steadfastness of Job. The consistency of Job. I believe that Job is one of the greatest examples of consistency and steadfast in all of Scripture. What a testimony. Turn with me if you would. And I just got a minute or two. Turn with me through Wood back to Job. I want you to notice a couple things I'm fascinated by this testimony and the story of Job. And a lot of times we'll look, turn with me to chapter 1, if you would, just quickly there. I just want you to notice a couple verses. And we're very, very familiar with this, I'm sure. But in Job chapter 1, if you go to Psalms, the book of Psalms, just go to the beginning of Psalms, you hit Job. There's 42 chapters in Job, and get back there to chapter 1. And of course we understand the story, Satan approaches God, God approaches Satan actually and uh confronts him about Job, and he and God actually puts faith in a man. And God says to Satan, have you considered my servant Job? And God has full confidence that Job is not going to quit, Job is not going to give in, and he sets him up and he says, Here, Satan, consider my servant Job. And of course then he loses his family and his possessions and all that. Look with me at verse 20. This is after his children, all his children are killed, all his possessions are gone. It's him and his wife. Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down on the ground and quit. Doesn't say that, does it? If it said that, we would not have the book of Job. Nobody would write a book on that. And he did what? Worshiped. Worshiped. Now, this is one of my favorite things, is explaining what it means to worship God. What does it mean when it says Job works? He just lost everything. And he shaves his head, bows himself, and he worships God. What does that mean? I'll tell you what it means. Job, and we'll see it here in a minute, Job recognized God's supreme authority over his life. And Job humbly submitted to that authority by trusting God and doing what he says. That's what worship is. Recognizing God's authority over my life and humbly submitting to that authority and trusting God and doing exactly what he says. That's what worship. Look at the next verse. He worshiped and said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb. Naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave The Lord hath taken away, blessed be the name of the Lord. He is saying, God has ultimate authority over me. God can do what he wants. I'm going to bless his name. He's good. And then look at verse 22. In all this Job sin not nor charge God foolishly. You talk about endurance. You talk about a man saying he's taken everything from me. But I will not quit. I'm going to trust him. I'm going to go forward trusting God. James sets him up as an example. Here's an example of patience. An example of patience. Look at chapter 2, verse number 3. And the Lord said unto Satan, this is the second time, Hast thou considered my servant Job? There's none like him in all the earth, a perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. Look at this And still he holdeth fast his integrity, although thou movest me against him to destroy him without cause. God says, Job will not quit. And he says, here's an example: the patience, the endurance, the steadfast of Job. God says to Satan, you've moved me to take everything from it, and he will not quit. And come down. Then Job says, oh yes, skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life. Touch his body, and he'll curse you to your face. Satan says that to God about Job. Then he came down, notice verse number nine. Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? This is Job's wife talking to Job. Curse God and die. It's interesting. She's telling Job to do the exact thing Satan told God Job would do. What's she saying to him? She's saying this to him, and I think I touched on this recently, but she's saying this to him. Job, why don't you just quit? Give up on this, trusting God and being having integrity and doing right. Just get it over with. Give up. Look at his response. But he said unto her, thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh. What? Shall we receive good at the hand of God and shall we not receive evil? And all of this did not Job sin with his lips. I put in the margin of my Bible, don't quit. Everything is gone. His health is gone. His family is gone. His wife turned against him. His children are dead. And he still won't quit. He still won't quit. You talk about endurance. You talk about faithfulness. I put this down. It takes a lot of patience to be patient Doesn't it? I expanded on that in my notes. It takes a lot of character to be patient. It takes a lot of strength to be steadfast. Anyone can quit. Anyone can quit. A child can quit. But it takes discipline. It takes character. It takes strength To remain steadfast. To remain steadfast. Any weakling can quit. Any lowlife can quit. Any characterless person can quit, but you get somebody that says, let come what may, I will not quit on God, I will not drop my faith, I will not retreat. I'm gonna stay true to God and stay keep maintain my integrity. I'm gonna keep on preaching the gospel. I'm gonna keep on living for God. Take everything from me. I will not give up. That takes a little character. That takes a little discipline. There's something to a person that does not quit. That does not quit. And then he says in James, he says there verse 5, he says, consider the how you have heard of the patience of Job and have seen the end of the Lord. Now what does he mean the end of the Lord? In other words, concerning Job, what was the Lord getting at? What was the end game? What was the purpose? Why did God put Job through this horrendous experience? What was the end of the Lord? Job was tried intensely to the brink of death. If you read the story carefully, you find out he got discouraged. He was confused. He didn't understand what God was doing. He didn't quit. He didn't give up. He didn't walk away. He remained steadfast, but he was confused. He was discouraged. He was brokenhearted. He's asking questions. But he refused to quit. He refused to abandon his faith. And as a result of that, you get to Job chapter 42 and verse 12, and the Bible says in so many words, I'm I'm not quoting this exactly, but it says so many words. It says this. The end of Job was better than the beginning. And if you read chapter 42 and study it very carefully, you find out that Job was better off after this whole experience than he was before. His faith was stronger. He said, I heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now I've seen thee with my eyes. I understand things about God I never dreamed of before. I understand the presence and power of God in ways I never understood before. And God blessed them and doubly blessed them. And the end of Job was better than the beginning. I'm saying you, it's worth it to not quit. It's worth it to stay faithful. It's worth it to go through that trial. It's worth it to endure when everything is against you and your heart is broken and you feel like you've lost everything for Christ. Don't quit. Don't quit. Don't quit. Those who remain faithful to the Lord receive a special blessing of the Lord. I'll tell you what really bothers me. is some of these contemporary preachers who try and tell us that God's blessing consists of having big houses, fancy cars, expensive clothes, health, wealth and prosperity. They know nothing of the blessings of God. The blessings of God are far deeper than having stuff. The blessings of God are far deeper than being comfortable. The blessings of God are in the very heart and soul, the presence of God, even when all around me is confusion and emptiness. In my heart and soul, there's fullness, and there's a presence of God. That is the blessings of God. And that is something this world cannot give. Say, oh, God wants you to have a big mansion. God wants you to have a $65 million. Plain. Listen, the world can give people that. God gives us something the world cannot give. Job says, and and James says, don't you quit. Don't you quit. Don't you quit. Don't you quit. And you study those early believers and it was coming down on them. I mean the world was coming down on them. James knew what it was to suffer affliction. He was pastoring the church in Jerusalem. His former pastor was executed. His buddies, his associates were dying, being killed for their faith left and right. And he knew what it was To face the opposition of the world. And he says, don't give in, don't give in, don't give in, don't give in. It's a very simple thought, but it is profound. And Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we need to ask God to give us some grit and give us some backbone and give us some faith. And regardless of what the future holds, we must not fail in our faith in God. Amen or not. Amen. And I pray that for myself. This is a challenge to me. By God's grace. By God, you pray for me. By God's grace. I don't want that pulpit ever preaching anything other than the old gospel of Jesus Christ from the old King James Bible. Staying true to God Say, preacher, what if every what if everybody leaves? What if you get so old-fashioned? Nobody's interested. We stay faithful to God. We count them happy which endure. We honor them that stay faithful. Let's pray. Father, I ask you.