Uh we've been looking at the statements here where Timothy says, writing to these believers who are persecuted, being run all over the country, Asia Minor there. And he says, you are a holy priesthood. Then we go down to verse number nine while you're finding your places there. Verse number nine, he says again that they are a royal priesthood. Let me Get my space here. Get my place here. Verse number five, 1 Peter chapter 2. He says, Ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house. A holy priesthood. Then verse number nine, he says, um, but ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. So twice now. He points out, as a believer of the Lord Jesus Christ, we have a priesthood. We are part of a priesthood. We are priests. And uh we've been pointing out the fact that a priest is someone who stands before God on behalf of the people making sacrifices and lifting up prayers and offerings to the Lord on behalf of the people. Then he says there, we looked at that quite a bit, and then he says in verse 5, a holy priesthood, and then he says, to offer up what kind of sacrifices? Spiritual sacrifices. Again, not physical, not offering goats and bulls and lambs and grain and all those types of things, but we're offering up spiritual sacrifices. And we've been looking now, this will be the seventh uh message, where we've been looking at what I found, seven sacrifices in the Bible, spiritual sacrifices that you and I as believers offer up We're going to look at one more tonight. It's the sacrifice of prayer. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to bless. Father, as we look at this passage, we ask you'd help us to uh uh uh understand what our responsibility is, our position as priests and then um our responsibility in these sacrifices. So please uh speak to our hearts and help us and challenge us, Lord to uh be um faithful in offering a prayer to you as a spiritual sacrifice. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer, Lord. I yield my will. Present my body anew and pray that you would speak and preach through me. Lord, and I ask for the filling of your spirit in Jesus' name. Amen. We said seven sacrifices that I found that you and I as believers are to offer up to the Lord, spiritual sacrifices And uh we said the first one was to offer up our bodies. We got that from Romans chapter 12. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your Bodies, a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God. I believe that's teaching there. We ought to come to a point in our Christian life where we completely dedicate our lives to the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm no longer mine. This body is not mine. I lift it up to you and I offer it, present it to you. If you remember, we said that word present means a one-time decision with continuing results. It's not something we do over and over and over and over again, but it's something, Lord, I come to a point, say, Lord, you have all in me. August 25th, 1985, in an altar at Highland Park Baptist Church, I said, Lord, I'm yours Completely yours, I present my body to you, living sacrifice, and uh dedicated my life to the Lord Jesus Christ. I was saved uh six years ago So the first uh spiritual sacrifice we mentioned was this uh offering up of ourselves, our bodies. Second, we said was our praise And sometimes praising the Lord in the midst of difficulties isn't that easy. It's a sacrifice. It costs us something. We said our good works from Hebrews chapter 16 It says that we can do good as a sacrifice to God, serving the Lord, helping others, helping others maybe that uh aren't very helpful, helping people that aren't aren't very kind, but doing good works Then we said, number four, our generosity is a sacrifice we can offer up to the Lord. He says to communicate, that means to let others share in the blessings that God has Bless me with. Then our soul winning is a spiritual sacrifice we do for the Lord, not to uh be accepted by him, where we don't go soul winning, give out tracts so that we can be saved or uh accepted by God, we do it because we've been saved and we want others to be saved also. And so we share uh the gospel of that. Then last week, I believe it was, we looked at our love two weeks ago We looked at our love as a spiritual sacrifice. Then tonight as our prayers. Now, if you would take your Bible and turn with me to Revelation chapter number 8. This is where I get this idea of our prayers. to the Lord as a spiritual sacrifice, lifting up our prayers to God as a saved person before the throne of God. Revelation chapter 8, and look with me at verse number 3. He's gone through here the early days of the tribulation. He says this, verse 3, Revelation 8: Another angel came and stood at the altar having a golden censor Now this has all taken place up in heaven, having a golden censor, and there was given unto him much incense. Now look at this that he should offer it, this incense at this altar in heaven. By the way, let me let me point this out. The altar that uh Moses established and Israel had the altar and the Ark of the Covenant and the labor and all of that there in the tabernacle, all of that was a pattern, was a model of the actual real literal altar in heaven and the actual real literal mercy seat in heaven And it was just a pattern. God gave Moses the pattern. This is what is in heaven. I want a model of this down here on earth. And they followed that. So what he's talking about here is the actual presence of God And this angel was offering up this incense. Now here, come back to this verse. And there was given unto him much incense that he should offer it with the what? Prayers of the saints, of all saints, upon the golden altar which was before the throne, and the smoke of the incense which came up with the prayers of the saints, ascended up before God out of the angel's hand. What a beautiful picture Of you and I, now this is tribulation saints here, but by application, for you and I to lift up our prayers to God, and the Bible says that is like a s Sweet incense altar, a sacrifice to the Lord, a sweet thing to the Lord. I would. I sure would like my life to please the Lord. I would like to do things that I know please the God of creation. I would like to do things that I know please Him. And if I understand this passage right, one thing that pleases God, that is a sweet incense to him, a sweet sacrifice, is when you and I get on our knees We bow our hearts before the Lord and we just pour our heart out to God. Say, God, I need you. Oh God, send revival. God, forgive me. Oh, God, help me. Give me wisdom. And we pour our hearts out to God. The Bible said that's a sweet incense. That's a sweet savor up before the Lord. I tell you, it was sure a blessing about an hour ago to get together with a handful of men downstairs. We hadn't done this for four months. That's the longest we've gone without men's prayer meetings since I've been pastor here. It's one of the first things we started and uh to get together down there and kneel and lift our voices up to the Lord. What a pleasing thing. The other uh was it a week ago yesterday, the ladies' prayer luncheon And the ladies gathered back there and just prayed, poured their hearts out to God. The Bible says that is a Sweet sacrifice, a sweet incense comes up before our Lord. We pray. And then this morning, no doubt, many, uh, many, uh myself included, we bow before the Lord to start the day, the Lord's day Poured our heart out to God and said, God, meet with us today. God, please bless the services. God, stir hearts, send revivals. You know what that was? That's a sweet sacrifice up to the Lord. I believe genuine prayer. I believe when we really get a hold of God, it's possible to just go through the motions of prayer. Anyone know that? Anyone here have prayer time when you're done? You don't even remember what you said? We get so in a routine, ah Lord, but God is great, God is good, and we thank Him for this food. Bless grandma, grandpa, da-da-da. And we go down the list and we're just repeating words. That's not what we're talking about The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. You know what he's talking about? Prayer that's a sacrifice. Sacrifice costs something. And genuine prayer that moves God and that is effectual is prayer that costs us some, costs us some time, costs us some effort. I read about these old saints. I appreciate James' missionary biographies. I like to read about these old saints, uh old uh Sheffi. Remember Sheffi, that movie we watched Ham and Brainerd, David Brainerd, just a young man missionary to the Indians. You read our biographies, these guys would pray for hours on end. And weeping and sobbing, I read one, I think it was David Brainerd, when he would get up off his prayers, he was soaked wet in sweat. He was wrestling with God, pouring his heart out, and his energy poured out to God. I think that's what he's talking about, the sacrifice of prayer. Prayer, genuine, effective prayer is costly. It costs time. Now we don't have to have long prayers. In fact, Jesus warned about having long prayers, getting up in church in front of everybody and praying on, oh elegant, Lord God, you're the holy father of ever eternal Trinity of of holiness in the immortal, invisible God of all creation, and go on and on and on. That doesn't impress God. But God, you get alone with God and start praying. Goodness. Pray. I wonder how many of us here, I wonder how many of us don't respond. I wonder how many of us here have ever prayed five minutes in a row. Prayed for five minutes. You say, good grief. What would you pray about for five minutes? I wonder how many of us ever prayed 15 minutes? Half hour. Just in prayer, just alone with God, pouring your heart out. Hour? Two, three hours at a shot? Jesus would pray all night long. So he says, the sacrifice of prayer, I think, and I'm uh I hope you don't misunderstand, I'm not trying to be negative or critical But I think a lot of us as are Christians are missing out on this resource of prayer and what God can do through earnest A diligent, sacrificial prayer. Praying to God. Oh, I'm so busy I don't have time to pray. Listen, if I'm so busy, I don't have time to pray. I'm too busy I'm train wrecked waiting to happen. And so sacrificial prayer costs time. It requires effort. Sometimes it was pain. Paul said he labored in prayer I wonder if any of us would ever describe our prayer time as laboring. Oh, pouring out. Prayer, laboring in prayer. Talked about striving in prayer. Intensity of it. Our country's in a mess. And little little Pambi 25-second prayers And Little bless me and give me what I want prayers isn't going to bring revival to this country. I'm telling you, sacrificial, earnest, laboring, striving prayer We'll do more for our country than anything else we can do. He says the sacrifice on and that's a that's an incense that comes up to God that has a sweet savor in his nostrils. And God rejoices in that. Requires time and effort and prayer. Sacrificial prayer is prayer something, is prayer that costs me something. Prayers that are hard to pray You ever have a prayer that's hard to pray? Man, maybe God's dealing with your heart about something in your life. You know it isn't everything it ought to be, but boy, you sure don't want to give it up Maybe it's just something that has taken root in your heart and you know it's not right, but boy, you sure like it. God deals with your heart Finally you have to come to a point and you get on your knees in prayer and you say, God, this is a hard prayer for me to pray. I give this up to you, Lord. God, it's something dear to me, but God, I give it up to you. That's sacrificial prayer Hard prayers to pray. Um I thought about Jesus, and I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but I thought about Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. Do you know Jesus didn't want to go to that cross? He endured it. I mentioned that this morning. When he was in the Garden of Semane, before he went down, the soldiers came and got him and scourged him. And beat him, stripped him, nailed him to the cross, crucified him. He's up in that garden. You know what his prayer request to God was? Father, if it be thy will, let this what? Cut past from you. You know he's saying, Lord, I don't want to do this. Humanly speaking, I don't want to do this. Can you imagine he's about to suffer hell for every sin ever committed by every man, woman, and child He's about to be cut off from God and suffer an eternal hell on those hours on the cross. He knows that. He says, God, if there's any other way, God, if it's if let this cup pass from me. But then he prayed a hard prayer. Nevertheless, what did he say? Not my will. Not my will. Thy will be done. The Bible says when he was praying that he was sweating, as it were, great drops of blood. That wasn't an easy prayer. You know what that was? That's a sacrifice of prayer. Sometimes we have to pray hard prayers. Sometimes we have to come and say, God, I just give this to you. God, I've got to let go. Lord, your will be done. I put down here several characteristics of what I consider sacrificial prayer. There may be others. Let me just give you a few of these real quick. Number one, I put this down, persistent prayer. Prayer. If something's persistent, it's what? Huh? Continuous, or how else might you say it? It's persistent It won't quit. Um uh uh it's like uh tenacity I'm going to pray, and God, I know this is right, God, this is what I want, and I am going to pray, and I am going to pray, and I am going to pray till either I die or you answer this prayer You say, you shouldn't pray like that. Yeah. Take your Bible with me, if you would, turn to Matthew chapter 17. We're going to look at a number of verses here, just real quick, Matthew chapter 17. And notice with me, if you would, verse number nineteen. Matthew 17 and verse number 19. Well, verse 14, you have this daddy. The Lord came down off the mountain. There was a certain Uh uh when they're come uh verse fourteen, when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a certain man kneeling down to him and saying, He's kneeling before the Lord. What's he doing? He's praying to Jesus, and he's saying, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is a lunatic. I've thought that a couple times in Father is a father. Lord, have mercy on my son. He's a lunatic and sore vexed, and oftentimes he falleth into the fire and often the water. And I brought him to the disciples, and they could not cure him. They were powerless, they couldn't do anything. And Jesus answered and said, Oh faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Sounds like the Lord was frustrated with the disciples, huh? Why couldn't you guys do anything? Bring him hither to meet. Jesus rebuked the devil, and he departed out of him, and the child was cured from that very hour. Now, I don't know about you, but I uh if I was a disciple, then that would bother me a little bit. Man, we've been trying to cast this devil out of here, and we've been working and doing everything we can, and we couldn't do it. The Lord shows up And just says, get out of them, and boom, the devil's gone. What in the world? And look at the next verse there. Look what they say. And then came the disciples to Jesus apart and said, Why couldn't we not? Why could not we cast them out? And Jesus said him, because of your unbelief. Verily I say unto you, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you'll say that you shall say Ye shall say to this mountain, remove thence to yonder place, and it shall be removed, and nothing shall be impossible to you. Wow, what a prayer promise! But then the Lord kind of says, well, how be it here, this case, this boy, possessed of a devil, this kind goeth not forth but by what? Prayer and fasting. You know what he's saying? You've got to be tenacious. This is a situation where a simple little 20-second prayer isn't going to do it. You got to get a hold of God and you don't let go like Jacob with that angel. Say, I'm not gonna let you go till you bless me God, I'm not going to quit praying. I'm not going to let go until you send revival. God, I'm not going to let go until you save my spouse, until you save my child. God, I'm not going to quit I'm going to pray and pray and pray till I die. I tell you what, that's sacrificial prayer there Just get a hold of God. How many folks here, you got something in your heart and you say, I want it so bad, I want God to do this, I need God to do this. Anybody here like that? I tell you what, sometimes it doesn't come forth except by prayer and fasting. That perna that pers that uh persistent, uh intense, tenacious prayer I put this one down. Sometimes sacrificial prayer is forgiving prayer. Look, come over to Mark chapter 11. Boy, this this may be a sacrifice for some people. I have no doubt in my mind. Now, I don't have anybody in particular. I just know this from experience. There's somebody listening, I have no doubt my mind, there's somebody that God's dealing with your heart that has unforgiveness in your heart towards somebody. Somebody's done you wrong, somebody's hurt you, somebody's crossed you in some way, ripped you off, whatever the situation may be, and down inside your heart there's a bitter, unforgiving anger towards them Look what Jesus says in Mark chapter 11, and look at verse 22. Now I've claimed verse 22 for years. Just a simple statement, but it's helped me. And Jesus answering saith unto them, Have faith in God. Now look at this. For verily I say unto you, that whosoever shall say to this mountain, be thou removed. And be cast in the sea, and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall come to pass. He shall have whatsoever he saith. Therefore I say unto you, whatsoever things ye desire When ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them. How many people say, well, that sounds simple? Well, I just pray and believe, and good night. You got whatever you want. Ah, let's keep reading here, though And when ye stand praying, what's that next word? Forgive. If you have aught against any That your father in heaven may forgive you and your trespass, but if you do not forgive, neither will your father which is in heaven forgive your trespass. And the implication is your prayer is not going to be heard. That prayer isn't making it through. And sometimes sacrificial prayer, I need to go humble myself. I need to go to somebody and say, you know, I've had a bad attitude towards you. I've had the wrong thing. You know why? You know why some of our prayers might not be answered? Because we have an unforgiving spirit in our heart You know why sometimes we get so discouraged and angry and ugh. I pray and pray and why didn't God answer my prayer? Maybe, maybe. I'd see some bitterness, anger, and hatred towards a brother or sister in Christ. Sacrificial prayer says, you know. More important to me that my prayers get answered than I hold this grudge against this person. I'm going to go humble myself. I'm going to make that right. So that I can get this prayer answered. You know what? God says, oh, that's a good thing. Get things right with others. That's a good thing. I'll answer that prayer. I'll step in. Sacrificial prayer is persistent, is forgiving. Put this down. It's a transforming prayer Sacrificial prayer is a transforming prayer. Turn over with me real quick to 2 Corinthians chapter number 12. 2 Corinthians chapter 12. And notice with me, this is a tremendous thing in the life of Paul. Thing I appreciate about Paul in the New Testament, he's so transparent. He's just honest with himself. And um I was talking somebody this afternoon. We were uh talking about the Lord and had prayer together, just help trying to help in some situations And we got talking about Romans chapter number 7. If you ever read Romans chapter 7, Paul is as open and transparent, as honest as you could get. Paul, the Apostle Paul, says this. You know, there's some things I really know I should do. I'm putting it in my own words. Some things I really know I should do. I know I should do that, and I find myself not doing it And he says, there's some things I know I should not do. I don't want to do them. I know they're not right. And I end up doing it. Oh, wretched soul that I am, who shall deliver me from this bondage of death? How many people say that sounds pretty transparent? This is a great Apostle Paul. He's saying, man, I end up doing stuff I know I shouldn't do. I don't do things. I know I should. God have mercy on me. And it's kind of that way here in Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, he makes this statement here. This stirs my heart. Chapter 12, 2 Corinthians. Look at verse 7. Unless I should be exalted above measure, he says, I'll get too proud, all that God's doing in my life. Through the abundance of revelations, lest I be exalted above measure through the abundance of revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. Now I think that was a physical ailment. I don't know what it was, but I think it was physical. and it was painful. A thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan, to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. Uh what's he mean when he says exalted above measure? What's he say, lest I get what? Too proud. I mean God's using Paul. He's phenomenal. And he, like us, had a tendency, maybe I am something. Yeah, you know, I'm I'm pr uh uh I'm I'm up there. Zing! God sends a thorn in the flesh. Ah! All right, maybe I ain't that great Satan buffets him through it, gets him discouraged. So look what he does. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, verse 8, he's praise. That it might depart from me. Now when he says he sought the Lord thrice, I don't think he's saying this. I prayed three times. Lord Jake is thrown uh thrown uh thrown away. Um day or so goes by, it's still there. Maybe it was arthritis in his knees. I don't know. Uh Lord, I still got it. Take it away, please. And uh day goes by, still there. Three times. Lord, I'm asking again. I don't think that's what he's talking about. I think he prayed intensely three periods of time, maybe months on end, he sought the Lord and sought the Lord and served the Lord. God didn't take it away. So then he prayed again for an extended period of time. I think that three times, three extended periods of time. That's what I think he's saying here. Now look what happens. You say, Good night. He prayed that much. Surely God answered his prayer. God did, but look how he answered it, verse 9. And he, the Lord, said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee. For my strength made perfect in weakness. Now Paul responds. That was God's response. God said basically, no, I'm not taking it away. My grace will get you through this. When you're weak, then I'll show you my strength. I'll give you my strength. I'm not taking this away. Look how Paul responded. Most what? Gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. The power of God on Paul was more important to him than any physical pleasure. He was willing to endure physical pain if that meant having the power of God. Most gladly, therefore, will I Rather glory in my infirmities, that the power not gripe about them and complain, but glory in them that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore look at this I take pleasure in, look what he says, infirmities, in reproaches, people reproaching me, in necessities, in needs, in persecution, in distress. For Christ's sake And here's this last statement, for when I am weak, I am what? You know what prayer did for Paul in this situation? Prayer didn't change his circumstance, prayer changed his attitude. Paul said, God answered my prayer by helping me see this thing in a completely different perspective. Now I don't want him to take that thorn away. I glory in it. Because God empowers me through my weakness. You know what that is? That's sacrificial prayer. Say, Lord, this is something I'd really like. Having your blessing and to be used of you is more important to me than any pleasure or health I might have. Lord, I gladly endure this if I just have your hand on my life. Sometimes sacrificial prayer is transformational. Often it changes us rather than our circumstances. Some folks are praying that God changes somebody. Lord, they sure need Do you ever give out tracts and they say, well take it over, give it to that person. They really need it. Do you ever have anybody And we laugh at that, but we do that with our prayers. Lord, uh, so-and-so, boy, boy, they need you to do something in their life. And maybe they do. But maybe God's concern about me isn't so much answering my prayer about fixing them up. Maybe I'm the one that needs fixing up. Maybe I'm the one. Lord uh my uh Lord my brother he is a m now I don't I'm saying that because I didn't have any brothers. My sisters had a brother, he wasn't bad. But um He I like them. I like him. But um Lord, my brother, uh, he's got a bad attitude and he's stupid and he does this stuff and And maybe God's up there thinking, yeah, don't quit worrying about him. Maybe it's you need to change. You know what that is? That's sacrificial prayer. Lord, I've been worried about them, but Lord, maybe it's me that needs a change. Maybe it's me that needs some work. We pray like that, lift that up, and God says, oh, what a sweet savor. At incense of the prayers, when somebody humbles themselves. Remember that old song? Anybody know that old song? It's me, it's me, it's me, O Lord Standing in the need of prayer. Not my brother, not my sister, but it's me, O Lord. Standing in the need of prayer. You know, there's a lot of truth to that prayer. A lot of truth to that prayer. And we pray sacrificially, sometimes it's God, maybe you need to start with me. Oh, my husband, he's a mess. My wife, she's a mess. Maybe God's saying, uh, maybe you're the one. Say, all right, Lord, I'll gladly, Lord, whatever you need to do in my life, whatever change you need to make in my attitude. Sacrificial prayer. It pleases the Lord. And let me give you one more real quick, and I already touched on this, but like I said, I got ahead of myself. But I put this down submissive prayer. Submissive prayer. Now, should we let our requests be made known unto God? Yes or no? Yeah, Philippians. Paul told her: let your requests be made unto God with thanksgiving. Uh supplication, prayer, and supplication, let your request men. Tell God what you want. Lord, I'd sure like to have that pickup truck. But when the disciples came and Jesus said, let me give you a model prayer to follow. Not just to memorize and meaninglessly repeat, but a model prayer to follow. And he said, This is how you should pray. Here's your model to follow. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Listen. Thy will be done on earth. Now listen to this. Even as it is in heaven. Let me ask you a question. How is God's will done in heaven? Perfectly. Without fail, without shortcoming. God's will is done perfectly in heaven. And he says, when you pray, pray this way, Lord, that your will Be done here on earth in my life, just like it is in heaven. Wow, that's a submissive prayer. Started off that way. Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane, as I referenced here a few moments ago, he didn't want to go to that cross. Oh, what a horrible, unimaginable torture. Lord, is there any way possible? Let this cup pass from me. And I think our salvation, I know it was settled from eternity best, but in my mind, when he made that next statement, boom, the devil was done. Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. Submissive prayer. Oh, that pleases the Lord. I joke around. Sometimes we're signing up for Bible time and folks will say, they'll come and say, oh preacher, I'll just do whatever you think I ought to do. Oh, I love that so much when people say that. And you know what? I think the Lord loves it. We bow before him, say, Lord, not my will. I want your will to be done. I want your will to be done. And God says, ah, what a sweet savor. Spiritual sacrifices. Now, we don't have time and I don't want to belabor this on to another message, but he says there back in Peter, he ends that statement with, acceptable unto God. You know, we got this idea. There's this idea in America today that we can serve God and offer sacrifice just however we want to. Just whatever we come up with. I saw a little clip. I like to listen to other churches in the afternoon. Some of them start five Some have six o'clock. I have certain favorite ones that I'd like to listen to online, watch them live a little bit. And uh ha it was early in the afternoon I came across this one and um I know the preacher, but it's not our stripe uh Uh anyway, and man they were up there and they had about eight guitars across air electric. One guy just went boom boom boom boom Just rocking out And I thought, you know, I don't know. Maybe they love the Lord. They might be sincere. I just don't see that that's acceptable in the sight of the Lord. I'm getting I'll probably get hate mail for this But I'm telling you, this is what I'm trying to say. There's a right way and there's a wrong way to serve God. There's a biblical way, or we can come up with our own way. Same with these sacrifices, acceptable unto the Lord God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to see our position as priests. And our role and responsibility of offering these sacrifices up, first our own selves, presenting our bodies to you as a living sacrifice, then the love and good works and compassion and charity and soul winning. And then this prayer that you teach us to pray sacrificially. Wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, God's Holy Spirit spoke to my heart And I want to pray that way. My prayer life needs God, needs a touch of God. Any like that? Any like that uplifted hand? My hand's raised. And maybe just on a Sunday night in the middle of the summer, you know, in the old altar and say, Lord, teach me to pray sacrificially, persistently, submissively, in a way that transforms me. Who knows what God might do? Who knows what God might do? Father, we ask you blessing our invitation in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.