Have you ever given thought to the attractiveness of your tongue? Several years ago I went to the dentist, it's been a number of years ago, and I went to the dentist and they were doing just cleaning, it was just a regular checkup, and she started pulling on my tongue. And I said, what are you doing? Do you ever notice the dentist asks you questions while everything's in your mail? So how what'd you do last week? She started pulling my tongue and uh and she goes, There's a spot here on your tongue. And it bothers me. And she goes, we need to get that biopsy. And they actually cut a part of my tongue out and did a biopsy and it was nothing But um but w during that period of time I found myself in looking in the mirror at my tongue. How many people agree that's not something you normally do Do we ever think about the attractiveness of our tongue? We do about our hair, some of us. How many fellas, your wife spends hours in front of the mirror there fixing her hair and doing all that? Don't raise your hand, you're gonna be in trouble. I've found any more the fellows are just as bad as the gals. Now, when I was a teenager, there ain't no way I was ever going to use hairspray. Girls use hairspray. Nowadays everybody uses, just about everybody uses hairspray. We get perms. We give a lot of attention because we want our hair to be attractive. The Bible says the woman's hair is her glory. Um we put grease in it. Some of you guys a little older than I used to grease the hair up real good, right? Now you put moose. I don't know what they have today. Nice thing about not having any hair, I haven't spent one penny on shampoo in years and years and years. I do not own a comb, and I like it. So we spent a lot of time and uh effort into uh the attractiveness of our hair. We put a lot of time and effort into the attractiveness of our eyes. Really do. Particularly the 80s you get eyeshadow and liner and um uh what else? On your eyes? On your eyes I don't know. Um eyebrows, you know, you pluck those babies. And uh my son, my y I won't tell you which one, but my youngest son. Um He has he had what we call a unibrow. I mean it was just he's a hairy monkey. But uh and he would always worry about that and boy he'd spent all kinds of time and uh you know that's fine But we spend a lot, we're we're greatly concerned about the attractiveness of our hair, the attractiveness of attractiveness of our eyes, the attractiveness of our face. You know, boy, we fellas, we shave it just right. Or if you have a beard, you know I think has to be just right, and makeup and um everything. Avon and Revlon. Anybody recognize those names? I got looking. They don't have any cosmetics for the tongue. None. I can't find a magazine that has pictures of beautiful tongues in it. Why? Because we don't think about the attractiveness of our tongues Nevertheless, in many ways, our tongue determines who we are, what I am. My tongue is a huge factor in my attractiveness to others. It is possible for a person to be very attractive physically, but yet have a very unattractive tongue. It is possible for a person maybe to be not so attractive physically Maybe they don't have the physical features that the world says a person has to have to be attractive. By the way, we ought never to buy into the world's definition of beauty. We should never buy into the world's definition of attractiveness. When people, and sometimes young people particularly, are susceptible to it, but all ages are. When we start buying into the world's values, the world's concept of attractiveness, we're going to start compromising biblical principles and convictions awfully quick. To try and appease the world, to try and be attractive to the world. Our issue ought not to be whether we're attractive to the world or not. The issue ought to be: am I attractive to my Savior or not? My God. And so it is possible for a person, maybe in the world's eyes, to not have physical features that the world would say are attractive. They might be unattractive, is what I'm trying to say. Yet Have a very attractive, beautiful tongue, and be a wonderful person. Did you ever wonder why sometimes models Beautiful, beautiful models, men and women and very attractive movie stars. Some of the most physically attractive people in the world, yet they can't stay married for three months. Do you ever wonder why that is? Because they can't stand to be around them because they have an ugly tongue. An ugly tongue. And then there are sometimes you'll find people who, again, don't necessarily have all those attractive physical features, yet people flock to them and people love them. Why is that? They got an attractive tongue. Let me ask you a question. How attractive is your tongue? The beauty of your tongue. The tongue is incredibly important. As I began studying this some time ago, and I got looking at what the Bible says about the tongue. And I'm telling you, God considers our tongue to be incredibly important, our tongue. And so, because the tongue is the tongue is important. Let me put it this way. Here's my first point. The tongue is important because of its influence. Did you ever think about the influence of my tongue? Take your Bible if you would. Now stay here in James. We're going to end up back here occasionally But come to the book of Proverbs. When you think of the book of Proverbs, what word comes to mind? Wisdom. I want to challenge you, if you're not in the habit, I really want to challenge you to try every day of the month, whatever day that corresponding day is, whatever day that of the month it is, the corresponding chapter in the book of Proverbs. For instance, today's the 12th of August. This morning I read Proverbs chapter 12. And I want to challenge you to consider doing that in addition to your regular Bible reading. It just takes a couple minutes to read through uh chapter of Proverbs. But boy, as you read through Proverbs, you find that God references the tongue, the lips, the mouth. over and over and over again. A person's, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but a a person's wisdom or a person's foolishness most often is revealed by how they use their tongue. And a tongue has tremendous influence. Thus, it is incredibly important. Proverbs chapter 18 and verse number 21. Now, this is a good, I don't know if you're in the habit of underscoring in your Bible or noting in your Bible, but Proverbs 18:21 is a good verse to underscore in your Bible. Proverbs 18, verse 21. It says this: This is Solomon writing under the inspiration of God, and he says, Death and life are in the power of the tongue. And they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof. Death and life are in the power of the tongue. The tongue has tremendous power. There are people today who are dead. They've been buried. They're out into eternity because of their tongue. There are people who would have been, would be dead today, but are still alive because of how a tongue was used. Death and life are in the power of the tongue. The words we say have tremendous influence. Who we say them to, how we say them, what we say Has profound influence on ourselves and others. Now I got looking at the second part of that verse, and it kind of intrigued me. I was trying to see what exactly was he saying here. And he says, They that love it, the power of the tongue, Shall eat the fruit thereof. And I got to think, well, what is he talking about here? And I think what he's saying here in that second part there is this: those people who understand and appreciate How powerful their tongue is. Those that understand that, they use their tongue in such a way and they reap the fruit of their use of their tongue. Now that could be in reaping the benefits. How many people here when you were a kid you ever talked your way out of a spanking? You understood the power, the influence of words, and generally you usually go to mom And you can sweet talk, oh mommy, I'm so sorry. I'll never do it again, I promise. Oh, you're the most wonderful mother in the whole world. You're beautiful, you're the smartest person that's ever walked the earth. Well, okay, Sunny, it'll be fine. He ate the fruit thereof. And so the tongue has tremendous influence. The tongue has tremendous uh uh power. Um I was reading about a Greek philosopher and he had a servant. Of course back in the In the days of the philosophers in Greece, back in the ancient times, philosophers were highly esteemed. They were leaders in the community, in the society. And often they were fairly wealthy and they would have servants. And one day the philosopher philosopher was philosophizing That's what philosophers do. And he called his servant in, and he said, This: I would like for you to prepare for me the best dish possible. And the servant said, I know exactly what it is. He went into the cooking area, he prepared a meal, and he came out with a dish of tongue. My grandparents used to eat tongue. Anybody here ever have tongue? Tongue sandwiches? And he brought out a dish of tongue, and the servant said to the philosopher, This is the best of all dishes. And the philosopher said, why would you prepare tongue as the best of all dishes? And the servant said this. Because with it, the tongue, we may bless and communicate happiness. With the tongue, we are able to dispel sorrow and remove despair, cheer the faint-hearted. inspire the discouraged, and say a hundred other things that uplift mankind. And the philosopher said that his very wise servant, this is, of course, the best dish of all Some days went by, and a philosopher was philosophizing about stuff. And he got hungry and he called his servant in. He said, A few days ago, I asked for the best dish possible. He said, Today I would like the worst dish. The servant said, I know exactly what to prepare. He ran to the cooking area and he prepared a dish and he brought it out, and the dish was what? Tongue. Philosopher said this is the exact same dish you brought several days ago and you said it was the best dish. Why are you saying this is the worst dish? He said it is the worst dish because with the tongue we can curse. We break human hearts. We destroy reputations. We promote discord and strife. We set families and communities and nations at war with each other. And the philosopher said, you were a very wise servant. The influence of the tongue. Our cities in America have been ravaged by rioty and looting and anarchy and murder. Because some key people use their tongue to incite, incite the masses The influence of the tongue. The tongue is important because of the tremendous influence the tongue has. We some reference this a little bit in the introduction, but a tongue can make a homely person into a very beautiful person. Maybe somebody that's not, again, not necessarily physically attractive by the world standards, but yet they speak in such a way And their words are so uplifting and their words are so encouraging that they become very attractive. However, a tongue can take a very attractive person, make them awfully ugly. Make them awfully ugly. The influence of the tongue. The tongue can heal bruises and scrapes You say, how can the tongue do that? Do you ever have to see a little boy and he falls and scratches his knee? Maybe he's bike riding, he scuffs his knee up, and he comes running in crying Mommy pulls him up in his lap and she goes, oh, it's going to be fine. And she'll talk to him a little bit and he calms down And it's all settled and it's not that bad. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Just the kind, smooth words of a mother can heal, quote unquote, the bruises and scrapes. A tongue can smooth an angry temper. If you would, we're here in Proverbs. Come over to chapter 15. And again, I'm just fascinated by What the book of Proverbs says about the tongue. I'm encouraged, I'm challenged, and I'm convicted by what God's Word teaches us about the tongue. Look at chapter 15 and verse number one. A soft answer does what? Turneth away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger. A tongue can smooth an angry temper. Now, I'll tell you that first half of that verse is pretty challenging. You come into the presence of somebody, or you're engaged in a situation, a conversation, and somebody gets angry. Somebody uh uh uh their wrath is stirred up. God says that you and I, with our tongue, have the ability To soothe that wrath, to quench that fire of anger and temper, and to bring that out with the power of the tongue. A soft answer turneth away wrath. The second part of that verse is a whole lot easier to do. Second part of that verse is a whole lot easier to do. Look what he says. He said, but he says, but grievous words do what? Stir up anger. Boy, they ignite it. I was studying that and I started asking myself, how do people respond when I talk to them? When I engage conversation with somebody, do they tend to get angry because of the things I say? Or when I engage someone in conversation, does it tend to dispel anger and bring it down? Now I know what some of y'all are thinking because I thought this, well, you've got to speak the truth whether people get angry or not, and I agree with that. People got very angry at Paul for preaching the gospel. But if people are angry at me, are you listening, young people, if people are angry at me Because I am telling the truth of the gospel, I can't control that. But if they are angry at me because of the way I am doing it, Because of how I am using my tongue in communicating it, then that falls on my responsibility. We are told to speak, speak the truth. But there's two more words. In love. In love. In love. It's possible for me to let me ask you a question. Is it true that there is a real place called hell? Yes, the Bible's overwhelmingly clear on that truth. Is it true that people who die in their sins are separated from God forever in hell and eventually make a fire? Is that true? Yes. And I can speak that truth to somebody. I can use my tongue to communicate that truth to somebody in such a way that they get angry. And they push back. Or I can speak that truth in love in such a way that they become greatly concerned They become burdened and they want to address their condition. In Acts, and I don't have the reference on the top of my head, but the Bible says that the disciples and the apostles so spake, they spoke in such a way They so spake that many believed. It wasn't just what they were saying, but it was how they were communicating it. I can knock on someone's door as I try to every week, and this week we're out knocking on doors. I can knock on someone's door and somebody answer the door. I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and you're going to die and go to hell if you don't get saved. Ha ha ha. Question, am I going to be very effective in winning that person to Christ? No. But I can approach them and uh address their condition, spiritual condition. And with a heart of love and compassion, use a little bit of tact, and maybe I can see them trust Christ as Savior. What I'm trying to say is this: our tongue, our words have tremendous influence. Have tremendous influence. We can quench anger or we can ignite it. Um the tongue can soothe an angry temper, or it can ignite a temp angry temper. A tongue can bring one back from despair. Look with me again in Proverbs chapter 12. If you would come over to chapter 12 of Proverbs. And look with me, if you would, at verse number 18. There is, now think about what he's saying. He's using a little picturesque terms here. There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword. What happens when you pierce someone with a sword? And it hurts. You're cutting them. You're hurting them. You're inflicting injury. There's a way. He's saying, listen, it's possible to speak in such a way. Like piercing someone with a sword, then he contrasts that and he uses the word but The tongue of the wise is what? Health. He's saying this. Your tongue, your tongue has the influence, has the ability, has the power to say things to people that hurts them deeply. I can say things to my spouse, my wife. I can use words that hurt her very deeply. I can say things to co-workers or to neighbors or to family members that hurt them very, very deeply, no different than piercing them with a sword. Or I can use words that are health. And strengthen them, enable them, make them better, lift them up. The influence of the tongue. The tongue is tremendously important because of the influence we have. Come over to chapter 16, if you would. Same book. And verse number 24. I can speak to my children in a way that I hurt them. I can provoke them to anger. With my words as a father, as a parent, or I can speak to them in such a way that makes them better people, makes them makes them better off spiritually and mentally, emotionally with my words. Look at chapter 16 and verse number 24. Pleasant words are as a honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones. How many people agree with me? We could use some more pleasant words in our society. Goodness. Can I say this? We need some more pleasant words. In our homes. Like a honeycomb. Sweet to the soul. Now you need to understand what a honeycomb was back in that day. That was the Snickers bars. Of the day, right? I mean it's hard to beat a Snickers bar. And he's saying, listen, your words, pleasant words, are like That person eating a Snickers bar. Mmm. Did you ever see that commercial? They're all brown to you. You need a Snickers bar. My kids are grouchy all the time. Try some pleasant words. Smooth the soul. It's health. The tongue is tremendously important because of its influence. It can bring one back from despair, or it can drive somebody to despair. To despair. It is possible to speak to somebody, and the tragedy, here's the tragedy of this. So often this takes place in our marriages and in our homes. Between parents and children, between siblings. We speak in such a way That we bring people down and they come to the point of despair because of how we speak and what we say to them How many times has somebody been on the, you've seen, you know, they've made movies of this, and we've seen in the news periodically, and somebody climbs up on the edge of a bridge And they're absolutely at the point of despair. And it is all over. I cannot live another hour. And some wise policemen. Policemen are getting a bad rap. I'm telling you, the overwhelming majority of policemen are good people. That put themselves in a line. I think every time we see a policeman or somebody, we ought to go and thank them for their service And how many times has somebody stood on a bridge or edge of a m uh a skyscraper something, and they're about to end it all, and some wise policeman or some wise person, some friend comes and they use their words. To bring them back from the brink of despair. The power of words. And yet I wonder how many times somebody is standing on that edge because of words that were said. Beauty tips for the tongue. The tongue is incredibly important. It ought to have our attention because of the influence. that our tongue has. A tongue can point a lost sinner to eternal life Jesus said repeatedly, and our commission as a church, our divinely given permission by God Himself is to go into all the world and what? Preach the gospel. You're hard-pressed to preach without using words. You say, well, and I mentioned this a number of times over the years, but I saw a sign up in Pennsylvania on the church. It said, preach the gospel, use words if necessary. And the hair that would be on my head stood on end. And I said, that is not correct. It is impossible to preach the gospel without words. Now I understand, I appreciate what they were saying. They were saying your life ought to reinforce what's being saved. Your life ought to be a visible testimony of what the gospel does in the heart and life of someone who receives it But nobody can ever get saved without me speaking to them the facts of the gospel. The gospel is Jesus Christ died for our sins, was buried, and rose again, all according to Scriptures. That's a historical fact. And it must be communicated for people for them to understand. So our words, our tongue has the power, has the influence to actually see someone come to Christ. And be saved from eternity in hell and have eternal life through faith in Christ, all because of the words I said. How many people agree with me? That's tremendous influence. That a person spends eternity in either heaven or hell, and much of it is dependent in many ways on how I use my tongue. Our tongue is tremendous influence. It's very important because of its influence. And with our tongues, people can be brought To an understanding of the gospel and to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and receive eternal life. However, our tongues can be used to keep people from the gospel. Our tongues can be used in such a way that people never come to Christ, they are so turned off And though each and every one is individual for our own relationship with God, each and every one of us uh is responsible individually for whether we receive Christ or not, but nevertheless It's possible for me to have such influence through my tongue to keep people from coming to Christ. Anybody here ever have a couple fellas come up and knock on your door? They got a white shirt, a little lapel here. Dark pants. Anybody know what I'm talking about? The Mormons. Or the Jehovah's Witness will come by, knock on our doors. I kind of I used to hide when they came. Turn off the lights, crawl under the sofa, go away, go away, go away. Right? You're laughing because you've done it. But over time, I've kind of gotten to the point, bring it on. Come on, I'm ready. And um the other year, they hardly ever come by my house anymore. And the other year, it was not too long ago, it was last summer, summer before, I was out, I was washing a car, it was Saturday afternoon summer, I was washing a car, and I saw them coming down the road here, and they went to the one little trail here, then they came to my next door neighbor's house And I'm like, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy. So I went and got my stuff, and I'm already I'm washing my car, waiting for him. And they pulled out and they came down and they drove right by my house and went to the other neighbor's house. I said, Hey But uh I started something years ago, and you have to be careful. But uh when I engage him, I don't invite him in the house. John tells us not to do that. But I step outside, I'm friendly to them, very gracious, very kind, I try to be respectful. We engage a little bit, I ask them some questions, inevitably the their Their uh unscriptural teachings come to light because I'm challenging them on some of that. And by before we're done, I started this a number of years ago. And I say something like this: I say, listen Before you go, I feel a great obligation under the authority to Scripture to rebuke you for the false teaching that you are bringing into this community. And what you are teaching will literally, if people believe it and receive it, will keep them from Christ and they will die and spend eternity separated from God in hell, ultimately the lake of fire. And what you're doing is wrong, and I rebuke you, you need to turn from that and repent and believe the truth of the gospel. That doesn't usually go over too well But what they're doing is they're using their tongue. They're using the influence of their tongue, the power of the tongue. To promote a demonic, I believe a demonic, along with many other false cults out there, but a demonic doctrine, a doctrine of the devils. That keeps people from coming to Christ. Let me just throw this out. Anything contrary to Scripture is not of God The Bible is the sole authority. The Bible is God's word. The Bible is the foundation of truth. It is truth. And so the tongue has tremendous influence. It can bring people to Christ, or it can keep them from Christ. Jesus spoke with sinners. Jesus uses tongues. He did miracles and all that, but every time someone came to Christ, every time someone believed on him, it was a result of him speaking to them, speaking to them. Did you ever think about this? God created everything there is with the word of his mouth. The power of words, the power of our tongue to influence people. I put this down: a tongue can make or break a marriage A tongue can make a home heaven on earth or hell on earth. Tongue I read about a couple that got married and on the honeymoon the groom took his bride by the hand and he said, Now that we're married, dear, this guy is a knucklehead. He said, now that we're married, dear, I hope you won't mind if I mention a few little defects I noticed about you. How many people agree with me? That guy's a knucklehead. I just want to point out, now that we're married, a few little defects. His wife, she is, I don't mind at all. It was those little defects that kept me from getting a better husband. Touche. A tongue can make or break a marriage. It can make a home heaven on earth or hell on earth. It can win our children over, or it can drive our children away. It can make friends or lose friends. A tongue can defend righteousness or it can excuse unrighteousness. A tongue can get me a job, a tongue can make me lose my job. A tongue can build a church or it can destroy a church. A tongue can honor God. Or a tongue can curse God. The influence of a tongue is vitally important. The major part of our testimony for Christ relates to our tongue. Now I'm not to discard our actions. Our actions are very, very important. But the tongue, above all else, Has tremendous influence on others. So the tongue is important because of its influence. The tongue is important, second of all, because of what it indicates If you would, take your Bibles and go to the Gospel of Luke, Matthew, Mark, Luke in the New Testament. And find chapter 6, Luke chapter 6. What kind of influence does your tongue have in your home, in the community, in our church? For the cause of the gospel. What kind of influence does it have? Our tongue's incredibly important because of its influence, but our tongue is incredibly important also because of what it indicates about me. Ken and Karen moved here a few years ago and came into church and we got talking to him a little bit, and I knew immediately they were not from Mississippi. Any people know what I'm talking about. We're from Juizy. When I was I grew up in Philadelphia and I moved down to Tennessee, people in Tennessee talk different than folks in Philadelphia. And I went down there and I'd say, uh, I'd like a glass of water. I'd say, what are you talking about? That's a glass of water, put some ice in it. Water? Yeah, water. Is that what you guys say over in Jersey? Water, water. So what do you what do you call it? Water So now I call it water. I went to a restaurant one time and I said, um, this is in Tennessee, Chattanooga, and uh I said I I'd like a Coke. They said, what kind? I said, what do you mean what kind? Well do you want Dr. Pepper, you want Sprite, you want a Coke Coke? What do you want? They called soda pop was just Coke It was a general term for all soda pub. I said, I'll take a Coke, Coke. Accents indicate, they reveal to people where we're from. How we say words, how we say different things. And I'm suggesting this, and the Bible clearly teaches this, that our tongue indicates the condition of our heart. Like no other organ in our body. No other organ in our body reveals to other people my spiritual condition like my tongue does. Luke chapter 6, and look with me if you would at verse 45. Now he's talking about a tree being known by its fruit, and he's talking about the things we say and do that reveal what we are, what kind of person I am, what my spiritual condition is. Then he says this in verse 45. A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good And an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil. And then he summarizes what he's saying here. And he says, For of the abundance of the what? Heart, what's in my heart, his mouth what? Speaketh. So, whatever he's saying, this whatever is in my heart, the condition of my heart, the spiritual standing of my heart will be revealed by the speaking of my mouth, by my tongue. You know why someone tells lies? Because they have a dishonest heart. Right? You know why somebody uses unclean words, uses filthy words? You know why today you can't hardly buy milk at the store without hearing the most vile language in the world? You know why people use filthy words? Because they have a filthy heart. You know why people joke about nasty things? Because they have a nasty heart. My words reveal the condition of my heart You know why some people, their words are pure, clean, and honest It's because their heart is pure, clean, honest. Out of the abundance of the heart, Jesus said, The mouse speaketh. The mouse speaketh. You know why some people speak so contentiously? Everything's a fight. Everything's an argument. Everything's a disagreement? It's because they have a proud, contentious heart. Out of the abundance of heart, the tongue is incredibly important, not just because of its influence, but because of what it indicates about me But it says about the condition of my heart. Our speech reveals our heart's condition. Anybody here ever go to the doctor? Remember, I don't know if they do this so much anymore, but they used to. I just had a physical not long ago, and the doctor said this. I'm sitting there and he's doing all this stuff, and finally he says, All right, open your mouth and Stick no, he says, open your mouth and stick out your tongue. And so I went. So I didn't mean that. And I don't know, I'm not a doctor, but apparently they can look at your tongue and tell a lot about your physical condition. You're bold, I can see in your tongue. I'm saying to you, when you and I open our mouth, before too long, people are going to be able to know what's in our heart. Because out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. The Bible addresses our tongue and our words more than any other organ of the body. Now, sometimes they'll refer to the tongue as talking about the lips or our mouth or our words. But it's all related to our tongue. Our tongue is incredibly important because of what it reveals about us. I got thinking about that. You know what our tongue is? Our tongue is the news anchor of what's happening in the city of our soul. The tongue is CNN, sometimes it's fake news. But you know the thing about fake news? You can oh yeah, a person with a dishonest heart can fool people and make them think they're honest. But just like fake news, sooner or later It's found out. Proverbs says, a lying tongue is but for a moment Oh, you can get away with it a little bit. But in the end, the truth is going to come out. So my tongue is an indicator of what kind of Person I am. Tongue indicates the condition of my soul. Oh, the tongue has profound influence on others. And last of all, and quickly, the tongue is important because of the iniquity that is associated with it If you would come back to James and I'll end with this. James chapter 3. Probably one of the most profound Writings on the tongue in all of literature, history of literature, is James chapter 3. And notice, if you would, verse number 6. He says the tongue is a fire. Look at this next statement. A world of iniquity. He doesn't say the tongue can be or has the potential. He says it what? It is. Come down to the end of the verse. Look at this. The tongue is set on fire of hell. Look at verse 8. But the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. Wow. What an indictment God makes about the sins of the tongue. All through the Bible, God places strong emphasis on the sins of the tongue. Exodus chapter 20, where we have the Ten Commandments. We should all be familiar with them. Did you know that two of the Ten Commandments deal with the tongue? Two of the Ten Commandments of God! Deal with our tongue. Verse 7, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Can I just throw this out there? We ought to be very, very careful how we use God's name. And then down in verse number 16, he says, Thou shalt not bear false witness. Do you know when a person tells a lie, they're breaking one of the holy ten commandments of God? Did you know that Revelation chapter 20, verse 8, that says, all liars shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone? Don't tell me God takes lying lightly. The sins of the tongue, a world of iniquity, set on fire of hell. Two of the Ten Commandments deal with the tongue. I wish we had time, we don't, to go to Proverbs chapter 6, verse 16 through 19. List seven things that God hates. I don't know about you, but when God says, here's seven things I hate, I don't know about you, but I'm going to sit up and pay attention. God says he hates this. And the word hate there means to despise, to be repulsed by. It means to consider odious. And one definition I looked on that word hate means to personally hate it. It's not just a general hatred. God personally hates these seven things. Did you know that three of them of seven have to do with the tongue? Have to do with the tongue. Beauty tips for the tongue. Our church's influence on Garrett County and on this world is very much dependent upon how we use our tongues. The spiritual health of our church is very much dependent upon how we as members use our tongues. The well-being of your home, the success of your marriage and home, is very much dependent upon how you and I use our tongues. I read about a fellow, George Brown. As far as I can tell, this is a true story. I'll end with this. George Brown was in his house and he heard the clatter of a wheelbarrow come up through the front of his house. He stepped and looked out the window, wondering who it could be, and here it was his neighbor, Manly Strong. That's the guy's name. And he had a wheelbarrow loaded with garbage. He turned into the front yard and came up to his front door, pushing this wheelbarrow full of rotten apples, tin cans, ashes. Just nasty as can be. George Brown had a beautiful yard, well manicured. The flower place was immaculate. And Manly Strong comes up with this wheelbarrow full of garbage. He said, Good morning, Mr. Brown. I brought you a load of garbage. I'm wondering where you want it, don't Mr. Brown looked squinted at eyes and looked out and says, Where do I want that garbage? Are you crazy? What makes you think I want that garbage dumped in my yard? Well, would you prefer I put it in the flower bed? He said, What are you talking about? What are you doing here? The best thing you can do with that stuff is get it out of here. Manly Strong said, I really believe this stuff should be taken to the garbage dump, I agree. But I thought if you could dump your garbage where you pleased. And surely I can dump my garbage where I please. So what do you mean? He said, let me refresh your memory. And you'll understand what I mean. Do you remember talking yesterday afternoon with a group of boys? Before you left them, you dumped a foul story on those boys. You use some profane language. Two of those boys are in my Sunday school class. I spend time and effort to keep their lives pure and clean. And they are as much a source of pride to me as your beautiful lawn and flower beds are to you. You dumped your foul garbage in the minds of those boys And having done so, you laughed and walked away, leaving the garbage there to breed evil thoughts and possibly evil deeds. You do not wish your fat flowers buried beneath a pile of garbage, neither do I wish the purity of those boys to be despoiled by your offensive language. You could remove this garbage from your yard if I dumped it there, but I cannot remove from the minds of those young boys the evil garbage you dumped into their ears. The tongue. The tongue. The tongue. I want to challenge us in the coming weeks as we look at beauty tips for the tongue. Let's ask God to search us and try us. Let's yield ourselves as believers to the Holy Spirit of God that He would empower us to control and refrain the tongue, to tame it. And that we would use it to point people to Christ, that we would use it to uplift and encourage the brethren I want to challenge Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in the next seven days, by next Sunday. Let's every one of us make every effort to share the gospel in a positive, scriptural, spirit-filled way with some unsaved people and seek to draw them to Christ. I want to challenge Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in the next seven days to seek out and deliberately seek to speak Uplifting scriptural positive things to one another and lift each other up. Enough of the gossip. Amen or not? Somebody help me. Enough of lying. Enough of that truth, exhortation, lifting up If you're not saved, I use my tongue with all the power I have and trust by the power of the Holy Spirit. I plead with you to trust Christ as Savior and get that right. If there's sin in your heart and life, there's disobedience there, if you're out of the will of God, I use my tongue and I trust in the power of the Holy Spirit, challenge you, bring conviction. That you turn from that sin to the Savior. And as a Christian, make things right. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, that you would stir us in this matter of tongues. Our tongue, that we could have beautiful tongues. The words we say would be Christ-like, spirit-filled, truth. But get in love. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, how many I'm telling you, I'm not asking you to do something I haven't already dealt with. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, God's convicted my heart. About my words, maybe things said just in the last few days. You'd say, Preacher, pray with me. My tongue needs attention. My tongue needs attention. Any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, God's Holy Spirit has spoken to me. My tongue needs attention. There's hands raised. I've been doing this long enough. I know there ought to be a whole lot more hands than that raised. I know that's true. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I'm going to accept the challenge, and in the next seven days, I'm going to do all I can, trusting God to lead me. To share the gospel with somebody with my tongue, share with them how to be saved. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, trusting God to able me and lead me. I want to share the gospel of Jesus Christ with at least one person in the next few days. God bless you. God bless you. And how many accept this challenge? As a believer, I'm going to deliberately and trust God to lead me. I'm going to try and say some things that would encourage someone down. That would strengthen somebody that's weak. Maybe in the home, maybe in the church. But you say, preacher, I'm going to accept that challenge. The Holy Spirit of God helping me To speak some words that would uplift, encourage, strengthen someone's faith, not tear it down. Any at all like that? God bless you. Is there any here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure. I'm going to heaven when I die. I need that settled. I don't want to play with that. You need to get that settled. Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray for me. I want to know for sure my sins are forgiven. That when I into my life I go to heaven and not to hell. Is there any like that at all? Preacher, pray for me. I gotta have that settled. Now, Father in heaven, you're a lot of hands raised. You know our hearts. I've Been dealing with conviction as I prepared this and even now again as I preach it. And we want to be right. We want our hearts to be right. So help us we pray in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. For many, many years old Bible preaching churches have had what we call an altar call, an invitation. And as Jennifer plays, now would be a good time to find a