Romans chapter 8, I want us to look at verse 15, 16, and 17. And uh the Bible says verse 15, Pastor Matt just read it, but I want to look at it here. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage. Again, the fear, that would be like a slave or a servant. You've not received that spirit. But you receive the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. Now the word Abba there, if we have time, we're going to look at it a little bit later, but That word Abba there is a term of a child, a little small child would use of their father. It would be like much like today it would be papa or daddy. It's a very intimate, uh simple, childlike, intimate term For God. And the Bible is telling us here that those of us that are saved, we cry to God, Abba, Father. That's the Spirit, Daddy, Papa. Father, total dependence, a childlike dependence. He goes on, he says, the spirit itself bears witness with our spirit. Now look at this, that we are the what? Children of God. And he goes on, and if children, then heirs, heirs of God, join heirs with Christ, if so be that we suffer We may be also glorified together. I want to speak this morning on the fatherhood of God. The fatherhood of God Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to us, teach us from His Word. Father, we do thank you for the Bible and the tremendous information that's given to us in this book about yourself. about ourselves, about the world around us, seen and unseen world, and pray you'd help us receive your word as That just that, your word to us. Open our hearts and minds to the truths given here, the principles given I ask that you, through your Holy Spirit, would enable me to teach and preach this accurately and bring out those principles, those truths here that are given in this passage and others. So I yield my will to you that you would guide my thinking as I speak. I present my body, Lord, to you anew, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and use me To challenge us in our faith, our spiritual condition. And I pray, Lord, that we, as I said, would be open, our hearts and minds be open to your will for us from the Word of God. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There are a lot of blessings that come with being a Christian. Tremendous blessings. And by Christian, I mean that in the biblical sense of the word. I was uh as I say so often I was saying back in 1979, up just north of Philadelphia, little town there And um shortly after I got saved, the church would that I was at at the time, uh, they had a visitation program on Thursday nights, and I was just saved maybe a month or so, and I got stirred I thought I want to go out on that visitation program, talk to other people about the Lord Jesus. And um got there and uh for whatever reason um there was a misunderstanding or something, but uh uh there was nobody there. I was the only one that showed up. And so I kind of stood around there not sure what to do. I mean the preacher, nobody, it was just me. And so um there was a track rack there, so I grabbed a bunch of tracks. Out behind the church was a large apartment building. It was You know, we're just outside the city there, so there's a lot of people. It was a big apartment building. I thought I'll just go through there and give these little gospel tracts out. I didn't know what I was doing. And but I wanted I want to tell people about Jesus And so I was just going through there knocking on doors. This lady came to the door. I said, I'm Dennis Leatherman. I'm from the church here and I was just giving these out and these little uh I don't even know what I called them, uh uh these little I gave these papers out And um I asked her, I said, uh, and again, I had no training, I had no didn't know what to say or not to say. I just wanted to, like I said, I just wanted to talk to people about the Lord, trying people come to Christ And I said, I said, are you a Christian? And she goes, of course. And she was like perplexed and somewhat offended. She said, of course I'm a Christian. I said, well, when did you become a Christian? I'm just this new believer. When did you become a Christian? And uh she goes, I was born in America. Of course I'm a Christian. Listen, you can be born America and be a heathen. Being born America doesn't make you a Christian. Um you can go to church your whole life and not be a Christian in the biblical sense. Do you know you can sit in your garage every day of the week for years and years and you'll never become a car? Doesn't make you a car. That's what Billy Sunday said. Sitting in the garage doesn't make you a car any more than sitting in church makes you a Christian. So there's a lot of blessings with being a Christian, and by that, as I said, I mean the biblical sense of a Christian. You can be born into a Christian family and not be a Christian. Your mom and daddy can be good, godly Christians, and that doesn't automatically make you a Christian. You can, did you know this? You can get baptized and not be a biblical Christian. Huh? You're just old wet sinner, is all you are. So what do we mean by a biblical Christian? Biblical Christian. Not just a name I tackle myself or somebody gives me. A biblical Christian is somebody who has personally trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior. An important word there, personally. Of my own free will, my own volition, I made the decision to put my confidence in, to trust in what Jesus Christ did for me. When he died on that cross for my sins, was buried, rose again, I am trusting that, I am depending on that, I am relying on that for the forgiveness of my sins and eternal life. That's what a Christian is. I believe that Jesus took responsibility for my sins personally. And in my place, he was judged of God for those sins that He has taken responsibility for. Every sin my hands have ever committed, every word that's undispleasing to God that's come off my lips. Every thought through my mind, every place I've ever gone, every deed I've ever done that is outside the will of God, Jesus says, I take responsibility for it, I'll be judged in his place. And it means I'm trusting, depending, relying on that Jesus Christ and what He did for me. You follow me? His death, burial, and resurrection. That is what a biblical Christian is. So, as I said, there's a lot of blessings to being someone that has made that decision, has trusted the Savior in that sense, in the biblical sense. One of those is we've already I've already alluded to, but one of the blessings is having my sins forgiven. Now, I don't know about you, but that's a big deal to me. You say, I don't see what the big deal is about having your sins forgiven, then you probably haven't been under conviction of the Holy Spirit for your sins. Because if you've ever been under the conviction of the Holy Spirit for your sins, being forgiven becomes a big deal. Forgiven. Forgiven. I stand before a holy God that created me. And I'm forgiven. Forgiven. I tell you. By the way, there's nothing this world can do to do that for you. And by the way, Papa can't do that for you either. Only Jesus Christ, only God can forgive sins. So one of the blessings of being a biblical Christian is our sins are forgiven. We are justified. That means I'm just as if I'd never sinned in God's eyes. 1 Corinthians 6. 11 says, speaking to believers, he says, ye are justified. What does that mean That means, as far as God's concerned, my standing, my position before God as a believer in Jesus Christ, God sees me just as if I had never sinned in my life. You say, Preacher, I know you, you've sinned more than five times. I'll tell you, a heap more than that But when I trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior, those sins are forgiven, and the righteousness of Christ is put to my account. It's imputed. It's placed on my account. Not that I'm righteous in and of myself. But the righteousness of Christ is put to my account. And when God sees me, he sees the righteousness of Christ on my account. The Bible says that as a believer in Jesus Christ, our sins are forgiven, and we are as holy and pure and godly and just as Jesus Christ was. Just as if I lived as pure and godly a life as Jesus did, in fact the life he lived, that is put on my account. Hey, this is all grace. God does it for us when we put our faith and trust in Christ. We're forgiven for our sins. We're justified in the eyes of God. Hey, here's another one. We are going to heaven and not to hell. Woo! That right there will make a Presbyterian shout, I'll tell you. That might even make a Baptist shout. Going to heaven, not to hell. I got say 79, May of 79. And when I trusted Christ, what I wanted, I wanted to be free from my sins. I wasn't thinking about heaven or hell, to be very honest with you. I wanted God to save me from my sins. I was so, my life was so saturated with sin, so wicked. I just wanted God to save me from this life. God save me from that's all I want. I wasn't thinking about heaven and hell. Lo and behold, here's I got growing in my faith and going to church and reading my Bible I found out not only did God save me from my sins, he's going to take me to heaven someday. Wow. I mean that's east thing on the cake He said, I a- and he I'm not going to hell. Woo! Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. I tell you, what I just preached just in the last five minutes, that ought to make your week. Right there Think on those things for a little bit. So, uh, my sins are forgiven as a as a Christian, a biblical Christian, my sins are forgiven. I'm justified in the eyes of God I am going to heaven and not to hell. Jesus said in John 10, 28, I give them some eternal life, and they shall never perish. I'm secure in Christ. He says, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. I heard a preacher say, not long after we came here, I went to a funeral. I I forget who it was, somebody not in the church, but a kin of somebody in church. So I went to the funeral. Another preacher was preaching and he says, You gotta live it or you're gonna lose it That's what he said at the funeral. I don't believe that. It's not me holding on to God to keep me saved, it's God holding on to me. I'm secure. He's got a hold of me. I'm telling you, I said in Sundays ago, if it was up to me holding on to God, I'd have been hell a long time ago. Right? I give unto them eternal life. They shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. How many folks here this morning are saved to know it? Say amen. If that's true, I know one thing about you, Jesus Christ has got a hold of you. He's got a hold of you. You say, well, I slipped. Yep. He's got a hold of you. He holds you up. Ah, I fell. Yep, he's got a hold of you. He picks you back up. Picks you back up. These are some of the blessings. Being a biblical Christian, not just somebody, oh yeah, I'm a Christian, I was born American. That's not legit. I mean somebody who's personally put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, what he did on that cross, buried, rose again Relying on that person has all these blessings. God has a hold of me and won't let go. And there's another blessing of being a Christian, and that brings us to what I want to talk about this morning. I am now a child of God. A child of God John chapter 1 and verse 12 says, he says, I came into his own, his own received him not. But as many as received him To them gave he power to become the sons of God. When a person receives Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, when a person puts their faith and trust in Christ, that moment they make that decision. That moment, they are born into the family of God. I become a child of God, and God becomes my father. God is my father. My father. Now, not everybody can say that God is their father. Not everybody can say that. A lot of people have the idea that God is the Father of all mankind. I'm here to tell you this morning that ain't so. That's not true. It's called the term that is used, it's called the universal fatherhood of God. And that is not taught in the Bible. God is not the Father of all men. Now, God is the creator of all mankind. Every living thing owes its life to God We are not simply advanced molecules that over millions of years have somehow assembled together and somehow and and I was just studying this last week. I saw several seminars I watched online where they were saying, we cannot explain how life began. Well, I'm just a dumb bunny. I can tell you how life began. God breathed into the breath of the nostrils of man life, and man became a living soul. God is the author of life. It's not some happenstance chance type thing. It's baloney. That's Greek for nonsense Every living thing owes its life to God, who is the author of life. God is the creator of all mankind. God is the judge of all mankind. Every person ever lived, every will live. I'm telling you, this book is abundantly clear. Every man, woman, and child that ever did live, ever will live is going to stand before God to give an account. Him as the judge. So God's the creator of all men. He is the uh the judge of all men, but he is not the father of all men. In fact, the very opposite is true. Now we're going to look at John, we're going to be here in Romans. How many people brought your Bibles this morning? Got your Bible? Alright, good. What do you think? Let's go ahead and use them We got him. If I take a gun somewhere, I want to shoot it. Right? So I bring my Bible, I want to use it. So let's use it a little bit this morning. So keep your place here in Romans. Come with me to John. And we're going to look at several places in John, and we're also going to end up in Matthew a little bit. So just Keep them handy. Come with me to John chapter number three. Now, for many of us, this is a very familiar passage. John chapter 3, right at the beginning, there's this fellow by the name of Nicodemus. He's pretty well known in Christian circles. Nicodemus Nicodemus was a good man by human standards. He was a good man. He's very religious. He believed the Bible, what they had at that point. No doubt he had faith in God. He was a good man. He was a religious man, but he was lost. I often think when I read and study of Nicodemus, I think of my father. My father was a good man. Many of you got to know him before he passed away. He moved down here, but talking about years ago He was a good man. He was a religious man. He believed the Bible. He went to church Sunday mornings and and did did stuff. I had often back years ago I w I moved out when I was twenty-one, I'd come back home for different things. I spent a couple months one summer back home and people would come up and say, who's your father? I'd say, Clyde Leatherman. They said, Oh, he's a good man. Your daddy's a good man. And I believe that. I I agree with that assessment. But my daddy was a lost man. He was religious, but he was lost until 1970. He began seeking the Lord. Studying the Bible, he realized that his religion didn't cut it. His own goodness didn't make him acceptable to God. He needed to be biblically saved. He needed trust Christ the Savior. So that reminds me of Nicodemus. Or Nicodemus reminds me of that he a good man, a religious man. Nicodemus, no doubt, was probably a very moral man. We believe he was a very wealthy man But notice what Jesus says to him. He comes to Lord Jesus, verse 2, the same came to Jesus by night. He comes to Jesus. He says, Rabbi, we know you're a teacher. Thou art a teacher come from God. No man can do these miracles. Thou doest six. Except God be with him. He's very respectful. And before he can actually get to his question, I mean he was approaching the Lord. He had an issue he wanted to discuss. Before he ever gets to that, the Lord interrupts him. And he says, Jesus answered verse 3 and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Well, that threw Nicodemus. I'm a religious man. And he says, how in the world, that in the world part is the Leatherman version. Verse 4, how can a man be born when he's old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born? He didn't get it. I don't understand. Jesus answered. Verily, verily I say to thee, except a man be born of water and the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. And then the Lord explains what he means by that water and the spirit The water there is not baptism. Jordan tells us in verse 6 what he means by that. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That's the water the Lord's referring to in verse 5. When a child is going to be born, the water breaks. The child's encased in water. He's born of water. He's physically born. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. And that which is born of the what? Spirit is spirit. It's a second birth. It's a different type of birth. May 6, 1960, I was born of water. I was born of the flesh. May 7, 1979, I was born of the Spirit when I trust in Christ. Not everybody, God is not the father of all mankind God is the father of those who have been born again, born spiritually, born into the family of God. And God becomes their father. Are you with me? If you're here this morning, you've never made that conscious personal decision. To put my total trust, reliance in the person and work of Jesus Christ, what he did on the cross, rose again. If you've never done that, I hate to say this, but it's the truth. God is not your father. He's your creator. He will be your judge. But until a person's born again, they are not part of the family of God. They are outside the family of God, and God is not their father. He was outside the family of God, a good man, a religious man, moral, no doubt. But he needed to be born again. Jesus said verse 7, marvel not that I say unto thee, ye must be born again. Must be born spiritually, born from above to be a child of God, to have God as my Father In fact, if you come over to chapter 8 of John, just turn a few pages over, Jesus is addressing a group of fellows, Pharisees, a group of Pharisees. Now we know from studying scriptures carefully, these Pharisees were unsaved They had never put their faith and trust in what Jesus was going to do for them. This is pre-cross event Now, not all, now there were some Pharisees that did get saved. The Bible says that. But these birds are not saved. They have not trusted Christ. They've rejected Him. They're unbelievers. They've never been born again. They've not put their faith and trust in them. Look what Jesus says to them. Now this is pretty strong. Ye well verse 43 says, Why do ye not understand my speech? Even because you cannot hear my word. You won't listen. You won't receive what I'm saying. Ye are of your father the devil. And the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh, the devil, when he speaketh, he speaketh a lot. By the way, the devil is a liar. He speaketh of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it. Jesus said these folks were the devil was their father Now, why did he say the devil was their father? Was it because they were hypocrites? Well, they were hypocrites, but that's not why he said the devil was their father. The devil was their father because they'd never been born into the family of God. And never trusted Christ, been born spiritually, become a child of God. They're outside the family of God. Wasn't their hypocrisy that made the devil their father. It was their unbelief. It was their unsaved condition. So I've kind of already touched on it, but my first thought this morning is I want us to consider the avenue To God becoming my father. In other words, preacher, how can I know that God is my father? How can I have God as my father? Well, we've already touched on it quite a bit. John chapter 1, verse 11, he says, He came unto his own. I quoted this a little bit ago, he came unto his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God. Even to them that believe on his name. It's by receiving Jesus Christ as my personal Savior that God becomes my Father. If you're here this morning and you have never received Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, God is not your Father. He's your creator. He will be your judge. But he is not your father. And John chapter 14, verse 6, Jesus said, No man cometh unto the Father, but By me. I cannot come to God as my Father. I cannot claim God to be my Father except through faith in Jesus Christ. Trusting Jesus Christ. Galatians chapter 3 and verse 26, Paul writing to the church there at Galatia, he said, Ye are all the children of God by faith in Jesus Christ. It's the only avenue into the family of God. It's the only avenue into becoming a child of God and God being my Father. Listen, uh God does not become my father by me getting baptized. Now, question, should a Christian, a genuine Christian, should they get baptized? Yes I think sometimes we underplay, we uh we uh under uh we um uh downplay The importance of baptism in the life of a believer. I am convinced when a person trusts Christ as Savior, gets saved, they ought to get baptized as soon as possible after that decision. That's following the Bible pattern. But baptism itself does not make me a child of God. Does not bring me church membership. I I'm all for church membership. I I wish everybody in Garrett County get saved, baptized, be a member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I think I love this church. I I think everybody that lives east of the Mississippi ought to join our church Huh? I just feel that way. You say, whoa you looking down on other churches? I'm not even thinking about other churches. I like this church. I like our church. If I lived in Garrett County, this is where I'd go to church. But that's not the avenue into becoming part of the family of God. And by the way, I I I uh I I'm not saying other people aren't fat part of the family of God. You follow what I'm saying? I'm digging this hole deeper as I go. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. You're children of God by faith in Jesus Christ. Trusting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior is my only access into the family of God. Jesus Christ became the Son of Man so that man can become a son of God. Isn't that great? It's through Jesus Christ. It's through Jesus Christ. The moment of our salvation, we're born into the family of God, and God becomes our Father. Now, this is true for you. If you've trusted Christ as Savior, this is true for you. But May 7, 1979, 10:30, I knelt by that bed in desperation. To be saved from my sin, I called on the Lord trusted him as my Savior. That moment, I was born again into the family of God. Into the family of God. So number one, the avenue into the family of God is through trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. Number two The awareness of God as my father. Come back to Romans 8. Now, stick something here in John. We're going to end up back in John here before long, I think. But Romans chapter eight, again, look at verse number fourteen. He says, For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. By the way, let me just throw a little advertisement in here. You ought to come to the adult Sunday School class in the auditorium. We are studying, right now, we're studying the Holy Spirit's ministry in the life of the believer. And I'm telling you, it is great. Uh what a teacher. I'll tell ya. No, seriously, it's very helpful. And we're looking at this. And it says, as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but have received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry of a Father. Now look at this. Look at verse 16. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit. Now notice the word first Spirit there is capital. That's the who? It's the Holy Spirit dwells within us when we get saved. The Holy Spirit beareth witness with our Spirit that we are what? The children of God. One of the ministries of the Holy Spirit in the life of the believer is to assure me Give me the awareness of the fact that, yes, God is my Father Jesus referred to God as our Father over, get this, over 165 times In the four Gospels, Jesus referred to God as our Father. Not our Creator, talking to his disciples, not our Creator, and He is our Creator Not a Redeemer, and he is our Redeemer. Not our Judge, and He will be our Judge. But over 165 times, Jesus referred to God as our Father. Talking to his disciples. Paul in his epistles refers over 40 times To God as our Father, our Father. I believe God wants His once believers, once you and I as believers, as genuine biblical Christians, He wants us to think of Him First and foremost, as our Heavenly Father. That's when we think of God, He's my Father. He's my Father. Not as our creator, not as our redeemer. Question, is God our creator? Yes, I've been emphasizing that, and that's important. And by the way, I think we have to emphasize that in this day and age. I'm grateful for our children's ministry. While we're here, there's a whole slew of kids down right below us, and they're having snacks and playing games. And I think I'll go down there. They're having a good time But they for the last month or so, Brother Dave, is he still doing it? Today's the last day, they had an emphasis on teaching the kids that God is our creator. We did not evolve. I saw an article. What's the biggest lie ever perpetrated on mankind? I'm convinced the biggest lie ever perpetrated on mankind is that we evolved. God is our Creator. But Jesus didn't say over 165 times refer to God as our Creator. Now it's important that we understand he is our Creator and we need to teach that and help people understand that. To me it's pretty obvious, but But he's not. God wants us to think of him first and foremost as our Father. God wants you and I as believers to look at him and when we think of him, our Father, our Father. Not not Redeemer, and He is our Redeemer. He paid for our sins. He redeemed us from hell and the judgment of God. He redeemed us from our own sin. Thank God for it. That's important that we understand that. But first and foremost, he wants us to think of him As our father. We've got to go deeper than just creator, just just judge. We've got to see him in a personal way. Abba, Papa, Daddy. My Father, it's you, God. That's the image God wants us to have of Him. That's the understanding He wants His people to have of Him. Over 165 times, Jesus Refers to God as our father, our father. God wants us to approach him as a child approaching his father, her father. He wants us to interact with him as our heavenly Father. Our heavenly father. Now, let's go to Matthew I said we're going to use our Bibles a bit. You would come to Matthew and chapter number six Now I pointed out in Romans there 815, Abba Fathers like a little child saying, Daddy, Papa Now notice what the Lord says in Matthew chapter 6. Now this is smack dab in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount. I like the Sermon on the Mount. One of my favorite passages of Scripture. Actually, my favorite passage of Scripture is usually whatever I happen to be reading at that moment. But the Sermon on a Mount is powerful. It is not an evangelistic message He's not telling people how to get saved. If you look back at chapter 5, the first two verses, he's talking to disciples, people that are already saved, people that have dedicated their life to live for him. They're disciples of Christ And notice what he says to these disciples in chapter 6, and look at verse number 8. Now, here's my point. God wants us to be aware of him as our father. He wants us to approach him and interact with him as our father, as a father. Now look what he says in verse 8. Be not ye therefore like unto them. He's talking about the Pharisees and then. For your what? Father knoweth what things ye have need of before you ask. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Creator, which art in heaven, no Our judge, which art in heaven? No. My Redeemer? No. My what? Our Father, which art in heaven. Jesus is making it very, very clear here, and he repeats this numerous times throughout the Gospels. He makes this very, very clear. He says, When you come to God In prayer, when you approach God, you approach him as a child approaching their father. Isn't that good? Abba, Papa, Daddy. Now, he's not demeaning the holiness of God or position of God. He goes on, our Father Ton. hallowed be thy name. He's not demeaning it. God is not the old man upstairs. You ought to never refer to God as the old man upstairs. By the way, you ought to never refer to your daddy as the old man. Or father, daddy, papa. Hallowed is your name. He's not diminishing the holiness and the power and the glory of God, but he is emphasizing how we want us to approach him. How he wants us to view him and interact with him as a father with a child Not our creator, not our redeemer, our father. So number one, the avenue to God as my father, it's through trusting Christ as Savior. I'm born in the family of God, God becomes my Father. My approach or my awareness of God is my Father. God wants me to think and interact with Him not as a distant God, not as some hard cold judge That is my Papa. It's my daddy. And he knows what I have need of before I even ask him, our Father, our Papa in heaven. Last of all, I'd like for us to consider the advantages we have with God as our Father. Now, I want to emphasize here as a believer As a genuine biblical Christian, a believer in Jesus Christ, we are no better than the world. We're no better than the unsaved person. They go down the road here and somebody they're unsafe maybe come across I do periodically someone blasphemes God. I hate God, I don't want to Listen, I'm no better than they are. I'm just as much a sinner as they are. But through trusting Jesus Christ as my Savior, being born into the family of God I have some advantages they do not have. I'm not better than them. I ought not to be proud. It ought to humble me. It ought to burden me that they can get in the family also and have these advantages. But as a believer, we have things the unbelievers do not have And we ought to never envy the unsaved Say, oh, they got all this and they're doing all that and then it just seems like everything's going hunty dory for the unsaved. People reject. Don't ever envy the unsaved. You and I have things that money cannot buy. As a child of God, we have advantages this world can never produce. God is my father. I have some advantages. We're not better than the world, so don't misunderstand. But we have some things this world don't have. First of all, advantages of God our Father, number one, He communicates with us as His child. Our God is a good Father. Our Heavenly Father is a good Father. And we can come to him and we can talk to him and he listens to us. He listens to us. Would you agree with me? A good daddy, when a child wants to come in, talk to him, a good daddy listens to their child. Talk to me, tell me, listen to I read about uh and I I don't have the names. I just read it yesterday. Uh about um A fellow was writing a book and some some he was a professor. Oh, he was a lawyer, I'm sorry. He was a lawyer. He was writing a book on law And was consuming his time and his little child came in and said, Daddy, I can I talk to you? And he said, Not long, not now, son, running along and reading this book. A few days later, though, boy came in, Daddy, I need to talk to you, son. I'm busy, I told you. I gotta write this book. And this happened multiple times through as this child was growing up. And years later, that child, as a young adult, stood before a judge and was being sentenced for crimes. He was going to spend years and years in jail. And the judge, knowing his daddy, said, son, why did you turn out this way? And the boy said, Dad, daddy was very good at writing books. He never had time to listen to me. He never would listen to me. He never would talk to me. Listen, you can be the greatest businessman in the world, but your kids need your attention. They need to be able to talk to you and interact with you and share their hearts, their burdens. Our God is a good father and he listens to us. I have never come to God In a time of burden or broken heartedness, and come to God, and God says, sorry, Dennis, I'm busy right now. You come back later. God always listens. He invites us to come. He says, Ye that are labor heavy laden, come unto me. Tell me your burdens, tell me your sorrows. Tell me your struggles. Tell me your failures. Tell me your weaknesses. I want to communicate. Our God is a good daddy. And he listens and he communicates with. We can be honest with God. Do you ever have stuff going on in your life and you're just a little uncomfortable sharing it with someone else? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Just uh just kind of keep it in. Worry what people think, worry about what they might say, and it might be fallout from it. I'm telling you, we never have to worry about that with our Heavenly Father. Come and just be honest. God, I blew it. God, I'm scared. God, I don't know. God is our heavenly Father. He communicates with us. We can be honest with Him. We can pour our hearts out to God. We can bring our most ridiculous requests. Say, God would never do this for me. He says, bring your requests unto me. Prayer and supplication. Let your requests be on. Listen, I want to know. Look there at Matthew 7. Are you in Matthew? Look at Matthew 7. This is still part of the Sermon on the Mount. And verse number 7 of Matthew 7. My point is, God's a good father, and he communicates with his children. He says, Ask. He says, Come on, come to me. Ask, and it shall be given unto you. Seek. You shall find, knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. Now notice what he says. Or what man is there of you, whom if his son asks bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good things unto your children. How much more shall your what Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask them? You notice in this teaching on prayer and seeking and knocking, God does not want us to approach him or think of him as our creator. He is our creator, but that's not my approach. He doesn't want me to come with my asking and my seeking and my knocking and my needs and my requests and my burdens, come to him as a judge. He will be a judge, but he wants me to come as a son to the Father. To the Father. Number one, he communicates with his child. Number two, he has compassion on his child. In John chapter 17, I'm running out of time. I figured this would happen. It happens every week. But Jesus is praying to God. John chapter 17 is the great uh we uh what I refer to as the Lord's Prayer. We think of the Lord's Prayer, Our Father which art in heaven, how be thy name of thy kingdom come thy Really, John 17 is the Lord's Prayer. He's praying to his Father, God the Father, on behalf of us. He's praying for us. And notice in if you found it there, John 17, 23, he makes a statement. He says, Thou, and he fills in here, he says, But thou hast loved them. God, you have loved them, my disciples. As thou hast loved me. Isn't that something? He's saying, Jesus is saying in this prayer, and it's Recorded and preserved for us for all eternity. He's saying that God loves you and I as his child, the same, as, to the same degree With the same love that God loves Jesus Christ. Whoa. How many people believe God loves you? Sure. Jesus loves me, this I know. For the Bible. Didn't we just sing a little bit ago? I am so glad that my Father in heaven tells us. I'm glad God loves me. But wait a minute. He loves you and I as his children to the same degree that he loves Jesus Christ, his eternal son. That's that's love. That's love. For God so loved the world God loves you and me as much as He loves. Does God love Jesus Christ? Yeah. He loves you and me the same. Loves you and me the same. You say, yeah, but I ain't as good as Jesus Christ. Nope. But God sees you in Christ and He loves you the same degree that He loves Jesus Christ. Man, you can't get a more intense love than that. You can't get a more perfect love than that. You can't get a more unfailing love than that. My love for my wife and family fails. It's imperfect. It comes up short. It's tainted and stained and corrupted by my own selfishness. But God's love for Jesus Christ is pure and unstained. And that same love extends to you and I as His children. What a heavenly father. He has compassion on us. It's unconditional. Remember the prodigal son? He came running back. What'd the daddy do? Son, you clean yourself up before you get in this house. I'll tell you out there in a hog pen, you ain't stepping across here. Tell you uh uh uh What'd the father do? Zhe! He went running out as soon as he saw that boy. Get the fat in camp and uh uh um uh get the get the robes And the boy and the daddy cleaned the boy up. Why? Because he loved him. He loved him. He said, Preacher, I messed up. I got saved and I messed up and I did wrong. Listen, you come on back to God, he'll clean you up. He'll get you he'll get you all cleaned up. I I that fatted calf, it's getting lunchtime. I started thinking about that fatted calf. Fatted calf nothing, I'm having fatted chicken I gotta quit. Number three, he corrects his children. I wish we had time. Proverbs 3. 12 says, Whom the Lord loveth He correcteth. Listen to this, even as a father, the son in whom he delighteth. Proverbs 13, 24. He that loveth his son Chasen at them be time. So word chasing means to discipline. It means to correct. It means to take to the woodshed. It ain't no timeout. When the boys were small, I used to quote this verse, He that loveth his son chasteneth chasteneth him on his behinds, is how I said it. I just say this, a loving father corrects his son when he's going wrong. Don't just let him go. Our Heavenly Father corrects his child. Again, I wish we had time. Hebrews 12, 5 through ought to study that. You ought to study that God corrects us. He corrects strongly. He'll do what's necessary. Get his boy back in line. Get his daughter back in line. You don't just, well God, you Baptists, you think God you have a license to sin. God never gives a license to sin. He doesn't send his children to hell, but he doesn't give them a license to sin. If they sin, he chastens them, he corrects them, he disciplines them Gets them back in line. And by the way, if somebody claims to be safe and there's no discipline, there's no chastening, Hebrews 12 says, tells us that your claim to be a child of God is illegitimate. Wish we had time. By the way, it's not my job to determine whether Derek's under discipline of God or not. My responsibility is to whether I'm under discipline of God or not. Don't you oh so-and-so got sick. Yep, God's chasing them. You hypocrite, that's none of your business. You have no idea what God's doing there. He corrects his children, he cares for his children. Matthew 6 tells us, again we don't have time, verse 8 and 12, he says he knows what we need before we ever even ask him. He says, Don't you worry about what you're going to wear or what you're going to eat, the birds of the air, they've got beautiful Uh they've got food and the flowers, beautiful garments, and uh your father cares more about you than he does about the s the the Carolina Wrens and he cares more about you than the petunias and the dandelions and uh the um uh tulips and uh what else? What? Corals? Roses. He cares more about you how you you than he does about them. He says, your heavenly Father will take care of you. I tell you, I love that song. God will take care of you through every day or all the way. Heavenly Father takes care of I don't think there's a daddy in this room. If your boy was hurting and needed something, you wouldn't run and try and help him every way you can. Huh? Try and help. My God takes care of us. Our Father in heaven. My dad worked two jobs. He wants to take care of us. Drove truck all day for a while, a long time. He drove date during the before he was over the road, he drove truck all day, drove delivered oil. And in in the end of the night, he drove taxi for four or five, six hours He's taking care of his family. Worked hard. Tell them, oh my daddy's never around. You know what? He might be working his tail off so that you can have food to eat. Kathy's dad helped us. Helped us, gave us food. He he canned deer meat. I don't know where he got all those deer. I don't the limit was only two. He had We can trust God to take care of us. And I am with this. He counsels his children. He counsels his children. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6, trust in the Lord, your heavenly Father. Papa, Daddy, trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not into thine own understanding, and all thy ways acknowledge him. God, your heavenly Father. And he shall direct your ways. He'll lead you what to do. He'll tell you what to do. He'll show you what to do. Preacher, I don't know what to do. Trust God. Read the Bible. He'll lead you. He'll direct you Psalms 32, verse 8 I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go. I will guide thee with my eye. God will lead us, God will direct us, God will counsel us, He'll help us. He's our Heavenly Father. He's our Heavenly Father. Here's my invitation. Number one, if you're saved, you've trusted Christ's Savior, you have that settled biblically, a biblical Christian, I want to urge you to start deliberately viewing and interacting with God as a heavenly father. Not as a cold, distant creator. Now he is our creator. And he's not cold and distant because he's our heavenly father. And we come to Him as a Father. I'm talking to people that have needs. I'm talking to people that have heartaches and burdens. I'm talking to people, some people that blew it bad. You're saved, child of God, and you blew it. I'm saying you come to your Heavenly Father. You pour that out. You acknowledge it. You let Him know. You trust Him and let Him lead you and take care of you and meet your needs. Amen? And if you're not saved, you don't never you don't have that settled whether you're going to heaven or hell. You don't have that settled that you trust in Christ. I plead with you. Every molecule in my being, I plead with you. You come and trust Christ. We'll show you from the Bible how to put your faith and trust in Jesus. And God be your Father. Have a home in heaven, not the hell, and be forgiven. It's the most important decision in life. Father, bless our imitation. Thank you for being our Heavenly Father. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I'm saved, I know I'm saved. Biblically, I have a biblical basis for my assurance of my salvation. You say, Preacher I need to come and view God and interact with Him as a father. Just like a little child to my father. Is there anything like that? Preacher, I need to do that. I need to start thinking that way. I need to start approaching. God bless you. Hands all around. Now this is personal. This is between you and God. Maybe you have a burden. Maybe you have something you're struggling with. Maybe something has you scared to death in life. You're worried. I want to urge you. You come to your Heavenly Father. You bring that burden, that heartache. You pour it out to Him. He listens. He cares. You have a need, preacher. I don't know how this is going to get met. I don't know. Listen, you come to God, He takes care of His children. You pour it out. You trust Him. And if you're not saved, you come this morning and get saved. Father, bless our imitation. Let's stand together hands.