Luke chapter 14. I want to preach this morning on this great supper that Pastor Matt read here a few moments ago, verse 16 down through, I think, 24, he read. Initially I started to study on uh the highways and hedges. My first I felt like the message direction was going to go. And as I got studying this, I want to zero in on this Great Supper That's mentioned here. Verse number sixteen, just to get us started, then we'll work our way down through this passage. Of course, uh Jesus is speaking here and he's illustrating the truth. And he says in verse 16, He said uh Then said he unto him this Pharisee that he's uh speaking with, uh one of the fellows at this at this banquet Lord's attending, and he says this unto him. He said, A certain man made a great supper, and he bade many. invited many people to come out to this supper. And then the Lord goes down and he elaborates on this supper, the events that took place and he's making a spiritual truth. So let's pray together and let's ask the Lord to apply these truths that the Lord gave here to each of our lives as the Lord knows we need. Father in heaven, we bow before you this morning with very grateful hearts. Lord, the weather has been such a blessing. Lord, the facilities here. Lord, the fellowship with your people is always a blessing. We're grateful for the visitors that are with us today But Lord, we ask now that your presence would be here in a very evident way. I pray that through the preaching of your word and the reading and consideration of these scriptures, you would speak to our hearts. You know where we're at spiritually. You know what our condition is. You know what our needs are spiritually. And so I'm praying now with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. I yield my will to you. I pray that you would be the preacher, that you would help us, teach us, show us, and let your will be done in our lives. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I was in Bible college many years ago, it's hard to believe, 30-some years ago, 35 years ago or more when I enrolled, uh went down to Tennessee I'd attended a little college in Philly for a year and then I transferred down to Tennessee. And I had some roommates. The school at that time was booming. They didn't have room for dormitories. All the dormitories were packed. The church uh the school there uh had purchased apartments around the campus of the school and were using them for dormitories and they were just dumping people in these And uh we were in an old dilapidated apartment. It was called Holly Hall. There's probably about 20 apartments in this one building. We called it Holly Hole. It was rough. Uh down there I was introduced to cockroaches. Now I don't know about other parts of the world, but I ain't never seen cockroaches like they had in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Good heavens, those things were the size of dinosaurs, some of them, and they flew, they would fly. So we I moved into this uh dormitory, this apartment. It was one bedroom, had one bedroom, had one little bathroom, uh no shower, it was an old claw, eagle claw tub. Anybody remember them? And so uh had a little shower thing and and uh one bedroom, uh a small living area, and a small kitchen in this bathroom. That was it. There was eight fellas in that thing We had two bunk beds in the bedroom, two bunk beds in the living room. There was eight of us there, four in each of those rooms, one bathroom, and that was a uh the the old uh tub. I'm telling you, I was suffering for the Lord there. I was in the this has nothing to do with the message, just thought of it. I was in taking a bath one day and This thing came flying down from the sky right towards me from the ceiling. I thought it was a bat or something, and I swatted it. It was a cockroach. I was under attack. We would uh I'll get to the message eventually, but let me tell you all these stories. There were so many cockroaches. Now this is the truth. If I ever say the truth, I'll point it out. This is the truth. There were so many cockroaches. We would turn the light off at night. What we did was uh we'd put we'd put newspaper out between the two bunk beds. We'd put newspaper out and we'd put crackers in the middle of the newspaper. Then we'd turn the light out and the cockroaches would come out towards those cracker crumbs and you could hear them going across the newspaper. So we'd be on our beds with our shoes. And somebody would say, now, and they'd turn the light on. There'd be cocktails. We'd jump down. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. whack a mole except we were hitting cockroaches and then we put middle notches on the end of our bed how many cockroaches we killed. Now I said all that for absolutely no reason whatsoever. But I had a roommate that first that first year and I was green, I was scared, I didn't know I was excited. And uh I went off to Bible college sincerely, not necessarily prepared to serve the Lord, although I had an idea that was part of it. I just wanted to Live for God. I just want to go and learn the Bible. I just this was God's leading in my life. So I got down there. I'm excited. I want to be involved in everything. I want to do everything. Got involved in soul winning and different things. I had a roommate And I, for the life of me, all week long I've been trying to remember his name, and I can't, and it's probably good that I can't. And uh I don't know why he was in Bible college, to be honest with you. We uh got there and we got to know each other a little bit. We were a week or two into the semester. I said, hey, what about if we would uh of the evenings or maybe once or twice a week we'd have little devotions together. We just kind of at the end of the day you know, get together, read a scripture, and maybe sing a song, pray together. And um or if not, you know, maybe once a week or at least have prayer time together, you know, share burdens and pray together. And uh this fellow says he's, and he's young. I'm I'm like twenty-some years old. I was a little older when I got down there. And he was fresh out of high school. He's about 17, 18 years old. And he said this He said, Leatherman, if you'd have been a Christian as long as I have, you'd be tired of all that Bible reading and prayer. I thought to myself, I don't ever want to be a Christian that long. And I get tired of Bible reading in prayer. Oh, we go soul wedding. Ah, he didn't have that. He was not interested in any aspect Of Christian service or the Christian life, whatever. He was there to get an education. And finally, we were going back and forth, and needless to say, we kind of butt heads a little bit on some things. One day he made this statement to me. He said, Leatherman, he says, you are so heavenly minded, you're of no earthly good. Now I wasn't sure how to take that But I got thinking and after he had said that to me, I got thinking, I I never said this to him, but I thought, this guy is so earthly minded, he's of no heavenly good And he was so caught up in this life. He was so caught up in what he could see, what he could feel, he was caught up in what we refer to as materialism. With complete disregard, with complete lack of interest in any spiritual aspect of our being. I don't know whatever happened to the guy when the next year I got in a different, I got an apartment, I moved off campus, and uh we parted ways. I have no idea whatever happened to the fella. But what his frame of mind, his attitude, now he would go through the motions. He'd go to church and he carried his Bible. And he had a superficial appearance of being a Christian, and he had all the externals there, and you know, uh materially, uh, you know, all those things were in place, but spiritually there was a vacuum. You and I are more than just physical beings. We're more than just flesh and blood and bones and muscles and skin. You and I actually are spiritual beings. We are a soul. I say this often. Funerals, I always say it. You and I do not have a soul. We don't have a soul. You and I, we are a soul. That's what we are, and we have a body. We live, inhabit this body. And my roommate, all he could see was the body part. All he had was the superficial. All he could focus on was the material. And his thinking, his frame of mind is the same, very similar to what these Pharisees had here in our text, and actually throughout the Gospels. The Pharisee, and if you come back to verse number one, we find that it was a Pharisee that was hosting the meal that initiated the Lord telling the story about the Great Supper. Look at verse 1. It came to pass as he, Jesus, went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the Sabbath day that they watched him. Now, the Pharisees, and really the majority of the Jews in that day and age, believed in God. They knew there was a God. There was no doubt about that. They believed the Bible And they had believed, and they were, I feel, convinced that what the Lord had promised Israel would one day come about. And that was this: that the Lord was going to send them a king, a Messiah. That would deliver them from all Gentile oppression. And this Messiah, the Pharisee, this chief Pharisee, along with many others with him, were convinced that someday the Lord would send this. Messiah, this king to sit on the throne of David that had been promised all through the Old Testament, and he would deliver them from the Roman oppression, he would deliver them from the Gentile rule over Israel, and Israel would be able to rule as their own independent nation, the promises of God to Israel being fulfilled. With this Messiah, who they did not know who he was, and they were looking for his coming, he would rule as king literally, physically, in the nation of Israel. They were looking for a physical kingdom Their concern was primarily the outward aspects of that kingdom. They wanted to be free from oppression. They wanted to have financial prosperity. They wanted to live in nice houses and be free to spend their money how they wanted to. They wanted to be able to travel how they wanted to. They wanted all the physical blessings, all the material aspects of the uh of the Messiah ruling in this coming kingdom. That's what they were looking for. By the way, that kingdom will come to Israel during the millennial reign of the Lord Jesus Christ. It will come to all the world, actually. What the Pharisees and the Jews, most of the Jews of that day and age, had failed to see that the Messiah, on his first coming, was not coming as a king, but he was coming as a sacrificial lamb. And that the kingdom of God, this kingdom that the Messiah would rule from, was much more than just a material, physical kingdom, it was a spiritual kingdom. And that the spiritual needs of mankind, the spiritual condition of the Jews and all of mankind needed to be addressed before this physical kingdom would be established. You follow what what's happening here? And so that's the setting. Jesus is invited by this chief Pharisee to come to his dinner on a Sabbath day of all days. And it says, did you notice at the end of verse 1, it says they watched him? Um as I said, they knew this kingdom was coming. They knew that God was going to send a Messiah. Jesus was presenting himself as this Messiah, but he was not what they had anticipated It didn't fit their preconceived ideas of who the Messiah was, what he would do, and what he was about. And so Jesus, they're watching him, and uh they're trying to figure out. They're not sure about him. Is he this Messiah? But he's he's saying things that don't fit our conception of what uh this kingdom's going to be like. They were focused on the earthly kingdom without regard for their spiritual well-being. Everything about them was external, outward, superficial, material. And so it's in this context, these this Pharisee and his guests here at this dinner that he's invited to there in verse 1, their whole mindset is we're looking for this material, this focus. Their concern isn't the spiritual. And they're watching Jesus and they're wanting to know, who is this guy and what and uh how's this playing out? Now, this is a little aside, and we don't have time to look at the whole chapter, but in verses 8 through 11, and then again in verses 12 through 14, he gives a few, he gives some unsolicited advice Before he gets to the point he wants to make, he gives some solicited advice. And again, we don't have time to look at this. I just want to throw them out there to you. In verse 8 through 11, he basically says this: hey, don't make things all about yourself. He references somebody that goes to a dinner and immediately walks into the dinner and sits at the head seat, and the person putting the dinner on says, Hey, that wasn't for you, that's for someone else. Go sit down, and he's embarrassed. And the point he's trying to make here, and the Pharisees were notorious for this, listen, it isn't all about you. And I think that's something that we have to deal with in our day and age today. Sometimes we think it's all about us, right or wrong. And we think everything's about us. It's all us and me and I'm the one and I'm the s uh I noted I was I saw that the um astronomers and the scientists Nassau found the center of the universe. They found it And people were shocked it wasn't them. And Jesus is saying to these Pharisees, listen, don't seek the head seats. Don't seek all that. Look at verse eleven. He says, For whosoever exalteth himself shall be what? Abased, put down. And he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. I think one of the greatest attributes a person can have, one of the greatest characteristics in life, is that of humility. So the Lord throws that out. They didn't really ask about it, but he threw it out, said, hey fellas, don't make it all about yourself. And then the second one in verse 12 through 14, he throws this advice out. Hey, be a blessing to others and you'll be blessed. He says there when uh He says uh When you make a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends or thy brethren, neither the kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbors, lest they bid thee again and recompense thee may thee. But when thou makest a feast Call the poor and the maimed and the lame and the blind, and thou shalt be blessed. He's saying, Listen, you seek to be a blessing to others. You seek to give yourself to others, and you'll get a blessing from that Years ago when we first came, this September, it'll be 26 years. My family and I have been here. We loved it. God's blessed. When we first started, of course the church was rebuilding and and we were trying to get people saved and uh we bought a Sunday school bus about the first year into it and we began running that a little bit. And I was at a preacher's fellowship and we got talking and uh talking about different things going to church and I just happened to mention, I said, yeah, we got a Sunday school bus. I said, I'm excited, we're starting to run that thing. I think I was driving it at the time And I said, we're really excited about the Sunny Club bus. And one of this other preacher, and he's a friend of mine, he came over and he rebuked me sharply. And he says, you will never have a successful growing church with a bus ministry. I said, Well, thank you for your concern. I wasn't going to argue with him. I wasn't going to fuss with him. And uh, but I came back, I thought, I don't agree with that one bit. He says, You're going after all those folks and just uh poor people. You go, you're never gonna have a growing successful church reaching poor people. And my thought was, we're not trying to reach poor people, we're trying to reach people. Rich, poor, in between, whatever. Tall ones, short ones, skinny ones, ones that aren't skinny. And the Lord said, listen, don't go out looking for ways that you can be blessed. Don't go out looking for stuff. He says, you go out and give. You give of yourself and you watch if God doesn't bless you. So he throws this advice out. First of all, don't make it all about yourself. And number two, try to be a blessing to others And then he addresses the condition of these Pharisees. He begins to point out here in our text, he points out the fact that the Physical, the real need in life is not the physical aspect of life, but it's the spiritual needs of life. It's our heart. I was at a meeting a while ago, and the meeting was addressing the drug crisis. That's taking place in our community and communities around. We're aware of that. The EMTs, the folks involved with that, they know exactly what this is. It's horrendous. opioids and all of that. And I don't fully understand it all, but it's terrible. So they they were they I got a letter and they said we're inviting all the uh clergy was their term of the community come out to this meeting we want to discuss this issue and it kind of caught my interest and I thought well I'm going to go to that And I want to hear what's going on, and I want to hear what the situation is and and uh just see what this is about. It's all pastors, it's all churches, religious of every strife, and we got, and there was about probably 35, 40 folks there And again, every stripe there is. And I just sat and uh I just listened. And they told of the situation, horrific it is, and and gave specifics and all that. Then they said we are reaching out to the the the the faith community for input. What are you what are you what are the solutions? We're we're desperate. Do you have answers for this? And so I listened. And the discussion went on for probably 45 minutes, an hour maybe, and people stood up and gave different suggestions, and I noticed a common theme through just about all the suggestions. It was all outward. We need better facilities. We need more money. There has to be more awareness. We need programs. We need more money. We need to uh interact. We need interaction in the schools. We need more money We need more of this. We need to do more of that. We need more money. And I sat there thinking, and I thought, they're completely missing the problem here. They kept making this statement. They kept saying, addiction is not a choice. Nobody chooses to be an addict. And finally it kind of cried down and I just I raised my hand and they stood up and everybody was very gracious and kind. I said, I said, several thoughts and my point, you're asking for our input I said, number one, addiction is not a choice. I'll agree with that, but addiction is the consequence of choices that are made. And I said, so we're making a mistake by disregarding choices that are being made. Nobody, other than exceptions with infants born into families, but nobody becomes an addict without making some sort of choice. There's decisions made somewhere. That these are consequences of. Now, I'm not trying to be unkind and my heart goes out. I'm telling you, I have been where addicts are. I know. I think I can speak with a little bit of authority on this. And so when when folks are addicted to something, it doesn't just wake up one morning and I'm addicted. No, there were decisions made at some point that produced that. And if I ignore that aspect of it, I'm never going to be able to cure it. I'm never going to be able to solve the problem. And then I said, second of all The problem isn't money or programs. The problem is ultimately a spiritual problem. And until the heart is changed, until the very nature of a person is changed, it's unlikely their life is going to be changed in any significant way. Now we can modify behavior externally, but we cannot change the nature of a person And mankind can't do that. All the money in Trump Tower can't change the nature of a person The best programs that the United Nations comes up with cannot change the nature of a person. Only Jesus Christ. to make a person a new creature. Now let me speak from experience. And some of y'all could probably say this, you could tell my testimony better than I can, some of you. But the fact of the matter is, I was involved in drugs. I was in addiction and all of that. And I wanted to change. I did not want to be the person I was becoming. I didn't want to be what I was, and I tried to change, and I tried this, and I tried with all my heart I wanted to be different, and I came up short every time. I could not change my nature, I could not be a new creature until finally I read my Bible, started reading my Bible. And I saw that my only hope, my only hope, was trusting Jesus Christ as my Savior. And Monday night, May 7th, I got on my knees beside my bed and I called out to God, Lord, I need you to come in my heart and life. And I'm telling you, God made me a new man. Not sinless, certainly not, but God made me a new creature. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. And so the Lord is addressing the Pharisees And all they could see was very much like this meeting. And I don't mean to be disrespectful to the others, and I think they were sincere. I think they were meant. And by the way, after I said that, several others stood up and said, Yes, the answer is the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's the answer to our problems in our community. By the way, let me just throw out, if that's true, and I know it is, then our church ought to be doing everything we can to get the gospel to everybody we possibly can That's the solution. So the Lord's addressing these Pharisees and the people at this meal and The implication here is it's quite a fancy dinner that this Pharisee has put on. He's got big shots, no doubt wealthy people all around him. I think that's what prompted the Lord to address that, uh some of that advice he gave But all they saw was the outward. All they viewed themselves as just a physical being, material kingdom, physical kingdom, and they completely failed to realize there's very desperate spiritual needs In every single one of us. And so he gives this story, or this parable, if you want to use, of this great supper that a certain man put on. Put certain man put on. And before I get to that, let me come back to the spiritual needs that we have, the spiritual needs. The most important spiritual need a person has and that is this the salvation of their soul that is the most pressing issue and let me uh if you're here this morning or you're under the sound of my voice And you do not know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that God has saved you from sin in hell, that you have eternal life. If that is not a settled fact in your heart and soul and mind, then that is the most important issue in your life. You say, Brother Emmanuel, I've got financial issues. Brother Emmanuel, I've got physical ailments. I've got family things I'm dealing with. Yes, and those are all important and they press on us But I'm telling you, more important than any of that is knowing for sure my sins are forgiven, that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. Somebody put it this way, the most important issue in life is knowing that my name is written in the Lamb's book of life. And if that's not settled, if I don't have that taken care of, the greatest need in my life is to know Jesus Christ as Savior. be born again into the family of God, forgiven of my sins. The worst thing that can happen to a person is to die in their sins and to be separated from God for all eternity. So the Lord's addressing the Pharisee and his uh guests that he has at this big dinner. They're all materialistic, they're all external, they're not thinking about their soul, they're not thinking about their eternal destiny. They're not thinking about their standing uh uh before God, their acceptance to God, all they are is just uh kingdom stuff And so the Lord addresses that. The first thing I notice, and I want to give this to you real quickly, in verse number 16, I notice that he this great supper, the certain man, offer a free invitation. Look at verse 16. Then said he unto him, Jesus, to the Pharisee that had this big dinner, and the fellow that had uh asked the Lord a question. He says, He said unto him, A certain man Now in this parable, I'll try to not take time to explain it, but just in this parable, this certain man obviously represents God. A certain man in this parable represents our Lord, our God. And he says he made him a great supper. Here is something that this certain man in representing God has prepared something for others. Now, again, it's obvious in this parable that the Great Supper represents salvation, the salvation of my soul. I come and and uh and trust Jesus as my Savior. And it says he bade many. That word bade there means to call out loudly, to invite diligently. In other words, this certain man makes this great supper. It's extravagant. The word great there, just put in our terminology, would be over the top. Mark and Jackie in Austin were on vacation this week. They go down somewhere in Virginia, and every year they go to a one of those uh seafood restaurants down along the east coast. Anybody ever been to them? They have like 75 buffets in there. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And uh I mean they're just over the top And that is the idea. This supper is just amazing. It's just beyond imagination the greatness of the supper. And he bade many, and he says, uh And what that word bas there means has this idea to cry out loudly, Hey, y'all come! Hey, the supper! He's got a great supper, we want everybody. And it has the idea of of uh intensely urging people to come. Come on! You've got to come to this supper. It's amazing. She likes it when I do that. And he's inviting people to come to this dinner, and he's and uh uh there bade many, and the word many there means an unnumbered amount. It could include everybody He says in verse 21, go quickly. He says down in verse 23, go out in the highways and hedges and compel them to come in. That means put pressure on them. This certain man wanted people at this supper. He wanted them there badly. And he wanted a lot of people to come to this supper. He's out there, he's got his servants hollering in the streets, he's got him putting pressure on people, you come on. He's got them uh uh uh doing everything they can to get people to come out here. This certain man wanted people, a lot of people, at his supper. Now let me make some application. God wants people to be saved. God wants a lot of people to be saved. In fact, God wants everybody to know that their sins are forgiven, to know for sure that they are saved from eternity in hell, that they have eternal life. That they have a home in heaven. God wants everybody to be saved. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven. I'm telling you, God wants you to know that. God wants you to be saved. Take your Bible if you would and turn with me to 1 Timothy. Now keep your place here, and I'm quickly running out of time, but turn with me if you would to 1 Timothy. And uh chapter 2. Make your way back through the New Testament. You get to the book of 1 Timothy. And chapter 2, and I want you to turn there, I want you to see this, because this is a key verse, with the idea that God wants everybody to be saved. Chapter 2, 1 Timothy, and verse number 4. Now if you have a pen, I want to encourage you to underscore this verse and highlight something here. 1 Timothy 2. 4. Who, speaking of God our Savior, verse 3, verse 4, who will have, what's the next two words? All men to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. According to verse 4. How many men does how many people does God want to be saved and come to the Lord Jesus? Oh, how many is that? Let me ask this. Does that exclude any? So if I said to this crowd, I said, all the people in this crowd, uh We're glad you're here. Am I excluding anybody out of that? No. So when the Bible says that God is uh that uh God wants all men to be saved, There's none excluded. Say, well, preacher, you don't know what I've done. God would never want to save me. I had a fellow tell me years ago, he said, God would never want to save me. I said, well, why not? He says, oh, if you knew the things I've done. I said, you're exactly the one God's looking to save. It is impossible, listen to me, it is impossible for a person to sin so badly that God doesn't want them saved. It is impossible for a person to be so he said, Preacher, if you know the things I said to God, if you know how bitter I've been at God for what he did for me, if you know how I felt about God, he wouldn't want me to be saved. No no no. God wants you to be saved. God wants all men to be saved. God wants all you say those guys in prison on death row and all that he wants. Yeah, he wants it. You say uh uh Who's a famous criminal? Charles Manson? You think God wants Charles Manson to be saved? Yeah. In fact, God wanted two thieves for murder hanging on a cross. He wanted them to be saved. And one of them he did save. So God wants all people to be saved. 2 Peter 3 and verse number 9. We don't have time, he says he's not willing that any should perish. God doesn't want anybody to die and go to hell. Well, I just I just don't believe in a God that sends people to hell. Well, neither do I. I don't believe in a God that sends people to hell. God doesn't send people to hell. God does everything he can to keep people out of hell. He died and suffered on the cross so that you and I can be forgiven of our sin and not go to hell and go to heaven. God wants you to be saved. He's done everything he possibly can. For God so loved the world he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believe in him should not perish, dying good hell, but have everlasting life You drive out of here, some of you might go to the restaurant, you're sitting there at that restaurant, that waitress, God wants her to be saved. Those people in front of you in line, God wants them to be saved. That rude customer across the room that's giving the waitress a hard time, running his mouth, cussing and and making a see, God wants that old boy to be saved. God wants your landlord to be saved. God wants your boss to be saved. He wants your co-workers to be saved. He wants your neighbor to be saved. God wants everybody to be saved. He didn't want anybody to go to hell. He didn't create mankind to go to hell. He created us to live with him, eternal life with him. But sin came in the world, and death by sin. I see a free invitation here. He bade many. Come on, y'all. Listen, come to this dinner. And I read my Bible, I read my New Testament, I see God calling out to mankind. You come and Trust my Savior. You come and trust my Son Jesus. You come on and get saved. I want to forgive you. I want to give you eternal life. I want to change your life. I want to take your sins away By the way, I noticed they're not selling any tickets here. Anybody see that? There's no price of admission at the door when you get to this dinner. You just come on. It's free. Salvation from sin and hell is freely offered to all. Romans John 3. 16, for whosoever believeth on him Romans 3, verse 23 and 24. Romans chapter 5, verse 15 through 18. Romans chapter 10, verse 13, Titus 3:5, all sa that salvation is a free gift A free gift. So I see here a free invitation that is offered to all of mankind. That's why we desperately send missionaries all around the world, 80-some missionaries. We give every week for the faith promise missions so that we can get money, get these missionaries out there, support them and finance them so they can go into all the world, into cities and villages and towns and nations Where people need to hear the gospel because God wants them to be saved. Our missionaries, uh Brother Uh boy what a blessing we had thir uh Wednesday Brother Kearney showed up here. Our missionaries in uh in Ghana, West Africa And giving testimony of folks that they offered the salvation to and God saved them. And he had people in the video giving testimony what Christ did for them when they believed in the Lord Jesus Christ and how God changed their life Free invitation, freely invited to come to Christ. And they came to grace and God changed their life. Gave them eternal life. God wants people to be saved. There's no price of admission. There's no uh tickets being sold. We simply turn to Christ in faith, repentance and faith, trust Christ, and He forgives us and gives us eternal life. So first thing I notice here is this Free invitation for whosoever will may come. Second thing I notice here is some flimsy excuses. Did you catch that when Pastor Matt was reading it? Brother, these are the silliest excuses I've ever heard in my life. Look down through here. Look at verse 18. And they all He said uh verse 17, he sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come, all things are ready. And they, the people that are being invited, with one consent, began to make what? Excuse. What's an excuse? I looked the word up, and it's interesting. It means the one of the definitions of that word there means this, to divert attention to something else It means to redirect the attention. It is to refuse something So when these birds are making an excuse to why they can't come to the uh to this great supper that they're freely invited to. They start making these excuses. What they're really doing, according to the Bible, what they're really doing is they're re-diverting the attention from the real reason they don't want to go to some phony reason they don't want to go. It is an attempt, I put it this way, it is a dishonest rejection of something. It's an attempt to justify or whitewash their refusal to go. That word excuse is translated five times to refuse or the the word excuse is translated five times to refuse something, one time to reject it, another time it's translated to avoid. It's another way of saying, no, I ain't going to that dinner. But they would look bad This guy's prepared a huge meal for him over the top extravagant uh seafood, sno uh snow crab, um What crabs crab legs? Is it snow crabs? Is that right? I they don't have them at Taco Bell, so I don't know what Uh uh uh filet mignon and uh lobster tail and uh um caviar and uh cheeseburgers, they got I mean it's over the top. And they don't want to just come say, no, we ain't going to that thing. No, I refuse it. They don't want to do that because they would look bad. So they make these excuses. Uh they're flimsy. If something's flimsy, what's that mean? Doesn't hold up, doesn't hold water, it's phony They come down through here. Look at the verse number 18. And they began to make one consent, began to make excuse. The first one said to him, Look at this, I bought a piece of ground. Wonderful, praise the Lord. Look what he says, and I must needs go and see it. I pray thee have me excused. Now I got looking at that. I thought, what kind of knucklehead buys ground without looking at it first? Oh, I bought some ground, I gotta go look at it. I I would have said You bought it tight on. What if it's a wetland? You can't build anything on it? What a what a uh uh what it's just a flimsy excuse. Then look at the next guy, verse number 19. And another said, I have bought five yokes of oxen. Good, praise the Lord. And I go to prove them. And I got thinking, what kind of what kind of idiot buys ten oxen and doesn't check them out first? Looks how many people here uh now This might not really apply. But I don't know. I don't think I've I don't think I've ever bought a car. I didn't go and first drive it first. Right? At least know what color it is. Go check it out. Now some of y'all are millionaires. You just oh yeah, whatever, I'll take it. But us poor folk, uh we we gotta look at it first. We at one time, oh I shouldn't say this, my wife's in here One time my wife, remember geotrackers? Anybody remember them? My wife wanted a geotracker. I mean she wanted it bad. A geotracker. They're nothing more than a glorified four-wheeler Oh, geo tra and lo and behold, one Friday night I am gonna pay for this. So you'll pray for me. I come home and there's a geotracker setting in our driveway. So I look. What's this? Oh, this guy selling he said I could take it home for the weekend. If we wanted it, we could buy it. Just try it and see what we think. All right, so I got a man that thing was terrible. It was all inside of cigarette burns all over it and the thing was nasty. And and I came back, I said, what's he asking? She told me, I said, There is no way We're not buying that thing. Are you crazy? It's a piece of junk. He's gonna sell it to us. He didn't even clean it. And uh and uh she goes, oh, but I wanted your tracker so bad And so we didn't get it. That's a miracle But I went out and I looked and looked and looked and I found the Geo tracker, the the same color, everything, but that was a good deal, and we bought it. And she was happy, and I was happy too. But the point I'm trying to make is these guys bought this oxen and then they said, Oh, we can't come to this dinner, we gotta Prove these oxen. That's a f that's a s that's a foolish excuse. That's not the reason They just they just don't want to go. Let me put it this way. They got hard, rebellious, unbelieving hearts, and they're not going to come to that supper the Lord's provided. Then there's another one here. Look at verse 20. And another said, I've married a wife, therefore I cannot come. Now, you know, I'm not sure. But I I know me, when I married Kathy, if somebody's inviting me to Filet Mignon and lobster tail and shrimp And I got a wife, this is a free date. Right I mean we went to preachers' fellowship, we'd go to weddings, we didn't even know who they were, just get a free meal, just show up. So the others were phony. This one, I think, is just silly. This guy's not thinking. You got a wife. Here's a uh So let's make spiritual application here. The first two guys were making materi were allowing material stuff to keep them from coming to salvation. The love of money, the love of things. The last guy allowed family to keep him from coming to salvation. Let me say this. Let me put it this way, just to condense it. My thoughts. There is nothing that this world has to offer that is worth going to hell for There is not a house big enough. There is not a mansion, a palace big enough on planet Earth that is worth going to hell for. There is no vehicles. There is nothing that this world can produce that is worth dying and going to hell for. Nothing. And these excuses are flimsy, it's foolish. How in the world to turn down this unbelievable offer? For something as temporal as a plot of land or a couple oxen. You say, what about the guy with the wife? Let me put it this way. There's not a person on planet Earth that's worth going to hell for. You say, preacher, if I get saved, if I trust Jesus my Savior, He changes my life, I'll lose my friends. I'm telling you, if a friend abandons you because you become a Christian, that wasn't no friend. If a friend abandons you because you trust the Son of God to be your own personal Savior. I was no friend. When I got saved that years ago, that first period of time right after I got saved, I kept thinking, finally in my life I did something right. Finally, in my life, I did something good. I trusted Christ. And I'm telling you, I lost every single, without exception, I lost every single friend I had. They all said, we want nothing to do with what you got, Leatherman. Now years later, some of them did come to Christ. But immediately I lost them all. And you know what I learned? They weren't much of friends to begin with. Oh, they were fine if I'm doing drugs, they're fine if I'm snorting up, they're fine, I'm living in debauchery and wickedness. Oh yeah! But he does something good for his life, he changed and something pure and good and right And the Lord gives them eternal life. Oh we don't want to oh we're not friends with that. That ain't no friend. Listen to me. Young people and old alike, if you got quote unquote friends trying to get you to drink liquor and getting you to go dancing and carrying on and watching wicked stuff. They're getting you over, showing you garbage on the computer. That is not no friend. That is not a friend I'll tell you who your friends are, those that say, hey, let's get over to that supper. Let's get over to the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's live for Him. Let's trust Him and do right. Let's live a life that's clean and pure. I see some flimsy excuses here. I've had some flimsy excuses given to me over the years. One lady over in Laugh Lynn, this shortly after I was here, I was knocking on doors, a lady came and talked to her a little bit, bite her church. I said, by the way, do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? She goes, No, but I'm sure concerned about that I said, well you got a minute? Let me show, I got a I can show you in the Bible. You can know for sure. Sends everything on your way home. She goes, yeah. And so she stepped out on the porch and there, and I went through the Romans' road with her, showed her how to be saved, and how she could trust Jesus our Savior, how we're all sinners. Jesus died for our sins, was buried, rose again. And uh and uh uh because of our sin we deserve to die and go to hell, but Jesus suffered it for us, and if we'll call on him, put our faith and trust in him, he'll come in our heart and life and forgive us and give us a new life. And I said, ma'am, how about it? Let's just now Paul bow our head and Call on the Lord to be your Savior. And man, I felt like she was with me and she understood. I felt like the presence of God was there convicting And she said this, well, I got some peas out of the freezer sitting on the counter. I gotta go take care of those peas. And we talked a little bit, and I don't know all the circumstances. I can't make judgment on her necessarily, but I walked away from that thinking, that's the strangest thing in the world. To say, no, I'm not going to call on the Lord and trust the Lord because of some peas sitting on a counter in the kitchen. I'd venture to say there's probably more to it. Probably more to it. And so people come up with excuses. Why in the world, I tell you, before I got saved, uh leading up to the time I got saved, I was under conviction, I'm reading my Bible, I knew what I needed, I didn't want the life I was living I wanted to be delivered from that, but I wasn't sure what would happen if I trusted Christ. And I'm struggling and struggling and struggling. And then after I trusted Christ, I looked back and I thought, why in the world was that such a struggle? Why did I have such a hard time getting that settled? And so the first thing I notice here is a free invitation. Then I notice some flimsy excuses. By the way, y and again I'm running out of time. Verse twenty-one and twenty-two, here are people with legitimate excuses and they go to the dinner. They're blind, they're whole I can't go, I'm blind. How could I go to that? I'm I'm lame. I can't walk. How can I go to that? Oh, we'll get you there. And those are the ones that received the dinner. Those are the ones that received the blessings. Strange thing. And then last of all, I got to end with this, and this was really what I was wanting to get to in the message, but the faithful servant, this is what spoke to my heart. And this is for you and I that know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Verse 17. And he sent his servant, down verse number 21. And the servant said, verse 23, and the Lord said unto the servant. The Lord prepared this great supper. It's freely offered to all. And he chooses his servant. He chooses to use his servant. To go bring people to this great supper. You know what that tells me? God uses people to reach people with the gospel. If somebody's going to get saved, it's going to have to be somebody get the gospel to them, show the gospel. Because God uses people Real quickly, this servant was submissive. He did exactly what he was told to do. He went exactly where he was told to go. No excuses, no hesitation. The word servant, one of the meanings of the word servant is this, one who is dedicated to the interests of the master. Here, this lord of this dinner, this certain man, had some servants, and those servants, by definition, were dedicated to the will of that master. God is looking for some Christians. that will dedicate their lives to the will of our Lord and Savior. August 25th, 1985, on a Sunday night. I'd been witnessing, I had traveled to neighborhood Bible time evangelists. I've been preaching all over. I had a bus route. I'd been serving the Lord for years, preaching and doing all this. But God spoke to my heart that night In that Sunday night service, and when the invitation was given, I came forward and I knelt at Great Highland Park Baptist Church. I knelt at the altar on this side over here and I said, Lord, I'm not sure, but I just want to completely dedicate my life to you. I don't want it to be my will. I don't want it to be what I want. I want all of that to be yielded to you and not my will. Your will be done with my life. I tell you, I've never regretted that decision. I haven't always lived up to it as I should, but God's been merciful and God's been faithful. And God's looking for members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, folks who have trusted the Savior, to come to the point and say, Lord, no longer my will, but thy will be done. No longer I that liveth, but Christ liveth in me. These servants were submissive to the will of the Master. The greatest thing a Christian can do, the greatest thing a Christian can do is submit our will to the will of our Lord and God. So he was a submissive servant. The next thing I noticed, he was steadfast. He just stayed at his responsibilities Uh regardless of results, he came back. No, it ain't nobody coming to this supper, Lord. He says, well, just keep on going. All right. And uh he regardless of results, regardless of others' reactions, they're giving these stupid excuses. I'm sure the servant walked away thinking that's silly. And uh, regardless of the status of the people, some of them are wealthy. They're buying property and oxen, large numbers of oxen, they're getting married. Some of them are poor and lame and blind But it was the same action on the part of the servant, whether it was wealthy or poor, they took the message to him. They took the message to him. And then last of all, he was very serious about his responsibility. Verse 23, he said, compel them to come in. That word compel means to strongly persuade. It's translated sometimes to threaten. It means to not take no for an answer. Now we can't force anybody to be saved. I can't force you. You're here this morning, you're not saved. I can't force you to be saved. If I could, I would. Someone's lost in their sin and they're on their way to hell, and I could force them to get saved, I would do it. But I can't. Each individual person needs to decide of their own free will whether I'm going to accept Christ or not. I can't make my boys get saved. I can't make anybody else get saved. I can't do it. I can't make them. I tell you what I can do. I can do everything in my power to persuade them to trust Christ. I can Plead with them, I can beg for beg them, I can live a life as clean and pure as humanly possible as what God enables me. I can yield to the Lord and let them try best to see Christ in me. I can do everything I possibly can in my power to get them to trust Christ, but I can't make them get saved. Pastor Matt and I, Saturday nights, we kneel over here. Sometimes Xander joins us. We kneel here and we pray, God save souls. God, somebody in that service tomorrow that's lost on their way to hell, oh God, save them. Don't let them leave without trusting Christ as well. Savior. I can't save you. I can't make you get saved. I can plead with you and beg you. Oh, trust Christ. Come to Him. It's nothing's worth going to hell for. We don't know when our time up, maybe today. Maybe my last day. I don't know. Get that matter settled. Get saved. Get saved today. Today's the day of salvation. We can't make you get saved, but we can Oh God, give us some moms and dads that are so burdened for their kids. They weep at old altars, tears, hot tears, begging God, save my boy, save my girl, God, save my mother, save my daddy. Oh, but Daddy, please come to church. Please trust Christ. Can't make people get saved, but we can sure compel them. We can sure give ourselves and plead and beg with them. Make that decision to trust Christ. I read about a fella, I'm with this. I read about a fella, I'm not sure I'm pronouncing his name right, John Galbraith. Galbraith He's a very famous economist back in the early night in the 1960s. I think he's from Canada, if I understood the story correctly. Very, very wealthy, he was very st very uh knowledgeable economist. In fact, he was such a uh an expert on it that big world banks and presidents and of countries would uh uh take advice from him and consult with him about decisions made concerning the economies of of countries and and bank investments and stuff. And in 1960, back in the 60s, he was, of course, very wealthy, and he had a dear lady that was a housekeeper in his house. Her name was Emily Wilson. And one day he had been busy all day, and he went to bed early in the evening, and he told Emily, he said, Emily, hold all telephone calls while I'm sleeping. Don't come in and wake me up. Hold all telephone calls. So you went to bed. Wasn't long, the telephone rang. Emily Wilson answered the phone for John Gail Braith. And lo and behold, on the line was President Lyndon Johnson. He's calling from the White House and he says, get me Ken Galbraith, please. This is President Lyndon Johnson. Emily Wilson says, he's sleeping, Mr. President. He said not to disturb him President Lyndon Johnson said, well, wake him up. I want to talk to him. Emily Wilson, I like Emily Wilson. She said, No, Mr. President, I work for him, not you. John Gelbras said later on he woke up and she told him that he called, he called him back immediately. And he said the president could hardly control his pleasure. He said, you tell that woman, I want her to work here at the White House. A servant of the Lord. This whole world says, you do this, you live this way, you accept this. No, no, no. I'm not your servant this whole world. I'm the Lord's servant. Oh, quit preaching on sin. Quit all that soul winning and going out. You don't have to worry about faith promise. Why you invest all that time and effort on going to foreign mission fields? Why don't you just enjoy your li No, no, no. We don't work for you, old world. We work for the Lord. And He's given us a responsibility. He's given us a responsibility. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to learn from this great supper. The importance and the urgency of salvation. And Lord, our role as servants, take the gospel in the older world. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. Christ Uh I have scriptural basis. I can tell you the time and place where I trusted Christ. That's settled. But I don't know how good of a servant I am. I don't I want to live for the Lord. I mean I'm trying, but He'd say, God spoke to my heart, and I want to be a servant like these guys. For I'm submitted to the Lord steadfast. And just doing what God has instructed me to do. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I got some area. I got some growth to do. I got some attention that I need to give my service to the Lord. My sir my attitude as a servant. God bless you, hands all around. Now let me ask you this, how many of us that know the Lord as Savior, we know someone that's not saved? They're outside the family, they've not come to the supper. And how God wants us to be earnest and diligent and doing everything we can to get them to come to Christ. Kind, gracious, loving. But earnest in winning them. How many would say, Preacher, I know some folks dear to me are unsaved? I'm so burdened for them. I want God to help me to be that compelling witness and bring them to Christ. Any like that? God bless you. I think we need to ask the Lord to give us tears and a broken heart and pray. How I prayed at an altar for years for family members to be saved. How about this? Maybe there's some here this morning to say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved. I can't honestly say that I know for sure my sins are together. I go to heaven when I die, not to hell. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I really need that settled in my heart and life. I really need that settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me I'm not sure my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. I'm concerned about that. Pray for me. Is there any at all? Any at all? God bless you. Father in heaven, I ask now you bless our invitation. You know where we're at. You spoke into our hearts. We pray you'd help us to trust you and yield to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.