Exodus chapter twenty-seven. Does anybody happen to have your picture of the tabernacle we gave out a couple weeks ago? Do you happen to have it with you? Alright, would you get that out? If you don't have one, Brother James is up here. Mark, maybe you could help out a couple guys there real quick. If you don't have one with you, I've got some up here. I'd like you to uh Getting your hands there. I'd like for you to take a look at this. I just think seeing it helps a little bit to understand uh exactly what we're talking about. Exodus 27 is where we're going to be reading uh down first eight verses of the chapter. But uh keep this handy, maybe lay it on the pew beside you there, and um uh that way you can see it. We need several down the left-hand side over here, guys, and the back over there Exodus 27, follow it along as I read, beginning in verse number one. It says, And now remember, this is God speaking to Moses. He's given instructions about this portable. uh building, you could call it I guess, um uh how what what it's gonna make up and and how and what it's all about. So here he's addressing uh the what we call the brazen altar. Look at verse one. Thou shalt make an altar of shit'em wood, five cubits long, five cubits broad, and the altar shall be four square, and the height thereof shall be three cubits. And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners thereof. His horns shall be of the same, and thou shalt overlay it with brass. Thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes, and his shovels, and his basins, and his flesh hooks, and his fire pans, and all the vessels thereof thou shalt make of brass And thou shalt make for it a um a grate of network of brass, and upon the net shalt thou make four brazen rings in the four corners thereof And thou shalt put it under the compass of the altar beneath, that the net may be even to the midst of the altar. And thou shalt make staves for the altar, stabs of shit'em wood, overlay, and overlay them with brass. And the staves shall be put into the rings, and the rings shall be upon the two sides of the altar to bear it Hollow with board shalt thou make it. As it was showed thee in the mount, so shall they make it. So God's giving the instructions here about what we call, as I said, the brazen altar. And the various utensils that go along with it. By the way, I'm not going to address this in the message, but you notice there in verse number six, he talks about staves And uh earlier he said about putting rings on the corners. What those staves were, were uh pole-type things. They'd slide them through the rings, and that was how they would pick that thing up and move it from place to place So um the brazen altar, let's have a word of prayer and let's look at a few things about this. Father, please bless now. It's been a good day, God. My heart's full tonight and I appreciate folks that have come out. Holiday weekend, Lord, there's a lot going on. There's a lot of places folks can be. uh your people have assembled here and uh that's important. So speak to our hearts and uh challenge us. Lord we don't want just information in our heads. God we want our lives to be changed. We want our faith to grow And so fill me with your Spirit, Lord, and speak through me as my prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. One of the my favorite things about coming home from church on Sunday afternoons after the morning service. And um, you know, we have the service and singing and and the preaching, the decisions made, and uh all of these things. And then sometimes I'll drive the bus and Uh other times someone else will or but whatever. But one of my favorite things is when I come in the front door of the house after the Sunday morning service is smell that roast beef from the crock pot has filled the house Now depending on how long I preached, uh how strong the burnt smell is uh coming out of there. But um Uh so roast beef or uh pork chops sometimes. And uh boy that uh that comes out. Thank God for crock pots. I don't think we'd be in the ministry today if it wasn't for crock pots. And uh throw all that in Sunday mornings and it cooks itself. So but to walk in And you open that door, you walk through the door, and that's just that smell of cooking meat. I love it Now, if you'll notice on your pictures there, I gave mine away. Um your little picture of the uh uh thank you, Mark. That's a good beacon right there, I'll tell you. Uh Tom didn't offer any, do you notice that? At least we have one good deacon around here. Um notice look in there, you notice on the right hand side uh you have that door, the entrance. We preached on that a couple weeks ago, the the door in there. When they came through that door, the very first thing that they would uh uh an Israelite would have experienced as he pushed those curtains aside, he'd step into that inner court. I don't think my mic's on here. Uh Sandy asked me, how does a wireless mic have a loose wire? That's a good question. I'm gonna have to think about that. But um They would push through those uh uh that entrance, the doorway that we preached on, and what would it the first thing they would experience Would be the strong odor of roast flesh. That was the first thing they'd come through. Now if you Put yourself, go back in time, fifteen thirteen hundred years uh about no I'm sorry, three thousand uh some hundred years And you put yourself in the shoes of Israelite and and uh man I've got to do some business with God. I need to do some interaction with God. That means I've got to go to the tabernacle. So I go to the tabernacle and the priests are there and I push through the entrance into the tabernacle and the very first thing I smell that strong burning meat roast. Um What and then as you focus your eyes straight ahead, the very first thing you see, the very first thing that that that comes to your attention that you observe is the brazen altar. Smoke coming up off of it and uh roast uh on it there. The brazen altar. Um what exactly Was this brazen altar made up of? Well, we've given the instructions here. We just read it. We're told that it was made to be constructed of shickam wood. Now, if you have a Schofield Bible or study Bible, some of them in the margin will say something like this, Caesia would, something like that. That is the modern name for it. the the the name for the tree now is acacia, I think I'm saying that correctly. It's the same tree, just two different names for the same thing. I'm told it's very common In the Middle East, particularly in that day and age, uh they could find these types of wood very easily. They didn't have to work very hard, didn't have to travel very far to get it. So it was readily available I'm told, we're told that this wood is a very uh hard wood. Uh you hear of talk, you know, we live in north and you have the hardwoods up there. But this was a particularly durable type wood. What Chuck, you're a woodsman. What what's a very hard wood? Was it a Really? Where's that from? Mars? I never heard of it. Really? So there you have it. Uh well apparently this I don't know if it was that hard. Yeah, but this is I'm told it's a very hard, very durable type wood. And so they construct this altar uh out of the K I wood, the right dimensions and all that. Now here is the question that came to my mind Why would you have an altar made out of wood? And you're going to burn stuff on that altar. It looks like it would burn up the wood. But God has them cover, overlay this whole thing in brass. And so it's sealed in there tight. It's airtight, the wood inside there. And so thus it's overlaid in brass to protect the wood. It's approximately seven and a half foot wide. Seven and a half foot long. It's four square. Um it's about four and a half foot high. In verses 3 through 4, we're given the various utensils that are being used here. You have a flesh hook And that's for obviously handling the flesh and the meat on the fire there and placing it there. You have a uh means, a utensil for disposing of the ashes. You have a utensil for uh taking care and moving, carrying the blood around, various uh uh uh uh placements, uh applications for the blood. And so you have all these various utensils listed. There's one on there that caught my attention. It's the fire pan. What would you use? Some of the older folks probably be more familiar with this, but what would you use a fire pan for? Okay, uh well there's another one for moving the ashes. This is not necessarily for the ashes. What would a fire pan be used for? What I think we're gonna do is not necessarily. Chuck, what were you drippings? No. Nope. The fire that now question, was this was this uh building, the this thing, was it portable? Oh. And this fire on the brazen altar was to be a perpetual fire, not to go out. So when God instructed them to take the tabernacle, pack the thing up and move at his instructions and then set it up again in a new area, um that fire is not supposed to go out. You don't douse the fire out and then start another one over here. The fire pan was used to transport the fire. From one location to another without letting that go out. Ah, I thought that was interesting and boy you could do a whole uh series of applications on that So nevertheless, we have this raisin altar here. We're given some of the instructions on how the thing is to be built, what the uh materials it's made up of. uh the various utensils that are uh used along with uh the purpose of the altar uh uh brazen altar. Now here's another thing I found interesting and then I'll give you some applications here uh but I thought this was interesting. I never thought of this before. I got uh hot and heavy into studying this message. What does the word alter itself mean? We know what an altar is. Why is it called an altar? What is the meaning of that word? Anybody, without looking in your notes and your study Bibles, anybody want to take a guess? What does the word alter mean? What? Change. Change, okay. You're giving, your response is basically mine when I asked myself that question. I didn't know. I don't know what the word itself means, so I did what pastors do. I looked it up. Did a little research. I found out that the word Came to mean over a period of time, it came to mean sacrifice. An altar was a place of sacrifice, or it was just sacrifice. the immediate definition of the word. It came to mean that, but this is again what I thought was interesting. Its original meaning when it was first given to what we call an altar. When that name was given to that item that we call an altar, it literally meant slaughter. A place of death. A place of shedding blood and killing And then over a period of time, as that term was given to altars, it developed its meaning into the idea of a sacrifice But that definition, that early definition for the word altar tells us a lot about the purpose of the brazen altar, a place of sacrifice, a place of slaughter. Now, number one, here's my little outline this evening. Number one, I want us to consider the precept Of the brazen altar, the precept of the brazen altar. What I mean by that was who came up with this idea to have a brazen altar? Whose idea was this anyway? The answer is obvious. God's idea. God's the one that told them, hey, you're going to build this altar, very specific uh dimensions. And you are going to kill stuff and burn it on this altar. That was God's idea. Actually, it wasn't a new idea. God had established Right from the beginning, right from the fall of man, God established that the only way that sinful man is going to be able to approach a holy God, there must be some bloodshed. There must be slaughter. People accused Christians, Bible-believing Christians, fundamentalists, the um uh you used to call them modernists Uh back in uh early back in the nineteen hundreds, early nineteen hundreds, they were called modernists. Then the name kind of got changed to liberals. And nowadays they like to go by the term progressives. But the modernists, the liberals, progressives, whatever you want to call them, they Have a tendency to accuse the fundamentalists, you and I, of having a slaughterhouse religion. You ever hear that term? Those Baptists say it's blood this, blood that, oh, kill this, kill that. They're just, that's a slaughterhouse religion. Well, that was God's idea. A person could come to the tabernacle and they're going to approach God. The idea is to get to the Holy of Holies. That's where the presence of God was. If I'm going to have my prayers or sins forgiven, I needed to get there, that was the presence of God. You could walk through the door We pointed that out last week, or the other week. It was very easy to find, very easy to get through. But brother, you're not getting beyond that door until something dies. You're not getting into the presence of God until there is some bloodshed. And that was God's idea. The fact that the wages of sin, the fact that there has to be, without the shedding of blood, there's no remission, that's not man's idea. That is God's idea. Take your Bibles with me if you would, and I I don't know that we're going to come back to this passage too much anymore. Come with me to the New Testament, 1 Peter chapter 1. And then we're going to look at a couple in Hebrews. 1 Peter chapter 1. And verse number 18. In fact, this would be a good this would be good be a good portion to use for a uh scripture memory verse for a month uh memory verse, a little lengthy. 1 Peter 1 And verse number eighteen. First Peter one eighteen. There's that wire on the wireless mic. 1 Peter 1. 18. Notice uh what the Bible says. Are you there? Is everybody there? Alright. If you're not there, just look at your Bible as if you are. No one will know the difference. For as much as ye know that we are not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious what Blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. That is an application of the brazen altar, what took place at the brazen altar being applied to the Lord Jesus Christ. There must be bloodshed. That is God's principle. Come over to Hebrews. We're not far. Just go back towards the front of your Bible a little bit, a couple pages. Hebrews chapter 9, verse 22. I love Hebrews. It's just, for some reason, that book has always captivated my thinking. And Hebrews chapter 9, look at verse 22. And almost all things are by the law purged with blood. Now listen to this next statement. And without shedding of blood is no remission. What does the word remission mean? It's just a simple word. Forgiveness. Says I cannot have my sins removed unless there is bloodshed. Now that's not man's idea. That's God's idea. You say, good night, what kind of God do we serve? I'll tell you what kind of God we serve: a holy God. And sinful man cannot approach a holy God in his sin. That sin must be dealt with. That sin must be removed. And the only thing that can deal with sin is death and bloodshed. That is the wages of sin. That's the consequence And so when an Israelite would walk into the tabernacle, they'd be confronted with the smell of burnt flesh. uh burnt meat, uh they would uh see the altar there and uh the blood and everything that goes along and uh it would be the very first thing they want. God did that deliberately The liberals they like to criticize us for singing and preaching and squawking about the blood. But they got to understand that's God's idea. We do not have the right to remove the songs about the blood from our hymn book. We are to sing of the blood. I like uh Andy Clemens praise a lot. I like to pray with Andy and hear pray. And uh almost every time in his prayers, have you ever noticed that? Thank you for the blood of Jesus that cleanses us from sin. That's a good thing. That's God's idea, the blood of Jesus Christ. Used to be years ago, if you went and visited a strange church, one of the first things you did was you got their hymn book and you get it out and flip through and look for songs about the blood If the one day songs about the blood, then you say, Oh, this isn't a good church. We've got to get out of here. It's God's idea. Number two, my second thought. The placement of the brazen altar, and I kind of already got ahead of myself here and touched on this, but if you'll notice on your little diagram there, it is smack dab in front of the door. You don't go very far. In fact, if you're going to get anywhere, you've got to go around this thing. And there's a truth here, I believe. In this matter of salvation, uh the very first truth a person has to understand If they're ever going to be saved from sin in hell, is they've got to understand about the crucifixion and the shed blood of Jesus Christ. Nobody ever gets saved without understanding that Jesus died for them, was buried, and rose again. You cannot get to heaven. You cannot have sins forgiven. That hey, when we're soul-winning. And we're sharing the gospel with somebody. We need to understand, have it burned into our hearts and minds, that person will never be saved until they're aware of and understand That Jesus gave his life, shed his blood for them. They'll never get beyond being an unsaved person until they understand that. Nobody got in and did any business with God until first there was bloodshed. That's so important. Listen Uh I uh we we squawk about these liberal preachers and these guys on TV and all of that. Listen, if they're offering a bloodless salvation, they are not offering a Bible salvation If there is no mention of the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, if there is no mention of the fact that he died as our substitute, that is not the gospel. I pray that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, in 50 years from now, if the Lord tarries, we are still preaching the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because if we're not, we are not preaching a Bible salvation and people are not being saved. They can be religious, they can say prayers. They can sing songs, but apart from the blood of Jesus Christ, they do not have salvation. And so God placed this thing. Right smack dab in the middle. You can't do any business with God until there's some bloodshed, until there's a price been paid. So, number one, the precept is God's idea Uh we can't take blood out of our preaching. We can't uh by the way, um uh uh I pray that the day Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church stops preaching the gospel, my prayer is that these buildings all collapse in Just fall. I pray the basement floods up to the f the and the b and the top collapses in, and I pray all the engines on the buses blow up. That's spiritual, isn't it? The placement. Now, last of all, let me give you some suggestions or pictures, suggested pictures. Of the brazen altar. What I mean by that are types and symbols, and I tell you, you can really go to seat on this. Some guys do. But there's some truths here presented. I touched on a couple of them. First of all The thing I learned from this placement of the brazen altar and the purpose for it is I see, first of all, the awfulness of sin. The awfulness of sin We live in a day and age where sin is just laughed at. It's a joke. We live in a, hey, I hate to say this, and you know, this is this is my profession, so to speak. But we live in a day and age where preachers won't even talk about sin. Sometimes I think, in fact, it's true this week. I was going over my sermons and I try and go back and look what I preached, and I try to follow the Lord's leadership, and I the thought went through my mind this week. Man, I'm always preaching against something. I'm always preaching against sin. I'm always telling us how awful we are. And I I thought, man, is that then I got looking at the Bible. That's what the you can't preach the Bible without preaching that. The awfulness of sin. Before I can approach God, there's an awful price that needs to be paid for my sin. That Israelite could walk up with $500,000, half a million dollars, and say, you know, I don't like all this blood stuff. I'm just going to give you some money. Let me get around this. He wasn't going to make it Why? Because the wages of sin is death. It is an awful, awful thing. Second thing I gleaned from this was I see a picture of the importance of dealing with sin. It cannot be ignored. It cannot be ignored. If there is sin in my life, it has to be dealt with. I can't do anything else for God. I can go through the motions, I can do all that. But as far as As far as interacting with God being used, I've got to deal with the sin. I keep saying this over and over, but I think this is the message of the brazen altar. You cannot get to the Holy of Holies until sin is dealt with. You can't get in there and get your prayers answered until sin is dealt with. Um The Bible says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will what? Not hear me. You know what he's saying? You can't get to the Holy of Holies until you go to the brazen altar. That sin has to be done with. Hey, listen, the most important thing in my life, would you get this? If nothing else, I hope you'll get this from me. The most important thing in my life is that I deal with the sins in my life. Because if I don't, they're going to cost me dearly. If another person is unsaved, the most important thing in their life is get those sins removed. Get those sins forgiven, cleansed. As a Christian, I allow sin to come into my life. Most important thing I do is deal with that Forsake it, confess it, forsake it, get it out, claim the blood of Christ, and get back in fellowship with God. Because nothing else It's going to be accomplished until that sin is dealt with. So, uh number one, the awfulness of sin. These little animals were dying and different things, and I'll touch on that. The last third thing that I see pictured in this is the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I have a book, I have a couple books in my library. One in particular that deals with the altar and uh or the tabernacle, and this guy goes through, he was back in the 1700, 1800s, he goes through there, and I mean every little thing On that altar, every the size, everything, he's finding pictures of the Lord Jesus Christ. And hey, thank God for that. You know, I think uh Jesus said, all this speaks of me. But I think there's a general picture here, and I get at this, and uh this is one that stuck out in my mind, suggested. You have the wood, the altar is made up of wood and brans. These guys that study this and give their lives to this, they suggest to us that wood, generally in the Bible, is representative of humanity. Brass is representative, they suggest to us, of judgment. I think that's an interesting concept. Jesus became man so that he could take our what? Judgment. Why was he incarnated? Why did he take on flesh? For God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son, why did you give Jesus? To take our judgment for us And so I think the whole altar is a picture of the fact: hey, Jesus Christ was judged for me. I worked in a meatpacking plant for four years. I started when I turned 16 and I left uh when I was 20 years old, I went down to Philadelphia College of the Bible one year and I resigned my position at The TM Landis was the name of a meatpacking plant. I started out cleaning up the kill floor. Um after school was was my my initial position. Would anybody be interested in hearing details about cleaning up the kill floor? It's fascinating. If you're interested, see me afterward. I'll tell you all about it. Especially the blood pit. That's really a place. Anyway. I worked there over the years, and during my last year, might have been six months, I didn't know it at the time, but they were going out of business. Uh shortly after I resigned, they closed up, but I didn't know it at the time. And what they were doing, trying desperately to stay in business, uh they started uh slaughtering pigs before it was just beef. Then they started slaughtering pigs and uh bringing in other things to try and keep the place alive. Now I had killed thousands of cows They come up into this little bin and you want me to describe it as fascinating. And um, you know, I killed thousands. We'd do three hundred a day, and I did that job for probably nine months I so however many that comes out to. Wasn't a problem killing cows. That didn't bother me at all. They're ramming around, they're ugly, they stink, boom. Just kill them. Then they started bringing in pigs. Isn't this a blessing, this service tonight? Then they started bringing in these pigs, and pigs are they're just pigs. And uh anyway, they come in and we kill the things didn't bother me. But then, by this time I was working in a different area, but then they started bringing in sheep. And little lambs. Now that was hard. The cows would be ramming. Page It's exactly the way it was. But you know what those little lambs would do? They'd just stand there. I won't kill this thing. He'd kill it and there'd be blood all over it. Man, it felt awful. I was reading about another fellow that and he quit his job. He said, I can't do this. And that brazen altar, you know what they do? They bring in a little land. That thing would just stand there, trusting. They slit its neck and that blood would flow. They put that thing up. That's what your sin and my sin cost That's the message of the brazen altar. The Bible says Jesus came as a lamb for the slaughter. He opened not his mouth. He spake not a word. Why'd he do that? Because he wanted us to be saved from our sins. He wanted those sins out of our lives. And that was the only way. And when that Israelite would walk through that door, there'd be the Lamb. That lamb would give his life on that brazen altar so that that Israelite could approach God. Jesus Christ is our brazen altar for us. He's the Lamb He gave his life 2,000 years ago so that you and I can kneel at an altar and God hear us. So I do a funeral this afternoon, and that lady, based on testimony that she had trusted the Lamb of God, we can have hope and assurance she's in heaven with the Lord. That's the price. That's the message of the brazen altar. There must be death and bloodshed if I approach God. And Jesus is that one. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Help us, Lord, not to take lightly the price that you paid for us so many years ago. Lord, we think back to Adam and Eve and They tried using fig leaves and plants, and Lord, that wasn't the way to be restored. Something had to die. You gave him coats of skin and an animal gave his life. Help us not take this matter of salvation lightly. Help us, Lord, to do what every Israelite had to do is deal with this sin problem. Whether in the issue of getting saved or whether in the issue of maintaining my fellowship with you, help us deal with this sin problem. Never get beyond it. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I want to be able to appreciate more deeply what Jesus Christ has done for me. When he died on that cross. I want my life and my actions to express, as Brother Sam shared a little bit ago, I want my life to be a more effective witness. Of what Christ did for me. Salvation. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? How many? My hands are raised. God, I want I want God to help me appreciate my salvation. The price he paid, Father bless us, help us, we ask in Jesus' name, let's stand against the