Let's turn back to Exodus chapter twelve. Exodus chapter twelve. Uh if you've ever had small children you find that you you've learned that little small children put Stuff in their mouths. Anybody notice that? If it's in arm's reach, it goes in their mouth. A lot of times it doesn't just go in their mouth, it goes down the chute You know, I mean they go ahead and swallow any dirt, anything in the world. They'll put it down. Little boy, I read about a little boy that uh had got a hold of a bunch of his daddy's loose change, a bunch of coins Of course they went in the mouth and he swallowed them. A whole bunch of them. He swallowed these coins. The parents were all upset. They rushed to the emergency room. He's up in the emergency room. They're doing x-rays and everything and Um uh they're going through. He'd been there for a long time and finally grandma was worried and she called the hospital and she says, I'm calling about my grandson He swallowed a bunch of coins. I wanted to see what the story was. Well the nurse said, Well, there's no change yet. And um No change yet. Get it? No change yet. And tell ya, you set that whole thing up and then you're let down, you know. Exodus chapter number 12. And what I want to do, I'm going to read verse 6 Speaking about this little lamb, this Passover lamb. Then what I'd like for us to do is read together verse number seven. Now it's complicated. Stay with me. We're going to read verse 7. Then we're going to go down to verse number 13. I would like for us to read together verse 13. So I'm going to read verse 6. All read together verse 7, then jump down to verse 13 and read that together. Everybody got it? Verse 6 says this, and ye shall keep it up, the look the lamb, shall keep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month And the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall what? Kill it in the evening. Now, let's read verse 7 together. Ready? All together. Here we go. and they shall take of the blood and strike it on the two side posts and on the upper door posts of the houses wherein they shall eat it. Now come down to verse 13. Let's read verse number 13 together. Everybody got it there? Ready? Here we go. And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where ye are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt. I want to speak this morning on the Passover Lamb. The Passover Lamb. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless and speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we bow our heads and our hearts before you this morning. We had a wonderful time, fellowship and singing. Lord, it's been a blessing. Now we ask that you would speak to us and challenge us. I pray that those of us need can that need to be convicted of our sin, that you would please do that, Holy Spirit. That's your ministry. Lord, some of us need encouragement. I pray that you would supply the encouragement we need to go on for you, to trust you and live for you. And Lord, some just need to be reassured that we're on the right track and things are going well. And so, Lord, we ask for that. And I just pray that every spiritual need represented this morning would be met through the Word of God and through your Holy Spirit and applying it to our lives Lord, I cannot do that myself, so with that in mind, I present my body to you anew this hour. With all my heart, I ask, Lord, that you fill me with your spirit That you speak through me to each of our hearts and lives. Change us, Lord, and make us into the image of Christ is my prayer. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. How many folks here you would say that you are at least somewhat familiar with the Passover and all that they meant to place in Egypt? I think If you've been in church very long reading your Bible, we come across this story. It's a pretty well-known story. What it is, is of course God is going to judge Egypt and He's going to kill the firstborn And God put into place a process whereby they could avoid that happening, keep that from happening, the firstborn being killed. Now I want to, by way of introduction, is give some thought uh to this idea of God taking the lives of the of these newborn, the firstborn, not newborn, the firstborn of each family. The world would look at this event. The unbeliever would look at this event and they may, and sometimes they do, come to this conclusion that God is a monster. That the God of the Old Testament is a violent God and is very, very angry, and is some sort of monster. I want to suggest to you that God is not a monster. God is not a violent, angry God as the world would like to portray him. When we understand, now get this, when we understand the history behind this situation. And we understand the events leading up to this point where God says, I'm going to take the lives of the firstborn Then it begins to make sense to us, and we realize that God is actually not an angry monster God, but rather he is a very loving and a very patient creator He is a very loving and patient God. Now, a couple things we need to understand. Again, this is by way of introduction. That we get to this point where God's going to take the lives of their firstborn. First thing we need to understand is God's compassion. Now we need to go back into the book of Genesis. There's a young man that's been sold by his brothers into slavery He's been falsely accused, been set up uh uh uh a missed uh uh uh uh uh dishonest trial, and he's thrown in prison as an innocent young man. He spends a number of years there uh in prison. And God finally brings him out. Who's that young man? Joseph. We know the story. Joseph interprets a dream for Pharaoh, and he goes from being a forgotten uh falsely accused prisoner in an can you imagine your minds what that egyptian prison would have been like you know thousands of years ago and the in the living environment he was in And he goes from that to being number two in the nation of Israel, next to Pharaoh. And the point I'm trying to get to is this had it not been for God In his providence leading Joseph into that prison and in a position where he could interpret the dreams. Had it not been for God's compassion and putting Joseph there, Israel or Egypt would have been wiped off the map. There was a famine coming. A famine so severe that would last for seven years that there is absolutely no doubt that had not God intervened, had God not in his providence brought Joseph up to that point, Egypt would have ceased to exist. They would have been decimated, no doubt they would have been, they would have become extinct, and today there would be no nation of Egypt And so God in his compassion, God in his love, raises up this young man, puts him through horrific treatment. Unjust treatment because God, get this, God loves the Egyptians. And God cared about them. He's putting things in place so that they would not be destroyed by this famine and they wouldn't uh and uh they would survive. Come back if you would. It's not far. Back to the end of Genesis. We're in Exodus. Go back to the begin uh close to the beginning of your Bible. Genesis, the last chapter. of Genesis, and Joseph sums up what God is doing not just for his family and for his people, but for the nation of Egypt itself Genesis chapter number 50 and verse number 20. We're familiar with this passage. This is a great statement. This is great insight. on the part of Joseph. His brothers have approached him. They say, listen, Daddy before he died said you're supposed to forgive us for uh trying to kill you. and lying about you and selling you as a slave and abandoning you and lying about you all years all these years. Daddy said you're supposed to forgive us. By the way, Daddy never said that. They're still lying. But look at Joseph's response. Verse 19. Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God? Just a little aside, Joseph recognized God's the only one that can forgive sin. God's the only one that has that authority. I don't have any right to withhold forgiveness from you. By the way, you and I have no authority to withhold forgiveness from somebody. Only God has that right. So Joseph recognized that. Now look at verse 20. But as for you, ye thought evil against me. Look at this. But God meant it unto good. Look at this. To bring to pass as it is this day to what? Save much people alive. What I'm trying to suggest to you is God loved Egypt. God loved the Egyptians. God didn't want them to die from the famine. And so he raised up this young man, Joseph, put him in place to interpret the dream so they would be able to prepare for the coming uh famine. So uh it had it not been for God's compassion. Had it not been for God's love for them, they would have been wiped out. They would have been extinct. They would cease to exist. Would you agree with me? The Egyptians owed a lot to the Lord. They owed a lot to God for raising up Joseph. They owed God. And by the way, you and I owe God a heap also. We're in debt to the Lord. He loves us. He cares for us. Takes care of us. So the first thing to keep in mind when we get to this point where God's about to take the lives of the firstborn We need to come back. It's not some monster, some hateful, angry God. No, no, no. God loved them. God loved them. Second thing we need to consider is Egypt's corruption. Egypt's corruption. Turn with me, if you would, to Exodus chapter 1. Just the next chapter over. Exodus chapter 1. And look with me at verse number 7. Now this is years and years later. 400 years has gone by. And uh verse 7, and the children of Israel were fruitful and increased abundantly and multiplied and waxed extremely Exceeding mighty, and the land was filled with them. I mean they're like growing like weeds in a garden. They're just multiplying there in Egypt, and the whole country of Egypt's filled with them Now look how Egypt responds. Now there arose a new king over Egypt which knew not Joseph. He forgot all about what God did for him. He forgot all about uh how good God had been to them. By the way, a nation's in a heap of trouble when it forgets how good God's been to that nation. This is where Egypt is. Sound familiar, are they? Nation that's forgotten? How good God's been, how gracious God has been. They forgot Joseph. They forgot what God did Verse 9, and then this new Pharaoh that forgot all about Joseph, he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we Come on, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply, and it come to pass that when there falleth out any war, they also join our enemies and fight against us and get to them out of the land. completely forgot how good they'd been to Egypt. Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to what? Afflict them. The people of God with their burdens, they built the fa and they built for Pharaoh treasured cities, uh, Python and Ramses Look at this. But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew. And they were grieved because the children of Israel. Listen, the best thing that ever happened to Egypt was the children of Israel showing up. Best thing ever happened in Egypt was that little Jew boy showing up there. My Bible says that God will bless them that bless the children of Israel God will curse them that curse them. Egypt's on Egypt's on tough ground here. They're on dangerous ground. Uh I was glad to hear in the news, now I'm not glad about everything but goes on, but I was glad to hear in the news that America is at least recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel I tell you what, that kind of action, that'll bring God's blessing, honor God's people. So Egypt's going the wrong way. And now they're turning against the people of God, the people that God said he would bless if you bless them. Read on. And they were grieved because of the children of Israel. And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigor, and they made their lives bitter with hard bondage and mortar and in brick and in all manner of service in the field and all their service when they made them to serve was was with rigor. They're oppressing the people of God. I tell you what, you want to stir up God's ire, you start messing and you start oppressing the people of God. You start oppressing God's people Not only that, oh by the way, in the tribulation period, there's going to be a judgment of the nations. Now we don't have time to get into a study of this But I'll say this, Jesus very clearly taught that the judgment of the nations, the nations will be judged based upon their treatment of Israel. Their treatment of Israel. And those that treat Israel with respect and honor as the people of God, God will bless them. Those that don't, God casts them aside. So I see here Egypt is taking some actions where God's saying, listen, I'm going to set you aside. You treat my people that way Not only that, they begin to murder their babies. Look with me if you would at verse 15. And the king of Egypt spake unto the Hebrew midwives, which uh of which the name of one was Shifra, name of the other was Pu'ah, and he said, When you do this office of midwife to the Hebrew women and see upon the uh and see them upon the stools, if it be a son, then you shall what Kill it, but if it be a daughter, uh then she shall live. What are they doing? He's trying to he's trying to institute forced abortions They're killing the children. Even up to the point of birth, they're killing them. Now the midwives say they feared God, they weren't going to do it. How many people are appalled by the fact that our nation kills millions and millions of babies in the wombs of the mother? That is absolute abomination. And we even have people in place in positions of significant authority and influence that want to promote the abortion of children even up to the moment of birth. I tell you what, you wouldn't bring God, listen, you wouldn't bring God's judgment on a nation, start killing innocent children. I don't care who's in office. I don't care what party runs. A nation that kills babies in the mother's womb is facing the judgment of God. And so Egypt is here and they're promoting the murder of little babies. They're mistreating the people of God, and God had been so good to them. And God had spared them. Had it not been for Jehovah, Egypt would not even exist. They'd have been wiped off the map. And here they're responding this way. So I see the corruption of corruption of Egypt. No nation can oppress God's people and murder its babies and not face the severe judgment of God. And I'm telling you, every pulpit in America ought to be preaching out against the murder of the children in the mother's wombs. And so Egypt is corrupt. Now we have another factor. Why has God taken the lives of these firstborn? Why would he do that? Well, he's been awfully compassionate towards them Two, they have become so corrupt. And number three, I see Pharaoh's callousness. Pharaoh's callousness. Look with me, if you would, chapter 7 of Exodus. If you would, turn over here, chapter 7. Of Exodus and verse number 14. Now we're going to see a statement here, and I don't think I'm going to go to all the references, but enough just to impress upon us. Pharaoh's callousness. Verse 14, chapter 7. And the Lord said unto Moses, Pharaoh's heart is what? Hardened. Chapter 8, verse number 15. But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened his heart. Verse 19, Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he hearkened not unto them. as the Lord had said so. Chapter 9 and verse 7. And Pharaoh sent and uh sent and behold There was not one of the cattle of the Israelites dead. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not let the people go. Verse 35 of chapter 9. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened. Chapter 10 and verse 3. Chapter 10 and verse 3. How long, uh God, and thus saith the Lord God of the Hebrews, how long wilt thou refuse to humble thyself before me? Pharaoh hardened his heart, the leader of Egypt, that God had been so good to them, and God had been so gracious, and God had been so compassionate. And they're turning against the people of God and oppressing them, and they're killing the little children. And now Pharaoh hardens his heart, he becomes callous. What does it mean if something becomes calloused? Anybody Alfred, what does it mean? Is there any fellows here that weren't I mean really you work with your hands out. What happens to your hands when you when you're using your hands? Now mine are soft as a baby's newborn baby. But uh if it gets calloused it gets what? Gets hard. Uh it bec that old skin dries out and gets thick. And here's something that happens to a calloused hand or calloused anything. It becomes insensitive. Insensitive. Boy, you can my grandpa, man, he had big calloused hands. And they'd in the winter they'd dry out and crack. Anybody know? And they'd bleed. And there'd be a hot stove. I think he could have just leaned over on that hot stove. That was just so thick and callous and and insensitive And Pharaoh's heart was calloused, was hard, insensitive. God would speak to him. God's doing these These uh supernatural plagues are coming upon his nation. And he's completely insensitive to that. In fact, some of his associates came up, can't you see? Our nation's being destroyed. Soften up! Humble yourself! Can't you see what's happening? And I'm telling you, a hard heart will bring destruction every single time. Proverbs says, I think it's chapter 29, says, he that being often reproved and hardeneth his neck shall suddenly be destroyed. And that without remedy. That without remedy. I'm telling you, it is important for you and I as individuals to not be like Pharaoh. It's important for you and I, whether we're a young person or a senior citizen, it's important for us to understand that we cannot allow our heart to get hard We cannot allow our heart to become callous and become insensitive to what God is trying to do in our lives, what God is teaching us through his word. And I'm telling you, we live in a day and age where the world has absolutely perfected the ability to justify that which God clearly says is wrong. And we live in a day and age in a world that has perfected the ability to make that which is wrong, that God condemns. And to make that honorable and good, and that which God uh God blesses and God uh God instructs us to do That's bad and evil. Now here's the danger. I see that same ability to justify sin, to justify abomination. to excuse and make righteous that which God says is wicked, ungodly. I see that same type of thinking, that same mentality creeping into our Christian circles. And I'm finding people who claim to be saved. I'm finding people who claim to be a child of God And yet we'll take the clear instructions of God that God says is right and wrong and twist it and distort it To make that what God is saying is wrong and that which they're saying is right. You know what that is? That's a hard, calloused heart. That's a hard, callous heart. And that will bring God's judgment. It's so important when God speaks our heart and God says something in his word. We not try and justify it or excuse it or explain it away, but we humble ourselves before the Lord. We say, God, you are right And I see so much, even in our independent fundamental Baptist circles, even uh and it seems like even in particular among our young people. That their hearts are getting hard to the things of God because they're listening to the reasoning and the rationality and the justification that an unbelieving, wicked world is saying, and they're not humbling themselves and just taking God at His word. Am I right or wrong? That's exactly where Pharaoh was. We have Christians that would just turn a deaf ear to what God says. We live in a world that way. So Pharaoh, his callousness brought on the judgment of God. Listen, a continual rejection of God's clear will hardens the heart, makes the heart indifferent. And brings God's judgment. God's judgment. We were talking about in Sunday school this morning in Corinthians, where Paul warns the church at Corinth. He says, you who think you stand, take heed lest you fall. And we need to stay humble before the Lord. We need to stay tender-hearted before the Lord. And when God, in our morning devotions, and we read our Bible and God speaks to our heart, we need to humble ourselves, say, yes, Lord, you're right. I'll follow your instructions. I'll do what you say. And when we're in a church service and the preacher, whether it's me or anybody, is preaching the Word of God. And the Spirit of God speaks to our heart, and we see that God says very clearly, this is the way things ought to be. And if I'm over here and I'm not lined up with what God says things ought to be, I need to humble myself and line up with God. And not harden my heart and stiffen my neck and say, no, this is way I this is what no, no, no. That's what Pharaoh did. He hardened his heart We harden our heart. We'll bring God's judgment. We will bring God's judgment. Don't be fooled. God is not mocked. We harden our heart against God, brings God judgment, and we see that in Egypt. We see that. And so, why in the world would they, how in the world they get to the point? For God is going to take the lives of their firstborn. What kind of God would do that? I'll tell you what kind of God, a God that is very loving. and very patient and very gracious and did everything he could to get Egypt in line with him and yielded to him so he could do his work through his people. But they refused to And they become so corrupt, and their hearts became so hard that God says, okay, okay. Listen, I don't know what's going on in your life. I don't know what God's doing in your life, but I know this. God is not a monster. God is not some hateful being. He loves you and he loves me very, very dearly. And he will work in our lives for extended periods of time for Egypt 400 years He'll be patient and he'll work and he'll try and get us to the point where he can bless us and we can have the joy of the Lord and the presence of God in our lives and we can be a powerful influence in this world. But we cannot allow corruption in our lives. We cannot harden our hearts. Because that will bring God's judgment. Here's something you don't hear preached about much, but the Bible clearly teaches it. There is a limit to God's patience. There is a limit to what God will do. He said back in Genesis, early Genesis, I think chapter 6, he says, my spirit will not always strive with man. Romans chapter 1 makes it pretty clear that mankind can come to a point where God says, Alright, I'll give you over. I'll give you, go ahead. You want to fight my will, you want to fight my grace, you want to fight my mercy, you want to fight my love, you want to fight my plan and purpose for your life? He'll work with us. He'll be very, very patient, but I'm telling you, we must never presume upon the mercy of God. We must never presume upon the patience of God. And there comes a day when that trump sounds and that angel shouts and God comes back and he brings his wrath down. And that's where Egypt is at. That's where Egypt is at. I'm trying to say this. If God's working in your life, say, man, what in the world is God doing to me? I'll tell you what he's doing to you. He's trying to get your attention, bring you where he can mold you and make you into the person he saved you to be So he can bless you and bless me and use us. This isn't a hateful monster God. This is a compassionate, loving God that has been brought to this point, that has been brought to this point. And that brings us to the Passover lamb. So God is at the point. Egypt has hardened their hearts. They've gotten so corrupt, and God says, all right, I've got to do this. I'm going to take the life of all the firstborn. However, I'm going to put in place something that you can do, an act of faith on your part. Where my judgment on this nation and my judgment on the individuals will be deferred away from the firstborn and will be poured out on this land. It's an act of faith. If they're going to trust God and follow what he says and say, this Lord, I'll submit to you. I believe what you're saying is true. I believe you'll do this. I'm going to trust you. I'll obey you. I'll follow your instructions. God said that I will pass over you. And you'll be spared that judgment. Now, the Passover lamb, let me give you three thoughts real quick, and I want to be done. Number one, I noticed this. This is a practical exercise. This is a practical exercise. Let me explain what I mean. Come back to chapter 12 with me if you would. And we read verse 7. He says, thou shalt take of the blood and strike it on the two sideposts. Verse 6, he told them to kill it Take the blood, strike it on the two sideposts and on the upper door posts of the houses wherein they shall eat it. Verse 8, and they shall eat the f the flesh of They shall eat the flesh in that night, roast with fire, and unleavened bread, and with bitter herbs shall they eat it. Eat not of it raw, nor sodden it all with water, but roast it with fire, his head with his legs, and with the pertinence thereof. And you shall let nothing of it remain until the morning. That which remaineth the morning shall burn with fire. What's he saying here? He's saying, listen, don't just get this lamb in here, just bringing this lamb in and looking at it and say, oh, what a nice lamb. There's no blemish boilers, a tremendous lamb. He said, that's not going to do you any good He says, don't just kill it and then look at it, just kill it and look at his dead body there, this carcass of a lamb. That's not going to do you any good. He says, you've got to cut that thing up. You've got to bleed it out. You've got to take the blood, apply it to the doorpost, and then you've got to eat that thing. Eat it. Ingest it. Take it into yourself. Listen, nothing God does is just for show This wasn't just a little show to put on. This was something that was to be very, very practical. They were to take it in. It was to be cooked, and it was to be eaten Um, I've one thing I learned when I came here, and I don't think it's unique for our area, but I didn't notice it till I got to our area. There are a lot of churches, and I'm not, listen, we've got our hands full with our own, so I'm not trying to bring judge judgment on other churches. I don't have to answer for other churches, I get to answer for ours. But an observation I made I found there are a lot of churches that sing about the gospel of Jesus Christ. I found there are a lot of churches that talk about the crucifixion, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And they'll sing about it and they'll preach about it and they'll talk about it. But I've come across these 24, almost 25 years, I've come across a lot of people that's heard about that and talked about that, but they've never received it for themselves And Jesus Christ was not crucified on the cross to simply sing about it. He was not crucified on the cross just to talk about it and preach about it. He was crucified, buried, and rose again so that people would receive what he's done for themselves personally. That's where salvation is. And when Jesus and when God instructed the Israelites and the Egyptians could have got on this just as much and to cr to kill that lamb and splatter the blood and eat it He was telling to us this is something that needs to be received. This is something that needs to be practical in your lives. And God forbid that I'd be speaking to somebody this morning. And you've sung about the cross. We sang this morning about the blood of Jesus Christ. You've talked about it. You know all about it. But you've never personally accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. You've never made that decision. Yes, he died for me. I will receive by faith what he's done. I will eat. What he's provided for me, take it in to be mine, to be a part of me by faith. And if all they did was just looked at that lamb or just killed and laid the carcass there, and everybody sat around and looked at it They would not escape the judgment of God. This was a practical exercise. This was something to be received. No aspect of our relationship with God is simply for show. Jesus condemned the Pharisees sharply. He said, woe unto you, hypocrites, you put on a show. Your relationship with God, your Christianity, your faith is all just a show. And it's nothing you've ever personally received. It's not a personal relationship with God, it's just a show. I'm telling you, if we're not careful, even as Bible believers, we can put on just put on a show, just put on a show. I hate to think this, and you know, God knows. But preachers talk sometimes, and we talk sometimes. Sometimes we'll say something like this, I wonder what would happen if the rapture took place during the church service. Wonder how many be left behind that all their faith was was just a show. Oh, they talked about it, they sang about it, but they never personally trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. You're here this morning. You say, well, I believe the gospel. I believe Jesus died on the cross, was buried, and rose again. I believe all that's true. And I want to say this, have you personally accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior? Have you personally accepted Jesus Christ as Savior? I guarantee you, there's people in hell who could quote to you John 3. 16 like that. There's people in hell who could tell you the Romans rode. They knew all the facts, they went through all the show, but they never personally accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. Christianity is a personal relationship with a living Savior. And it's received by faith. I say, Lord, I'm a sinner. I know I'm a sinner. I deserve your judgment. I believe you died for me. Was buried and rose again. And I eat you. Follow what I'm saying? I receive you. I take you to be mine. And that's what the picture was here with the with the Israelites. It was a practical sacrifice. And by the way, um uh all of the Passover lamb was to be eaten. Did you catch that? He said, don't you leave any of it. He says, this isn't a pick and choose. Well I like the I like the back straps, so I'm just going to eat the back strap. We'll just throw it give the rest to the dogs. No, no, no. Oh, I like the tenderloin. Oh, I like the hand. Oh, I like no no no. Eat all of it. Eat all of it. Eat all of it. What does that say to us? That tells me that Christianity is not a pick and choose religion. There's this idea going around in some churches where you don't preach about sin. You don't talk about sin. There's some very famous popular preachers on TV, and they'll tell you straight up, oh, I don't talk about sin. I don't preach about sin. Hey, you've got to eat all of it. We take the whole gospel. And by the way, if we don't if if we don't see ourselves as sinners, we'll never get saved. Jesus said, I came to call sinners to repent. And so they had to eat all of it. It's all of it. And by the way, the preacher doesn't have the choice to pick and choose what subject he preaches on. He's got to preach the whole counsel of God. We take all of it. We take all of it. Take all of it. And uh soul winners, we go out and share the gospel. We've got to be very careful. We don't just kind of downplay some things. We've got to give the whole thing. We've got to give the whole thing And so this is a very practical exercise. They were to eat the lamb. They were to eat all of it. And by the way, salvation, when I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, that's just the beginning of the Christian life. There's a whole lot more that goes along with it. For instance, when a person gets saved, I believe the Bible very clearly teaches the very first thing they ought to do is they ought to follow the Lord in believers' baptism. Ought to come out. I've trusted Christ. I've believed Him as my Savior. I'll be baptized and identify as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible clearly teaches every Christian ought to be faithful to church You ought to say amen because you're here now, you know? You're you're you're fitting this. But ought to be faithful to church. Ought to be faithful to church. Every Christian ought to be very, very careful not to allow the world into our lives be separate and distinct from the world. I believe every Christian ought to have convictions, from the young people all the way on up to the senior citizens. We ought to have convictions. about what is right and wrong, and they need to be Bible convictions. I like what Dr. Robertson says. I say this often. Dr. Robertson said, if you don't have your own convictions, borrow mine until you get some But you ought to have convictions about right and wrong and what we should do. Eat all of it. Eat all of it. So it was a practical exercise. Number two, I put this down. It was a proxy execution. A proxy execution. Look at verse chapter 12, verse 12. For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night and will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, against all the gods of Egypt. I will execute judgment. I am the Lord. And by the way, don't ever forget, God does judge. And then he says verse 13, and the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses wherein where you are, and when I see the blood I will pass over you. Up in verse 22, he says, take ye a bunch of the hissup, dip it in the blood that is on the basin, strike it. On the lintel and two posts with the blood that is in the house. And verse 13, he says, When I see the blood upon the lintel and the two posts, the Lord will pass over the door and will not suffer the destroyer to come in to your houses and smite you. What's happening? He's saying that death of that little lamb is a proxy in your place. In your place. What is a proxy? I'm on the uh a couple ministries. I'm on the um on the board of the ministries, executive board, and uh I'm telling you there's nothing more boring than being on a board But sometimes I can't make the meetings. And they will send me a little form and I sign it and it's called a proxy form. And what I'm doing is simply giving authority to one of the men, usually the president of the board, giving authority to that person to vote on my behalf. To make decisions based on my behalf. I'm not there, so they're going to do it in my place. They are my substitute. But I have to give authority to them to do that. They can't take it upon themselves. And so what was this lamb for the children of Israel? This lamb was a proxy. Rather than take the life of the child, he says, if you'll take the life of the lamb, that will be in substitute, that will be a proxy, that will be in the place of the child, the lamb will die in their place. Now you have to give me authority to do that, and by giving the authority posting, you put the blood on the doors. That's you saying, alright We believe what you say, Lord. We're trusting you. The Lamb will die in the place of the child. Everybody understand what I'm trying to say here? It's a substitution. It's one, get this, it is one dying in the place of another. And I'm telling you, that is exactly what salvation is. Jesus Christ is our Passover lamb. And he died in our place. He suffered hell in our place. He suffered the judgment of God for my sins. And when I accept him as my personal Savior, I am giving authority to God to transfer the judgment of God that I am under, to transfer it over to Jesus Christ, and he is judged in my place. A proxy. That's where I say, Amen. Praise the Lord. May God love me enough to be my proxy, to die in my place. To pay for my sins. How many people think that those those families that morning when they got up and their firstborn was still alive and that blood's out of the thing, how many people would say they were awfully glad? Anybody think any of them said, praise the Lord? Yeah. Anybody think any of them said, Amen? What I'm trying to say is when I'm preaching on this, you can say, praise the Lord, amen. This is good stuff. This is something to be happy about. I'm glad I'm saved. I'm glad that night I bowed by my bed and I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. The judgment was under my over my head was passed over to Jesus Christ, and I'm no longer under judgment. Forgiven. The remission of my sins. Jesus Christ is our Passover. He is our Passover. God's holiness demands judgment of sin. But God's compassion makes it possible to defer that judgment onto another. This case it was a little lamb for you and I. It's Jesus Christ. It's Jesus Christ. 1 Corinthians 5. 7 says that Jesus is our Passover who was sacrificed for us. 2 Corinthians 5, 21, for he hath made him who knew no sin, he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God. Are you listening? He made him to be sinned for us, our proxy, in our place, in our place. And then the last thing I notice is this. It's a public exhibit. First, it was a personal exercise. They had to personally eat this. They had to, I mean, it was a practical exercise. They had to eat this. They had to make it personal. It had a profound impact on them. Just like salvation. Just talking about it, knowing about it, singing about it, it's not going to do it. I've got to personally accept it. It was a proxy sacrifice. That lamb died in the place of the young per of the firstborn. Jesus Christ died in place of us. And it's a public exhibit. And this is what I want to notice here. Again, verse 7 of chapter 12 You shall take of the blood and strike it on the two sideposts. I circled that word strike over in verse number 22. You shall take a bunch of the sis up and dip it in the blood that is in the basin and strike the lentil and the two sideposts with the blood that is in the basin. Again, I circled the word strike. He doesn't say just kill the lamb. Don't just kill the lamb. He doesn't say just get the blood and put it in a little bowl and set that bowl out in front of the door or maybe inside the door just to no no no He says, not only are you to kill that lamb, you're to bleed that thing out. You're to take the blood in a bowl, and then you get some hyssop, a branch as leaves and stuff, and you put it down in that bowl And you go outside where everybody, God and everybody can see, and you take that blood and you strike The side post. And you go to the other side and you strike the side post. And then the top beam, you get that blood, and you get that hiss up, slip it down in that blood, and you strike the top post What happens? You've got a branch with leaves saturated in that blood, and you're smacking it up against there. What's happening? That blood is splattering everywhere. You talk about a bloody mess. That is exactly what they had on their doors. And here's what I believe the point is. Nobody could walk by that door. And not see that these people here believe Jehovah and they are trusting the Lamb. To save them from God's judgment and wrath. It was a public display of faith. Um, well wa we well I believe God and I don't want my firstborn to uh fall under this judgment that's coming on this nation. And so I'm going to kill the lamb and go to but I don't want I don't want everybody in the world. What would the Egyptians think of us if we do this? What will other people say? I mean, look, it'll be a uh it'll be a mess We'll just put it inside here. I tell you what, that family would have come under the judgment of God. It had to be applied It had to be put in place. It was very, very public. I've often thought this and I've said this. Salvation in Christianity is twofold. It is very personal. It's very personal. My salvation is between God and me. My daddy could not save me. As great as a Christian as he is, he could not save me. It's between me and God. Amen? Nobody else can see that. It's very personal. It's very private. It's between God and I. But Christianity is also very public Very public. It's to be seen. It's for others to know. It's for others to see. I've also bought this. It's much like marriage. My wife and I, our marriage is very, very personal. It's private. It's between her and I. Right? Involve anybody else. It's her and I. But it's also very public. It's also very public. Say, well, we don't want anybody to know we're married. You miss the point completely. That's why you wear the ring. That's why you hold hands. That's why you identify with each other. That's why the wife takes the husband's name. It's a public thing. It's a public thing. And listen, God forbid that one of God's people would be ashamed. Of being a follower of Jesus Christ. In fact, Jesus said, if you're ashamed of me, I'll be ashamed of you at the judgment. He wants our faith to be public, not a show, not just hypocrisy. But it's not something we hide. We had a young man, he was in the teen group in Indianapolis when I was a youth pastor. His daddy was a deacon in the church at one point. His daddy had passed away. His mother was faithful. But the guy was, um, he was, I hate to say it, but the guy was a punk. And he came to church, his mom made him come to church. And one day after we had Sunday school in church, we had about 45, 50 teens, and between there, there's a thousand things happening, but he pulled me aside and he says, I need to get saved. I said, okay. And so after the service, we met. We stayed after for a long time. We set out in the steps of the church. Everybody was gone. He trusted Christ as Savior. And I said, listen, now you're saved. You ought to be baptized. And we talked about, he knew what baptism was, and he made this statement to me. His name was Brent. He said, Pastor Dennis, call me Pastor Dennis. He said, can I get baptized when no one's around? So what do you mean? He goes, well, I don't want anybody else to know I got saved. I don't want my friends to know I got saved. He said, I'd be embarrassed. Can you just baptize me just privately? I said, Brett, you missed the whole point. Completely. God wants you to let everybody know you've trusted Him as Savior. When Jesus Christ died on that cross, he died publicly for all of us. And he expects us to be public about our faith and speak up. I read this week about after World War II in Japan, missionaries were coming over and MacArthur was saying, Send missionaries, send missionaries. They had been a pagan uh emperor worship country and now that was shattered and the nation was ripe for new believers the nation was ripe for missionary activity and evangelism and some went over not enough And some got saved. But still, Christianity was not the dominant religion. And in a school there, there was a young boy. Middle school age, probably somewhere around there. And the boy had gotten under the ministry of a missionary, and the boy trusted Jesus Christ as his Savior. And I mean God got a hold of him and changed his life, and he loved the Lord, and he was living for God in a nation that did not honor Christianity. And he came to school and he had some enemies in school and they were giving him a hard time about his faith and they were getting mocking him and making fun of him. And he'd bring his lunch and he'd open his lunch, and every day at lunchtime, before he would eat He'd bow his head, he folded his hands, and he quietly thanked God for the food and asked God to bless it. Well, his enemies, they jumped on that. And they turned him in and they told the teachers and they told the principal, they said, he's doing something that is very harmful. He is doing something That is very hateful. He is hurting our society. He is disrespecting our people. So the teachers turned him in. He went to the office to the principal. The principal said, young man, what have you done? And he said, sir, all I did was fold my hands and bow my head, and I thank my Savior, Jesus Christ, for the food he gave me, and I ask him to bless it to my body. The story goes that that principal began to weep. And he hung his head down. And he says, son, I'm ashamed. I am a Christian also. I've accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior, but I've been afraid of what my peers would say. And I might lose my job. I was afraid to let anybody know that I'm a Christian. You have a greater faith than I do. And God used that little boy, being unashamed of his faith in Christ, to challenge the principle. The principal said, I'm going to come out for Christ. I'm going to live for Christ. And that is what plastering that blood all over those doorposts was, hey, we're not ashamed of the Lord Jesus Christ. I tell you one of the best things you can do to be a witness, one great thing, is simply carry a Bible around with you. I think that's a tremendous I used to tell our young people in school, when you go to school, I'd take a Bible, I'd take a nice Bible, I'd put it on top of my books And I'd carry that around where I go. And I would say, I would not be ashamed of the fact that you believe this book is the Word of God. And at work and in the community, we ought not to be ashamed. We ought not to be ashamed. That blood ought to be splattered on our doorposts. You understand what I'm trying to say? The Passover lamb. Pastor Belamb. Let me ask you a question. Have you trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? Or is it just a talk? Is it just to show? Have you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? Do you need to trust Him this morning? I plead with you, accept Christ, He'll forgive you and save you from God's judgment of our sin. Let me ask you this. Are you saved and do you need to commit your life to Christ? Say, well, I've just kind of gone through the motion. I've been saved. I'm not really living for God. Maybe this morning you need to commit your life to Christ. Maybe I'm talking to someone this morning, there's some sin in your life. There's something there you know is not right with God. I plead with you, don't harden your heart. Don't do like Pharaoh. Don't become callous. Let's be humble before the Lord. And when he addresses that, let's submit to him and trust him. And how about this? Are there some this morning you need to be a soul winner? You're not witnessing for the Lord like you should. You know you should be. Giving out tracts, talking to people about Christ, being public about our faith, urging others to come to Christ. That's our purpose That's our purpose. So wherever you're at, whatever decision needs to be made, I urge you this morning, let's make that decision. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would bless our invitation. I thank you, Lord, for that old Passover lamb. And I pray that you would stir us and help us to exercise faith in you. As those the uh uh Israelites did so many years ago. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. But there's some areas of my life that I really need to get in line with the Lord. I don't want to harden my heart. God's speaking to me. God's challenging me. And this morning I want to be humble before the Lord and let him have his way. Is there any like that, preacher? There are some areas in my life. I know that God is dealing with. God bless you, hands all around. How about it? Others? Is there something there? It's between you and God. Very personal. But please don't harden your heart. Don't get callous. Be humble and sensitive to God's Spirit, His Word, as He applies it. How about it? Any others? Preacher, there's something there. I know there is. I know it needs address. God bless you, few other hands. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I'm not the witness I ought to be. I don't have, so to speak, that blood splattered on the door like I should. And I don't want to be ashamed of Christ. I want to be a bold witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. You'd say, preacher, pray for me, that my witness would be what it ought to be. How many like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I'd be a good strong witness for the Lord. God bless you. Hands all around. It's important. Are there some this morning that say, preacher, I'm saved, but I've never committed my life to Christ. And I just want to sell out all in all for Christ. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I want to commit my life to the Lord Jesus Christ, to live for him and him alone. How about it? Any at all? Any at all? God bless you. A couple hands God bless you for that. One last question. I wonder if there's someone here this morning to say, preacher, I'm not saved. I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I don't know that I personally accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. Oh, I believe it, I've been through it. But I've never personally trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior. And you'd say, pray for me that I can get that settled in my heart and life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I've never personally accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. I need to do that. I need to do that. Now, Father in heaven, we ask your blessing on us. We ask, Lord, that every hand raised Did you stir the hearts? Help them to find a place, this old altar this morning, that we can do business with you, and you can take us and use us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jenny's playing the invitation hymn now.