Great, we're studying the life of Joseph. He's in Egypt, we know the story, and um we've been a couple weeks since we've been on this. If your memory's like mine, I need to refresh where we're at here on this. But uh He um Joseph of course is number two. They've had seven years of plenty in Egypt. We know the story. Now they are there they are well into the famine. Joseph's brothers have showed up down in Egypt. uh coming to get some grain as no doubt thousands and thousands were across the whole area there, other countries coming in. Of course, like any careful government, wisdom would say they were vetting people from other countries coming in. I just kind of think it's a good idea that you ought to be careful who you let into your country And so, but anyway, Egypt was no doubt vetting these people coming in to get grain. He sees, Joseph notices one way or another, he sees his brothers coming through the process And so he personally confronts them. They don't know who he is. And he gives them a rough time. How many people remember a study in that? I mean he spoke roughly to them, and he really uh put them through the ringer. And the point I want to rehear re rehash that is this. I believe the more I study this, I I'm convinced that Joseph was struggling with unforgiveness Now we comment on the integrity of Joseph and what a tremendous man he was, and he was of impeccable integrity. But even the best of men have a sinful nature. And his brothers did him wrong. Would you agree with me? They did him wrong by anybody's standards. And um there's a lot of different ideas about what Joseph was doing and why, but it just looks to me like he was struggling. So he put them all in prison for three days. if you remember. And he says, you guys are spies. He knew they weren't. He's just I think he's struggling. And uh he asked about his family and they mentioned their youngest brother, which of course Joseph knew about Benjamin He goes, all right, he says, y'all staying here in prison. Send one back. Bring your brother down if if it's legit, then I'll let you go. Three days later, he changes his mind. Again, I think there's that struggle going on, what to do He's all right, tell you what, I'll keep Simeon. He's the rough one out of the crowd, the cruel one. Yes, rest go back, but you get your brother and you bring him down here. If you show up without your brother, it's going to be a problem. So that's where we're at. They're back home with Jacob. The famine is continuing. And that's where we're picking up in verse 1 of chapter 43. It says, and the famine was sore in the land. And it came to pass, when they had eaten up the corn which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said unto him, Go again and buy us a little food. And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with you. If thou wilt send our brother with us, we'll go down and buy thee food. But if thou wilt not send him, we will not go down. For the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with you. And Israel said, that's Jacob, of course, wherefore dealt ye so ill with me as to tell the man whether ye had yet a brother? They said, The man asked us straightly of our state and of our kindred, saying, Is your father yet alive? Have you another brother? And we told him, according to the tenor of these words, could we certainly know that he would say, Bring your brother down? And Judah said unto Israel, his father, Send the lad with me, and we will rise and go, that we may live and not die, both we and thou, and also our little ones. I will be a surety for him. Of my hand shalt thou require him. If I bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the blame for ever. For except we had lingered, surely now we had returned the second time. Their father Israel said unto them, If it must be so, now do this. Take the best fruits in the land of your vessels, carry down the man a present, a little balm, a little honey, spices, myrrh, nuts, and almonds. Take double money in your hand, and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry it again in your hand. Peradventure it was an oversight. Take also your brother and arise and go again unto the man, and God Almighty give you mercy before the man that he may send away your other brother and Benjamin. And if I be re- if I be bereaved of my children, I am bereaved. The brothers returned to Egypt. Let's pray and study this here a little bit. Father in heaven, we Come to you this evening. We're grateful for the Word of God and what it means to us. Lord, we believe your word is true, every word of it. I pray that this passage here, as we uh examine it That your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak through me and apply to our lives truths and principles that are found here, that would help us live by faith, that would help us walk with you, have a good testimony. And so, Lord, I yield my will to you, and I present my body for you to use in these next moments as I try to preach this passage. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. One thing is clear in Scripture, and that is God uses trials to strengthen his people. God uses trials to purify his people and to direct them. God uses sometimes very, very difficult trials. To develop the faith of his people. Very few, I don't know if you find anywhere in Scripture, to be honest, where someone's faith grew because everything was going their way. Because everything was honky-dory. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that faced some severe trials that God used in their life? Can you think of anyone? Job, of course, is the classic example and what an intense, heart-wrenching trial he faced and I don't think it was just a night or two. I think it was an extended period of time that he really, really was in the valley. Joe, can you think of anyone else? I wrote a few down here. Anybody else? Daniel in the lion's den. Right, their stand, they stood for the Lord. Any others? Who? Ruth. Ruth. I put down Abraham. Now think about Abraham. He stepped out in faith. God told him to leave. Ur the Chaldees. Go to a land. He doesn't know where. He finally gets to where God's leading him, and what's the very first thing he had to deal with when he gets to the promised land? A famine, just like they have here, probably not as tense And so his faith is tested, and he kind of stumbled there on this first test and went down to Egypt, and God wanted him to stay there. I put down Moses The trials he went through as he had to be in the desert for 40 years waiting God's call. David had his share of trials for all those years that King Saul pursued him. You read some of the Psalms that David wrote during that period of time, just heart-wrenching. He said, fear and trembling has entered into my soul. And David went through trials. And of course, we mentioned Job, and the list could go on. There are several issues being dealt with here, I believe, in the lives of Jacob, his brothers, and Joseph. One of the issues, I think, is Jacob's faith. In verses 1 through 14, what I just read there. Jacob is not known for his great faith. Do you agree with me? We find one place in the Bible where he's comm commended for his faith And that is in Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 14. I don't have that reference right, it's in Hebrews, but where he's commended for his faith, because he blessed Joseph's sons. It says, by faith. It's really the only place you find Jacob commended for his faith. Jacob's faith is an issue that God is addressing in this trial here. I think you'll see this in a bit. Then his brother's fear. These brothers are dealing with fear of the guy down in Egypt that they are not aware at this point. It's his brother. I think fear, and we're going to look at this in a future message, Lord will, and next Wednesday, but I think fear in these boys, Jacob's boys, is perhaps a new experience They've been in control the whole time. They're not afraid to go in and slaughter the men that defiled their sister Dinah. They're not afraid to kill their own blood brother. They're not afraid to sell him as a slave down to Egypt. But, brother, they are experiencing fear now. First time they showed up. And I think Joseph uh uh very deliberately instilled fear And their hearts and minds, as we studied that. So we have Jacob's faith has to be addressed. These boys' fear something new they're experiencing, perhaps. But then, and I already touched on this, but Joseph's forgiveness. Forgiveness can be difficult even for the best of people. Did you ever have a difficult time forgiving somebody? Somebody do you wrong and say, man. Forgiveness can be difficult. If it's some little insignificant thing, we say, ah, don't worry about it, don't forget about it. But I tell you, sometimes words and actions can cut very deep. Betrayal, as Joseph experienced from his brothers, can cut very, very deep. And to forgive sometimes is very, very difficult. Very, very difficult. And so Joseph, I believe, as I've been saying over and over, is an issue with Joseph is this forgiveness of his brothers. We see him going back and forth. And we'll look at that again. I want to look at these first 14 verses that I read here and notice Jacob's faith. Jacob's faith Again, it says, and the famine was sore in the land, and it goes through this conversation that Israel has with Judah and about them going back down, and finally he capitulates and says, okay. If this has to be so, we send them down. I see, I think the faith that Jacob exercises here is what I'm calling a forced faith. In other words, he didn't step out initially and choose to trust God. I don't find anywhere where Jacob says, hey boys, come on here, we're running out of food. Listen, we're just going to trust God We'll send Benjamin down there, do what we got to do. We're just going to trust the Lord to work this out. You don't find Jacob making that statement But you do find him trusting God eventually. Because God forces him into a position where he really doesn't have much choice. Sometimes, maybe too often, we wait to exercise our faith until we don't have any other choice. So, well, did you ever hear this statement? Well, I guess all we can do is just trust the Lord. It's a last resort. We've tried everything else. We'll just have to trust God. Sometimes God forces us into a corner or into a situation to teach us to trust Him. I call it forced faith. Now you and I cannot and must not force another person to have faith in God. Right? That's not what we're talking about. It's a free will decision. And you say, well, you know, I don't know that person will ever trust the Lord. I don't know if that person will ever get saved. I don't think there's a heart hard enough that God can't break it. And God knows how to put us in a position and into a situation, circumstance where we learn to trust God. I think he's doing that with Jacob here. Jacob has a history of relying upon himself. He's known for his deceit, right? He's known for his trickery. He's known for his ability to negotiate. Things. He's known for his complaining, uh self-pity, self-reliance In other words, Jacob's faith up to this point has been in who? In Jacob. He relied on his ability to deceive. He relied on his ability to if he wrote a book a book, he could write a book, How to Seal the Deal. I mean, he knew how to negotiate. He knew how to maneuver and manipulate and get what he wanted. But he's in a position now where none of that's going to work. He can negotiate all he wants. This famine ain't going away. He can negotiate and manipulate and try and uh deceive all he wants, but that guy down in Egypt laid the law down and they're not getting nothing unless he do it they do it his way. Jacob's backed into a corner and he has no he has nowhere to look but up. Have you ever been there Ever been in a situation where you have nowhere to go but to the Lord? I'm glad that when we get in that situation, we can go to the Lord. And so Jacob is known for his deceit, his trickery, his negotiation. And like I said, Hebrews 11. 21 is the verse I was uh trying to think of a little earlier, where he blesses Joseph's son by faith before he died. It's the only real reference to real faith on the part of Jacob. Let's look at his faith. Verse number one, I noticed my first point in my thoughts tonight is this famine is intensifying. Look at verse 1. And the famine was sore in the land. That word sore means to be very, very heavy. I mean it was weighing down. It was uh the word sore sometimes is translated massive. This famine is extraordinary. It is everywhere. There is nowhere to go to find relief except the granaries in Egypt. And it's getting worse. It's not only bad, it's getting worse. The word sore means extremely oppressive. Now Jacob and the family up there, they had no idea how long this famine was going to last. Egypt had insight, of course, through Pharaoh's dream and Joseph's interpretation. They knew it was going to be seven years. We have no indication that Jacob knew that. So that first year of the famine, things are drying up and the crops aren't growing too well. And kind of get through that. And then another year goes on. The weeks become months and the months become years. Man, there's nothing. They go down, get their supplies, come back. That only lasts for so long. And so the famine is intensifying, supplies are dwindling day by day. No doubt they're rationing. How many people agree? They're probably rationing this these granary. They don't know And maybe they're thinking, surely next week we'll get rain. Surely next month something's going to change. Surely in the fall, the fall rains will come, maybe in the spring, surely in the spring, and it doesn't, and it doesn't, and it doesn't, and it gets worse and worse and wor And the supplies are going down, down, down, down until finally in the first part of verse two, they are out. Says there, it came to pass when they had eaten up the corn that they had brought out of Egypt. They are flat out of supplies. They've rationed. They're opening the granaries, and there's nothing there. Nothing. So the famine's intensifying. Then I notice in verse 2 through 10, the family starts putting pressure on Jacob. They start approaching him about this need to go get more grain. Look there in verse 2. Again, it came to pass, they had eaten up the corn which they had brought out of Egypt. Their father said unto them Go again and buy us a little food. They had one of two options. Either they go back to Egypt and get more grain, or they die. That's it. There's no other option to them. And so Jacob's confronted with this reality. And finally, I don't know. I was trying to think what was going through Jacob's mind. It looks to me, now we're not given any information really at all, but it looks to me he's just been putting this off and putting this off and putting this off until they're completely out and he has no other choice. Right? I mean why would you wait until there's nothing left and then Go down. I think maybe he just thought, maybe if I ignore it, the whole problem will go away Maybe he was waiting for that famine to break and that rain to come. I don't know. But he's put it off, he's put it off, he's put it off. And reality is he's going to have to do something. They are out of supplies. Now notice he says here, he doesn't give a realistic answer to their problem. Notice he says they had eaten up the corn. Then he says, their father, Jacob, says unto them, the boys, Go again and buy us a little food. That doesn't sound realistic. Just go buy a little food. I'm wondering if he's thinking, you know, maybe if you just show up there and just try and get a little bit somewhere, you won't have to deal with this guy. That's being so difficult. Maybe we can sneak in and get some stuff and get out of there. I don't know exactly what his thinking is, but it's definitely not real. It's definitely not realistic. And to me, it's typical Jacob I'm going to somehow maneuver around what I need to do. And of course it doesn't work. So he's confronted with the reality of their supplies. They're gone. And he's confronted with the reality of their situation. Look what happens here. And verse, he says, all right boys, he calls them in, fellas, just go down there, get a little food. Just run down real quick. Just get a little food and come on back Well, that's not realistic. One, that's not going to happen. A little food's not going to last. And Judah spake up unto him. Verse 3. Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protest unto us. Saying, ye shall not see my face except your brother be with you. He says, Listen, Dad, we go down there And I and I'm impressed with the boys I said this before, I want to repeat it now, I'm impressed with the boys' respect for their daddy. They're grown men, their daddy's being unrealistic, unre irrational, but they're speaking respectfully to them, and that's a good lesson, I think, for our day and age. But um he says, Listen, dad. We're not getting any food. If we go down without Benjamin, we are not getting food, and there's a good chance we're not coming back. Joseph had the authority. He could execute them. He could say, you guys are spies and imprison them for the rest of their life, or execute them. Now I think it's interesting that Judah is now the spokesman. Who who remembers back? Who was the spokesman That spoke up before when they first got there and said, listen, we'll take Benjamin down right away. We'll get this straightened out. Come back. Who was that? Anyone remember? Reuben Now my question is, why was Reuben and the leadership and the spokesman for the boys and getting Benjamin and getting this problem resolved? And now it's Judah. I have a theory. I think Reuben lost all credibility. If you come back to verse chapter 42 and notice with me verse number 37. And Reuben spake unto his father. Now Reuben's the spokesman. He's taking the leadership here, trying to solve this problem, getting Benjamin down and Simeon back out of there getting more food. Reuben spake unto his father, saying Look at this. Slay my two sons if I bring him, Benjamin, not to thee. Deliver in my hand, and I will bring him to thee again. I think when I think Reuben acts irrationally, that's a ridiculous suggestion Why in the world, and we mentioned this before, but why in the world would Jacob find any consolation in killing more of his grandkids? And I think uh I don't know, this is speculation. I'm wondering if the rest of the boys said, Reuben, shut up No more suggestions from you. And Judah speaks up and he's a much more rational It's much more responsible. And he approaches God, uh approaches Jacob, and he's putting the pressure on. He's putting the pressure on. He's the spokesman. He says, and Judah spake, the man did solemnly protest us, and all he's saying is the same thing over and over and over. They've already told Jacob this multiple times And he comes back again. He solemnly protests unto us, saying, ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with you. Now listen. If you send our brother with us, we'll go down and buy food. That's the way it is. And if you do not send them, we are not going down there There's no way. We're not coming back. We ain't getting no food, that's for sure. Now notice here's again typical Jacob, verse 6. And Israel said, Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me? What's he doing? Self-pity. Pity party. Why are you guys treating me so bad? And he does that over and over and over again. Self-pity, it's typical. Now it looks to me in verses 7 through 10 that Judah gains his daddy's trust. Look at verse 7. And they said the man and they said, the boys are talking, the man asked us straightly of our city. Oh, well back up the second Verse six, I'm sorry. Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me as to tell the man whether ye had a brother? Why in the world you even tell him you had a brother? Well they didn't offer that information And they said, the man asked us straightly of our state and of our kindred, saying, Is your father yet alive? And they're saying they're saying, of course, but I mean how would we know? Had he another brother? And we told him according to the tenor of the words, could we certainly know that he would say, bring your brother down? And then again, Judah speaks up. He says to Israel, his father, Dad, I'm putting it in my words here, send the lad with me. I can see him, I can see him getting sitting down beside Dad, and I can see him saying, Dad, look at me. Look at me. Dad, send the boy with me. He's not threatening. He's not making ridiculous guarantees. He says, send the lad with me. We'll get up. We'll go that we may we will arise and go that we may live and not die. Both we and thou, also our little ones. He said, listen dad, if we don't do this, we're all dead. We're all dead And Judah said unto Israel, uh-uh, or uh, and verse nine, and I will I will be a surety for him. Dad, I give you my word. I'll guarantee you I'll bring him back. And of my hand shalt thou require him. If I bring him not unto thee and set him before thee, then let me bear the blame forever. Do you want to know how to get people to trust you? Be responsible. Take responsibility. He says that I accept the responsibility here. I do not think I don't think anybody owes us their trust. I think trust has to be earned. I think trust has to be earned, and you earn it by being responsible Somebody says, well, nobody trusts me. Maybe that's because you're not very responsible. Right? But you have an employee or someone and you see they're responsible and you trust them with more responsibility. You trust them with more uh the money or whatever because they're responsible. And that's exactly what Judah's doing. He's saying, I'll take responsibility And he wins his father over. He gains his Jacob's trust because he took responsibility. So, first of all, this famine is intensifying. It's not clearing up. It's not going away So now they got to do something. The family starts putting pressure on. Jacob or Judah steps up and says, Dad, I'll take responsibility for this. And then we get number three to the final hope here that they have. Look at verse 11. He says, And their father Israel said, He breaks. He gives up his resistance. If it must be so now, do this. So he has this, he concedes here, he finally concedes. He has no other options. Do you know God has ways of breaking our pride God has ways of breaking down our resistance. God has ways of removing our self-reliance. God is a master at humbling us that we can trust in Him. Trust in Him. And so Jacob reluctantly concedes, if it must be so, now do this. So he reluctantly concedes. But I find it interesting, he resorts back To negotiation. Look what he says. He says, all right, if it must be so, he doesn't say, well, we'll just trust uh we'll just trust God Almighty that He'll give us mercy. No, no, no. He injects Some of his negotiation thinking. He goes, all right, if it must be sent out, this is what you need to do, boys. Listen to me. I know how to deal with these people. I know how to handle this. And he gives them some instructions. Take the best fruits in the land in your vessels. Now they've been in a famine for seven years, so I would imagine the best fruits aren't that great. But he's saying, listen, get what we got, the best of what we have, best fruits in the land, in your vessels. Carry down the man a present, take a gift. A little balm. Imagine they had something stashed away. A little honey. They'll find some honey somewhere. Little spices and myrrh, nuts and almonds, which I would imagine weren't the greatest. Then he says, take double money in your hand, and the money that was brought again in the mouth to your sacks, carry it again in your hand Prevention was oversight, and of course, and money to buy what you need to get. And so that's actually not a bad idea, right? Um, I found that a little gift sometimes can appease a hard heart sometimes. I've known I'm d uh I've done this over the years on occasion. But there's times where you won't believe this is going to be hard for you to believe, but there have been times when people have got upset with me. That's hard for me to accept. Or people didn't appreciate something or that. And I found, you know what I found? Rather than going and lambasting them and telling what a knucklehead they are, even though they might have been Rather than doing all that, you know what? Sometimes I found just a little note say, hey, I appreciate you, I'm praying for you. Just a little gift or send a flower or something goes a long way. A soft answer turneth away anger. And I think Joe Jacob understood that. He's saying, listen, I don't know this guy's speaking, he's treating us rough. Right? Don't respond with kind. They say fight fire with fire. No, I found water works a whole lot better. Right? Don't respond in kind. Romans tells us, overcome evil with what? Good. So they're coming, they're saying, all right, listen, a and I don't think it's a bad idea. I think Jacob's on to something here. I mean he's used his negotiation before fairly successfully, at least as far as his agenda is concerned. Faith is not the same thing as foolishness. Right? We can have faith in God, but sometimes we need to think things through a little bit, and maybe sometimes We have a role to play even when we're trusting God. You follow what I'm saying? And I think this is a good idea, them to come down there and offer these gifts and make some appeasement and try and win this fellow over. They have no idea who they're dealing with. So Jacob reluctantly concedes, says, all right, if it has to be so, then he resorts back to his negotiation, which isn't necessarily bad in this case. But this is what I was wanting to get to. And I think this is the lesson for us here tonight. He finally relies on God. He finally relies on God. Look what he says, verse 13. He says, take also your brother. That's Benjamin. This is huge. This is, he's at the end. He has no other choice. He's got to send Benjamin Take also your brother and arise and go again unto the man. Now look what he says. This is the first time he references this. And God Almighty give you mercy before the man. Who's he starting to rely on rather than himself? Starting to rely on God. He's looking to the Lord. He's been backed in a corner. He's been forced into a situation, a circumstance where he has nowhere else to look but up. Now he's not being stupid. He's got these gifts and stuff. That's fine. But he says, listen, if God doesn't bring us through, if God doesn't work this out, it's not going to happen. May God Almighty have mercy, give you mercy before the man, that he may send away your other brother, that's Simeon, in prison down there, and Benjamin. But then he resorts back to Jacob again. And if I bereaved of my children, I'm bereaved. And if it happens, it happens. But I'm impressed with the fact that Jacob finally starts relying on God, and he refers to God as God Almighty. Now, I'm not a Hebrew scholar, I don't know Hebrew. I used to know the Hebrew alphabet when I was in Bible college, but I'd forgotten that long time ago But I got looking up these words, and that God Almighty, the Hebrew term for that is El Shaddai. Anybody ever hear that Hebrew term? El-Shaddai. It's a beautiful word. And it refers to the fact that God, Jacob is referring to God as El Shaddai, God Almighty. And the term has this idea, the all-sufficiency of God. And I think what he's referencing by using that term, referring to God with that term, he's saying, we're going to trust the God that can do anything. The God that nothing is impossible with. And I want to remind you tonight that with God, nothing is impossible. And Jacob is now referring to God that way. God Almighty, El Shaddai, the all-sufficient, all-powerful God. Now, the last part of verse 14, again, he says, if I be bereaved of my children, I'm bereaved. I think his faith, he has faith, I think it's very, very weak faith. I think it's very, very weak faith. However, here's where the encouraging part comes in. It's not the amount of my faith Or the strength of my faith that makes the difference. It's the object of my faith. Just a little bit of weak faith in El Shaddai, God Almighty. is far better than a lot of strong faith in powerless man. And I'm afraid in our churches and in our country, we are putting our faith in man rather than God. I know everybody's worked up and concerned about our country. I'm here to tell you there's not a man on this planet that can solve the problems in America, only God can. I'm absolutely convinced of that. I'm absolutely convinced of that. And there are issues in your life and situations in my life where there's not a person on the planet that can help us, only God can. And you may have just a little bit of faith, your faith, you say, my faith is very, very weak. I would take that weak faith, that small amount of faith, it's just a grain of mustard seed, and I would put it in God Almighty, trust the Lord, and I'll tell you, He can do more than grade all the faith in the world in a man. I think that's one of the reasons the Antichrist is going to be able to rise. Because we're looking to men. We're looking to man to solve our problems. We're looking to politicians. We're looking to leadership. To solve our problems. And I'm telling you, it's not in man, it's in God. And Jacob is learning that. He's finally in a situation where all his negotiating abilities and all his little uh sleight-of-hand things he's so good at. Are powerless and meaningless. I put it down: a weak faith in an Almighty God will do more than a great faith in a powerless man. Jacob and the boys. They step out in faith, head on back down there, take Benjamin, and we'll just trust God, God Almighty. They have no idea what God is about to do. Not only is Benjamin going to, I'm here's a, what do they call it? If when you spoil a spoiler, spoiler alert. Not only does Benjamin come back, but who else does he gain? Joseph. That is not even in his mind that Joseph would even be a factor, but this one act of faith where he sends Benjamin down. Opens the door and he's reunited with Joseph and the family's back together. Isn't that something? Just one small act of faith Completely turns everything around. I told this, I think, not too long ago, fairly recently, but it applies here for a number of years Back in the 90s, the late 90s, I was chaplain with the hospice program here in Garrett County. Brenda Butcher was the uh head there at the time. You knew Brenda. And uh she had called me up and she goes, we need a, we don't have a chaplain. Hospice was kind of just taken off, really. Um And uh she goes, Would you consider being chaplain with the hospice? Well, you know, sometimes they can be a little ecumenical in their stuff, and I expressed my concern to her. I said, listen, you know, I don't know. I I can't be involved in you know all this ecumenical thing. She goes, no, no, no. She goes, listen Pastor Leatherman, all I need is somebody, if somebody's on hospice, they don't have a pastor, they don't have any spiritual input and they're interested, I'll give them your name. I said, now I want assurance that I can say to them whatever I think I should. She goes, absolutely. No strings attached. I said, okay, if that's the case, I'll do it. And I'll tell you, that was four years of total blessing. I thoroughly enjoyed it. I led so many people to Christ. And this sounds terrible. Don't judge me, but I enjoy doing funerals. I don't enjoy the fact that there has to be a funeral, but if there is one I enjoy doing it. I find great fulfillment in trying to be a blessing and helping people and pointing them to the Lord who are in a difficult time in their life. To me, it's just very fulfilling. So I was doing funerals every month and and it was just a wonderful thing. I said all that to say this. Got a call, they said we got a lady, she's just been on hospice, she has no pastor, no spiritual, and she would really like for you to come by and talk to her, visit with her. I said, sure, she didn't live far away from here. So I went and visited her, and dear lady, she had six months or less to live and we got talking. I visited a time or two And then uh finally we uh uh approached her and said, listen, uh let me show you how you can know for sure you're going to heaven someday. And boy, she was eager. She knew she was approaching eternity, and she wanted to have that settled. That's one of the blessings of knowing your time's coming up and you can get things right. Let a lot of people, Lord. So anyway, went through the plan of salvation. She bowed her head and trusted Christ. And I mean to tell you, she got a hold of it. She was so glad to be saved. And I'd go by on a weekly basis and visit with her and her health deteriorated. We had talked about somehow baptism came up, she wanted to be baptized, so she made her way out very sickly she made her way out we baptized her I think we had somebody in the baptistry with us and baptized her and she was so happy she was coming out the church a bit she would sit over here It's coming down to the end. Finally got a call fairly late one evening, weekday night. She goes, Pastor Leatherman, this is so-and-so. I said, hey, how are you? She goes, I'm scared. I said, okay. She goes, can you come over? I said, sure. So I went running over there. Sat down. I said, what's the matter? She goes, I know it's about time. She made this statement. She goes, Pastor Letterman, I don't think my faith is strong enough to get me to heaven. I don't think my faith is strong enough to get me to heaven. And I said her name. I took them, showed her in the Bible that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I said, You meant that when you called on the Lord, didn't you? She says, Yes, I did with all my heart. And I said, it's not the strength of your faith that's getting you to heaven. It's the object of your faith that's getting you to heaven You may have faith like a spider web, but if it's attached to Jesus Christ, you're going to make it and you're going to be okay. Because it's not how great my faith has a hold of Christ. But when I put my faith in Christ, He takes a hold of me. And He has a hold of me. And that's what's happening to Jacob. He is learning. It's weak. He's struggling. If I bereaved and my children are bereaved. The fact that he put his faith in God changed everything. I don't know what you may be dealing with. I don't know what you got going on. But don't put your faith in your faith Put your faith in the Lord. Whatever that strength of that faith is, however you may evaluate your faith, you just make sure it's attached to the Lord. And if it is, God will take care of you. Amen? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to learn from Jacob and the boys here. And I pray you'd help us that our faith would not be in our faith, but our faith would be in you. Sometimes we question our faith, and sometimes we doubt it. The Lord help us just to rest and believe the trust. Wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if someone say, Preacher, you know, I got some things going on. I'm trusting the Lord, but sometimes I just worry that maybe my faith is uh is too weak. And you say tonight I'm not going to trust my faith. I'm just going to put my trust in the Lord. Anything like that tonight, I'm just going to trust the Lord And let him respond to the faith I have. And God will do it. God will do it. Father, I ask you to bless now. And help us to trust you in Jesus' name.