On through this series in Revelation chapter two and three, um where uh the Apostle John, there on the island of Patmos where he was uh um exiled uh wrote the book of Revelation. Um in in in the first two or the chapters two and three, um he wrote he had a specific message for seven different churches that the Lord given him. And we looked through all of these so far except for this one, and this is the last one. The church of Laodicea is what we're going to look at this morning. And uh I've I've kind like I said, I've kind of enjoyed this. I I like series, it helps me keep my mind on track. Uh I tend to get sidetracked very, very easily. And uh that's that's uh a problem that I know I have. But we're gonna look at uh at this this morning. And then the goal uh tonight, the plan I should say, Lord willing, is we're just gonna kind of do a recap of of these seven churches And then just get some general principles and some general concepts tonight for the message is the plan And so anyway, so we've looked at all of these and uh we'll we'll we'll go through that recap tonight so I won't take up too much time uh talking about that But this morning we're going to look at the final church, the church at Laodicea. And that is recorded here in Revelation 3 and verses 14 through 22, which we just read. And just to kind of get us back in gear, I'm going to read uh verses uh 14 down through uh seventeen real quick, and then we'll pray, and then we'll look at the church at Laosia. And if you had to put a label on it Of course, the church like we looked at last Sunday night in Philadelphia, that was the uh the the the loving church. This church would be the lukewarm church, um and he says that very plainly. So anyway, verse 14 says, and unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write. These things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God. I know thy works, thou art neither cold nor hot. I would thou wert cold or hot, so but then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth. Because thou sayest I am rich, increased with goods, and have need of nothing, knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked. We'll pray and then we'll look at uh the this church at Laodicea this morning. Lord, we thank you again for your word. We thank you for recording this for us here in Revelation. We ask that you would Use your word and use your spirit to speak to our hearts this morning. I ask that you would just kind of get me out of the way here this morning and you would be the teacher. This morning, Lord, you would uh use your word to teach us. Lord, best way I know how I want to just kind of give my will over to yours. And uh just uh Lord, if there's anything that I'm about to say that's incorrect or not scriptural or anything like that, uh pray you keep me from saying it. Likewise, Lord, if There's something that you'd have me address that I might not have written down in my notes. I pray that you would bring that to my mind. Again, just the best way I know how, Lord, I want to yield my will to yours. I pray that your spirit would have just full liberty this morning, and that we would learn uh the these principles here and then learn how to apply them as well. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. But the city of Laodicea, what we've been doing the past few weeks here is we'll talk about the city and what that's like and then we'll address the church and then we'll um point some things out and then draw some application. So we'll follow that same format this morning. If you do some studying just from the secular standpoint, look at the history of it and things like that, the city of Laodicea was situated right on two major trade routes It was a very very large city, um known uh known for that. It was a very, very wealthy city. Uh had some very large banks, uh the s kind of a center for banking and things like that of the area. Um the very, very large fortresses and be again because of where it was situated on two major trade routes, a lot of foot traffic would go through there, a lot of uh people traveling would go through and so a lot of money was being poured into uh this city of Laodicea. Um it was home of Roman governors, it was a very, very wealthy city Very, very wealthy, very, very prosperous. Um it was busy, it was very wealthy, and it would be the two things that you would notice a lot from it. Um for several reasons it was wealthy. One because of just where it was situated and the city was planted there s just because of where it was on those major uh trade routes and of course it boomed from there Um some interesting things about the city, just to kind of tell you how wealthy it was. Last week when we were talking about the church in Philadelphia Uh we mentioned the earthquake of of AD seventeen and that earthquake that devastated the whole area and uh Philadelphia was upset because although Rome uh ha uh paused the tribute there for a while, gave them a tax break and things like that. Um they they they were still upset with Rome because they felt like Rome didn't do enough. Laodicea was so wealthy They said no thanks to Rome. They said, we've got it. We can take care of ourselves. They didn't receive any aid from Rome. They didn't receive anything like that. Um and they said we got it we can take care of business ourselves, which is kind of just shows you uh how wealthy they were when they refused help from from the capital there. So anyway, that's that's kind of gives you an idea of how wealthy they were. They were also known for their clothing, um, their their textiles and things like that, very, very famous and fashion and things like that. Uh they were dedicated to sports. Um of course, like any other city at that time, there'd be a lot of idolatry in involved. A lot of t uh various gods were being worshipped and uh various pagan uh deities were being worshipped and things like that. And then everything that went along with that. So it was it was a very, very uh wicked city as well. But um uh they were dedicated to sports, dedicated to to uh uh their their idol worship and things like that. And so if you do a study on it, something that they were kind of known for was, and I think this is one reason that Jesus points it out here uh was uh an ISAV, uh some uh an ointment that they would put on people's eyes uh for people that had different eye uh issues with their sight and issues with vision and things like that. People would come from all over the known world to Laodicea to get this medicine that they would put on their eyes. And they kind of had the market on that, which was another thing that made them so wealthy. was in of course we know people spend a lot of money on their health and so uh people came from all over just to get that medicine there from Laodicea So they kind of had everything going for them uh in terms of economics, in terms of commerce, in terms of status. Um the Rome liked them because of the money they brought in. Um the people in the area liked them because and if you live there, you did pretty well. Um most people that live there is a very it was a big city But but um it was a very very wealthy city as well. So even if you were a lower class in that city, you were still doing much better than most of the known world. Uh it was very, very wealthy. Uh you y you know, if it would have been in modern times Um, you know, I would think it'd be kind of like us, you know, here you know, compared to the most of the world, we still got pretty mi made pretty well, even if we're, you know, below the the poverty line or something like that here, we're still doing pretty well compared to the rest of the world. And I kind of think that would be a good uh comparison there. So anyway, very, very well off. They had massive fortresses that that that that stood out Uh their fortifications were huge, the military presence was huge. And so if you were just to look at the city and observe it, you would say this city has no weakness. The ha they have everything. They have the military, they have the structure, they have the money But there was a really big problem with the city. There was no water. They had no uh water there in the city. The only way they could get water in was to pipe it in. And they would pipe the water in, um, you know, they get the clay pipes or whatever. And Romans were known for that. Uh that was part of the Roman um uh architecture there. And uh they would they would uh pipe water in from from kilasi which was nearby and kolossi had big mountains and uh off the mountains the snow would melt and then there they would just uh run that water downhill into uh Laodicea. So the water supply was the vulnerable part of the city. Because you have this really, really long pipeline at any point in it, you can just m take that part of the pipeline and the city will thirst uh to death. And so of course they had some stores within the city Uh but the point is is there was no water source of its own. It had to get its water from outside. So that's a major weakness, I would say. But the the the illusion of looking at the city is they're good. I mean they're strong, they're powerful, they've got it all made, they've got it all together, but in reality it was very, very vulnerable. Um it just didn't appear to be so. So there's some interesting things about the the city. Um and if you look at the the problem with the water Um it was known for, and if you do some studying on this, it was known for its horrible water. Because it would they they type it in and it would come into the stores there in the city. Um and it would get stagnant and then also with all the from all the piping, the clay piping and stuff like that, it would get minerals in there that wouldn't taste very good and things like that. So the water was known for being Not very refreshing. Um by the time even though it came from uh you know melted snow from the mountains of of Colossi by the time it got there through all that piping it would have heated up and then sat there and got stagnant and that was kind of a problem that everyone in the city knew about was the water. So and then also on on the other end, uh in the city of Heropolis, uh there was hot springs. So people from um Laodicea would go to the hot springs to get uh refreshed that way, but then they'd also go to uh Colossia to get fresh water that way. But there in the city of Laodicea there was no fresh water. And if you got water, it was nasty. So again, I think that's another reason that it's addressed here in Revelation 3. So that's kind of the gist of what the city was like. If you lived there, you'd probably be doing pretty well There's not I mean there we know that there was some level of persecution, but there's nothing indicated here that it was to the extent of some of the other churches of what they were going through. Um we know of of of course all that live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. Um but it it doesn't seem to be the same level as what some of the other churches were going through And kind of w the indication we got uh or that I got from studying this is if you were a Christian in Laodicea, your life wasn't too bad. um you kinda had everything you could ever need. Um, you know, you had two cars, two car garage, you know, two chariots, whatever. Um you had your I mean you just you were you were fine. You were you were doing well. You didn't really need anything You know, even if you weren't the richest person in the city, you were fine. And so that's kind of again kind of reminds me of of of where we live. In our nation, it's you know, we're good. Even if we're not uh rich compared to the rest of the country's standards, we're still doing pretty good to the compared to the rest of the world's standards. Um a vast majority of the world anyway. So anyway, that's kind of the the the the position of the city And now we talk about that and and that kinda helps us put things in perspective when he starts talking to uh addressing the church If you look at verse number 17, we see, and this is my first point here, we see the perception that the church had. the perception that the church had. Verse 17 says, Because thou sayest, I am rich, and increase with good, and have need of nothing. They thought they were all right. A and from a human standpoint they were. You know, um they had the big church building, they had the new buses, they had uh nice facilities, they had You know, I'm putting it in modern terms, but you get the point. They they had it. They were doing good. Um they they they they fit the mold, you know, they they they they were doing well financially. They they didn't really need anything, they were good And that's what that was the perception they had. They were they were rich, increased with goods, and didn't really need anything. They were rich, you know, from the world's perspective, but the physical wealth and The the implication here that we can get from reading this is they thought they were good spiritually as well. You know, of course we're spiritual, look at the size of our church, you know. And that's kind of the the the the gist that we get from studying this. They were good spiritually, they had everything, and he says, I know they work, so clearly they were working. You know, they had the ministries running, they had everything going, they weren't lazy, they were working. Um, so they were a working church in a wealthy city and they were doing all right. Um they didn't really need anything. And you know the perception would be from those on the outside looking in would probably match that of the city. Um it looks good You know, strong fortress, uh good commerce, everything's good. You know, from and other churches looking in might think, wow, that's an awesome church. They're booming, you know, that's great. They're working for the Lord, they've got all these new programs and facilities and Everything like that. And I keep saying that. I know we have a new facility, so please I'll clarify all this here in a little bit. But um that they were good and that they were jud they were judging their spirituality based off of what they could see, you know And uh that's where they were at, and and others would would look at them the same way. They were increased with goods. They had things. Goods are things You know, so they w the church had things. You know, what are some things that a church needs? Pews, you know, we need you know um again putting it in modern terms, we got we got LED lights, that's nice, you know. Um but they had the things. They had the the the the building. And if you do some studying on this, um most during that time most churches didn't have their own buildings. They were going in houses and things like that, trying to find meeting places. Well, yeah, see, they had a church building It did. And so I mean they were they were doing good. So um that that was their pres the that was their perception and others would probably look at them the same way and You know, if if if they were in our times today, we would probably think they're one of the most spiritual churches because they had everything. You know, they had everything that they needed, and that's what they said. They would they have need of nothing Um they did not need money, they didn't need it stuff, and they they kinda got to the point and we can tell by the way this is worded here that They got to where they really didn't need God anymore. They had their their church running and they had their religious organization going and they were working in the community and we got this. We can handle this. And that's a dangerous place to be. And so then that leads me to the next thing I want to point out. The next point is their position. You know, the perception was we're good. You know, spiritually, we're set, we're rich, we're increasing goods, haven't needed nothing. And if we would look at the church at Layout of Sea, we'd say, man, they're awesome, they're booming. But the reality was their position was lukewarm. Lukewarm at a at best. Not hot, not cold. And he says that uh here in verse um 15, I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot. I would thou wert cold or hot, so then because thou art lukewarm, neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth. You know, we've looked at we know this is a pretty familiar passage. We've heard it preached from before, I'm sure, many times And you know a lot of times we'll look at this and say, well, it's because we're not doing enough. We're doing just enough to get by. The reason that we're lukewarm is, you know, we go to two out of three services. We don't go to three. We don't go, it's not like we never go at all. We're just, you know We're half in. You know, we tithe most of the time, but sometimes we don't. And so we're we're judging the lukewarmness off of works there. You know, how much we do. We need to do more. We need to get fired up and get on fire for God. Our theme this year is revive us again. And so, you know, we need to get all revived up and and but again we're basing that off of what we're doing. Well, it's interesting because the reason that they were lukewarm and not hot or cold wasn't because of how much they were doing or not doing. They've never led someone to the Lord before, because they've only been saved for just a little bit of time. Never tithed, haven't read the Bible. So we would say, you know, they're just starting out spiritually. We'll give them a one. Okay, earthly grading scale here, short, but let's just work with me for a second. We'll give them a one. Well, someone that's been saved their whole life, they read the Bible through sixty times and uh been tithing their whole life, give give to missions and support missions, led you know, hundreds of people to the Lord. We'd give them a ten. Okay? So what about someone who's read the Bible through almost all the way and you know they they just are starting to figure out, oh, I'm supposed to tithe, oh maybe I should come to church more than once, or you know, okay Well, if they've only been saved for a little bit of time, would we give them a two? See, we're trying to that that's a faulty grading scale. We're grading for our own selves, first off, which isn't good. If we uh you know if we compare ourselves among ourselves that's not wise. But then again, and then but then also we're comparing They were grading spirituality based off of how much we do or don't do. The reason that they were lukewarm was not because they weren't doing anything. Or not doing enough, it was because of their attitude and their perception. And he says that in verse number 17. He doesn't say because thou doest or because thou doest not. He says because thou sayest. The lukewarm attitude Is not an i i i i i i i is just that. It's an attitude. The lukewarm Christian is not a Christian that doesn't do as much as another Christian. The lukewarm Christian is the Christian that thinks they're hot, but they're not. And that was uh I I preached a message from this passage about three years ago to the teenagers, and that was the title of it. You think you're hot, but you're not. Yeah. But that's the lukewarm attitude. So anyway, what what that that was and we we look at this passage and we've always thought, you know, well you know, hot or cold and and we try to explain this, but when you think about uh this position the city was in, they would understand completely this analogy, wouldn't they? Man I don't want I don't want to lay out a sea in water. That stuff it it tastes like clay and it's warm and it's nasty. Give me something refreshing. You know, something cool, something refreshing, or get me something hot, get me something from the hot springs or something like that. And so they would understand perfectly what he's talking about. And so he goes on more to talk about this, their per their perception, I mean it was um They thought they were good. Others probably did as well. But the position was this. They were lukewarm. They had that attitude of, no, I'm good. And it made God sick. It was repulsive. So I'll spew you out of my mouth. It makes me want to throw up. The attitude does See, they were actually spiritually poor, and he addresses that in verse number 17, and knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. So the reality was they were poor. Oh, maybe not financially. They they lived in Laodicea after all. They were doing okay. But spiritually, they were poor That's the reality. And blind. Oh, again in Laodicea, they were known for that ointment. If anyone had good vision, it was people of Laodicea. Right? But but Jesus says, no, you're not understanding what I'm saying. You're actually blind. Because you think you're good, but you're really not You're basing your spirituality off of what you're doing and not the condition of your heart and not your attitude. Um so and then also um they were they were naked, they weren't clothed. And again, coming from Laodicea, a city that was known for their wealth and their their clothing and fashion came out of there as well. People look to Laodicea for the latest fashion trend. Are you serious? We're the ones that that aren't clothed. We have the finest clothing. Again you're blind You think you're good, but you're really not. You're really, really not. And then he goes on, and um the the reason for their their um um Their position was their not their works, it was their attitude. So then God goes on and gives them a petition, which is that's the next point, God's petition. And look at this. Verse 18, I counsel thee. Now, if you get counsel from God, I think it's pretty important. You know, um pe people will go to counseling for different things and that's good. Um but it the best counselor I think would be Jesus. I think he'd be the best. So if he says that he's counseling with us, or if he's counseling with the church here at Layout Sea, I think it'd be a good idea to listen to the counsel. So he says, I counsel thee in verse number eighteen, to buy of me gold tried in fire. Now, they have gold. They have gold. The illustration that comes up throughout scripture, but also was used in the in the in the secular world at that time as well. Well we still use it today, I guess. But gold tried in fire has the idea of purification, right? Something that is has been through it And Jesus is saying, I I want you to get my counsel, I want you to get my gold, I want you to get what I have to offer you, the wealth that I have to offer you. You think that's I mean you think that the earthly gold is good, I've got something better for you and more valuable for you. That's what he's saying And then um I counsel he says I counsel me uh uh by gold tried in fire, thou mayest be rich in white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed. White idea has to do with purity, right? You think you're good, you've got the finest clothing, you've got the you've got the suit on, you've got everything you need, and but really I care more about your your purity, your heart. Okay? And so that's what he's appe appealing to there. And then moving on, um, and anoint thine eyes with eyes that may see Again, he's not talking about the physical ointment that would have been there at Laodicea. He's saying, I want you to understand and to see the things that I have for you from Scripture and things like that. So the the the perception was Laodicea, the city, big city, fortress. Can't break it, but reality was you could conquer it pretty easy just by finding a hole in that pipeline somewhere Okay? Same thing with the church. Had the illusion the illusion, the perception that it was spiritual, had the perception of being an awesome five-star church, but the reality was as they matched the city And they were lukewarm, just like the water that was there. So um anyway, moving on. God says uh I counsel thee, buy me uh gold tried in fire, white rain, white raiment, amazing But then he makes this statement. In verse number 20 Behold, I stand at the door and knock. Now a lot of times when we hear this verse, we're talking to someone who's not saved, someone who's lost. Right? If someone's not saved, someone's not a Christian, we say God is knocking and He wants He wants to come in, he wants, you know, he wants to come into your heart and save you. That's true, but this is talking to the church, isn't it? This verse is. So, yes, if you're not saved, of course, Christ wants to be your Savior, of course. But he's talking to those of us who are saved, to the church. What this is telling me is what part of what made God sick. To where he wanted to spew them out of his mouth and made that lukewarm, nasty ugh, was because they were a church without Christ in it. That's not good. That's not a church. Yeah. That's not good. Calling our themselves Christians and They they they were. They were they were addressed as the uh the the church there and and they believed Christ, sure, but they just didn't include him. in their ministries. They didn't include him when they drove the bus. They didn't include him when they taught the Sunday school class. When they did their outreach, when they did their work. He wasn't included in that. He was left outside the door. He wasn't included in the sermons. He wasn't included in the preaching. He wasn't included in the offering. He wasn't included in the Why or he wasn't he wasn't in the church But he was up he was wanting to be in. And that's his counsel. Hey, listen, you think you got it all going on, you think you think you're hot, but really you're you're not. You're lukewarm, and the reason you're lukewarm is because I'm not even in here. And you have this perception, you have this attitude, I'm good. I'm rich, increased with goods, have needed nothing, and you don't even realize that I'm outside trying to get in And so this verse, although yeah, we've we've we've used this verse and we've seen this verse to to try to win people to Christ, really actually what it's talking about is here at the church of Laodicea. He's saying, If any man Hear my voice and open the door. I will come in with him, sup with him, and he with me. The idea here is of a close, close relationship with Christ. That's what Christ was longing for was that intimacy, that relationship between him and the church. Please let me in and let's just You know, we put it in our modern language, it's sup with him, and he with me. Hey, let's let's eat some supper. Let's just sit down together, right? I want to have a relationship with you I want to be close to you, but I can't be if I'm outside. I'm your Savior, but can I be part of your life too? Can I be part of your ministries too? And he's out there, he's knocking. So that was his petition. I'm counseling of you. Hey, you you think you're good, but really you're not. What I have to offer you is better than the gold you have. What I have to offer you is the is better than the clothing that you have. It's better the the ointment that I have. What I have is better than that. You think you're rich and increase with goods, but I you're not, and I want to be a part of it so that you are. So that's the petition there. And the reason for that petition is in verse 19. The reason it sounds a little stern, doesn't it? You know, you say you're good, but really you're you're broke. You're naked. You don't have anything. You can't even see. Stern, but you know why? Because of verse 19. As many as I love, I rebuke. And chasten. Be zealous, therefore, and repent. This is the plea. You have been leaving me out of everything. And you've been super religious, but I'm not part of it Get right and bring me back in the picture. Open the door. Repent. Quit thinking you're spiritual enough because you're not. And let Christ back in and and and we'll and we'll continue to grow together. And in verse twenty he says, or excuse me, nineteen he says, I rebuke Be zealous, therefore, and repent. I think this is interesting. In verse 20, he says, If any man hear my voice, that means he's saying something and we're not listening. Could it be we're so that we don't hear his voice because we're just consumed with other things? Oh no. This isn't in my notes, but I just thought of this like But maybe one reason we don't hear God's knocking, we don't hear Jesus knocking, we don't hear his voice saying, hey, I want to come in, is because we've drowned his voice out and we've learned to block it out. I don't know. But um anyway, so this was this was the letter to the church. This is everything uh about it here, and verse twenty-one he says, To him that overcometh, I will grant to sit with me in my throne Even as I ever came and sat down with my father in his throne. Again, that's what he wants is a relationship with us where we go sit with him and if we know Christ is our Savior, of course we will one day. But this is a relationship he's longing for, and he ends this whole section to the letter of the seven churches, the way he ended it uh each letter uh to each individual church, and he says, He that hath an ear let him hear What the Spirit saith unto the churches. So Christ wants us to hear what is being said to the church at Laodicea, just like the others. So we've looked at this letter. We've looked a little bit about the background of the city itself, and we've looked to see the condition of the church, and it gave the illusion of spirituality, but the truth was is they weren't And although others might have thought they were, and although um they thought they were, the truth was they were not. And so then he's counseling with them, and and that's and he says, you know, let let me in, let me into the church. Um and that's where he was at. So a few things that we can get from this real quick. First thing is this. Um God does not measure spirituality based on work alone. To obey is better than sacrifice, right? Just because we're sacrificing doesn't mean we're right. You can be wrong and sacrifice. Just because we are doing something spiritual doesn't mean it's right. Just because I'm doing something Christian doesn't mean I'm being a good Christian. Just because I am doing something that seems to be on the outside, might be fooling myself, might be fooling everyone else. But it doesn't mean that it's spiritual. And I I've talked with the the the the young people about this many times, but here's what happens. We we get this plan in our mind to where we think Oh, I'm going to do this and I'm going to do that, and it sounds so spiritual, and we build this massive spiritual will that God has for us when really we've left him out of it. You know what I'm saying? I'm going to do this ministry, go to this school, do this thing, marry this person. It's all going to be spiritual and it's going to be great. Well, where was he in that? You know what I mean? We're real good at sounding real spiritual with leaving him out of it. Why don't we take his counsel? And we have this, I mean the church at Laodicea, I could see a big church and booming and very big bank account in the church, and they probably had a very large chariot ministry or something. I don't know. But um I can just see Jesus saying, Hey I sure would like to be a part of this. I mean that's I mean nice, but that wasn't my plan. I mean I'm uh I mean that's good, but not really because I'm not part of it. And so so we we we have this perception That we are good because we're doing things. But that was the perception of Laodicea. You know, and I and I wrote some notes down here, but you know, um nice facilities don't mean spiritual, nice buildings don't mean spiritual. You could have a large attendance, run three thousand, and that doesn't mean you're spiritual. There's churches running thousands that would be labeled as the Laodicea type of church, and that is lukewarm. But I'm thinking of some churches and maybe some some mission fields and things like that, and uh maybe down in Dominican and places where they really don't have a whole lot. But they're hot and they're on fire because they have riches and are increased with goods. No, because they have Christ Christ is what makes the church, not the riches, not the goods, not the stuff. It's Christ. Christ is what makes the church. So if we leave Christ out of the church, then we have a religious organization. And it might look it might say Christ on it, but we've left him out of it. We've left him out of it. And so God does not measure spirituality based on work alone. And we we we see that here with the church of Laodicea, and we can we can make application. Now, that in mind. We're talking about the church, right? But the church is made up of what? Individual Christians, right? So like I'm I'm a Christian, Derek's a Christian, we're both members here at this church. Okay? So If I have the lukewarm attitude, which is the attitude of I'm good. I'm spiritual. I'm increased to goods have needed nothing. Then and then he has that attitude, then all of us have that attitude together. That's what makes up the attitude of the church, which tells me I need to address myself. I don't need to address the spirituality of someone else because I can't even really tell what their attitude is. Because again, the perception on the outside could be, they're good. But I know what's on in my heart. So I don't need to look outwardly at the church and say, hmm, I wonder if they really mean it. I wonder if they're really spiritual or not. No, no, I need to turn inward. Make sure I'm right because I'm part of the church. Because I need to be right. So Are you lukewarm? Are you hot? Are you cold? If we're trying to base that off of how much we do or don't do, we're not going to get an accurate number, if anything, that'll just show that we're lukewarm. But spirituality is not based on work alone. It is based on our attitude and our perception there. So do you have the attitude that you're you're good? I've read the Bible through enough. I've heard this message before. I've heard a pastor preach from this message before, and I've heard this. I know this, or I'm good. Um you know, I I'm I I'm I've already learned this. I'm rich. I've needed nothing. Then um then there's a problem there. Or if you're trying to do your ministry or trying to work your whatever your ministry is, whether it's the the the the buses, the fingerprints, the nursery, the fill in the blank. If you're leaving him out of it, then then of course it's going to make him sick. So then the next thing I have written down here is an attitude of spiritual arrival makes God sick. You know that not only that, it is kind of annoying too, isn't it, when someone thinks that they're super spiritual. It's kind of annoying. As annoyed as we get as humans, how annoyed do you think God gets at it, right? It's like, really? You think you're so spiritual Wow. I don't know if he has that attitude or not. But you know what I'm talking about. When someone thinks that they know everything there is to know about the Bible and they might know more than me, but and they might know more than you, but it it there's just something there that's kind of a little bit repulsive. And it might not be with the Bible by any any topic. You know, people don't like a know it all, you know. And it's good if they know it all because you need their advice, but if someone is an you know what I'm saying, the difference between knowing things and being a know it all. Right? Um it can get annoying, can be repulsive. And I think that's part of the reason it made God so sick here is because of that attitude of, oh, I know everything. No, you don't. One of my favorite passages in the Bibles in 1 Corinthians, I believe it's chapter 8, it says, We all have knowledge, knowledge puffeth up, charity edifieth. Does any man think he knoweth anything? He knoweth nothing yet, as he ought to know. Very humbling. Very humbling. Which means we need to keep learning. We need to keep figuring out. We'll never get to that point of where, hey, we're good now. We have need of nothing. We'll never get to that point. So an attitude of spiritual arrival makes God sick. The church at Ephesus thought they had arrived. Uh to the point where they said I'm good. Um the appearance next thing was the appearance of Christianity does not make a good Christian. You know, 2 Timothy 3. 5 mentions having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. You can have the appearance of godliness and not be godly. We can wear the suit. We can wear the you know the tie and everything. By the way, I hate ties. I heard an Amen. Amen. I I hate them. With a passion Um I I better be careful how much I say here, but you know, so Pastor's probably listening, isn't he? So anyway, I'll just look at the camera for a minute. No. Uh one of the one of the things he likes he says whenever I'm behind the the pulpit anywhere it's high, right? And I've always thought this. This is just me being what's the word? Foolish. Um I've always thought, well he said wear it, he didn't say how to wear it. So I've always wanted just you know, like ninja style or You know, where I'm a arm or something. I'm not going to. But I don't like ties. I I I I I don't. I like the pocket squares. They're cool. Right? That those look cool. But anyway, I'm getting so sidetracked. I told you all I get sidetracked. But um any any anyway, what when you wear the tie, the only good thing a tie is for is when you're eating spaghetti or something, it doubles as a bib And then your shirt's good, you know. And and then when you're this tall, y it's hard to find ties that are long enough So, and I'm not just tall. Most of my height is my is my torso. I've got short legs for a giant. I really do. And and so m most of the height is in my torso. Where's Isaac Where's Isaac? Isaac, can you come here? He's the exact opposite of me. He really is I'm gonna blow everyone's mind. This has nothing to do with the message at all, but it's for my own amusement. Watch this the it's the teenagers know what I'm about to do, I think. So anyway If you look, we have the same legs. Our legs are the same length here. Look at that. See that? Actually, I think his belt's a little higher than mine. Yeah, that has nothing to do with anything. Other than it's hard to find ties. Yes, that's where I was going. It's hard to find ties. And so this is an extra, extra long and it still doesn't fit the little thing in the back. Isn't that annoying? I don't know what this has to do with anything. I'm sorry. I told you I get sidetracked. But um oh yeah, we can wear the tie, look the tart I went way off topic there, didn't I? That was awful. But we can wear the tie, look the part, um, you know, carry big black leather Bible under our arms and everything, and man, we we look like a Christian. But still not be one. You know, um Pastor Norris used to say, uh you can go sit in your garage all you want and and beat, but you're not a car. I mean it's uh no so so being a being a Christian isn't the outward appearance and we we see that all through scripture, even um um Uh Samuel, when he was looking for David, said, you know, God looks on the heart, not on the outward appearance and things like that. So the appearance of Christianity, I'm back to my outline now. The appearance of Christianity Does not make a good Christian. Now, let me be careful, because I believe this, and I believe this is this is right. If if you are right Then you'll also want to look right. I believe that. I believe that. But the point isn't to just look right. You can look right and look like a Christian and still not be a good one, right? And I think that's where Laosia was at. And by the way, that's somewhere I don't want to be. I don't want to ever get to that point where my whole relationship with Christ is not caught up in Christ, but on how I look. That wouldn't be good. We worry about what our appearance a lot, don't we? And now we ought to, you know, we ought, you know, to a point, you know, we ought to shower and wash our hair and you know stuff like that. Like this good Uh make sure to look clean, look presentable, and do things decently in order. Sure, absolutely. But if that is our whole identity as a Christian, then we're missing it. We're missing it. So. The appearance of Christianity does not make a good Christian. And my last point is this: a life of service to Christ without Christ in it is not a life of service to Christ. I think that makes sense. So if we're going to s serve the Lord with our life, but leave him out of it, are we really serving him? Now, it's kinda hard to serve the Lord when you don't have a personal relationship with him. And that's what he's longing for. That's what he's outside knocking for. You know? So Um just to wrap things up, you can close your Bibles. I'm pretty much done, but wrapping things up, um why don't we just let God in? Well what are you talking about? The ministry uh you know the bus route's booming, the Sunday school class is booming, things are going well. I just led some of the Lord the other day. Well, great. Why don't we include him in it, you know? Oh, why don't we have a re he wants a personal relationship with you is what he wants. And be when you have that personal relationship with him, it'll come out in works, sure. You look at Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 says, For by grace we stay through faith. Not of yourselves is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast, for we are his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus, which God hath uh or ordained to good works, which God Greater than the good works. I'm you know the you know the you know the passage. You know it. Which God has before ordained that we should walk in them, referring to the good works. So once we are saved, sure, those will come out. Sure. But that's not the focus of our relationship. So, if you're saved and you're busy serving God, you better make sure he's part of it. Better make sure he's part of it. But if you're not saved, um I know that this verse was written to the saved people, but the the concept's still there. He wants to come in. He wants to be in your life. He wants to save you. The Lord is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. So if you're not saved and you don't have a you know for sure if you have a home in heaven and you don't have a personal relationship with him. He wants that. And he wants you to trust him as your Savior. Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around for just a few moments here. We'll have the invitation in just a moment. First, just a couple questions. I mean he would say, you know what, Pastor Matt, that's me. I'm not sure I'm saved. I don't know that I have that relationship with Christ. But I'm very concerned about my soul. I won't make you give a speech. I won't call you out. I won't I won't embarrass you in any way. This is really just between you and me and God. That's why I ask everyone to bow their heads and close their eyes, because I don't want to embarrass anyone. But if there's someone here and you say, Pastor Matt, I am not a hundred percent certain that if I died right now I'd have a home in heaven. I don't know that For a hundred percent certain. I'm not sure, but I'm concerned about that. Would you pray for me? And that's all I'll do is I'll just pray for you. If that's you, could you just slip your hand up where I can see it and put it back down? I am not sure that I'm saved, but I'm concerned about that. Could you just slip your hand up and put it back down? It's just between you and me. No one on camera will see it. No one in the auditorium will see it. It's just between you, me, and God. I'm not sure that I'm saved. Slip your hand and put it back down. Thank you. I see your hand. Thank you. Anyone else? Alright, next question is this. Pastor Matt, I know I'm saved. But truth be told, I've been leaving Christ out of my Christian life. I've kind of left him outside the door. I've been doing a lot of things, and even in his name, but I've left him out of it here recently. And God's convicted me about that. I don't want to be like the church at Laodicea and leave him out of it. That's you. Could you slip your hand up, Pastor Matt? I'm not sure. I'm uh I'm not sure I have him as a part of it. But he's dealing with me about that. I've left God out of some things in my life. Matt, name your phone down. I don't know how God's dealing with you at this invitation, but in just a second I'm gonna pray and then I'll ask you to stand to your feet and we'll have the invitation. But If he's dealing with you when when the invitation's open, you do business with him. Lord, we thank you again for your word. We ask that you would bless this invitation now. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. If you could stand to your feet