1 Peter chapter 1, I'm going to read verse 18 and 19. The Bible says, For as much as ye know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ As of a lamb without blemish and without spot. I want to speak this evening just for a little bit on the precious blood of Jesus Christ. And I think tonight's message ties in with this morning's message. We spoke about sin, and then I think a good follow-up, and this is the Lord's doing, but I think a good follow-up is uh focusing on the blood of Christ. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now as we look at this very important subject. Lord, I I am so inadequate to speak on this of my own mind, my own mentally and and uh spiritually, Lord, I just feel like I come up short and being able to speak on the precious blood of Christ. So, Lord, I yield myself to you. I present my body to you. And I pray that you, Lord, would teach us and speak to us and challenge us and apply to our lives this important truth. I yield my will to you, I present my body, and pray that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I ask with all my heart. In Jesus' name, Amen. How many people have ever heard this term? Maybe you heard a preacher or somebody use this term um a scarlet thread that runs through the scriptures. Anybody ever hear that term? What we mean by that, and uh I feel like I don't hear myself. I don't know, Jamie. But what we mean when we say there's a scarlet thread that runs through the scriptures, what we mean by that is that there is a is a specific topic That is touched on all through the Word of God, from Genesis to Revelation. There is a specific subject that connects God's plan of salvation, all the way from the fall of man until you get to the end of Revelation, where you have the kingdom of God, the new heaven, new earth, and uh sin is eradicated You have this scarlet thread, this topic, this subject that brings the whole message of the Bible together. And of course, that scarlet thread would be what? What is that topic? What is that subject? It's redemption. It's the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. From all the way, Genesis, as I said, through Revelation But it's not just any type of blood. It's a sacrificial blood that's shed. It's not just any blood, but it's the blood of Jesus Christ that He shed on Calvary The precious blood of Christ. I believe the sacrificial blood of Jesus Christ is one of the most important subjects in all scripture. Actually, anything that has to do with Jesus Christ is important. Amen? Sure. But the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ is especially important, I believe it. Our text here we looked at, it's a reminder that uh Peter is writing to these New Testament believers, we always point out the fact under intense persecution, scattered from their homes or families And they're under his persecution. And he's writing to them and he's reminding them. Look at the first part of verse number eight. He says, For as much as ye know So he's mentioning them. So this is something you already know. This is something you're already aware of. This is something that is not new to you. And I'm writing this to you to bring this back to your mind, to bring this as a reminder, for as much as you know, and this is what he's reminding them, the price that was paid for their sin, the precious blood of Christ. It seems like we need to be continually reminded of what Jesus Christ did for us. I don't know about your thinking, but to me, that seems strange that we would have to be reminded that Jesus Christ paid such a price for us. You know how many how many folks agree with me that you know good night, something like that, why would you have to be reminded of that? But nevertheless, we do. In fact, the Lord has given to the New Testament church Two ordinances, one of them being baptism, of course, and every Christian ought to be baptized. Every person after they get saved, as soon as possible, they ought to be baptized, I believe. Just come out, identify with Christ, identify with his church. Baptism is one. And the other ordinance is what? Lord's Supper. Lord's Supper. And the whole purpose of the Lord's Supper, the whole meaning behind the Lord's Supper, the whole intention of the Lord's Supper is to ke It before you and I In the forefront of our mind to keep before us continually, over and over and over, this price that Jesus Christ has paid for us in the shedding of his blood. This is something that Peter is writing to them. He's reminding them of that. And it is ties right in with the purpose of the Lord's Supper: to remind you and I keep before us this price that was paid. Now we do a number of things. There's various memorials that we have to remind us of something that somebody has done for us. In America, we have a number of specific holidays That remind us. Memorial Day reminds us of what? Is a memorial for what? Hmm? Memorial Day. For those that gave their lives, those that have passed away in defense of our country. Primarily, that's what Memorial Day is. To remember the price that men and women in battlefields and in conflicts around the world, the price they paid, For your and I freedom. And so we do that on an annual basis. We start and remember we usually do something here at church to uh emphasize that and remind us of that. We have Veterans Day Again, to bring before us that we don't take for granted. We remember what uh these men and women are doing, putting their lives on the line, and and other things throughout the year to remind us of things. Well that's what Peter is doing In the midst of their persecution, in the midst of their trials they're going through, he's saying, hey, for as much as you know, listen, you know this, you've told this, I just want to remind you again. I just want to bring it back to your mind, this price that was paid for your salvation. And so the precious blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. I have three things real quick I want to show you this evening. Number one, I noticed in verse number uh eighteen and maybe the first part of verse nineteen, uh he's reminding them of the purpose of Christ's blood The purpose that Christ shed his blood. Look at verse 18. For as much as ye know that ye are not what? Redeemed. You are not redeemed. Now he goes on and he touches on the things that do not redeem them But what he's working up to, you're not redeemed with uh corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition, but with the precious blood of Christ He's pointing out the purpose that Jesus Christ shed his blood was to redeem us. Now, what does it mean to redeem somebody? To redeem somebody. The word itself simply means this: to buy back, or it has this idea in the context here, has this idea to liberate a slave from bondage by a financial payment. That's what the word itself means. It was used. To liberate a slave from financial bondage by a particular payment. Let's suppose that Pastor Matt is a slave driver owner. Pastor Matt, stand up here. He is, he owns slaves. He's bad. and uh mean and he don't say, put your shoes on and um And uh he's over here, this is his slave market, and uh uh Edwin's one of his slaves, go over there Oh my word, this is terrible. And uh Hunter is a slave and Garrett's a slave and Xander's a slave. He's got all kinds of slaves. Yeah, r reality it is It's funny, I'll tell Pastor Matt, I said, Hey, I need this done. Next thing I see one of the teens doing it. So here's these guys, and he looked mean at them. He's being mean to them And oh they w they're they're sad and they want to get out of this slavery. Oh, if only they could. Back in the New Testament times, there was one of two ways a slave could get out of the bondage and the and slavery. There's one or two ways they could do it. One was somehow they could raise up the funds, one way or another, and purchase their own redemption. They could purchase their own somehow they'd work it up and they'd be able to pay what he would what paid for a slave if he was going to sell one. So uh Garrett, he somehow, who knows how, but somehow he gets money And uh he pays off his uh and uh Yeah, if you got money, brother, pay up. There we go. Look at that. And he's he's free He's purchased his own redemption. All right, there he is. He's free. Pastor Matt now has no more authority over him. He has no more bondage over him. He is what? He's He's free. He's been redeemed. Now, this was very rare. I was reading one uh one article. They said that back in the day when Peter wrote this, the Roman, within the Roman Empire, there was sixty million slaves. Sixty million slaves. Various reasons. Some were prisoners of war and they'd sell them off as slaves. Some were in debt to somebody, so they'd become like an indentured servant type thing. They'd work for their debt and uh others were whatever And so one way out for these 60 million slaves was to do what he did. Now, as I understand it, that was extremely rare. How would he get money? How would he even do that? He's a slave and depending on the slave owner, you know, what the conditions were. So that was extremely rare that somebody would be able to get up their own finances purchase their own freedom. The other way for a person, a slave to find freedom, to be redeemed, was for someone else. To step in and say, I want to buy Hunter He's big. He's a big guy. Here you go. Here's fake money And uh I pay whatever the amount is and I purchase all right you're my slave now, Hunter. You're mine. You know what? You're free to go. Go on. Purchase his freedom. That, the term that Peter is using here for you're not redeemed, is exactly what I just portrayed with Hunter and Pastor Matt. And he's saying this is not how. The purpose of Christ's blood was to redeem us. Go ahead, you guys can sit down there. I just want to get a visual of that And so the purpose of Christ was to provide redemption, redemption, to liberate somebody with a ransom, to pay that and let them go free. to set here is the one definition to set free from slavery with a payment. And as I said, it was one of two ways. Either they worked their own, extremely rare, very, very few slaves were able to do that Uh when on the other case, when it did happen, somebody else, for whatever motive may be, a family member, just somebody that's very um uh Well very nice. Uh what do you call someone that gives a lot of money to charity? Generous, that's not the word. Anthro uh what Yeah. Somebody nice. And um and uh they of their own motive, their own free will, out of compassion. They pay the price for a slave and they let them go free. And they are they're free to go. And they live their lives. And they're no more under bondage. That is what Peter is referring to. That's the term he uses here Bought out of slavery. How many people here are aware of the fact that you and I as human beings we're sinners? Everybody aware of that? We're sinners. We've sinned against God, a holy God. And God's holiness demands, and we touched on this this morning a little bit, but God's holiness demands that the consequences of sin Unrighteousness, wickedness, whatever sin category it falls in, God's holiness demands a debt be paid for that sin. Anybody here ever get pulled over by a policeman speeding? Anybody here? Or um anybody here ever have him write you a ticket? Yeah. What happens? The consequences of breaking that law is you've got to dish over some money, right? You got to send it in, whatever. Um uh my wife she hasn't for a long time, but uh she had this strategy when she get pulled over, she would just cry. When the policeman asked her, she'll tell you. She'll the policeman quote she just sobbed. It never ever worked. She got a ticket every single time So I'd get pulled over, I'd say, yes sir, no sir, I'm sorry, and uh I hardly ever got tickets. So if you get pulled over, my here's the lesson tonight in the message. If you get pulled over, don't cry But there's a there's a debt, there's a uh there is something owed for breaking that law. And you and I as sinners We are in debt to God. We are enslaved by this debt we owe to God for our sin. And that debt is what? What do we owe for God for our sin? Death. The wages of sin is death. Now we think of that wages there as well that what's that's what God owes me for sinning. I I sinned therefore God pays me these wages that but that's really not how it applies. When I sin, the wages there are what I owe to God for breaking. His law is death, the consequences. And so when the Bible says you're redeemed when Peter is writing to them, for as much as you know you're not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold received by tradition from your uh uh from your uh by your tradition from your fathers your main conversation received by tradition from your fathers he's saying listen The redemption is not purchased by corruptible things. In other words, corruptible things cannot pay for my sin. Corruptible things, silver and gold, could get these boys out of slavery. Corruptible things can redeem some things if your dog runs away. He's gone for four weeks. And um your dog runs away and somebody finds the dog and they take him to the dog pound. If you want to redeem that dog back, you want that dog back, you got to do what You gotta pay a fine. You've got to pay a fee, I believe. Um uh and so redo uh corruptible things can redeem some stuff. uh corruptible things. If your uh if your uh car gets impounded, you park downtown, you don't pay the thing, and uh they come and haul your car away, uh you go I don't think they do it around here too much, but in the city sometimes And uh they go, and you can give some silver and gold, you give some corruptible things, you get your car back. But what I'm trying to say is this, this is what that verse is saying. Corruptible things, silver and gold, can't get you out from the debt of sin. All the money in the world. You can give and give and give and give and give. People give thousands of dollars. It cannot get me out from the bondage of sin. It cannot redeem my soul. Years ago, this is a long time ago, we had a fella, and I think I had crossed paths, I don't remember how what my connection with him was, but he'd been in jail for a while. And uh young fella, and he got out of jail. And he'd been out for a little while, and I had visited him, like I said, I don't remember exactly what the connection was, but one day he came by the church. Uh during the weekday. And I was back in the office. He came in and he says, Pastor Leather, we talked a little bit and different things. He says, Well, he says, I've come by here and I want to give some money to the church Um, I want to get some money to church. I said, okay. And he pulled out his wallet, just a young fellow. He pulled out his wallet, started ripping off hundred dollar bills. And he gave me a stack of a hundred dollar bills. I mean a chunk of them. And uh he says, I want to give this to the church, and something to this effect, I can't quote them exactly, something to this effect, I just want things to be right between God and I. Uh-oh. For as much as you know, you're not redeemed with corruptible things. Hundred dollar bills can't save a soul from hell. Uh $1,100 bills can't pay the wages of my sin. And so I had to sit down and talk with him a little bit and uh we talked a little bit. He claimed to be saved, and he said, oh just this. And um And that's what Peter that's what Peter's writing to them says, listen, you know, you know that you're not redeemed with corruptible things. By the way, uh uh how many people believe a person ought to be faithful to church Amen. You know being faithful to church can't save my soul from hell. Can't save my soul from hell. Putting money in the offering. Uh Doing good things, helping out. Uh I had a lady down in uh uh uh lady down in Chattanooga years ago on the bus route was we were witnessing and said, Do you know for sure you're going to heaven when you die? Oh yeah, I know for sure. How do you know Well, I always help the neighbor, old lady, across the road every week. I'm going to heaven when I die. Uh helping old ladies across the road doesn't doesn't save our soul. Doesn't save our soul. The purpose of the blood of Christ was to redeem us from the judgment of our sin. You can buy your car back from the impoundment. You can get your dog back from the dog pound. You can pay your house off, your mortgage off with corruptible things. But a condemned sinner Cannot be redeemed by corruptible things, only by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Hebrews chapter 9, verse 22 says this: without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins. No remission of sins. Jesus shed his blood on the cross for one reason, and one reason only, to pay our sin debt. So I can be redeemed out from the wrath and judgment of God. So the purpose of Jesus Christ's blood was to redeem us To redeem us, buy us back out of the wrath and judgment and condemnation of God. Number two, I put this down from verse 19, the preciousness of Christ's blood The preciousness. Look again at verse number 19. Verse 8. Let me read verse 18 again. For as much as you know, you're not redeemed with corruptible things. As silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, he's saying, oh, this is all passed down. You've been told you can buy your way to heaven, you can do this No, no, no. But, verse 19, with the precious blood of Christ. I have that underlined in my Bible. The precious blood of Christ. The word precious means this: of great price. Highly valued, very, very costly. Now think with me if you would. Everybody alright? Everybody with me? Think this through with me a little bit. Is there a heaven in hell? Yes or no? Yes. There absolutely is. If there is a real place called hell, and there is, And if sin is what sends me to hell, and if only the blood of Jesus Can remove my sin from me so I don't go to hell. Would you agree with me? The most valuable thing in the world is the blood of Jesus Christ. What's it profit a man if he gains the whole world and he loses his soul? What shall we give in exchange for his soul? Listen, here's the tragedy, and this is where people struggle, I think, sometimes. We live in a society, we are immersed in a world That either totally denies the reality of hell, or at best simply ignores the reality of hell. And you and I as Bible believers, we live in that environment. We are immersed in that environment where hell is at best a fairy tale or something you don't even Worry about it all, you don't even think about. And we lose, get this, we lose the gravity and the seriousness Of the reality of this place called hell. We lose that. And we just live our lives. And for the for most of us, practically speaking, we live our lives as if it's not even a reality. We just go through life. But I'm saying to you this: if hell is real and it is, if we exist beyond the grave forever in either heaven or hell, if that is true, and it is. And it is my sin that separates me from God and sends me to hell. And if the blood of Jesus is the only thing that can wash my sins away, So that I don't go to hell and I go to heaven. If that is true, the blood of Jesus Christ is the most precious, valuable thing in all the world. More than anything else you and I could invest in. Well you you say, well, we ought to give food to the poor. I agree. We ought to give food to hungry folk. We ought to try and help folks that need clothes or you know, food or whatever. We ought to help them But what does it profit them if we give them all these corruptible things and fill their tummies with food and put shoes on their feet and a roof over their head and they die and go to hell in a thousand years from now What value was that? I think we ought to help folk. But what I'm saying is the blood of Christ This is the end of my sermon, but I want to say it now. The blood of Christ is the only thing that stands between me and hell. The blood of Christ on that altar in heaven, the mercy seat of God, the blood of Christ that's been placed there on that altar, is the only thing That stands between God's holiness, God's judgment, and myself. He says, the precious blood of Christ. The valuable, the most valuable thing in the world. You know, the New Testament preachers, you read the book of Acts, now my calculations may be wrong. But I believe there's 22 sermons recorded in the book of Acts. I could be off a little bit, but around there, 22 sermons in the book of Acts, that record of them preaching You know what? In every one of those sermons, you know what they touched on? Every single one. In fact, not just touched on it, it was the central theme of every single sermon. You know what it was? The death, burial, resurrection of Jesus Christ. You read the book of Acts, that was the most precious The most valuable, the most important truth in all the world was that Jesus Christ died, shed his blood, was buried, rose again. The precious blood of Christ, the precious blood of Christ. If hell is real and sin sends me there, and Jesus' blood is the only thing that cleanses my sin. That's the most precious thing in the world. The most important thing in the world. The only hope of salvation is in the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And last of all, I am with this the purity. of the blood of Jesus. Look with me if you would at verse 19. But with the precious blood of Christ, then he kind of illustrates. He wants to make a statement about that blood As of a lamb without blemish and without spot. He says, as Like that, even even as these lambs that are brought to the sacrifice, and some of these were Jews no doubt, and they understood, they saw this firsthand, as the folks would bring the lamb to sacrifice for their sins under the Old Testament economy. I I I said something ought not to say. I did something, ought not to do living in some way. I need to turn from that that sin. I'm going to bring the little lamb. And uh it has to be without spot. It has to be without blemish. And they would very carefully look through that lamb and they'd look for a tear on the ear or a or a scar on the leg or some sort of stain or spot on there without spot or blemish. And then o then and only then they would take that and that land would be sacrificed. And it's Blood shed and sprinkled on the altar to cover the sins of the Old Testament. He says, in like way, just like that, the blood of Jesus Christ is precious What's he saying? Let me back up here. That phrase without blemish means without any faults. Without spot means without any stain. These were the physical requirements of the sacrifices in the Old Testament, without spot and without stain. That was outward, but it was a picture of the inward reality of the blood of Jesus. Jesus Christ's blood was absolutely sinless and pure. We're going to have Lord's Supper in just a moment. In here in these little cups, we used grape juice. Some churches, some denominations use wine. I believe they're incorrect in using wine I think the word wine in the Bible, and this is another subject, the word wine in the Bible is a very generic term, just applies to the fruit of the vine. It couldn't be in any various stages. I believe we d uh we use just pure grape juice. We don't use wine for this reason. Wine uh alcoholic wine is a fermented, what we call wine today, there's a fermentation table. And that fermentation includes bacteria that is in there breaking down the makeup of the grape juice and in that process, the stages of that pro that process of that grape rotting is what's happening. Fermentation is the juice rotting within a A certain stage of that is where it becomes alcoholic and people use and drink it. That is an incorrect, that is an unscriptural representation of the blood of Jesus Christ. That bacteria in there, that breakdown, that rotty. Jesus Christ's blood was absolutely pure Without sin, without spot, without stain of sin whatsoever. Absolutely pure. The life, the sacrifice of Jesus Christ His blood was a sacrifice of Jesus Christ's life and blood was a perfectly pure, sinless, and holy sacrifice. And it was shed to pay for my sinful account. Jesus Christ. If Jesus had sinned If his blood was stained even remotely with sin, the guilt of sin, that sacrifice would have been ineffective. Would not have covered my sin. It had to be sinless. It had to be perfect. In fact, the fact that he rose from the dead is a testimony of the fact that God accepted it. It was perfect, complete, sinless blood of Jesus. Years ago, uh Jay Wilbur Chapman was a great preacher, uh back years ago, a hundred years ago, I believe. And he had a friend, his name was George F. Pentecost. No. I don't know anything about this fella. Other than Um he decided he was going to climb Pike's Peak out in Colorado. Anybody ever been out there? Pikes Peak? We were there a number of times Now this is years ago, before they had the road that goes up top. He was going to climb Pike's Peak, but he wanted to do it by himself. And uh all his friends said to him, You can't go without a guide. You've got to have a guide up there. It's bad, storms come up out of nowhere. And he was bound and determined. He says, I can do this, I know he can do it, and I can do it alone. So finally the guides there and the people that were there, they said, all right, if you're going to do it, there's a certain curve as you make your way up the side of the mountain, there's a certain area where there was a little wooden hut someone had built. And they said, if you get in trouble, if you get you know uh in trouble, you can go in there and get some shelter. Well, he started up the mountain and uh got up there. As he got uh uh ways up the mountain, a snowstorm hit. It said, without warning, the blinding snow covered him. He began to wander off the trail and the and the part where you go up to the top, and he got lost. And in the snow he staggered and fell. He never did find the hut. Got bitter cold, he was buried in snow, and he He slipped and fell and he came down and uh just being covered with snow and he was absolutely convinced that he was dead. He was going to die. There was no hope And as he moved, he reached up and he grabbed, and he was underneath a pine tree, and he realized he had a handful of dry um uh um Uh little bristles from the thing. He had a uh what are they called? Pine needles. Twigs is the word I want. And he had uh he had a handful of these dry little twigs. And then he remembered, I got one match in my pocket. And he dug around, the wind's blowing, the snow is white out snow, and he reached in his pocket and he had that one match. And he started to strike the match and laid the twigs, but he was afraid that the wind would blow it out. And he struggled back and forth and finally got huddled up under there the best he could. And he got down and he struck that match. And lo and behold, the twigs caught fire. He gathered some more around. He built a little fire and he snuggled up around it. And he lived through the night. And the next day folks found him and brought him out. And he made this statement. He said that that twig was the that that that match was the only thing that stood between me and certain death. Made this statement. I could not be careless with that match. That was the only thing that stood between me and death I read that, I thought of this. The blood of Jesus Christ is the only thing that stands between you and I and hell. The blood of Jesus Christ. Here's my statement. We cannot be careless with the blood of Jesus Christ. We must understand the value, the preciousness of what Christ did for us in shedding his blood, applying it to the elder, so you and I Can escape hell. You and I can be safe from going to hell. We can be redeemed back from the judgment of God which sends us to hell. The blood of Christ. The blood of Christ. As long as I'm pastor, I have my right mind, we're going to sing of the blood of Jesus Christ. As long as I'm pastor and I have my right mind, we are going to exalt. We're going to rejoice in. We're going to preach and declare the blood of Jesus Christ. The precious blood of Jesus, the most valuable thing, the most valuable commodity in all the world It's the blood of Christ that'll save a soul from hell. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to not be careless. with the truth of your blood. Help us, Lord, not to be careless with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, but to rejoice in it, to proclaim it, to share it. Lord, I ask that your Holy Spirit would help us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say with me tonight, say, preacher, I want to I I want God to remind me and I want to cherish and value the blood of Christ as I ought to. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Of course we feel that way. What kind of Christian would it? I wonder how many of us would say, preacher, this is so valuable. I want to share it with others. I want others to know what the blood of Christ can do for them. Lost people. Listen, if hell's real, it is. We've got to take this seriously And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'd be a good witness in school, at work, in my neighborhood, our community, supporting missionaries, any way I can to get this message. How many feel that way? Amen. Now let me ask one more question as we go to the Lord's Supper. I wonder how many of us, honestly before God, would say, you know, there's some sins that Jesus paid for, but yet I'm holding on to them. Jesus shed his blood for you, yet they're in my life. You say I need to get them out. I need to confess that, acknowledge it. Pride, self-righteousness, judgmental spirit, whatever you name it. We've got to get that out. Christ paid for it. It shed his blood. But yet as a Christian, we need to confess it and forsake it. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing her.