No. 2 Samuel chapter 20, I want to begin reading in verse number 14. And I'm going to read down through verse number 22, or verse 14, chapter 20, verse 14, down through verse 22. This is the tail end of this whole sorid event here with Sheba. Verse 14 says, and he, that's Sheba, this rebel, we'll remind you here in a bit, he went through all the tribes of Israel unto Abel and to Bethmacah. Those are two cities. And all the Barites, and they were uh and they were gathered together and went also after him. And they, Sheba and his His thugs. They came and besieged him. Uh no, I'm sorry, this is uh Joab. They came and besieged him in A Abel of Bethmacca. And they cast up a bank against the city, and it stood in the trench, and all the people that were with Joab battered the wall to throw it down. So that's Sheba's in the city, Abel, Joab shows up, they start battering the city. So verse 16. Then cried a wise woman out of the city, Hear, hear, say, I pray unto you, Jab, come hither that I may speak with thee. Now here's the amazing thing to me. Joab stopped and listened to her. And when he was come near unto her, the woman said, Art thou Joab? And he answered and said, I am he. Then she said unto him, Hear the words of thine handmaiden. And he answered, I do hear. Then she spake, saying, They want to speak in old times, saying, They shall surely ask counsel at Abel. And so they ended the matter. I am one of them that are peaceable and faithful in Israel. Thou seekest to destroy a city and a mother in Israel Why wilt thou swallow up the inheritance of the Lord? And Joab answered and said, Far be it, far be it from me that I should swallow up or destroy. The matter is not so. But a man of Mount Ephraim, Sheba, the son of Bitrai by name, had lifted up his hand against the king, even against David Deliver him only, and I'll depart from the city. The woman said unto Joab, Behold, his head shall be thrown over to thee, over the shall be thrown to thee over the wall Then the woman went unto all the people in her wisdom, and they cut off the head of Sheba, the son of Bitri, and cast it out to Joah. And he blew a trumpet, they retired from the city, every man to his tent, and Joab returned to Jerusalem unto the king Can you picture this head flying out over the wall to Joab? What a terrible ending to a very wicked man. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, we study this passage, this event that you and your wisdom have preserved for us in the Word of God. And so that tells me there are lessons here for us, more than just a little uh fascinating uh historical account You have lessons for us to learn from this, and so I pray that would be the case tonight. I pray you would use this passage here to help us as a church to be a stronger in our faith and more effective in our witness, be a better church. I pray for us as individuals that you would use this event, that we would grow in our walk with you, and we would be stronger Christians. And so please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I pray you'd speak through me, Lord, and have your way in the service and the message tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. If you remember, just a brief, quickly review David is on his way back to Jerusalem after Absalom's rebellion. Absalom was brutally killed by Joab, and David is coming back. A group of people meet him. As he approaches, as he crosses the river. The tribe of Judah, the southern tribe, just the small of the twelve tribes, just the small southern tribe, they greet David as he crosses the river. The eleven other tribes, they come in later and they have a dispute, and they get in a big argument over this, over who greeted David first. Would you agree with me? That seems awfully petty Right? Would you agree? That seems awfully immature for a nation to fuss over who greeted David coming back first. I want to remind you, Christians can be awfully petty. God's people sometimes will get bent out of shape over the most ridiculous things. And so it's nothing new Uh yeah it's nothing uh uh that's a sign of the end times. It's been the case from day one. So they get in this fuss, and in the midst of this division, Sheba rises up This man of Belial, which means he was morally worthless, he was an ungodly man, and he takes advantage of the situation, and no date, no doubt Satan is exploiting this and using his man here, and he says, We have no part in King David. And he rises up an insurrection against David immediately on the heels of Absalom's insurrection. And so my outline of this text here, this whole chapter here, was David returns to a fractured nation, and that's where they're fussing. And then we had, we noted, just to give you the outline here, we noted Sheba's defiance as he raises up against David and exploits the division going on in the nation. And then we noted, I think it was last week, Israel's feeble leadership. There's a real s they really stumble here as David's trying to re-establish his administration, trying to get things back in place after this huge disruption. And he um he I think my opinion he makes uh some poor decisions on leadership, putting a massa in there, and so there's uh a feeble leadership and there's some issues there. Now tonight what I want us to look at I've entitled it the fourth point in this whole little series here is The Fate of Sheba of Sheba the Rebel. The fate of Sheba the Rebel. Now we just read this, and if you notice, the second rebellion against David ended almost exactly as the first rebellion did, very quickly and very violently. I mean before it almost get be almost before it gets started, it's over. And so Sheba uh ends up very similar to uh Absalom's resituation. Now I want us to notice verse 14. I broke this section down. I want us to notice in verse number 14, Sheba's recruitment Look there at verse 14. And he, this is speaking of Sheba, the son of Vitrai, he went through all the tribes of Israel unto Abel, that's a city, and unto Bethmecah Know the Bearites, and so he's going around trying to recruit people into his rebellion Someone has said that a rebel against God's word and against the will of God, a rebel against God's word and against God's will will do three things. The first thing a rebel is going to do is he's going to try to involve other people into his rebellion. He's going to seek to recruit others and be a part of his insurrection Against the God-annointed leadership. And we see this throughout history. Now, I think it's kind of interesting, if you would, come back to verse number two. This is when you have the initial uh insurrection verse uh two, the uh uh verse one, and there happened to be there a man of Belial whose name was Sheba, the son of Bitraite, so here he is, a Benjaminite He blew a trumpet and said, We had no part in David, neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to his tents, O Israel. So look at verse two. So every man of Israel went up from after David and followed Sheba. So initially, when he first says, we have nothing to do with David, he blows the trumpet. We're going to rebel. Initially, all the men of Israel said, Yeah, we're with you. Now some time has gone past, at least three days, four days. Maybe a little longer than that. And now it's uh like they say, uh anybody ever hear this? The rubber hits is hitting the road In other words, here's a more recent statement. It's getting real. It's one thing to talk about rebellion. And now it's time, all right, we're going to step out and actually take action against David. And it looks like to me, in verse number 14, that Sheba's having a tough time getting these guys to follow him. Initially, yeah, we don't have any part with you. Now in verse 14, he's having to go to all these cities and find the guys. And he's trying to recruit them to get, hey, come on, guys. You know, we said we're not going to do this, let's go. But one thing a rebel will do, he will always try to involve others in his rebellion. Very seldom do ungodly rebels work alone Matthew Henry, who's a classic commentator, is classic commentaries on the Bible, he made this statement. He said, one rebel will find or make more rebels. He gets a rebellious attitude. He gets out of sorts with God's people and God's leadership. And the first thing he's going to do is try and get other people on board with him. And if you've been in churches any length of time, you've probably seen this at some point. Somebody gets bent out of shape. Somebody uh gets uh um what's the term they get uh uh burr in their saddle, right? Is that the right one? That sounds pretty good. I heard that on gunsmoke, I think. But uh Somebody gets bent out of shape and one of the first things they're going to do is get on the phone, hey, what do you think about this? Hey, what about that? And next thing you know, they try and uh get some things when that is a classic practice of rebellion Um sometimes folks, not very often, over the years, and in various churches have folks come and they'll say something like this, Pastor, we're not happy, and there's a lot of people not happy about this And whenever somebody says that, my immediate response is this, well, who exactly are these many people? Sometimes they'll give me one or two people that they interpreted what they said as being unhappy with something. Rebels always look for more rebels. Either they'll find them or they'll make them And so that's exactly what Sheba's doing. He's out there saying, Hey, come on, we're not going to put up with this anymore And he's trying to recruit others in his rebellion. Another thing, this one statement I came across, a rebel does, number one, they'll recruit others, they'll involve others. Number two, they hurt others A lot of people got hurt by Absalom's rebellion, yes or no? Lost their lives. A lot of people get hurt by Sheba's rebellion. A rebel against God and against God's people will always hurt other people. A rebellious child hurts their parents, right or wrong. How many broken-hearted parents are there or a child who rebelled against them and rebelled against the things of God and said, I'm going to go my way. Do you think the prodigal s uh son, do you think that father Was brokenhearted over his son's actions? Absolutely. A rebellious child hurts their parents, and some of us know that from experience A rebellious husband will hurt his wife. He rebels against the things of God. He rebels against the people of God. He says, I'm going to do it my way. I don't care what God says. We have no part in King Jesus. I tell you, that fellow's going to hurt his wife, amen or not. A rebellious wife is going to hurt her husband. Rebels hurt other people. Rebellious parents hurt their children. Surprising to me, over the years I've noticed sometimes parents that are so upset about their children will not obey the father. And I notice many, not always, but s uh sometimes that fathers not obeying their heavenly father. If I'm going to live as a parent, if I'm going to live in rebellion against God, don't be surprised if my children rebel against me. Rebellion, what I'm trying to say is rebellion against the Lord, God's will, and God's people hurts other people. In our families? In the church? How many ministries have been hurt because somebody rose up in rebellion against the Lord and against God's people? Rebellion hurts a nation. A nation says, well, people, citizens of a nation say, we will not obey God. We will not submit to the Lord. And I'll tell you, that nation pays a heavy price for rebellion against the Lord. So rebellion always hurts others. Absalom hurt many people, Sheba hurt many people. So number one A rebel will try to involve others. Number two, a rebel will hurt others. And then last of all, they made this statement, a rebel will destroy themselves. They will destroy themselves. Every rebel you read about in the Bible ended up destroying themselves If you would, take your Bible, keep your place here, and come back to 1 Samuel chapter number 15 1 Samuel 15, there's a the prophet Samuel made a tremendous statement to a rebel about rebellion. 1 Samuel chapter 15. Anybody want to take a guess who that rebel was? It's King Saul You talk about a rebel against God. God gave him clear instructions. He said, I'll not do it. He did it his way. And if you would, notice in chapter 15 and verse number 23, 1 Samuel. Chapter 15, verse 23. God had instructed King Saul to uh wipe out the uh Agag And uh the nation, and he didn't do it. And look at verse 22. Samuel said, Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offering and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. Would you agree with me? It's better to um uh do what God says than to put a bunch of money in the offering plate and not do what God says. You follow what I'm saying? It's better to obey God. You can put all the money in your In the offering you want, you make all the sacrifice you want. If we're not going to obey God, if we're going to rebel against God, we're going to pay a price. Now look what he says in verse 23. For rebellion Is as what? The sin of what? Witchcraft. Would you agree with me? Witchcraft is bad. You agree with me, witchcraft is destructive. Rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, rebellion re He hath also rejected thee from being king. Saul destroyed himself when he rose up and rebelled against God. Solomon warned his son about this. Again, if you would. Now don't lose your place in 2 Samuel 20, but come over to Proverbs chapter number 1. The book of Proverbs is penned by the uh King Solomon, and he's penned it to his son. It's written primarily for young men, the book of Proverbs. Now it applies to all of us, but in chapter 1 of Proverbs, notice with me verse number 10, the first two words tells us who he's talking to. Who is it? It's his son. He says, my son. Now notice what he says. Now think about the context of our message. And what Solomon is penning here under the inspiration of God. He says, my son, if sinners entice thee, there's that recruitment. These rebels against God, rebels against what's right. They're going to entice you, they're going to try and get you in on it. How many people ever experienced that? You go somewhere, oh come on, when you were young, anybody, oh come on, what what can go wrong? If sinners entice thee, he warned them, Consent thou not, don't you go in with them. If they say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk privily for the innocent without cause. Let us swallow them up alive as the grave, and whole as those that go down to the pit. We shall find all precious substance. We shall fill our houses with soil. Cast thy lot among us Let us all have one purse. I can hear Sheba saying something right along those lines. Oh, come on. We'll rise up against David. This country can be ours. We can run this nation. He's recruiting. And he goes on, my son, verse 15, walk not thou in the way with them. Refrain thy foot from thy path. He says, you stay away. Why? Look what he says. For their feet run to evil And make haste to shed blood, exactly what Sheba's doing. Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird He's saying, listen, you put a net out there and a bird sees it, it's not going to get in it. There's consequences, there's results. And they lay wait for what? Their own blood. And they lurk privily for their own lives. So are the ways of everyone that is greedy of gain, which taketh away the life of the owners thereof. That's what Sheba is seeking to do And Solomon's telling his son, you run with that crowd, and you're going to end up destroyed, because they will destroy themselves and you along with them. So I guess the moral of this point, the point here of this verse and this the application of what's taking place here is be careful who we run with. Be careful who we interact with. You say, preacher, we're all adults, we wouldn't do it. I'm telling you, an adult can end up in rebellion just as much as a teenager. These rebellious teenagers, oh yeah, there can be rebellious senior citizens, rebellious moms, rebellious dads. We need to be very, very careful. And Sheba is out recruiting, recruiting, recruiting. So the first thing I notice in verse number 14 is Sheba's recruitment. Trying to get others involved in his rebellion. They all said at first, Oh yeah, well we're with you. But then when the rubber meets the road, it's like, where are they? So he's out trying to get them Then the second thing I notice in verse 15, and this is just quickly, I notice this, I notice Joab's resolve. Come back there to chapter 20, verse 15. Sheba's going all through the tribes of Israel. He's trying to recruit all these guys, get them together. Verse 15, and they, now this is referring to Joab and the men that he's recruited to defend David They came and besieged him, Sheba, in Abel of Beth Makkah. They cast up a bank against the city, and it stood in the trench, and all the people that were with Joab battered the wall to throw it down. Joab is back in the saddle, and he's doing what he does best, completely and utterly destroying the enemies of Israel. I mean that's what he does, Randy. We talked about that. Man, Joab, no prisoners. I mean, we'll just uh there's one guy in this city trying to round up rebels. He's gonna wipe out the whole city. I mean, we're gonna flatten it Old Joab, that's what he does best. I put it this way, he's utterly destroying the enemies of Israel relentlessly, violently, and thoroughly. I mean this is what he does. He's willing to destroy an entire nation to get one man. I had uh when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis, I had a fellow that worked with me, who was kind of my assistant youth pastor, good guy. But uh he was a little bit like Joab. And I tell you, and he told me one time, he says, uh, he says, brother, he called me Pastor Dennis. He said, Pastor Dennis, if anybody does anything, I'll tear them up. And uh one and he if he wanted something, there wasn't no neg if he thought something should be done, and usually what he thought should be done was a good thing, a right thing. And um uh if it if it wa if it wasn't going to go the way he thought it would, not against me, but in situations, brother, he he wouldn't go he'd no negotiating, you wouldn't work around it He'd get the bulldozer out and plow over whoever stood in the way. And uh we uh one time he wa he was had a bus route now, I mean it was packed out. It was seventy-five uh seat bus and he was bringing in eighty-five-ninety kids every Sunday morning and he wanted another bus and the pastor for various reasons said, no, we're not getting another bus right now Well he says, and I was in the meeting there. He says, okay, then I'm going out and buying my own. In fact, I'm going to buy two, and we're going to run them anyway. I had to call him aside. I said, uh I said his name. I said, that's really not the way you deal with that. That's Joab's thinking. He's gonna bust this whole city down. We're getting him, and anybody that's in the way is getting run over. So Joab here is resolved. He's going to settle this matter one way or another. So first of all, we have Sheba's recruitment in verse 14. Uh uh Joab's resolve in verse 15. Now this wise woman shows up. Look at verse 16. There then cried a wise woman out of the city And verse 16 through 19, we have this wise woman's reasoning. And she starts talking to Joab about the situation and offers some other options besides destroying the whole city and killing everybody in it. We don't know anything about this wise woman other than she was wise. We're told twice. She apparently was a very intelligent woman. The word wise there, I looked it up how it's used different places, and it has this idea to be very skilled in administration. In other words, she knew how to figure out situations and to come to the best solution in a situation. Would you agree? That's a mark of wisdom. See a situation, assess it, say, all right, here's the best way to go about this. Joab, he'd see a situation, just blow it up. That was basically his solution for everything. Kill it She says, wait, she was pretty skilled in administration. The word a wise woman there, the word wise has this idea, knowing how to deal with people. The Christian life, a huge part of the Christian life is dealing with people. Anyone find that out yet? If we're going to be a witness, if we're going to have a ministry, if we're going to interact, we've got to be able to deal with people. And this woman was very wise. In interacting and dealing with people, even people who she did not agree with. She did not agree with Joab's tactics. And she very wisely addressed that and very wisely interacted with Joab and was able to come to a solution where not everybody dies. When someone's solution is everybody dies, we try to find a better way of doing it. This wise woman She knew how to handle difficult solutions. In fact, I was looking up what some other people said about this woman, trying to learn everything I could about her, and several commentators and quote-unquote Bible scholars suggested she may have been. uh the governess of this city. She may have been the one running the city, what we would call a governor. She would It's very possible that that was the case for this woman. She certainly shows administrative skill. So this wise woman shows up, and the first thing I want us to notice about this wise woman is her response. It says in verse 16, the wise woman, she cried. This wise woman cried out of the city. Now that tells me something about her. She's not going to just sit back and watch her city get destroyed. She's going to speak up She's going to take action. When it says there, she cried. This is loudly, Joab, what are you doing? She's not just going to sit there and let him destroy this city and everybody in it. She's going to step up. She's going to get involved. She's going to take some action. And so she responds to what's taking place. I thank God for people who are willing to get involved. Thank God for people who are willing to speak up when something isn't right. Thank God for people willing to get involved. I'm telling you, our nation needs somebody to get involved. to speak up the condition of our churches and the condition of Christians in 2022 in the United States of America Is pathetic, and I'm not talking about ours, I'm speaking generally. Somebody's got to start speaking up and preaching the word of God and getting involved until God steps in and brings revival. I thank God for this woman. She's willing to get involved. We're gonna, if we're gonna see any change, we've got to start. Let me just share my thinking a little bit And I'm as burdened for our country as anybody. I appreciate some things Jimmy said uh Brother Shelton said Sunday. Listen, if our country is going to turn around, it's not going to happen by politicians. It's going to be when Christians get right with God And we start winning souls. Somebody's got to step up and start preaching the gospel and getting the Word of God out to people and seeing hearts and lives change, which will change their thinking, which will change their actions Which maybe, in God's mercy, change our country back to the way it should be. But somebody's got to get involved. If anybody's going to get saved, somebody's going to have to start speaking up, amen or not And so this woman was willing to get involved, this wise woman. Edmund Burke made a classic statement. I no doubt you've heard this before. He said, the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do what? Nothing. This woman said, I'm not going to sit back and do nothing. I'm not going to let this rebel come into our city and see our whole city destroyed. I'm going to speak up, I'm going to cry out, I'm going to get involved. If you would, take your Bible. Again, keep your place here if you would, and come with me to Proverbs. We end up in Proverbs so often. But Proverbs chapter 24. Again, Solomon addresses this matter of getting involved when uh when things uh aren't right. Proverbs chapter 24, and if you would, when you get there, come down to verse 11. Proverbs 24. Notice he says in verse 11, if thou forbear, what does the word forbear mean? Somebody help me. Put a put off or to hold back. If you're going to forbear, you're going to stay quiet. You're not going to get involved. You're going to hold back If thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, that would be what this city was about to happen And those that are ready to be slain, if thou forbear, if you stay quiet, you don't get involved, you don't speak up. If thou sayest, behold, we knew it not. Give an excuse for not being involved. Doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it? And he that keepeth thy soul, doth he not know it? And shall he not render to every man according to his works? He's saying, listen, if you don't speak up, you're going to pay the price for it. God will hold you accountable. You ever hear anybody say this? Sometimes they say it. I think it's a little ridiculous, some of them say it, but they'll say something like this. Not on my watch, this ain't happening. Well, to an extent, that's a good thing. No, I'm not going to just sit back. No, I'm not going to forbear. And this woman, in her wisdom, speaks up. And because she did, a whole city, the lives of a whole city are spared. Because one woman was willing to get involved and speak up and address the issue. So this woman, this wise woman, she responds. The next thing I notice is her respect. Look at verse 17 back there in our text, and I kind of touched on this when I was reading through here, and it just um it just strikes me. Verse 17 And she says, uh verse verse 16, she says, I pray you, Joab, come near hither and that I may speak with thee. Now I don't know what your impression of Joab is, but when I first read that My first thinking was, there ain't no way Joab's going to stop his assault on this city to listen to what this woman has to say. But here's the amazing thing. Look at verse 17. He does This is see to me this seems out of character. And when he was come near unto her, the woman said, Art thou Joab. So he's battling he's putting this uh uh this in this battering the wall trying to throw it down he's putting a siege up against the city this woman cries out And she says, Joab, come here. And he stops what he's doing and he goes over and talks to her. My thinking was, I'm surprised he didn't shoot an arrow through her head. But he doesn't And when he was come near unto her, what? The woman said, Art thou Joab? And he said, I am he. Then she said of them, Hear the words of thine handmaid. And look how he responds. I do hear. I thought, is this the same Joab we've been reading about? He doesn't listen to David. Why does he listen to this woman? David said, don't hurt Absalom. He puts ten darts in him and then gets other guys and beats the daylights until he's dead. But this woman speaks up, and Joab stops his siege against this city, which he is loves to do, obviously, and he goes over and he and he says, All right, I'll listen to you. What? He come over, um and uh she spake uh and then come over and look at verse twenty. And Joab, she gives her spiel. We'll look at that in a minute, but look at verse 20. And Joab answered and said, Far be it, far be it from me that I would swallow up or destroy. Good grief, that's all he's done. Everything we've read about him is swallowing up and destroying stuff. Oh, what in the world's got into this guy? He goes, the matter is not so. And then he takes a fair amount of time and defends his actions and explains himself. He never did that for David. So my question is, why in the world does Joab stop and listen to this woman? Here's what I think. I think this woman had tremendous respect of everybody that knew her. And Joab, knowing the wisdom of this woman, perhaps, or something about it, stopped him in his tracks, and he was willing to listen to her. Listen. If we want people to listen to us, we must first earn their respect. People will not listen to someone they do not respect. Yes or no? It's hard for me to take advice or suggestion or instruction for somebody I don't respect. There was something about this woman that demanded respect even of Joab And so this woman had tremendous respect. He not only listens to her, but he feels obligated to explain himself. So this woman, number one, she responds and gets involved. Number two, she has tremendous respect of people And the third and the next thing I notice about her is that her recommendation. Now notice what she says here In verse number 18. Then she spake. She's talking to Joab. The battle stopped. It's quiet. She's up on the wall. She's talking to Joab or at the gate wherever they met. And uh she says in verse number 18, she goes, Then she spake, saying, Now here's her quote: they were wont to speak in old times, saying, They shall surely ask counsel at Abel. And so they ended the matter. So she's negotiating here with Joab and she's making this statement. She's saying And this is an important lesson. I think this is what she's saying. She's saying to Joab this: listen, don't involve more people in your dispute than what is absolutely necessary. She's saying, and we'll look at it here a little more, but let me give you the point of what her argument is, I believe. She's saying, listen, don't get all these people involved. Your issue is with Sheba, not with all the people in this city. We'll deal with Sheba. Don't get everybody else involved. And here's some good advice for us. If I've got an issue with somebody, don't take it to 25 other people. Deal with the person I have an issue with. If I got an issue with somebody, don't get on social media and tell the whole world about how you upset you are with one person. You deal with that person. You never involve more people than is absolutely necessary. And that's what I think this woman is telling Joab Listen, you're going to fight with a whole city. That's your issue isn't with the city. It's with this guy. Why are you involving everybody else? It's good advice. In fact, if you would, we've got our Bibles, we're using them. Let's just keep on using it. Go with me all the way back to Matthew. And Jesus taught this same lesson in Matthew chapter number 18. He's speaking to his disciples about having an issue with somebody. The context of our message, it's Joab's issue with Sheba. Jesus says in Matthew chapter 18, and if you would notice with me verse number 15 Matthew 18, verse 15. Notice what he says. Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee. All right, let's put in the context of our message. Here's Sheba, he's trespassing against Israel. Joab's after him. So there's the the the issue. If thy brother trespassed against thee, look what he says. Go and tell him his fault between thee and him. What's the next word? Alone. I underscored that in my Bible. You got an issue with somebody, keep it between you and that somebody. You go alone to them And if that doesn't work, if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. And can I put a little comment in there with that? And you haven't hurt a lot of other people. You haven't turned a lot of people against a man that made something right or a person that had an issue, you went to him alone, you solved it, took care of, rather than telling everybody else and then their bad attitude towards that person who actually made it right It's not even an issue. It's settled. Then he says, if that doesn't work, verse 16, if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more. That in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word shall be established. Do you notice? One-on-one didn't work. So rather than going and getting everybody about, just get one or two more and sit there. And try to keep it as contained as possible. Every issue between God's people ought to be kept contained as much as possible. There's no need, it's not necessary to hang all our dirty laundry out there so everybody knows everything every issue I have with every person. That is foolish So we keep it contained, keep it contained. Then, if that doesn't work, then you go to the church. But you don't involve people who it's not necessary for them to be involved. And that's what this woman is telling Joab. Listen, why are you doing this to the whole city here? And she presents her argument here pretty pretty convincingly. I think in verse number, coming back here to our text, I think in verse number 18 she's pretty saying this, and here's another statement we use. She's saying this: we don't have a dog in this fight This isn't between us. We're uh she says, you know, we're a city. She makes some statements there. I think in verse 18, she's saying, listen, this is a productive city. People come to Abel, that's the name of the city And they get counsel. We're help people. We're a productive city. We're good for Israel. We're able to give solutions to people's problems. And so they ended the matter. She goes, I am one of them that are peaceful and faithful in Israel. She's saying, Listen, we're a city that is loyal to David. We're for the unity of Israel. Notice verse 19, again in verse 19 says, Thou seekest to destroy a city and a mother in Israel. I think she's saying, I don't think she's referencing herself. Uh maybe, I don't think she is. I think she's talking about her city. We're a very prominent city in Israel, a very a very helpful city. Why do you want to destroy all of us over one man And then verse 19, she says, at the end, she goes, Why wilt thou swallow up the inheritance of the Lord? She says, We're God's people. Here's my question to folks that get out of sorts with somebody and they want to spread it and get it over. Listen, why do you want to destroy the people of God? Why do you want to hurt a work of God? Why do you want to hurt a church That is helping people and productive in a community. That's what she's saying. And so we have to be very, very careful. I think this, I learned this early on in the ministry, back in the 80s If there's an issue, keep it contained to those who are only directly involved. Doesn't have to be everybody else. Listen, everybody else doesn't have to know your opinion about another person. What does it help? And so she's rebuking Joab in a very diplomatic way. And she makes her case. And she instructs Joab, she goes, the proper way to do this is to seek a peaceable solution first. Now, I'm running out of time here a little bit. If we did have time, we could go back to Deuteronomy chapter 20 and verse 10. She's actually following a principle that God had given to Israel. He says, when you approach a city, I'm not quoting this verbatim, putting my own words, but he says, when you approach a city, seek to be at peace with it first. And if you can't have peace with it, then do what you need to do. And that's what she's saying. Listen, we can go about this in a peaceable fashion. We don't have to destroy everybody and everything She goes, give me some time, we'll take care of it. That leads me to my last thought, is the rebels ruin. We have Sheba's recruitment, Joab's resolve, he's going to kill everything in the way. This wise woman reasons with Joab, and this rebel comes to his end, his ruin. Look with me at verse 22. Verse uh twenty-one, Joab explains the situation. At the end of verse 21, the woman said unto Joab, Behold, his head shall be thrown to thee over the wall. So she was willing to get her hands dirty. Yeah. Then the woman went to all the people in her wisdom. There it is again. And they cut off the head of Sheba, the son of Bitri, and cast it over to Joab. I still would like to see that head come flying over. And look what happened. And Joab returned to Jerusalem unto the king, and nobody else died. No innocent people lost their lives. Where are Sheba's men? Why aren't they defending him? You know, I found out there's very little loyalty among rebels. We re rebel against the people of God and God's ordained authority, they're not certainly going to be loyal to each other And so whatever men he had, he had no loyalty from them, and he had no respect from the godly. They threw his head over a wall. Would you agree with me? That's kind of disrespectful. You throw a guy's head over the wall. They're treating them like um I don't know, maybe this is gross, but you shoot a shoot a deer and you gut it out and you s you process it and you got the head laying there. You just go out to the dump and throw it at over the wall into the dump or whatever you do with your deer heads. That's what they're doing with this guy. I know what some of y'all do, you go in the neighbor's yard and throw it, but No respect among rebels. No loyalty among rebels. We must guard our hearts at all cost. Against pride and rebellion against the Lord and his word. Sheba saw a situation, he was a man of belial. That tells you everything you need to know about this guy. Here's my advice. Let's stay away from men of Belial. Don't let them recruit you into their rebellion. Don't let them influence you because it's going to turn out bad. Let's pray together. Father in heaven. I ask, dear Lord, you'd help us to keep our hearts tender. Even somebody like King Saul can get stubborn and get a burr in their saddle and become rebellious in their attitude. And Lord, we do not want to do that. I pray you'd help us stay humble, help us stay submissive, give us wisdom in interacting with others, and when issues come up, help us to be wise and handle it in a scriptural manner. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I want God to help me maintain a submissive heart and attitude. Any like that? I want to be submissive to the Lord. That goes against our grain. And God will help us. I wonder if there's some would say, uh, preacher, I want to be wise in my interaction with people when uh I dun uh when uh When an issue comes up, I want to handle it in a biblical, wise fashion so that it can be resolved appropriately. Anybody like that, I pray for wisdom all the time If we interact with people in any amount, we've got to have wisdom. Now, Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Have your way. Help us in Jesus' name. Amen.