To touch on something. Uh I what the young people tried to communicate in this little play This cantata they put on. They tried to communicate what the purpose of Christmas really is. Why Jesus Christ came to earth Much of the world, much of Christianity, we celebrate the birth of Christ, but I'm afraid in many cases we miss the purpose Of what this was all about. I thought the young people did a good job. In Luke chapter 19 and verse number 10, the Lord tells us in just a short little statement He tells us what the purpose is for him coming to earth. Now you understand Jesus existed before he was born on Christmas morning. He's the eternal Son of God. From eternity past to eternity future, Jesus Christ is the Son of God, second person of the Godhead. However On that Christmas morning, he came down, took on the form of a man, became a man, and there's a very specific purpose for that. And again, a lot of times We have the Christmas celebrations, we have the Christmas decorations, we have the Christmas carols, we have the Christmas programs, but I'm afraid sometimes we miss the point, the purpose of Christmas. And as I said, Jesus made a very brief statement that tells us why he came. And here it is. This is what the Lord said. He said, the Son of Man, that's Jesus Christ, the Son of God, became the Son of Man. The Son of Man is come. Now here's the purpose. to seek and to save that which was lost. There was a very specific purpose for the birth of Jesus Christ. He came and of course he grew up like a child and any child does grew normally, became a man. At the age 30, he was baptized by John the Baptist, and he began his ministry, and he carried out that purpose for which he came. Now, part of that he would did a lot of teaching. Jesus was a tremendous teacher. Every teacher ought to study the teaching methods of Jesus Christ. However, that's not the purpose of Christmas, for him to come and teach us. He did phenomenal miracles. Um and just miraculous. He did miraculous miracles. But that's not the purpose of his coming. He came to seek and to save that which was lost. He came to give his life as a sacrifice for your sins and my sins. I want you to, I really want everybody to take this thought away this morning. God loves you. Dearly. I don't care how tough you think you are, I don't care how independent you might view yourself. You can think that I can get through life and I don't need God. I don't need Jesus. I don't need the church. I don't need the Bible. But I'm here to tell you, every single one of us, every single one of us have a need in our heart to know that we're loved. That somebody cares about us. Somebody. I'm here to tell you the God that made you Cares deeply about you. He loves you dearly. Most famous verse in all the world. I've been around the world. Every place I go, people know this verse. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That's Christmas. He gave his only begotten Son. God loves you so much, dearly. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save. I hope you'll take this away. Though God loves us, we're sinners. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Now, sin in our day and age is a abstract concept. But the Bible is very clear on what sin is. Sin is disobedience against God. Our God is a holy God. The God that created this universe, that gave you and I life, he's a holy God. And he cannot tolerate sin. Now here's the quandary if you want to put it that way. God loves you and me. He loves us intensely more than we'll ever comprehend. But we're sinners, and he's holy, and holiness cannot tolerate that sin. The wages of sin we're told in the Bible is death. That's not just talking about physical death, although it includes that. It's addressing spiritual death, which is separation from God for all eternity. I was teaching in Sunday school, and I say this often, our church folk know I say this often. There's something taught in the Bible that bothers me more than anything else. And that is this. The wages of sin is to die and be separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. That's disturbing to me that somebody made in God's image would end up in hell for all eternity. That bothers me But just because I don't like something, and just because something bothers me does not make it not true. And here's the situation. God loves us intensely. We've sinned against him. We've taken his name in vain. We've lied. We've spoken hatefully. We've taken things that aren't ours. We've held bitterness in our heart. We've done things with our hands that are abomination to God, a holy God. And the consequence of that is to die and go to hell. But God loves us. And so he sent Jesus. Who lived for 33 and a half years and never told one lie, never broke God's law, the only person that ever walked this planet that never sinned in word, thought, or deed. In fact, we're told he's the perfect, sinless, holy Son of God. And when he was born of a virgin, miraculously on that Christmas morn God put into motion, God put into place a way for a sinner that is broken God's law, yet loved intensely by God, how that sinner can be reconciled and I can be reunited with God and have my sins removed and forgiven. Jesus Christ came to be our Savior. You throw that word around a lot in church, but it is a powerful word. Our Savior. To save us from sin, to save us from hell, so that you and I can have our sins forgiven, so we can have a new life here on earth, a good life. And we can know for sure that when our time here on earth is up, we go to heaven and not to hell. There's no greater thing to know, there's no greater blessing than to know that God has forgiven me. And that He's granted me eternal life. That when I cross over death's door, I enter into heaven in the presence of God and don't end up into hell. There's nothing greater than that. Nothing greater than that. You say, well how how does that become real to me? Well, how does that apply to me? Well, number one, I need to understand, accept, and acknowledge the fact that I am a sinner. We go around and say, Well, I'm not that bad. I didn't talk to a person this week. They say, Well, I'm not that bad. So the fact of the matter is we're all sinners. We've got to acknowledge that. We need to come clean Listen, we got to get honest with ourselves before we'll ever get honest with God. I look in the mirror and say, man, there's a sinful man. And when I acknowledge that, I confess that to God. And if I believe that He died, when He died on that cross, He was dying for my sins. He was being judged of God in my place. Jesus was taking responsibility for the sins that my hands have committed. He took responsibility for him for the blasphemous things I have said and the words I've used in my life, the thoughts, the places I've gone, the things I've done. Jesus Christ, I'll take responsibility for it. Judge me in his place. And that's what he did on the cross. Listen, you've got to believe that You've got to believe that. You just blow that off. You're putting yourself in a horrific situation. You've got to believe he loves you. He died for you. He's buried. He rose again. He's alive today. Jesus tells us in John chapter 10, he said, I've come that you might have life. And more abundantly. He wants to give us a new life. Our church folk know my story, but age of 19 back in Philadelphia. Just a sorry, sinful teenager. I mean a wretch. My daddy had told me what I just told you. My daddy had been telling me this. I'd heard it. And that night, Monday night, I got on my knees. I called out on the Lord, God, I need you. Lord, I need you to be my Savior. God forgave me. And he gave me a new life. I can testify for 45 years, I can tell you, he gave me a new life. And I know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. Not because I'm better than anybody. Lord knows I ain't better than anybody. But God promised that whoever calls in the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's a promise of God. And I know I called on him that night. There's a clear distinction. I called on the Lord. He heard me. He saved me. He changed my life Someday I'll be able to stand in the presence of God. I have no fear of going to hell because of what Jesus did. That is what Christmas is all about. And every one of us have to come to the point in our life where we acknowledge to God, God, I've sinned against you as my creator. You've got to believe that he died for you personally, was buried, and rose again, and you've got to make this decision. And I'm going to put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I'm going to trust you, Jesus. To forgive my sin and accept me into heaven when that day comes That's Jesus does it all. I simply receive it. I simply by faith put my trust in him. It's like getting in an airplane. You believe that airplane's going to fly you to Denver or wherever? You get in that thing And that plane gets you there. That's the way salvation is. I'm a sinner on my way to hell. I believe Jesus died for me and rose again. I'm trusting him, and then he gets me there. Do I make sense? Simple as that. Simple as that. Twenty-five years ago, we were talking about it this week, my wife and I. We had an old van. I'd gotten it from one of the church members. I bought from one of the church members. We were going, my folks live in Philly. I grew up in Philly. We're heading back home. We left early Christmas morning. I mean like 4. 30 in the morning, 5 o'clock. We're going to drive to Philly. We're going to be up there Christmas Day with my family. We pulled out. It was snowing pretty good when we left here. We got to uh we're going up 219. It was snowing pretty hard by then. The roads are covered. Christmas morning, 4. 30, 5 o'clock in the morning. By the time we get, we decided to go up 219 rather than the back way just because we thought the roads would be clear. By the time we got to Kaiser's Ridge, there's like six, seven inches of snow on the ground on the road They're hardly plowing it, because it's Christmas morning. I got the Kaiser's Ridge and I pulled on 68 and when I turned the van made this weird noise like a Maybe it was more of a But it made a sound that vehicles don't normally make. My wife's head snapped over as she looked at me. She goes, What's that? I said probably just ice on the muffler or something, I don't know. She accepted that. So we go and every now and then it makes this noise. We got to Rocky Gap and it started an awful sound. I said, no, we can't make it. By now there's eight, ten inches of snow on the ground. Roads are barely plowed. So we cut across, don't tell the police, but we cut across one of these little emergency things across where it says don't cross here. We made our way across there, started coming back, and finally the thing quit. We sat on the side of the road. It's dark still, it's not sun's not even up yet. Pouring down snow. We're the only ones on the highway. My boys, they're scared to death. They're looking at me. We started singing a little song. Everything's alright in my father's house. To make a long story short, the state police finally came by. They helped us. We got a tow truck. We got back home. By about noon, we're finally back home. Like, all right, what do we do? We didn't have anything 'cause we were going up there. We didn't have any food, cr you know, Christmas food or anything. My wife said, Well, I'll go down to sheets. We'll get an MTO at Sheets. Some Sheet's hot dogs and stuff. Said, alright, so I'm I stayed home with the boys. She's running down there He's going down here by High Street, and there's a lady, porn snow, there's this lady walking along. Kathy felt bad pulled over. She goes, do you need a ride? She goes, yeah, I'm trying to get back up to my apartment. Remember the old apartments used to be up there high street, uh, whatever they were called, I forget Pulled into her apartment there and Kathy said, uh, you have family or anything? She's oh I got my boy. She said, can I ask you a question? She said, sure. She said, do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven? Go to heaven, not to hell. They said, well, I don't normally think, I never really thought about it much. See, can I show you from the Bible? Christmas Day, about noon, it's pouring down snow. Kathy took her Bible sitting in the car. We had a little uh Plymouth Sundance. She sat in there and she showed her from the Bible. How she could know for sure sincerely on her way to heaven. That lady, her name is Martha Lewis. Bowed her head, called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be her personal Savior on Christmas Day. Kathy said, I'll come by and get you Sunday. She goes, okay, I'd like that. Athy came by, picked her up, she got baptized. Martha became a precious member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church for many, many years. Sang in the choir, helped the nursery. God saved her. God gave her a new life. Martha passed away. It's been years ago. All these years Martha's been with the Lord Jesus in heaven and not in hell. Because on a Christmas day She heard the gospel. She heard what Christmas was all about. And she called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be her personal Savior. And God saved her. I want to invite you this morning, right here and now. I'm going to invite you to call on the Lord Jesus Christ to be your personal Savior. If you'll do what the Bible says, acknowledge you're a sinner, admit to God, agree with them, I've broken your law. God, I've sinned against you. And that ought to concern us that we've sinned against God. If you'll believe, I mean you'll believe that Jesus died for your sins, was buried, and rose again. And make a conscious decision to call on him to be your Savior, to forgive you and give you eternal life. If you'll do that, My Bible says that God will forgive you and save you and give you eternal life. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now we don't do this every service, but I'm going to do it today. I'm going to ask us in a moment, I'm going to ask everybody to bow our heads. And I'm going to offer a simple little prayer. This prayer, just lipping these words, just repeating these words, is absolutely meaningless. It won't do you any more good than chewing bubblegum If in your heart, you say, I'm glad God loves me. And I want Him to forgive me, and I want to know I'm going to heaven, not to hell. You'll pray this prayer with me calling on him. I'm telling you, according to the Bible, God will forgive you and save you, give you eternal life. Let's bow our heads together, would you? Now here it is, just a simple little prayer. You gotta mean it. You gotta mean it. Just saying the words is no good. But here it is. Between you and God, you just pray this to God. Dear Lord Jesus. I admit that I am a sinner. But I believe you died for my sins and rose again. And today I'm calling on you, trusting you, to forgive my sin. And take me to heaven someday. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now with our heads bowed, eyes closed, just a moment. If you prayed that prayer, you say, Preacher, I prayed that along with you, and I meant it. I meant it. Would you just slip your hand up and say, Preacher, I prayed that prayer. I meant it with all my heart. Any like that? God bless you. And God bless you and you. Are there any others? Preacher, I prayed that prayer. I'm not ashamed. God bless you How about it? Any others? Preacher, I prayed that prayer. I meant it. I want the Lord Jesus to be my Savior. I want to know I'm on my way to heaven. How about it? Any others? I wonder just quickly before I finish here, I wonder if there's some of folks who would say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I've been saved. I've got some friends and family that need the Lord. And maybe you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be a good witness. That I lived a Christian life like I should, so that they can come to Christ and they would be saved. Is there any like that, preacher? I have someone I'm concerned for I want them to come to Christ. And I want to be a good testimony. God bless you. Hands all around. Now, if you prayed that prayer with me a moment ago, I'd like when you go out, would you be sure and let me know? We have some literature we can give you that be helpful encouragement to you as a believer in Christ. Father in heaven, we ask now you bless and uh our invitation in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stay