Go take your Bible and turn with me to the book of of uh Luke chapter fifteen. And uh it's a familiar piece of scripture that we've all Uh I know I've preached on it a number of times, and maybe even here, but uh I know that it's a portion of scripture that is uh is needed to be preached on. I guess that's the way to say that. Luke chapter 15, and and I'm going to start reading in verse eleven. Where the Word of God says, and he said, A certain man had two sons. Did you ever stop and think about that that verse? Certain man had two sons. And I you know first thing comes to mind says uh I wonder I wonder how old those two guys were. See, I've got a brother, and uh I'm three years older than he is I'm better looking than him, but uh I'm three years older, you know. But you know, you wonder about these two guys. Well I wonder if they you know Did they have a good relationship? My brother and I we're we're we're good friends. We we love each other. We've hunted together and played together and fought together and done a whole you know. I'm just saying that uh I I wonder about these two guys. From what I can learn in the scriptures, it may be that there's a couple of things that was a hindrance to their relationship. One of them is the fact that uh there's probably a a uh uh a time difference. May have been the younger son here, may have been say 17, 18 years old Where the older brothers may have been about forty years old when this took place. Don't know exactly. It's not doesn't say how old they were. So you know, I can say that I guess And be you know, I just sort of feel like there's a difference there in their age. But let's go on now. And the younger of them said unto his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that fall to me And he divided into them his living. I notice that the father didn't even argue with him. I don't know what that means. He just wasn't an arguer, huh? Maybe that's what it was. But anyways he just said, uh give me the goods that of course you know back in those days uh the firstborn always got the most. That's just the way it was. And so the younger got another uh a portion, his portion of scripture, or his portion of the of the money, uh and uh and so uh he goes on verse uh verse 13 And many days after the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country, I can see this young man, as soon as he gets a pocket full of money uh he's ready to go. I mean, he can't wait to get that uh wad of money out there and and just exploded on the market. You know, he wants to Yeah, I can just see this young fella. He just is really interested in in uh doing his own thing, you know, and not have anybody tell him what to do. I got a feeling that maybe the the older brother was a teller what to do thing. You know, one of those kind of guys. But he maybe not So it says that and uh he took his journey into a far country, and there he wasted his substance with riotous living. We don't have to say what that was. We know what it was, don't we? Ryder slipping, it means he was he was drinking and probably sniffing a few lines and some doing some uh marijuana maybe and uh uh women yeah I mean he was just you know he just was having a riotous time, okay? And then in verse 14 it says, When he had uh spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land, and he began to be in want. And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. We can't we can't dogmatically say that this young man is a representative of a saved person. Or we can't say that it's he's representative of of a lost person. You can't say for sure. I mean you you can use some of the terminology here and say, well Since he's the Son of the Father, and the Father represents God the Father, then he must represent the Son. Okay. If you want to do that, you can. That's fine. But I'm just saying that there's nothing that dogmatically that sticks that in one category or another. And then he says and he would have fainted filled his his belly with the the husk that the swine did eat And no man gave him to him. I notice he's in another country. You know, he's in a foreign country. And uh that would lead me to believe that uh Uh where he's from, he's probably Jewish and where he's went to is something else, you know, it's not not a Jewish tick country. So the point is that he's uh he's hurting right now He's found out what kind of friends that he had. And I think most of us understand that situation. When you get a little bit of money, there's always somebody that wants to uh befriend you and you become friends and then They take them take you for whatever they can get out of you and and and go on. I can I yeah I can remember the the days when when I was his age When I was sixteen I was I started to work with Carnation Company went uh right out of high school. In fact I was still in high school when I started working for them. And uh I remember the first paycheck I got. I probably told you this is a story before, but but uh the first paycheck I got, you know, I I I made uh 93. 93 cents an hour is what what the the wages they were paying back in those days. And uh that was starting wage And uh so at the end of the week, you know, I I uh got my paycheck and and uh I took that paycheck straight to the bank. And at the bank I cashed it And I told him to give me all ones except uh to give me a a a ten on the outside. And so I took those all those ones. They may have been thirty or forty ones, I don't know. It was a pretty good roll. It was a tin on the outside. And uh I r I remember uh we had a there was a England uh see what wasn't Englanders at that time. Uh I can't remember what remember the taxi the taxi uh shop that was down um I guess it would have been Second Street. Uh probably you don't remember But anyway there was a taxi shop there and and it had a a uh uh drugstore or a place where you could go in and get sodas. And so I remember going in and and uh uh A couple of guys that uh I'd gone to school with were there and and I came in, you know, and I had that that big old wad in my pocket, you know That's how you sort of kinda emphasize. And uh so I took that I took that wad out, you know, and I said uh Hey fellas, how you doing? They said, yeah, how you doing? Hey, we understand you're working. I said, uh, yep. Yeah. And uh they said they said, Boy, you must be making good money. I said, Yep. And so they they said, uh well I boy wouldn't you know wonder if I could give a job away, I said I don't know about that. You know why I was just followed that roll, that ten dollar bill going up and down. Anyway, long story short, we won't get into all that. Uh but uh I just remember how how it was when I was that age and how when I had money in my pocket I wanted to spend it. That was one thing I wanted to do and I I can sympathize with the the protocol there. I don't know how much money you had We know it was more than, you know, thirty or forty dollars. It was all that he had, you know, as his father gave him. It was probably a pretty good lump sum. But uh I know that uh uh the guys there at the at the bar, I say bar, you know, it wasn't a you know an alcohol bar, it was a soda bar And uh they sat they they sat down right beside me, you know, and I said uh uh the waiter came over waitress and I said uh just set 'em up. Go ahead and And uh and when it comes time to pay, you know, well I uh I started to peel back that ten, you know, and then I just sort of did this number And I went down about five or six bills, you know. Deeper you go, the more money you got. I went down there and I pulled out a a one. And I threw it on a counter as there was three of us who drank Cokes that day. And they were like a nickel apiece. And I told the guy who waited on it or the girl, I said just keep the change. That's the biggest tip I ever gave. I just said all of that to say this. I know what I know what he went through. I know what he was going through when he walked out that door and he said, Dad, I'll see ya I'm gonna I'm you know, I'm gonna make my own money. Listen, here's a guy who thought he had the tiger by the tail. And when he walked out that door and jumped on his four speed camel, you know, and pff Down the road, I mean that's f he was he was looking for a good time and he found it. All his friends deserted him when he had money run out. Any friends he has the pigs. That's not a very good not a very good exchange, is it? If if young people could learn anything, it would be uh uh Stay in the book, stay in church, and uh and y and uh how can I say it? Um Make your No, that's not what I want to say. The people that you admire should be people of character. And not people who play drums, long hair and the you know, guitar and all that stuff. And uh if if those are your heroes, you've got the wrong batch of heroes for a Christian. And if you want to know who the heroes are, uh read the the New Testament Matthew, start with Matthew and Mark and Luke and John, yeah, Paul, yeah. Those are those are the kind of men that you ought to be looking at and guiding and making your life uh about But let's go on with this with the this the scenario here that God has given us. Here's a young man that decided that he's he's going to run his own life and he found that uh his own life was a train wreck And he finds himself in a hog pen and he's eating the you know, the husk the the hogs left him and that was all he got So he decides that there's something the matter with this picture. And he's he's he said to himself, he's thinking to himself, You know, the the one of the best things you can do, a young person, is to get alone with yourself and take a self-evaluation. Make an evaluation of uh it's the is the direction I'm going the direction that I want to go You see, Satan has a way of uh using his devices to uh I've got to get rid of a hearing aid, making a noise in my ear, in my head. Satan has a way of using his devices to get you off track. And if he can get you ahead a certain way, you know that's that's one thing about a horse. Whichever way you turn that horse's head, that's the way he's going to go. And Satan knows how to turn your head. Alright? So this young man he comes to himself there by the pig pen and he says, in my father's house. In my father's house there's there's servants that uh eat better than I do. So I'm gonna go to my father's house, I'm gonna go to him and I'm gonna say, Father, I've sinned against you before you before Uh I sinned uh against God and before you, and I'm no more worthy to be called thy son. Just let me come and be a servant. That is an attitude that that uh is uh is so important It's an attitude of humility and repentance. To be sorry for the wrong that you've done, for being sorry for for talking to mom uh in a in the uh way you uh that you have. I remember one time I I hate to tell the story on myself, but I'm going to tell it because it's an illustration. We were uh my s my brother and I had been out uh playing uh up the street. And uh it was getting dark and uh mom happened to happen to be down that way. She stopped in where we were and and uh she said, Come on, we're gonna we're going home now. And uh I started bad mouthing her. Well, you see that's that you didn't know my mother. Now some of you did, but you didn't badmouth my mother. That just wasn't the way things were done uh when we were growing up. And uh all at once I began to see stars. That's the truth. Well she backhanded me one right across the mouth. Now that may not be the way to do it, okay? I understand that. But uh I'm gonna tell you right now It brought stars. I'm literally, I mean, it woke me up in a hurry. Just just like that. I understood I had made a mistake And uh I had to, you know, apologize and all the rest of the stuff that goes with that. Plus I got a little bit of extra, you know, taken care of besides that when I got home. But the point I'm getting at is Don't let Satan pick out your friends. Don't let Satan uh tell you where to spend your money Don't let Satan pick out your heroes. Don't let Satan, you know, run your life. Don't don't give him an inch because if you give him an inch, it takes a mile. You know, it's just All right. So we got this the the prodigal home now. And the prodigal uh He you know I've told this story before I know and and I hope you don't get bored with it, but but I r uh I I believe that when when the prodigal left home I believe that the father was brokenhearted. I had uh I have uh three girls and a boy. And when every one of them left home, I was brokenhearted. It was just the way it was. Not that they went, you know, the wrong way, it wasn't that. It's just that they left home Yeah. I remember dropping by uh two of my girls went to Bible school out at uh Springfield, Missouri. And I remember taking them uh I remember the day that I took 'em, you know, it was a couple of years of difference, but I remember w when we took 'em and when when the one left. And uh it was a hard thing So I imagine the old man here had a pretty hard time of it when the prodigal son left, because I have a feeling that he he was uh uh aware of the direction that his son was going and he was aware of what was going to take place. And he knew the hardship that his son was going to have to go through in order to to get things right. You know, It is a hardship to come to God and say, God, when I say a hardship, you'll understand what I mean. To see yourself like the prodigal did, and then to to admit to yourself, you know, I have really messed up. Well even even in dad's house the the servants were better taken care of than me. That's that's a pretty heavy thing just to think about. So I see this young man as he finally makes his makes the decision. I I I've got to ch I've got to change the direction I'm going. And he goes back to his dad. And I believe that I believe every day was the father uh uh that the son was gone. I believe the father would walk out to the edge of the the road there and look down and uh watch to see if there's anybody on the road coming home. And they look and look and it's in uh I guess not today and And he'd uh go back to the house, and he was uh probably there we be being in the house I believe he did that probably every day or maybe a couple times a day. Go out and look and see if there's a familiar silhouette coming up the road. And then one day he goes out and he he uh he sees a figure, a lone figure, just sort of ambling along, head down, shoulders forward. And as that figure got closer and closer, all at once he recognized it. He said, that's my son. That's my son out there. The one who had lost is found And I can see him as he as he maybe he's a little bit hobbled by now, but I don't know. But I can see him taking off best he can, hurrying, maybe running down to that where his boy is and throwing his arms around him and and I could hear the son say, Father, I've s I've sinned against God and and before thee I'll know where and he shut up, I don't want to hear that I love you, I'm glad you're home. And then I see him yelling back at the servants, you know, bring the fatted calf and get some clothes and get the ring and come and bring him. The one who's lost is found. He's here. Our son is back Boy, you talk about excitement. There was a lot of excitement going on around there. Then all at once the focus in the scriptures changes. It changes and focuses on the the elder brother. Just this very moment of happiness and and they're getting ready, they've killed the fatted calf, and they're they're making merry about the return of the sun It says, now I really have a hard time. So I get it up here, I guess maybe I it will help It says now his elder son was in the field. What's that tell you? Here's a young fellow that was uh was conscientious about the the work that he did around the farm there. The elder brother It's a picture of the Christian who who is faithful around the church. He's a, you know, he he does this and he does that and he does this. His heart's not in it. His heart's not in it. He works around the farm here, but his heart's not in it. I believe that when the father is on one side of the wall crying over a lost son He's on the other side of the wall, uh sound asleep, not worried about whether that product lever makes it home or not. He's just not concerned about it We can see his attitude as we read on down through the scriptures there, where it says, and And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant, and he said to him, Thy brother has come and thy father has killed the fatted calf because he received him safe and sound. And he was angry. That tells you pretty much the story right there, doesn't it? He was angry. And he would not go in. Therefore came his father out and entreated him. So his father's wanting wanting to get these two together, wanting to see the two sons once again embrace and and uh kiss one another on the cheek and and let bygones be bygones. But that wasn't uh the way it was. It says, Thy brother has come and thy father has killed the fatted calf. Verse 28, and he was angry and would not go in. Therefore his father came out and entreated him, and he answered answering him, said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, and neither transgressed I at any time thy commandments, and yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends Do you did you catch the sarcasm there? Did you catch the sarcasm when he said uh You never gave me a a goat, a kid, to make merry with my friends. He killed the fatted calf for his son. That was a calf that was put aside and fattened up for just a special occasion, just like the one that happened there, where there was a return of the son that was lost. But this elder brother, he his his attitude and the you can just see the anger boiling up in him as he continues on. And he says in verse uh twenty-nine He said, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, and neither transgress I at any time thy commandments. Yet thou never gavest me a a kid that might make merry as my friends. But as soon as this thy son is come, which hath devoured his living with the harvest, and has killed for him the fatted calf. And he said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is yours Now we could go down the the list here of all the things that that we see about this elder brother, and we will look at some of them. I see in verse 28 he was stubborn and he was pouting Isn't that somehow when things don't go your way and uh uh The old lower lip comes out and you start pouting about it. Well uh There's anger and a temper seen in verse 28 also. He was proud and sarcastic. You never gave me a kid, verse 29. He had a critical attitude about authority. Many years, never transgressed thy one time. Resentment and envy. You saw that see that in verse 29. Jealousy and judging. He just he just figured that, well this this young whipper snapper, he is my brother, he j he went out there and went to all the red light districts and did this and gambled all that money away and everything And you know, that that pretty well sums up the attitude of the elder elder son. I had three things that I I wrote about the elder son. I see sonship without brotherhood, for one thing, and I see service without fellowship. There wasn't any fellowship between he and the father, what what you gather in the in the scriptures here. And then you we see a successor without happiness. There was a guy that, what was it, the father said there at the last? He said, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine. Well, what more do you want? All that I have is thine. Do you ever stop to think about the promises of God? All the things that God has done for us. And you know, uh He doesn't he doesn't withhold anything from us. If it pleases him, he I mean we are such a privileged people I think about uh all the gifts that he he passes on to us. I think about the uh about the Spirit of God that uh indwells us. That's the greatest gift that you could even think of The Son that He gave uh gave uh on the cross of Calvary for our salvation? You know, you could just keep going on and on and on and on and if you really want to get into it, just read through the book of Psalms and You'll find a lot of wonderful things in there that God has given to us and has made for us and made us out of in order to uh please Him. Here we have two sons. And in this auditorium, there's probably both these types present here. Oh, you may not be a teenager like this prodigal son, and maybe you're not 40 years old like this elder brother. But maybe there's some of you that have some of the attitudes that the elder brother has Some of the the the sarcasm and uh maybe the the r the resentment of authority and that type of thing Or maybe there's some of you like the prodigal here and and uh uh somehow or another you just don't like to be told what to do and where to go and what time to go to the bed and what time to get up and what time to do. You just don't like that uh uh that that type of authority over your life. There isn't anything There isn't anything, I guess, uh I guess one of the things that that I had to deal with when I went in the army was uh was this thing of being told what to do by people that I didn't figure knew uh knew more than I did. So that even made it worse. But I know this. If you're here tonight And you're maybe you're a prodigal. And uh maybe you're you're maybe you're getting ready to go into the pig pen. Maybe you're you've trusted the wrong friends and they've taken you down the wrong road. Then tonight's the time to it to get that matter straightened out. Maybe you're here tonight and and uh you saw some of the attitudes in the old uh elder brother in your own life. Yeah, it you don't have to be mad at anybody to do that necessarily. But uh there might be some things in there that uh you saw that uh you know And maybe there's some things that I didn't even mention that uh God has spoken to you about as we read through the scriptures here. Whatever it is that God spoke to you about, then that's something you need to deal with personally, just like the prodigal did. He saw himself, he said, you know, in my father's house Servants are being fed better than me. I got news for you. In my father's house, the servants are fed better than some of you. You have an opportunity tonight to get things right, Mr. God, and I'm going to show the chalk to all right now