Alright, James, uh 1 Peter chapter number 3. Now keep your Bibles handy. We're going to look at a number of verses this evening. Verse number 12. The Bible says, For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous And his ears are open unto their prayers. But the face of the Lord is against them that do evil His eyes are upon the over the righteous, his ears are open to their prayers, but his face is against them That do evil. I've entitled the message, The Eyes and Ears of the Lord. Let's pray tonight and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, uh again, we come to you with our Bibles open before us I pray that our hearts and minds would be open to what your word has to say. I ask, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would speak through me your word. to each of our lives, and I pray that you would help us to trust you and obey, simply trust you, as Mark sang, and then uh decide what you deal with our hearts about, that you're right And that we would help you help us agree with you on that, Lord, and then implement it in our lives as we live for you throughout the week. So please fill me with your spirit. I yield my will, I present my body anew And pray with all my heart that uh you would uh have your way in this hour. In Jesus' name, Amen. If you remember, first Peter or Peter in this first letter here, and then of course later in 2 Peter He is writing to believers, and not just believers in general, but he has a very specific group of believers that he's addressing. We go back, and we've already looked at this when we began our study of 1 Peter, but you go back into the opening verses, and he says he is writing to the strangers who are scattered abroad And then he lists these five areas, regions of Asia Minor there that these believers had been scattered. And in studying that, we found that what he means by being scattered is they were being driven out of their homes. They were being driven out of their communities. You say these must have been awful people. They mu maybe they were uh uh thieves and drunkards and nasty people. No, no, no. They were being driven out of their homes. They were being driven out of their communities, not because of crime that they were committing or hatefulness on their part. But they were being driven out and persecuted for one reason and one reason only. They were followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that was rejected By in many cases, their own families would reject them, disown them, force them out of the homes And so I think it's important, particularly when we notice what he's saying here this evening, who is being addressed Now, I am confident of this. None of us here have ever experienced the level of rejection for our faith that these dear people have that he's addressing. Anybody here ever somebody rude to you try and witness to them be rude to you? Anybody here? Sure. If you try and witness at all, you've run into that. Sometimes maybe family members give us a hard time Maybe somebody will call us a bad word. Sometime you might come out visiting. It's great. You ought to try it sometime. The church go out visiting. We go through a neighborhood. Somebody slams the door in your face. That's about the level of rejection and the level of persecution that you and I are accustomed to. And sometimes anybody hear somebody treat you rudely because you're faith and that bothered you Yeah, it bothers me, huh? You know, the old flesh. Now put yourself in their shoes. And they're being driven out of their homes. Their homes are being burned down Some are being thrown in prison, some are being literally beaten, stoned to death. And so Peter's writing to these dear believers, and we have reason to believe that they are probably pretty young in their faith. These are Christianity's only been in existence. The resurrection of Christ was only about 30 years before this is being written. And so churches just now catching fire. The gospel is just now being spread throughout that part of the world and ex Expanding as the New Testament church was on fire for God and on fire for evangelism. And so they are being pushed out, they are being persecuted. And Peter writes to them, and again, just a brief review here, but in the first several verses, verses I put down, 3 through 12 of chapter 1, he is writing to try and encourage them They again have been, they've paid a heavy price for their faith. They have suffered affliction for no other reason And that they loved the Lord Jesus Christ. They wanted people to be saved. And so he's writing and he opens up his letter encouraging them. In fact, if you would come back to verse 1. I just want to highlight this. We were kind of talking about this a little bit the other night. But notice what he says in verse 6, just real quickly. He says, Wherein ye, these persecuted young believers, followers of Christ Young in the faith, I should say, wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold what Temptation. That word temptation is talking about trials, afflictions, heartaches, grief, difficulties. He says you greatly rejoice. In the midst of this manifold temptations. Look at verse 7. That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth. That's kind of what Brother Ken was talking about earlier. About what we have in Christ is much more precious than gold Though it be tried with fire, might be found unto the praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. Now look at verse 8. Now he's encouraging them. He says, Whom having not seen ye love And whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, look at this next statement, rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. Now, I don't know about you. That stirs my heart. Peter's writing, he says, listen, I've been observing you. I've heard reports coming back from your being scattered throughout this region. And I found that you're being faithful to the Lord. And you're doing right and you're trusting God and you're rejoicing even in the midst of your trials. In fact, to a degree, he uses a fascinating term, joy unspeakable. And full of glory. I ask myself just about every time I read it, have I ever been have joy unspeakable and full of glory? That sounds like pretty intense joy, huh? Full of glory. And he's writing to them and he's commending them And he's encouraging them. And then in verse chapter 1 and verse 13 down to the end of verse 25, he kind of exhorts them. And he's saying something to the effect: listen, in the midst of your trials, we're glad for your faith and the joy that you have, even in the midst of all this. But don't forget we need to be holy, even as he's holy. And he exhorts them to continue to do right. And he exhorts them to continue to be unique and distinct from this old sinful world. I hope we understand that God has called us as Christians to be distinct in a fallen world. And that's what He's exhorting them to be. And then you get into verse 2, and we've looked at all of these, he starts instructing them. And all through I should say chapter 2, all through chapter 2 and into chapter 3, he's instructing them about things in the home, particularly spends a good bit of time about submission in various areas of authority that we deal with in our life and having that submissive attitude. Now we come to our text. He's encouraged them, he's exhorted them, he's instructing them. And now I think he takes a moment and he wants to give them some assurance. He wants to give them assurance. In the midst of all this opposition they're facing, in the midst of the heartache and the tears of rejection, the physical pain they're suffering. He wants to assure them that God's still in control and everything's going to be alright. God's people need assurance. We do. Now we're not we're not experiencing the difficulty and the opposition that they're facing. Fact of the matter is, I I I don't uh surely I wouldn't have to say this But as American Christians, we've got it pretty good. We've got it pretty good. There's no justification for our complaining about our lives as Christians in the United States of America. Amen or not. There's no justification for that at all. You say, yeah, but Pastor, my hot water heater went out. Do you know most of the world doesn't even have a hot water heater to go out? And so, um, but we we need it we need assurance Every now and then we just need to be reminded. Everything's alright in my Father's house. Just need to be reminded of that. Amen? God's still in control. Say, oh uh uh my my guy didn't get elected. Oh yeah, but my guy's still sitting on the throne. So God's people need assurance. All through the Bible, all through the Bible, God's continually giving his people assurance. Now I wanted to take time and just have input here, but think in your own heart and mind. Some passages That come to your mind that God is giving assurance. Can you think of any? Is there a passage coming to mind God's just giving? You know what first came to my mind Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd. I shall, say it with me, I shall not want. Whew, praise the Lord for that, huh? Uh can you think of any well just half the uh most of the book of Psalms? I put down some others and maybe you're thinking of some. I thought of Matthew 28 verse 20. Now these new these believers that Peter's writing, they're being pushed out of their communities, but they're evangelizing as they go. They're preaching the gospel as they go. And Jesus said in Matthew 28, he said, Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, the Holy Ghost. teaching them to observe all things what I've ever commanded you. And what's the next statement? Lo, what? I am with you always. He was assuring his people, as you go into the communities and the highways and hedges and out into the world and the nations of the world with the gospel, he says, listen, I'm right there with you I'm right there with you. I don't know, but I would imagine to a missionary Central Asia by himself, the only Maybe independent fundamental Baptists in the whole country, I would imagine that's pretty assuring to know that Jesus Christ right there with him. Amen. So God gives us these passages all through Scripture of assurance. Psalm 23, Matthew 28, verse 20. I thought of John 14 and verse 1. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. For it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will what? Come again, receive you unto myself. I don't know about you. That sure sure is my heart. I look at society and I see what's happening morally to a community around us. I think, oh, praise the Lord, Jesus coming back someday. Amen. Jesus coming back. So God gives us these passages all through the Bible that bring assurance to us. I thought of Philippians chapter 1 and verse 6, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you, what Will perform it unto the day. Now you should have known that. That's our memory verse for this month. I mean we just started it today. You should know it by now, right, Wilbur? Hebrews 13, 5. I will not fear what man shall do to me, for he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Whoo! Praise the Lord for that. Amen. Anybody here ever fail the Lord? That'd be a good time to say, yeah. Anybody here ever come short of what God expects for us? I'm glad God stays with me even when I blow it. Reassuring, reassuring, reassuring, reassuring. Now, if God gives us all these passages when we got it so good, reassuring us, can you imagine? When these little dear believers that are suffering so intensely, and yet they're staying faithful and their joy unspeakable, and they get a letter from Peter And it says this: for the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayers. I tell you, the best assurance that comes to us in times of trials and difficulties and sadness is the assurance that comes from the Word of God. I like poetry. I I've I've I've tried written it, but um not it's terrible. I gave up, so I just plagiarize others and I like poetry. But you know what I found out? The sweetest, most encouraging poem you can find doesn't come close to the assurance and encouragement I find in the Word of God. God's word is where we get assurance. God's word is where we find encouragement. So Peter's writing to them, he writes this, and lo and behold, you know what? He is quoting Psalms chapter 34. He is taking verses 15 and 16 of Psalm 34, and he's including it into his letter to these believers. To try and give them assurance, try and encourage them. Now let's look at this passage that he has here, and then the rest of the verse says: But the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. It's almost verbatim what Psalm 34, verse 15 and 16 says. Almost verbatim. It's worded a little differently, but almost exactly the same. And I believe God has given us a very important truth here. That it's important for us to understand in our Christian life. And that is this. Now get this: God does not interact The same way with everybody. God does not interact the same way with everybody. Look at the verse again. For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayers. What's the next word? But there's a contrast here But the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. Do you notice two types of interaction here? The righteous, God's face is over them. His ears are open to their prayers. But those that do evil, the wicked, his face is against them. God doesn't interact with people the same. I want to remind you, a Christian is not just a cleaned-up sinner. A Christian isn't just an old sinner that God made him better. A Christian is a whole new creature. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature, totally different than what he was before. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. When God takes an old sinner and makes them a Christian, he doesn't just take that old sinner and scrub them up a little bit and cut his hair and clean them up a little bit and Make him light and shiny. No, no, no. He makes a whole new person. Whole new creature. A new nature. A divine nature. Changes them from the inside out. And God interacts with his children. God interacts with his people differently than he does with those who are not his children. Children of the world, children of the devil You say, preacher, what do you mean, children of the devil? Did you know that Jesus said in John chapter 8, verse 44, that an unsaved person is not a child of God? He said this: ye are of your father, the devil. That's strong language. You have a person that's unsaved, not trusting Christ. Maybe they're resisting the Spirit of God. Maybe they're saying no to the gospel. Jesus said that person's not a child of God. They're a child of the devil. And God treats his children differently than he does the children of the devil. You did the same thing raising your kids. You say my children were kind of devilish, uh, maybe. But the fact of the matter is you don't treat your kids the same way you treated the neighbor kids, right or wrong They were your children. You interacted differently with your children than you did with other people's children. And Jesus, and God says here, he quotes Psalm 34, and then Peter says it here. He says, The eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, his ears are open to their prayers, but The face of the Lord is against them that do evil. God interacts with his children differently than he interacts with the world's children and the devil's children Now I notice two things here, real quickly. I want to give you this evening, and then we'll be done. Number one, I notice this. God's focus is on the righteous. God's focus is on the righteous. The eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open unto their prayers. Now I need to say this real quickly, right here. God does not have physical eyeballs God does not have physical ears. How many people understand that? The figure of speech. This is an anthropomorphism. It's the theological term. In other words, it's simply using human characteristics to describe an attribute of God. So God doesn't have a physical eyeball. If God had physical eyeballs, he would not be able to see everywhere at once, right? You can only look where the eyeballs are looking. Now my mother, I think she had eyeballs in the back of her head also, because she could see all around. But this is simply saying God sees. God sees. God's focus is on the righteous. Two things I notice here in this statement about his eyes and his ears. First of all, he provides protection for his children. Now, Peter is writing to these persecuted believers. He's writing to these young Christians, young in the Lord, and are being rejected and going through such horrific difficulties. And he says, the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous. He provides protection. That phrase over the righteous has this idea, and I got looking up, and this stirred my heart a little bit. It kind of has this idea, is an emphasis behind this on the direction of the eyeballs, and it's kind of this. He is looking down on them And the the word picture I got in my mind as I studied this was this. Did you ever see pictures from a drone? You know what drones are? And you get that up above, and sometimes you'll see a video or whatever of that drone is up above and they're walking down through the woods or walking through a field. And you get a perspective from high above them looking down, and you can see what's ahead of them, even though they might not be able to see it. You can see what's ahead of them You can see what was behind them if anything's coming up behind. You can see what's off to the right of them and off to the left of them. And you look down on them and you get this full panoramic view Of all that they're going through. I don't know, that stirred my heart. God in heaven looks down. He sees what's behind me He sees the things of my past that might creep up on me and discourage me or defeat me. He sees what's ahead of me. He sees what tomorrow holds and the end of the week and next week and next month and next year. His eyes are upon the righteous. They're looking down. He sees what's ahead. He sees what's off to the left and what's off to the right. Get this, there's nothing that can come into my life as a believer that is not seen and understood and dealt with by God first. Say, preacher, preacher, I'm afraid I'm going to fail. Listen, if you are, God already knows about it. He's got a plan. He can handle that. Now that doesn't mean we presume But God knows, God knows. And so his focus is on the righteous. And that means he provides protection. He sees what's ahead, what's behind, what's beside us. The child of God is constantly under God's care. Look with me over at chapter 5 of 1 Peter, if you would. Just turn a page over there. Peter's winding down his letter to these dear believers, and in verse 7 of chapter 5, he says this: casting all your care upon him. Why? For he careth for you. He careth for you. And then Peter writes, quoting Psalm 37, he writes to these believers: He says, The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous He's reminding them that they're under God's care. God will take care of you. God will see you through this. And whatever price you have to pay for your faith And whatever consequences there may be because of your consecration to Christ and to the gospel, God's eyes are on you and He'll see you through it. He'll see you through it. You agree with me? That would be encouraging to those believers. God's child of God is constantly under God. How many people here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. You're not ashamed of that, right? Saved. My Bible tells me as a child of God, you're under his constant care. Nothing can come into my life that God's not aware of and God doesn't deal with. Put this down, God, the child of God is constantly under God's care. The child of God is constantly under God's notice. He sees, he knows, he's watching. Now we preachers like to use that truth that God sees us all the time. We like to use that truth. God sees your sin. Anybody ever hear a preacher say anything like that? I want to remind you there's another side to that truth. God sees your tears. God sees your heartaches. God sees your fears. What worries you, what keeps you up at night. God sees that. The eyes of the Lord are upon looking down, are upon the righteous. He cares for us. He notices. And by the way, he notices the things we do for his glory that nobody else sees. Listen, I would never deliberately do this, and I know no one on our staff would ever deliberately overlook someone's service to the Lord. But sometimes it happens. I want you to understand, nobody's service to the Lord is ever overlooked by our God. He sees it. He sees it. So let's just put it out of our mind that we got to worry about somebody see what I'm doing for the Lord. Put the selfies away And just serve God, because the eyes of the Lord are looking down upon the righteous He cares for us. He notices. We're under God's protection. Would you keep your place here real quickly? Come with me to the Gospel of John. I love this passage. I use it when I have a new believer. I'm able to help someone trust Christ as Savior. Very seldom, I want to say never leave them without sharing this passage with the new believer. And it's important for you and I is Not new believers. John chapter 10, look with me at verse number 28. And if you're underscore a verse in your Bible, I highly recommend this is a good verse to underscore or highlight in one way or another. Verse 28, John 10, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. And all God's people said, Amen for that. Now look at the next statement. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. Woo! You know we say, when you and I become a child of God, God's got a hold of us. Jesus Christ has a hold of us. Nobody can get you out of my hand. Woo! That's pretty good. That'll make a Presbyterian shout right there. Wonder if we got any Presbyterians watching. God bless you if you are But then he goes on. Look what he says. My father, which gave them me, verse 29, is greater than all. Look at this. And no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. I am my father one. Would you agree with me? If God's got you in your in his hand, you're in pretty good shape. We used to say he's got the whole world in his hands. Now, I don't know about that, but I know this. He's got all his children in his hands. Protection. The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous. He's looking down. He cares for us. He protects us He protects us. So number one, the focus on the righteous means he provides protection. Number two, he answers prayers. Come back here if you would. Hope you kept your place there. Look again. At verse number 12, 1 Peter 3, the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears. Now he doesn't have physical ears, it's a figure of speech. The ears are open to their prayers Now let me just say this. Our God is a prayer-hearing God. David said in Psalm 65, verse 2, he made this statement. He's speaking to God and he says this, O thou that hearest prayer. I don't know about you, but I'm glad God hears our prayers. I was praying with Brother Matt down in men's prayer meeting here. We had a good group of fellows down there. And I would encourage you guys, if you can, come and join us down in men's prayer meeting. It's important. And we were praying, and Pastor Matt prayed, and then my turn to pray, and I just got thinking. While he's praying, I got thinking: the God of the universe, the God that this entire universe cannot contain him This holy God that is beyond our ability to comprehend, he was listening to me talk to him. Isn't that amazing? We were on our knees, and God was listening to what I had to say and to my request. And by the way, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ, your personal Savior when you pray, that same God is listening to you. Think about that. Man. He hears me. His ear is bending. He's listening to me. Ears of the Lord are open to their prayers. Thank God that we have a God-hearing prayer. A prayer-hearing God, I should say. God's more concerned that our needs are met than we're concerned that our needs are met. How many people here want your needs to be met? I mean, you know, really. I really want my needs to be met. Yeah. You know what? God's more concerned here needs to be met than even you are. Here's the other thing: God knows what our needs are. Sometimes we think we know what our needs are, but we're wrong. You know, it's amazing. I can be completely satisfied. I don't need a thing, and I walk into Cabela's And all of a sudden my life is miserable. I have to have these things. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Now you ladies saying, yeah, you got now you do the same thing when you go to the mall Actually now it's Amazon. Discontent, don't look at Amaz. Delete that app off of your computer. We think we need stuff. God knows what we need. And He wants our needs to be met even more than we do. He knows what our needs are even better than we do. He wants our prayers to be answered even more than we want our prayers to be answered. You know it's possible to plug up God's ears. Peter is quoting Psalm 37. He says, His ears are open to their prayers, the righteous, God's people, God's children. But Isaiah 59, would you turn there real quickly with me? I know. Please bear with me. I want to want you to see this. Go to Isaiah 59. And he makes an interesting statement here that you and I can actually Now I'm using my terminology, but plug up God's ears to our prayers. Isaiah 59, did you find it? Notice here in verse number 1 and 2. He's writing to this is the prophet Isaiah under the inspiration of God, addressing the people of God. Now, in this case, it's the nation of Israel He says, Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot say. Look at this next statement. Neither his ear heavy that it cannot hear. God's ear, he can hear. Then why doesn't God hear my prayers? Now he's talking to his people. He's not talking to the pagans. Look at verse 2. But you're what? Iniquities have separated between you and your God. Look at this. And your sins, look at this, have hid his face from you. That he, what's the next word, will not hear. It's not that God can't hear our prayers But we allow sin in our life as a child of God. And we live in disobedience to His Word. And we don't address that and we don't deal with it like we talked about last Sunday morning again this morning. We confess and forsake that. My Bible says, God says, uh-uh. I'm not going to listen to that prayer. In Peter, we already looked at this some time ago, but in 1 Peter 3, verse 7, he's addressing husbands. And he says the husband should dwell with his wife according to knowledge. In other words, he ought to treat her and be the husband he knows God tells him to be. And he says, that your prayers be not what? Hindered. You know, God won't hear the prayers of a sorry, rascal Christian husband that won't be the husband he's supposed to be. And all the husbands said, Now God's ears are open to the righteous. God wants to hear our prayers and answer them more than we want Him to. But it's possible for you and I as children of God, husbands and wives, men and women, young and old We can behave and we can tolerate things in such a way that God says, uh-uh, I'm I'm not listening to you, till you get that straightened out. Nope. Mm-mm. Deal with it, confess it, forsake it. Nope. But David said in Psalm 32, we looked at this morning, God wrung me out till I made it right, till I dealt with my sin, confessed it, and forsook it. So, number one, the focus, God's focus is on the righteous, and I end with this: the second part of chapter 12, 1 Peter 3. He says, the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, his ears are open unto their prayers. But The face of the Lord is against them that do evil. His focus is on the righteous, but his face is against the wicked. Now, in this case, that term face of God It's talking about God's anger. It's talking about God's judgment on those that do not know Him as Savior. It's the anger and wrath and judgment of God's holiness on an unforgiven sinner, an unsaved sinner. The Old Testament uses the term over and over again. God set his face against them. And it was a term the Old Testament prophets used to refer to the wrath and judgment of God on those who are outside the family of God. Now that does not mean that God doesn't love the wicked. Doesn't mean that God won't save the wicked. God does love sinners, and God does love those that do evil. And he will save them if they'll turn to him and trust them. But his holiness Because our God is a holy God, until they come to Christ, they are outside of His will. They are outside at odds with His will. And his face is against them. John chapter 3 and verse 18 he says, uh well, I was going to quote it. Let me turn there very quickly. John Chapter 3. We know John 3. 16. But he goes on and he makes a statement in chapter 3 and verse number 18. The Lord says He that believeth on him is not condemned. Listen to this. But he that believeth not It's condemned already. Condemned already. That's the face of God against them. Who won't believe. They're condemned already. If you're listening to me or you're here this evening, you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. My Bible says that you are already condemned by God. Over in verse number 36, listen to what he says there in verse 36. He says, He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. You know what that is? That's the face of God against One that's not trusted Christ as Savior. In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 12, Paul writing to the church at Ephesus Referring to Gentiles who don't know Christ, those who have not come and trusted Christ, he said they are without God and without hope in this world. It's an awful thing to be unsaved. It's an awful thing to be without Christ. You say, preacher, I'm not saved, I'm getting along just fine. Well, there's a coming a day. It's coming a day. That's not going to be the case. Over and over, Jesus said, the Bible says, today's the day of salvation. Now's the accepted time. Until a person humbles himself and trusts Christ as Savior, the face of God is against them. Condemned already. The wrath of God abiding on them. Say, preacher, that's kind of harsh. No, that's kind of true. God loves you. He died for you, was buried, and rose again. You'll humble yourself say, God, I'm a sinner. I've broken your law, I've violated your holiness, your wrath is on me. You'll come and trust Christ. God will remove that wrath. Remove that condemnation that was all put on Christ on the cross. And God will take the righteousness of Christ and put it to your account. You'll be a child of God, and his eyes will be upon you, and his ears will be open to your prayers. See the difference? God treats God doesn't treat everybody the same. Years ago, the certain tribes of Native American Indians in America here as I understand it They would have a rite of passage for their young men. And they get to twelve, thirteen years old in that range. Any how do we have any young men here, twelve, thirteen years old? Any here at all? That age? Do any fourteen? Any ten, about uh uh Evans age. A young man get about Evan's age, and what they would do, the way I understand it, is they would take them out into the wilderness. Now this is back before, you know, this is back in the wilderness days. They take that young man out, give him a few items, and he had to survive for, if I remember correctly, about a week. It was a rite of passage. Of course, there were wolves and bears and lions and tigers and bears. There was And they'd take that boy out there, and he'd have to fend for himself, and proof he was a man. He could he could deal with that. But you know what I read? I read many times the father, that boy would be concerned. Whether his boy would survive out there like that or not. He didn't want his boy to be killed by a grizzly bear, bit by a snake. Do you know what the father would do? He would follow that boy in the shadows, unbeknownst to the boy, and he would follow And he would never take his eyes off that boy. And that whole time he was out there proving himself, that father stood back, unseen, unheard. But he was watching over him. Watching over him. If he needed to, he'd step in, making sure. I read this verse where the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, his ears open to their cry. And I thought about my heavenly Father in the shadows. Unseen, unheard. But he's watching over me. If I get in trouble, God I need you. His ears open to my prayer. Isn't that good? Isn't that good? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. As children of God, as your children, help us to rest assured that we're never out of your sight. And you're never out of the vo or the sound of our voice. Help us to rest in that. Lord, if there's someone listening that's never trusted in Christ, this Savior doesn't have that assurance outside The family of God. My prayer is tonight they'd come and trust you. Be born in the family of God and have this assurance that you promise only to your children. They'd find eternal life. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many folks tonight would say, Preacher, it sure encourages me that God knows what I'm going through. Anybody here like that? Thank God He understands. Thank God he sees. He knows my past. He still loves me. He knows what my future is, and he's got it under control. Thank God for that. I wonder if there's some here tonight say, preacher, I've got real burden, real need Broken heart, a concern that I want God to hear my prayer and answer it. Is there any like that? Preacher, I've got some things I'm pleading with God I want him to do. Any like that? God bless you, hands all around Now what we need to do is stop and examine ourselves, is there anything in my life that's plugging up God's ears? If it is, confess, forsake it, get rid of it. And then rest assured God hears. God hears. Is there any here tonight say, Preacher, I'm not sure my sins are forgiven. I don't know for sure God's saved me. I have a home in heaven. I'm concerned about that. If you'd like for me to pray, God will help you settle that. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need to be saved. Any at all? How about it? Maybe we know someone that needs our prayers that they'd be saved. Father, bless our invitation, thou I ask. In Jesus' name.