Thumbs up or thumbs down, which is it? Let me get the money. Am I on, Jamie? Alright. It's working. Um verse 3, 1 Peter chapter 1. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which, according to his abundant mercy, hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance, incorruptible, undefiled, that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you, who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time Wherein, and this is what we preached on last week, wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, you're in heaviness through manifold temptations. Now look at verse 7. That the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto the praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ Then he goes on and says, whom having not seen ye love, and whom though now ye see him not, yet believing ye rejoice with joy unspeakable, full of glory. receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls. I want to look tonight at verse number seven in the time we have and uh and and consider this the trial of your faith. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, Or it's been a good day. You blessed us, and I'm so grateful. I ask now as we finish out today that your Holy Spirit would help us and speak to us, encourage, and challenge us. I yield my will and present my body anew that I could just be a conduit, Lord, for you to speak through me to each of our hearts and minds. Give us receptive hearts. Help us to see the truth that is given here and how it applies to our lives. So I ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen. Peter was a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ for three and a half years about And during that three and a half years, uh he had his ups and downs. Can anybody tell me some particular struggles That Peter had as a disciple. Some things he went through that were a little testy and a little challenging. Can anybody name any? Denying the Lord three times. How many people agree with me? That would be discouraging to fail in that level. And can anybody else think of any others? Russell. He got angry. They got angry. How about others? Yeah, when he went out on the water, I thought of that. Walked in the water, started out great, started out great. But then he saw the wind and the waves and he began to sing, Lord help me. Anybody here ever start out in something pretty good and after a while you got overwhelmed in it? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Three and a half years Peter uh was with the Lord Jesus Christ, personally, right with him But he had his struggles. He he had his trials, we could say. And then after the Lord ascended, the Spirit of God came upon them. They were filled with the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God indwelt them. And then, under the power of God, Peter began to preach and serve God in miraculous ways. But now he faced a whole new series of trials. It wasn't, this time it wasn't trials necessarily totally, although he did have some ups and downs of his fallen nature, but now it was trials of his faith. Where he was persecuted in prison because of the preaching of the gospel, and persecution came upon him intensely And we pointed this out at the beginning of our study in the book of 1 Peter, that Peter was a changed man by the time we get to his recording this under the inspiration of God. And what I'm getting at is this, is through pa through Peter's shameful failures, and he was ashamed of his failures. There's no doubt. His a uh fierce persecution because of his faith in Christ. Um he suffered intensely. You read uh the the history of Peter and and um it suggested how he was uh crucified upside down for his faith in Christ. And so through all of this, what did it do for Peter? This is what I'm saying. It produced in Peter A compassion and an understanding. I believe it changed Peter. He was impatient. He was intolerant when the Lord first met him. But by the time we get here, his heart has been changed. We were we were talking down in prayer meeting, Brother Matt, we're talking, we're praying for them folks, and Brother Matt made the statement. It's such an amazing thing how the gospel of Jesus Christ can change a person. So much. And I'm telling you, trials and failure. And suffering, persecution changes us. Changes us if we let it And now we read Peter, and here he's writing to these believers who are intensely persecuted, who are suffering, heartache. family members killed and and uh rejected them and and he's writing to them with this heart of compassion He when I was reading this and studying this, I thought this man is a tremendous pastor He has a heart for these people. He has compassion and understanding. And he's trying to encourage them. He's trying to comfort them uh for their perse what they're facing the persecution. Verse number six, we pointed out last week, is that he makes an observation about their praise in their trials. Do you remember that He says, you greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be you're in heaviness through manifold temptations, these people rejoicing greatly And so he observes the praise that they have in the midst of their trials. And now he's explaining in verse 7, he's explaining the purpose for their trials. The purpose for their trials. Anybody ever asked this question? Why me? Anybody? Why is this happening to me? Uh did you ever ask this why why does this have to come up now? Can I get a witness? Anybody know? Uh why this? Why now? Why me? Why do the other kids in school, why are they ridiculing me? I'm just trying to live for God. Why are they Making fun of me. Why do the folks in the office and the other workers in the office, why do they give me such a hard time just because I'm trying to live for God, trying to be a Christian? Why Why am I working so hard and I'm trying to be a witness? I'm serving. I'm trying to build my Sunday school class. I'm Trying to build this Sunday this bus route. And uh I just can't seem to get ahead. I'm not seeing the results for all the work I'm putting in. I'm not seeing the results. Why Why is it so difficult? Why am I struggling so hard to have victory in this area of my life? Why is a hard question to answer, isn't it? At least for me it is. People ask me why. It's hard to give a specific answer. But here Peter is giving an answer. He's giving the purpose, he's explaining to them the purpose for the trials that they're going through. The Christian life is a life of faith. Now get this. I hope, uh is everybody with me? Everybody alright? I'm probably tired. It's been a long day. But the Christian life is a life of faith. And what does genuine faith produce? Produces hope. It produces comfort. Can I say this? Genuine faith in God produces optimism If anybody in the world has a reason to be optimistic, even in the most darkest circumstances, it's the child of God that has faith in God. Faith in God. Faith in God does not produce doom and gloom and despair. Faith in God does not bring darkness into a situation, it brings light. It brings hope. It brings comfort. I put this down. If I have genuine faith in God, I have far more. Then the richest man in the world without faith in God has. Faith in God. Again, I put this down. If I possess the whole world, Yet have no faith in God, or my faith is superficial. I'm an awfully poor man. Do you ever see that little quote? The poor man is not the one without money, the poor man is the one without Christ. Let me modify that. The poor man is not the one without money. The poor man is the one without faith in God. Faith in God. If I have faith in God, I have all I need. If I have faith in God, in Christ, I have all I need. You say, preacher, you need money. Yes, that's true, and I you know, I uh I hate to say it, but I do my spreading over sometimes over money and things. But here's the thing. If I have faith in God, let me ask you a question. What can do more for me, God or money? Goodness. Uh what what can benefit me more? Faith or m material possessions? Faith in God all the time. And so he's zeroing in on their faith. And these are people who have exercised faith in Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. But more than that, they've exercised faith in God for their life. For how they live by the Word of God, and it has brought intense persecution on them. The world has turned its guns on these dear believers. And Peter's right Now here real quick and I only got a couple minutes. I'm gonna try and give this quick second. Number one, I notice he references their the trial of their faith. Look Again at verse seven. That the trial of your faith. That's what this was all about. Being run from their homes and being tortured and being imprisoned and losing their jobs and having to go to strange lands. All that was about their faith, the trial of their faith. Now that word trial there means this, to test, to prove whether something is genuine. To determine the quality or the integrity of something. And so their faith was being proven, their faith was being tested. was being tried. Was it the real deal? Was it genuine? Did it have integrity or was it just superficial? Untested faith reveals nothing about the quality of my faith. Untried faith reveals nothing about the quality of my faith. I don't know whether uh someone's faith is we don't know whether our faith is is uh genuine or whether it uh has m is uh is any substance to it or not until it's tested Until it's tested. And then that reveals whether this is a genuine faith, whether it has integrity or not. Take your Bible with me and turn with me, if you would, to Acts chapter number 13. Here we have a young man who had faith in God, there's no doubt And Paul and Barnabas go out on their first missionary journey, and this young man wants to go along. He's got faith in God, and I want to be a part of this. This is exciting, a missionary journey We're going to go to these cities and lands where there's no gospel, and we're going to preach the gospel and start churches, and he's excited, no doubt. But notice with me verse number 13. Anybody want to tell me who the name of this young man is? John Mark. Look at verse 13. Now, when Paul and his company loose from Paphos, they came to Perga in Pamphylia. And look what happened. And John, what? Departing from them return. Now we all have time. I wish we had more time. But I would like to go back and look at the circumstances leading up to John heading back. And here you find a fellow by the name of, let me get Eliama Elias. He's a sorcerer. Whoa. How many people would be creeped out if you came home and you met a sorcerer at your house? Demon-possessed guy. And uh this is testing John Mark's faith. And what's John Mark do? Turn around and goes back. Turn around and goes back. Now, praise the Lord. He studied the Bible, we find out that John Mark was from that. And his faith was developed and it became stronger. He became very, very useful. The Apostle Paul. Come over to chapter 13 Same same chapter. Come to the back, uh, come to verse 50 of chapter 13. Says, but the Jews stirred up the devout and honorable women and the chief men of the city and raised what? Persecution against Paul and Barnabas and expelled them out of their coast. Would you agree with me? Their faith is being tried. Yeah. Persecution. Stirred up. Everybody's turned against them. But they shook the dust off their Iconium, verse 52. And the disciples were filled with what? Joy in the Holy Ghost. You know what happened? Their faith was legit. Their faith was strong. It was the persecution, it was the testing, it was the trials. That revealed the integrity, the quality of the faith. Now, John Mark's faith was weak, and he turned and went back. Paul and Barnabas' faith strong, they rejoiced in the Lord. Now, as I said, praise the Lord, John Mark came around. And later on, Paul said, he's useful to me. He's a good guy. He's strong. He's legit. Again, I wish we had time. One of the classic illustrations of faith being tested. And one of my favorite events recorded in Scripture, one of the most profound in my mind, is found in Genesis chapter 22. And for sake of time, we'll not turn there. But in Genesis 22, you have Abraham. And God approaches Abraham and he says, Abraham, I want to be your son, your only son, whom thou lovest. Who's he talking about? Isaac. And I want you to take him up on the mount. Now listen to this. And I want you to offer him as a sacrifice on an altar to me. How many people agree? That's tough. That's tough. What is God doing? Is God wanting him to kill his son? No, we know God intervenes. That wasn't the purpose of this at all. The purpose of this whole thing was a test, was a trial to prove Abraham's faith. Would Abraham, God was proving to Abraham and to you and I, putting up an example, a testimony to you and I, would he be willing to trust God even when it went against all reason? Even when it went against everything that seemed right, everything in Abraham's mind, would he still trust God in spite of that? And how was Abraham's faith proven? Proven true. It was proven legitimate. Abraham's faith had integrity. And without hesitation, at least not recorded in Scripture, without hesitation, without debate, without argument. He gets up the next morning and he goes and does exactly what God instructs him to do. Wow The trial of your faith. That's exactly what God was doing. Trying Abraham's faith, testing it, proving the integrity of it. And as he lifts the knife to plunge into the heart of his son on that altar that he built, the angel of the Lord stops him. And lo and behold, there's a ram in the thicket. And again, I wish we'd go back and look at it, but God says to Abraham, now I know. That thou trustest me. I'm not quoting it exactly. What are you saying? He's saying, I tried your faith, I tested your faith, I proved your faith, and it came through with flying colors. This is what I and I'm going to end with this. I'm going to end with this. When you and I decide that we're going to have faith in God, From the youngest people down here, and I tell, would you agree with me, older Christians, these young Christians, they got some tests coming ahead of them, right or wrong. Their faith is going to be tried. No doubt about it And same for you and I as adults. It's part of life till we go to heaven. But this is what I want to say. When you and I decide we're going to put our faith in God, I'm going to trust God, you mark it down, it's going to be tested every single time. God is going to prove it. He is going to try it. He's going to test it. Approving of our faith. The proving of our faith Having all my bills paid, perfect health, everybody likes me, I've got great possessions, money in the bank, everything's gone my way, that doesn't say a thing about my faith, right or wrong. And doesn't say a thing about my faith. But I tell you, when everything's taken away, and the most precious thing in the world to me is put on an altar, and I gotta offer it up and sacrifice it. And I do that willingly, unwaveringly, trusting God. Oh, that's a test of the faith And Peter's writing to these believers. Been run for the run. They are being persecuted mercilessly. And no doubt there's questions. Why? We've trusted Christ, our lives have been changed. We're trying to live for God. Why is this happening to us? Say, listen, God's proving your faith. God's proving your faith. Now I'm getting way ahead, but I want to end with this. I know I've said that five times now. But I do. Who is who is their faith being proven to? Does God not know whether their faith is legit or not? God knows that, right? God knows everything. Are you all with me? Everybody? Anyone awake out there? Hello? Does God know whether their faith is l uh Does God know? Yeah, God knows that. He's not trying to prove anything to God. Is he proving it to them? So they know that their faith is genuine? Hmm, that may be a factor. You know, so they know, assure them. But I want to suggest to you, and I think we'll pick this up at the end of the verse I think God's proving to others, you and I, through the pages of Scripture, that their faith was legit, that their faith was true. And God tests your faith and my faith. And God puts us through it so that we can be a testimony to other Christians. Hey, God's good even when the c when it's raining. God's true. God's faithful even when cancer is eating my body up. I wish I could take every one of you out to Phil Sherman's house. Right, Ron? He's probably listening. Hey, Phil. Hey, Phil. But I wish you'd go out there and hear that fella talk about heaven. Talk about the Lord, what the Lord means to him. I leave there. My heart is stirred. I feel like my faith is so weak when I walk out of there. God is letting Phil have diabetes for all these years and now going through what he's gone through. And for no other reason to help me have stronger faith in God. No man lives to himself, no man dies to himself. We're the Lord's. And God's using us to be a witness and a testimony to others Well, God sure is good. Yeah, it's easy to say, Job, because oh, you've got a big family and everybody's happy and you're wealthy and all that. God says, all right, take all that away from them. When it's all said and done, Job says, God's still good. God's still good. Let's pray. Father in heaven, the child of our faith, Lord. We don't like it. I don't. But Lord, we believe you're you love us and you want to use us. And this is a necessary part of being used of you is to show an old sinful dark world. That you're a good God, you're faithful and true. And I pray you'd help us to pass that test, that trial. I pray that every one of us this coming next seven days We'll be able to walk and live and conduct ourselves and communicate in a way that shows this world that faith in God is legitimate. And that you are true. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, pray with me? God's trying me, God's testing my faith. I know it's a fact for many of folks here tonight. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that my faith would be true. I could be a witness, this whole world, that God is good and God is true, and God is faithful. Any like that by the uplifted hand? And maybe tonight you'd want to come in an old altar as we do so often, and just say, Lord, help me to be a testimony this week. Help me to show this world whether things go my way or not, whether things are what I want or not. I'm going to be a testimony to this old world and prove to this world that faith in God is true. Father, bless us now, I ask. In Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed