Promised cards. Uh he has talked to you about that and the uh he had a home run far as I'm concerned. Uh he explained it well and someone said once that Missions Conference is a five-day business meeting and where God does business with us and at the end of it we decide what we're going to do for God. And it is to reach the loss of the world. And if you've been here in all the evening services, you'd understand that our thought every time has been God is after our heart. And that's the key. And this morning as we get into our message, uh and don't be in shock, 'cause it's got a little different title. And I said, it's a drama of the gospel. He looked at me like, oh, well, gonna have a play? Well, no, not really, okay? But in our drama today, I'm gonna start over here. By the American flag, and I'm going to end up over here by the Christian flag. And there's five different character parts that we have to play. You can I cannot play one of those parts. That's called the part of the healer. But here, the first step is the helpless. They're going to be in our story today The second cast of characters in our drama of the gospel, this has to do with missions, is the helpers. And the third set of actors in our Core of actors are the hinderers. Can you say that with me? Hinderer. I don't know if that's a word or not. I think it is. You can Google it afterward. And then over here is the healer. That's the Lord. We can't play that part, but at the end of the thing, don't be shocked, are the happy. Okay? So we have the helpless, the helpers, and uh hinderers. They have the healer. And over here is the happy. Now you can play four parts, one of the four parts. And you'll find out today what part are you playing? Where are you at in your life? And I hope to explain it to you. The Lord had just announced the Great Commission. If you'll turn one page to your left. You'll see in Matthew 28, verse 18, for Jesus says, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore. Teach in all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, and teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you, and lo, I am with you always. Even to the end of the world. And then we come to Mark chapter 2, and I want us to dwell on the fact of counting the cost for service. Counting the cost for missions, counting the cost to reach the lost. And how does this relate to us? And just what missions is going on? Here in this story. I want you to see this is one of the first soul-winning or preaching or witnessing events that took place in Jesus' life Now I want you to understand, as we said in the Sunday school hour, and uh L-O-R-D, we have some good students in here. L means to do what? Listen. Okay. O means to? R means to and D means do. And you said, Why would you do this again to us? Well, because not everybody was here for a store. L-O-R-D, keep that acronym in there. If we're going to listen to God's word today, we're going to watch people obey God's word and respond to it and do it. Let that speak to us. And I want you to understand something when it comes to faith promise giving. This is part of God's local church emphasis The heart of God is uh okay handing out tracts. Or is the heart of God medical missions? Is the heart of God airplane missions? Is the heart of God printing missions? What is the heart of God? The heart of God is to reach the loss of this world. All God's people said? Soul winning, church planning, discipleship, and going on from there. So we want to take this a really practical look this morning at a setting in Camperdium I'm going to read twelve verses and you'll see the actors as I read, and then we'll come back in and do the drama for you quickly. Number one, uh or ch verse one of chapter two. And again he Christ entered into Capernaum, and after some days it was noise that he was in the house. And straightway many were gathered together and so much But there was no room to receive them, no, not so much uh as about about the door. It was so coward you couldn't even get into the the house, you see. And he preached the word unto them. Isn't it great? The Word, preaching the Word. I got one amen there. Isn't it great? The Word is preaching the Word. And the word became flesh and dwell among us. Isn't that great? Now watch this. And they s and the word unto them, and they come unto him, that's four guys, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was born of four. And when they could not come nigh to him, Christ for the press, they uncovered the roof where he was, and when they had broken it up. See they broke that roof up, and we'll explain that later. They let down the bed wherein the sick of Pauls he lay And when Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. I want you to notice, first of all, they did not bring the boy there to get him healed. Let's just let's let's be straight honest here. They brought the boy there to get saved. I want you to understand because people get this turned around, okay? It's basically the faith healer bunch, okay? Who does the healing? The person or the Lord Jesus Christ? And those four young men brought that boy to Christ, because he couldn't get there himself for his salvation. Look at verse six. But there were certain of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts. Why did this man thus speak blasphemies Who can forgive sins but God only? Now these uh these scribes, if I call them the periodical table of biblical idiots. They did have one thing right. They were dealing with God. Now look here at verse 8. And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Now you gotta be careful when you read this, because Jesus knows what you're thinking right now. What you're reasoning right now. How you're responding to what God's word saying right now. Not my little raspy voice, but what God's Word says. thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and take up thy bed and walk, but that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins. And he saith to the sick of palsy, I say unto thee, Arise, take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house And immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went forth before them all, insomuch that they were all amazed that's happy And glorify God saying we never saw it. Never saw this. Never saw it on this fashion. Boy, something's happening in that house, amen. So as we do the drama of the gospel today, I want to take you to the first point, the first thought, and that is the helpless. Okay? This young man was absolutely helpless. Would you join me please in our text there in verse 3? The Bible says in chapter 2, verse 3, that they come unto him, bringing one sick of palsy. Now I want to understand the world needs help, amen? Uh Oakland, Maryland needs help when it comes to the thing of Christ. This county needs help. I've discovered in my missions life and wherever I've been uh living for the Lord, the world is you know what? They're they're not all bad people. They just don't know they're not saved. You know? And this morning I had some church tracks and and I got I get I eat breakfast and I slid down in there at Denny's and and uh ladies said good to see you again and and I had uh some eggs and some bacon and Some sausage and some toast and the toast was grilled with maple syrup in it. Ho ho ho ho ho As I was sitting there, a dozen VFW men come in from somewhere I didn't know where they were from. They're my age and older. They're in a parade somewhere and they're w today they're in a parade somewhere. They didn't know how they was going to get through the parade. Some of them were so old they had trouble sitting down And I said, fellas, I give them all track. I want to honor you this morning. I want to pray for your breakfast. Because you guys defended our country. They looked at me like a bullfrog in a hailstorm. They said, oh, you be a preacher, huh? Amen. We prayed and one of them come unglued. Glory to God, he started while he was praying. And I snuck out of there. You know, and I look at those men, say getting older and look at me, and we don't walk like we once did. We don't get around like we once did. How many of you folks take medicine here just to keep the arthritis off of you? You know, wasn't that sun good this morning on you? Like a cat out there, just that that sun sucking that arthritis right out of my body, amen. But we're not helpless, you know. Have you ever seen somebody absolutely helpless? Like this boy in our drama this morning? He was so helpless he couldn't even get to church. He had palsy. Don't go do it now, but palsy is a uh is a and it may have been affected in some people in your family were the neuromuscular systems out of control or is missing a connector here or there. It's not that they they're uh mentally or handicapped, it's not that they're physically handicapped They have no motor skills. They cannot uh c uh get the body to move and and some can talk, some can't talk. Uh some bodies go spasmatic and I've been uh uh uh in in th through two or three ministries where we had guys in our ministry that were palsied. And last year I was preaching at Dominic Penichetti's church. And I was going to preach this message, the drama of the gospel, the helpless. And between Sunday and school, he came in the back and he had a wheelchair and was motorized. And he's twelve years old and and and and he pulled right there in the back and had a computer on it. And the preacher leaned over and said, Hey, I baptized him last week. And he told me how he got saved, and that was good, you know. But I wanted to be appropriate so I went back to asked his mom, can I have permission to to speak on being palsy? Because he had this and And so I went back there and I said, ma'am, and I was talking to her and he's setting here. This computer talked to me right in the middle of the question. Why sure you can I said, you can talk? Yes, I can. And he's moving his hand. He can control that. And he said, that's okay. And you know, I saw him sit in that wheelchair. He moved that thing everywhere. He could talk through that computer. He had it going on pretty good. Had a Gatorade there and a donut from Dunkin' Donuts. He was doing okay He's not the most hopeless person I've ever seen. The most hopeless person I've ever seen. You know Pastor Steve Robertson from years ago. I don't know if you remember him or not. And he came to preach for us up in Indiana in 19, about the time I met you, about 1988. He did a youth rally for us. And uh I'm out on the uh a bus route and I stop at my home He's with me going bus calling and I get a phone call. My wife hands me the phone and it was one of my bus mothers and she said, Pastor Dan Uh uh my niece gave birth to a baby Friday and uh she was smoking crack and cook cane during her pregnancy and it just the baby's not right. And it's a bad situation. But I want you to go up there and witness to her and her husband and maybe be an influence in them and I got away. And I said, okay, I'll be there. She said, I'll meet you at three So we went up and got did our bus route and went to the uh there on the St. Anthony's Hospital in Miscity, Indiana, uh right off Ohio Street. And I I pulled in over the church van, we parked and went up to the third floor and going through the pediatric area there and getting ready to go in the special sa uh area and and the aunt stopped me as I went to go in the room She said, now Pastor Dan, do not overreact when you see the child. Uh don't overreact. And uh because uh She's just not all there. And I said, Okay, thank you. You know, and the dad was sitting there, he looked at me, he's been crying all night, and the wife uh the the mother laying there in the bed just saying, Oh, it's all my fault, it's all my thoughts. I said, We'll pray, it's okay. And and the aunt said, Would you pray over? the girl and I walked over that little bassinet where that girl laid and as I looked in that plastic container she had no left leg she had no left arm No left ear, no left eye, no nose, and no mouth. Now you just wait a minute She had less than 16 hours to live. That is the most hopeless person I ever have met in my life. And I assured that lady, as I'll assure you, that mother, that aunt, that little girl did die the next day that she went to be at the Lord in heaven. Bible's very clear. But you're you're helpless today. Is that little girl in that bassinet? What's the Bible says, wherefore is by one man sinned into the world and death by sin, therefore death passed upon all men? For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, there is none righteous, no, not one. Is that not true? That's all of us, folks. For God so loved the world, He gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have what? Everlasting life. And that while we were yet sinners, God died. Christ died for us. Isn't that great? Let me tell you something. If you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you've never asked him to forgive your sin, you're just as helpless as that little girl in that bassinet. And you're just helpless as this little young man in our story this morning. His four friends knew that he needed Jesus Christ in his heart. Somewhere, now here you go again, you listen real tight to this, somewhere in this story, these four young men that bore him to that church service had Jesus Christ in their heart I'll prove that to you later. They brought him to church and they they weren't the typical independent Bible-believing Baptist when the crowd was too big. Well, that's well, it must be God's will not for us to take him to church The wind's blowing uh too hard or it's raining too hard or or it's just a little bit too cold. Well, we just won't take anybody to church. We might offend them. No, they knew he needed to get saved. He was absolutely helpless. Now folks. If you don't have Jesus Christ in your heart when it comes to going to heaven, you can't buy it, you can't earn it, you can't think your way in it. Once that tickets punched, as Oliver Green b uh said this morning on the radio, your radio, you don't know if you'll be on that cold, dark, black slab tomorrow. You don't know the undertaker's going to get you. You don't know when the tag is going to be on your toe. No one knows. It's appointed once for man to die. Is that true? And no man knows when that is. When that ticket is punched, when it's over, you better make sure that you've trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Because if you don't, you will show up There's no way you can get to heaven. That'll be truly a helpless situation. I want you all, if you're not saved today, you need to come and trust Christ as your personal Savior at the invitation. The second characters in our show today, I say show in our drama are the helpers. Look back in your Bible with me, please, in our text I want you to see this with me. And the Bible says in verse 1, and again he Christ entered to Capernaum. And after some days it was noise that he was in the house. And straightway many were gathered together in so much there's no room to receive them. No not so much about the door, and he preached the word unto them, and they come unto him, bringing one sick of palsy which was born afore and when they could not come nigh to him for the press they uncovered the roof where he was. Let's talk about the helpers for just a moment now. The second set of uh actors in our in our drama are the helpers. And and and and these helpers are four young men uh bringing one person To Jesus Christ to the cross. And there's Christ preaching the word. And he's going through the gospel. The place is packed with saved and unsaved people. The scribes are sitting there trying to catch Jesus and anything that he says. The four guys show up at the back door and could we can we make this the house, okay? Can you take your imagination with me for just a few moments? Let's say this is the house And we're part of the crowd, we're not scribes, okay? We're part of the crowd. We're sitting there and the boys show up and they can't get in. And then we got windows just like this in the house and and the windows are all up and we see somebody carry a a gurney around the side. And they set it down on the ground. And four guys began to talk. What are we going to do? Now this is what missions is. What are we going to do? We can't get him in. We can't get salvation. We can't get him to the salvation. We can't get salvation to him. What are we going to do? Well it must be God's will. We just take him back home and let him die without Christ. It doesn't say that, does it? Can I bring it into 21st century? There's a Lowe's. Is it that way? There's a Lowe's down there, right? Y'all know how many's been to Lowe's in here? I drove by there. Yes, the whole county was in there. You'll understand. How many's been to Walmart? Okay, you'll understand. Let's bring it into our century. Them boys are standing there, we got a game to Jesus. We got a game to Jesus. You know, okay, uh And let's go down and and okay, I'll buy a a generator, 'cause you know I'm not gonna do anything by hand, amen. And I'm gonna buy an electric cord and a little power saw and a little mattock and a little shovel and a little bucket and some ropes and a wheelbar and a tarp and you know, and some Gatorade and S a a tape, you know. And a ladder to get up on the roof. You with me now on this? They let that little boy lay there and they would run down that road and they come back with the gear. I don't there wasn't a loads back then, you know that and I know it. But the Bible says in that verse they broke the roof up. Okay? Like instead of doing as quiet as they can. Mmm saw on that there dirt, you know, put pulling them, scraping most of the roofs back in those days in the ceilings were eight to twelve inches thick with sticks running this way and sticks running that way and more on the mole. Straw mudded mold of straw and mud mixed, okay? And put together. And true? And so they're taking that, and I can see measuring it out and getting a little hole bit a little bigger than his little bed that was outside there. And they got some duct tape You see the wheelbar sitting on the outside, you can see the the gravel coming over, the dirt and the mud and all the stuff, and you can see the little boy laying there, what is going on, and they they get the hole open and people inside see the sun coming through and Jesus is presenting. Preaching the words and they outside they pick a better and then they duck cape him in. They want to drop him. Then they get him in that roof. That roof in those days was eight to ten foot high. Now you listen to me, one's on each corner. They had rope soundtrack feet first of Jesus had the thought through because they said he didn't have to turn around. He laid right there on that bed, laying right there Jesus knew what was going on. He looked at the crowd. He looked at that boy. That boy looked at him. Not a word said. Let's talk about these helpless for a minute. I'm going to give you the why God's going to bless this man when he goes to the mission field. I'm going to give you the why God's going to bless him I'm going to give you the why, why God bless us going to bless the Webbers. I'm going to give you the why Dan Dog's blessed in his ministries over in Papua New Guinea and Australia. Yesterday in our churches in New Guinea, we had twenty eight hundred and seventeen in our eight churches around the Port Moresby area had seventeen, trust Christ, their personal savior, in those eight different churches. It's not me doing it, it's not the preachers doing it It's God doing it, but God does it through you because you help. Listen to this. I want to show you why Christ saved it. Are you ready? Look what it says here. I love God's word, don't you? Look at verse 5. And when Jesus saw Their faith. Look here. Their faith. Their faith. That young man's gonna win people of Christ, he doesn't even know him yet. Grant said it's going to win people to Christ today. He's not doing what street they're on yet. The Wagners are going to win people to Christ. They won't speak Mongolian for two more years. It's hard to learn as Apache. But the point is, God's called them there. God's led them. They're gone. But they need help to get to the helpless. Isn't that great? And when God sees your faith, He begins to work. Notice he did not heal him first, but he said, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. I am so glad that these helper brought the helpless to the healer, aren't you? But sitting in the crowd in verse 6 are the hinders. The Bible says in verse 6, third group of actors. But there were certain of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts. See, the helpless could not do anything to get to Christ. Do you see the picture incapable of getting to Christ. The Christian young men, his friends, were the helpers. They brought him to the healer They brought him to the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ had made a difference in those four young men's hearts. And they didn't give an offering that day. They didn't take a faith-promise thing that day. But they got involved together. They worked as a group, took that roof apart. And got into Jesus, and Jesus did the rest. Amen. And then we come over here to the hinderers. Reasoning in their hearts. Here's what it was. Who is that guy up there that can save this guy of new sins? We'll bring it in the 20th century. It's not gonna work given to those missionaries. It's not gonna work paying for those tracks. It's not gonna work to have these spatial services. Money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money, money. That's all they want. Money, money, money. I don't want mone I want God's blessing. But see they reason in their hearts. Never work. Wonder how long this one will stay safe. Yeah, yeah. So he's sitting there, and here's what they're thinking. If you can forgive sins, you probably think you can heal that guy too, don't you? So they didn't realize they were dealing with Jesus. Okay. Can I get off with these guys? Because that's bad. We don't like to be hinderers, do we? When's the last time God spoke to you to do something for him? And you did not? Charleston, West Virginia. Last year I was going to preach up in Ripley I went to the Walmart. I've learned how to live cheap at the Walmarts. You go in there when the Gatorade goes on sale and the lunchables are a day old and the laced potato chips are out of date. You can get a meal for five bucks or less. And I was going to do a game meal somewhere in one of those churches. Can't remember which one. And so I I go in there and I I I got my button on. Should have never had that That's about twenty minutes from the church, so I was going to get my gator. I got it, got all my stuff together. Four dollars and ninety-eight cents I was getting out of there on. As I got in line There was a uh a young man in front of me and then a young lady in front of him, and then Grandma Clampett was behind the counter. And she looked just like her and just a little taller and and uh more glass down on her nose and she's she's slow as last year's turtle. She just really slow. And that's okay, I wasn't in a hurry, and and and she came in behind me This lady was a soccer mom. Y'all know what a soccer mom is? First of all, she was big enough to pick up Delaware. And she had her two boys with her, and they're in a soccer league, seriously. And and she come behind me and said, Sir and I turned like this, you know, I need to I'm in a hurry, I'm late for my game and I gotta get this gator and stuff for my boys. And she walked past me and she asked to get in front of me Yee-gee. Big as she was, I wasn't gonna say anything. The guy in front of her, he did the same thing and the girl in front of him, excuse me, but I'm in a hurry, man. You can go wait till later. She got in front of Grandma Clampett Grandma Clampus said, you get back in the back of the line behind that gentleman with a suit and you wait just like everybody else. That's what I said. Amen. Here she comes. Stoop She's human and a fumin and just and kind of swearing under her breath. I said, Now wait a minute, ma'am. Listen, I won't let you go in front of me and you're not going to ask me, but and I had a church track at where I was going to speak and I said, You promise me you'll read that. I'll let you get in front of me because you're in a hurry. Good, okay. Now I and she took it and then she turned around. I didn't say when I was going to read it, but I will read it. I said it's okay And the man in front of her said, Listen, you go ahead and and and and uh and and read that thing he had. He was a Christian, but I didn't know it. And of course the girl heard the conversation and she said, Oh, just go ahead Mrs. Clampett was on a very happy camper when she went back up there. We said we want her to go, and she did. The lady went by me, never said a word, with the two boys at in tow. The young man passed me, the girl passed me, and I walked up to Grandma Clamp and said, It'll never work what you just pulled. He she not gonna read that track. I'm a Christian myself, but it ain't gonna work She was probably right, okay. So I come out of the Walmart, the guys in front of me and the girls that goes that way and That young guy and I'm walking down, we don't know each other. He's about ten feet in front of me. We're walking down to our cars and look to our right and there she was, Miss Delaware And uh she's crying, leaning up against the car. It's not gonna work, I don't have a change to And she had a flat tire Answered prayer, right? That's what we'd normally think. But it was another opportunity. And this time I was going to seize it. Took my suit coat off and me and that young guy, glad the young guy went with me because I didn't know what I was doing. Where's a where's a where's a flat tire on the east side where you where the spare is, you know. And so we started working on it, and he was doing it, and I'm doing it talking. I said, you're going to be okay. I said, God don't have me meeting you here by mistake today. It's not an accident. It's real. I'm just here trying to help you. There's more important things than your boy's soccer and your time schedule. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. She said, sir, I promise you I'm going to read the paper you gave me. I said, I want you to promise me you go to that church. Okay, I'll go to the church. You know, I don't know if she went there or not. They looked for her, but she didn't come. But here's my point. I took her to Jesus. That's what the helpers did. Now you may say, well, that lady will never get saved. How do you know? How do you know? I was with at West Coast last week at Dr. Mark Ramus and He took me in a restaurant. I was there last October. Preached a chapel service and went out to eat with Graham, Clark Graham, missionary in the Philippines. Lady waited on us. Started to talk, and she stood for 17 minutes at my table while I prayed for her messed up life. And she promised me she would go to Lancaster Baptist Church. She went four weeks later, got saved. The discipleshipped to last month and got baptized. And she shook my hand last week. And she said, thank you. For helping me along. Let me tell you, it doesn't happen by accident. Either you're a helper or you're a hinderer. Christ will always do the healing. The last group of people is found in verse 12. Take a look at that with me, please, and we'll finish our thought for today. This morning. And immediately when he arose. Now I like that this is what Jesus did. Let me act it out in verse 10. So you you don't think I can heal him, huh? Hey, boy. Yes, sir How's it feel to be saved? I'm having this. It's good. And he's still duct taped in there in our story, right? Sam, not only am I going to save you, I'm gonna heal you. Pick that bed up, put that thing on his shoulder and go home. I can see that arm working and that arm working. You can see him pulling it out, pulling biting and pulling that duct tape off. Can you see that with me? See him folding it up, getting up on his legs for the first time, kind of jumping around. Oh yeah, oh yeah, I can't do it anymore. I'm so old, right? Now I'm not being Pentecostal, I'm just saying acting it out Why this is going on down here, let's look through the hole. I see the four guys on top. I see high fives going across that open spot. Yeah, or a fist pump. Yeah. Or Now I see four bodies running across the top of that roof. Forget the ladder. You see those shadows jump on the ground. Little boy's walking out the back of the house. Got the bed on his side, and just like I watch it now in slow motion Four middle linebackers tackle him, knock him twenty feet, picking up that little body, praising God, amen. How many things that could have happened? Or like a well he got saved and healed. Let's walk out real pious, come off our ladder, go out of our story. Go back to our home, sit down, watch CNN, and get up and go to church on Sunday night. No, they had a time, amen. How do you know they had a time, Brother DeLong? Verse 12. They all were amazed. I mean, the helpless was amazed. The helpless were going nuts. The hinderers were amazed. Is that what it says? They kind of went like this. And those good guys in the crowd, the guys like you and me that want to help reading this story, yes, yes, great ending, fantastic But why did Christ do what he did there? What made him act? Verse 5, when he saw their faith. Their faith. You close your Bibles. Her name was Mrs. Charles Haven Spurgeon. She'd been a cripple. Her husband fought with gout for many years. You know his story, but few people know the thing about her. And in her infantless state, Mrs. Spurgeon, as she heard Hudson Taylor speak, well just giving what God has you to have to give. She was keeping some chickens behind her house for eggs for her and Dr. Spurgeon. And uh she got an idea to get a couple more chickens. She got the widows in the church, and she bought some more chickens. They put their money together. And I don't know how many it was, but they bought several chickens. was feeding the chickens and the chickens was laying eggs and the witness would come to the house every day and take the chicken eggs in the town of London and sell 'em. I'd bring the m money back to Mrs. Spurgeon and she'd count the money out and put so much aside for chicken feed and uh so much aside a little bit for the to take care of the widows in the church and the rest went to missions This thing got big. Went up to several hundred chickens. Several hundred eggs a day. And then somebody in the church got bent out of shape. He said she's becoming a multimillionaire off the church. Well they got the books and looked at him. She do didn't even keep the books. And one egg out of the twelve went to feed the widows. And ten of the twelve eggs went to the mission of Inland China mission for Hudson Taylor I'm telling you, a lot of people don't know these stories. There's reasons why that church, Metropolitan Baptist Tabernacle, was blessed. You don't see it out front. You see it in meetings like this where people have a faith when they can't do anything else, they'll do what God puts on their heart to do. All God's people said? I'm going to ask you a couple questions in just a moment. If you don't know Christ as your personal Savior and you're in this helpless state today. That's what I'm after. That's what Jesus is after. That's what this church is after. We love you. And your God has you here today. And be honest, he wants you to get saved. I can't save you. He can't do it. All we can do is pray. But when God speaks to your heart, we have lowered you into the room. We've helped you. We want you to understand that God loves you. And there is no way. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes to the Father but by me. In 2 Peter chapter 3, verse 9, he says that Jesus would have all men come to repentance. He wants us all to get saved. If you're here today, I beg you. We have an invitation in just a moment. You see the pastor, you come forward, you raise your hand. We will talk to you privately and give you the clear presentation of the gospel because everybody in here that's a Christian wants you to go to heaven. That's the bottom line. And you people here and the helpers Is there somebody in your life, in your world, that's related to you that's not saved? Could you raise your hand with me at this time? Is there somebody in that world that's a Christian but they're not right with God at this time? God wants you to help them. Well, don't be their Lord, but bring them to the place of repentance. Then over here, maybe you're in this group of hinder-errs. I make fun of them. That's us that always complain. Us that give us chip on our shoulder because the pastor does not say the word properly or he misquoted a verse by the let the is out or He believes in soul winning and you don't and he believes in going by the Bible and and and and this and you don't and you get so been out of shape. And you hinder the things of God. God did not save us to hinder, he saved us to help. Amen? Of course, here's the healer. It's all about Him. All about him. I can never repay Christ for what he's done for me. At the end of the story, when we help the helpless, Jesus will do amazing things. That'll make us all very, very happy. Not when you eat a blueberry Pop-Tart. I love them. I love them almost toasted burnt. I love them about a half inch of butter all around them. I love bacon. I mean I love hot dogs. That's why I take heartburn medicine and cholesterol medicine. But that's not the love I'm talking about. I'm talking about a love that died on the cross for me. And I have the opportunity to represent him. That makes me happy. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.