I read these two verses again. The Bible says, For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and the t and with the trump of God, and the dead shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds. Note that phrase, caught up. I have that circled in my Bible. You could write in the margin of your Bible where that phrase caught up, you could write this word. You could put rapture there. That's what the word caught up means. It means to be raptured up. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord And if you'll notice verse 18, he says we're supposed to do something with that truth, that rapture, this instruction, this information about a coming catching up, coming rapture Verse 18 says that we're to comfort one another with these words, with that information, with that truth, to comfort one another. Now I've given the message this morning, given a theological title And I'll explain here in a minute, but the title I've given it is the Pre-Tribulational Rapture of the Church. The pre-tribulational rapture of the church. A bit of a theological title. Actually, the word theology, I'll just give you a Little lesson here. The word theology simply means to think about or to study God. Think about God or to do some study about God How many people here have ever thought about God? Anyone you've thought about him? Anybody here ever read your Bible, study a little bit what the Bible says about God? You know what that means? That means you're a theologian You've thought about God, you've given some attention to it and sought information about God, to some degree you're a theologian. Now generally a theologian is somebody that gives their whole life to that You know, that's their life's work, is to study and teach on the Lord. The pre-tribulational rapture. Let's pray and uh ask the Lord to give us something out of this here this morning. Father in heaven. It is good for me personally. Let me be back at Mountain Lake. This is my this is my home. And Lord, this is where my heart is. And I thank you for this church and every single person that is a part of it that makes up this body of believers. Lord, you've been very good to us. You've blessed us in so many ways all these many years now. And we are asking, I am asking, that you would meet with us once again this morning in this hour, or as we study this matter of the rapture. And I ask that with all my heart that you would please fill me with your Spirit. Lord, I ask that you would take these truths, this information about this coming event. And through my lips, apply it to each and every one of our hearts and lives. I yield my mind and my will. I ask you to guide my thinking, the words that come to mind as I'm speaking. I pray that you would guide all of that I ask, Lord, you guard me from saying anything that ought not to be said. I yield my body to you anew. I present it anew to you, and I pray you'd fill me as I already asked. and speak through me. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. First Thessalonians is a great book. Of course they all are, but 1 Thessalonians was penned by the Apostle Paul. If you notice there, if you come back to chapter number one, right at the beginning, we've told who the penman is. He says, Paul and Sylvanus and Timotheus, under the church of the Thessalonians, which is in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. So he's writing, Paul is pending this along with these other two fellows to this church in Thessalonica. The city name of the city was Thessalonica. Um of course God's the author of all scripture, but God used Paul to pin this This church in Thessalonica that he's addressing was started by the Apostle Paul when he was going through Greece and that part of the world. He came to this city and he did what he did and so many others. He simply went into the synagogue and then uh throughout the city and he just preached Christ. That's our theme. That's what the choir sang a few moments ago. He preached Christ to them. And as happens, people heard the message, and many of them believed. And they turned to Christ, trusted Christ as their personal Savior. Their lives were changed. They were scripturally baptized, and Paul formed a body of believers. He formed a church there, organized that thing. and um and uh uh started that church there. What we know about the church at Thessalonica, we know a few things about it. Number one, it was a very strong church They were strong in their faith, if you would. Look at verse 2 and 3 of chapter 1. Notice what he says about them. He says, We give thanks to God always for you all. Making mention of you in our prayers. Now look at this. Remembering without ceasing your work of faith. Your labor of love and patience of hope in the Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of God our Father. So they were very strong in their faith. They believed God. This body of believers, whatever the size was, we don't know. Don't imagine it was a mega church type thing, but They were very strong in their faith. They believed God. If the Bible said it, that settled it for them. They were strong in their unity. They got along. They loved each other. They supported each other. I can't find anywhere in Thessalonians where Paul rebukes them for divisions in the church. The church at Corinth was very divided. They were fussing and fighting and had cliques and groups and it was a mess. But this church at Thessalonica, they loved God and they loved each other. They supported each other, encouraged each other. It was a strong church, strong in their faith, strong in their unity. They were very strong in their influence. They were not just a little bump and a log there in the city. They spoke up for the Lord. And they made a difference. They had quite an influence, not just in the city of Thessalonica, but that whole region. If you would, look with me at verse number 8. Chapter 1. Now notice the wording here. He says, For from you sounded out the word of the Lord. Not only in Macedonia, that was their immediate area, and Achai, but look at this. But also in every place your faith to God is spread abroad So that we need not speak anything. So they had a profound influence on their world at this time They went out into the highways and hedges. They went out into surrounding towns. They went out into extended areas And they told people the Lord Jesus Christ and they shared the gospel. And they gave out the Word of God. Now, it's important for us to understand, they did not have a printing press. They didn't have gospel tracts to carry with them, to give out to people. This is all by word of mouth. This is all sitting down one-on-one with people and telling them about the Lord Jesus Christ and giving them the Word of God. What I'm trying to say is this, this was a tremendous church. They were very strong in their confidence in God and their burden for the lost and their love for one another. They were an active church, as I just kind of pointed out. They faced severe persecution, but yet they got after it. Look at verse 6. Verse of chapter one. Ye became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction With the joy of the Holy Ghost. They were intensely persecuted. We could, we don't have time. We go back into Acts where we have the account of Paul showing up here and how he was severely persecuted And the believers there were severely persecuted for no other reason than the fact that they had given their hearts and lives to the Lord Jesus Christ. And the world hated them. And the religious leaders hated them. And the pagan religions hated them. And yet they served God faithfully. In fact, he says the joy of the Holy Ghost. They had the joy of the Lord even in the midst of circumstances. For a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, our joy is not dependent upon our circumstances. Our joy comes from the Lord, regardless of the circumstances. And so it's a good church. It's a strong church. It was an active church. Um Lotus verse seven. Verse 7, he says, so that ye were ensamples to all that believed in Macedonia and Achai. Speaking of this church, he said, Paul is saying this to them. He's saying, you all, he says, you are an example for the other churches that I've started all around the area You're a model church. In fact, I put in the margin of my Bible beside verse 7, a model church that other churches could pattern themselves after. They were an example to follow So the church at Thessalonica, started by the Apostle Paul, we don't know the size of it. Imagine it was a good group of folks there. But boy, did they love the Lord? And they were absolutely convinced that what the Bible said was true, and they acted on it. And they got to answer it. And they went into all the world, uh their world that they could, and uh they reached people for the Lord Jesus Christ. A good church, a strong church, active church. However, It was a very young church. We don't know exactly how long Paul spent in starting this church, but it was not a long time. Acts indicates that he was there for three weeks. Some Bible scholars suggest that he may have been there up to three months. Would you agree with me? That is not a long time to get a church started. Right? Three weeks? Show up in town, three weeks, and then uh maybe three months. And uh but uh and so Paul was only there a very brief time. This letter he's writing back to them. It's only about three months later that he's writing this letter back to them. He had gotten word That uh there were some problems. There was some issues in this little infant church he had just started, handed it off, went on his missionary journeys, and then he gets word back Three months is not a long time to get grounded in Bible doctrine. You can get saved, you get saved instantly, and we can grow very rapidly in our faith But it takes time to mature in Christian faith. It takes time to get grounded in the Word of God In fact, later on, Paul writes to Timothy and he cautions him to not put someone into a position of leadership that is a novice. In other words, a new believer. Why? Because it takes time. Spiritual growth takes time. Spiritual maturity, spiritual understanding of Scripture and doctrine takes time. And so don't get discouraged. You say, well, I thought I'd be a better Christian than what I am by this time. I thought I would understand the Bible better than I do at this time. I'm telling you, you just keep walking with God. You keep reading your Bible. You stay faithful to church, and you'll grow and strong. It just takes time sometimes. And they didn't have time. And what was happening, apparently, what was happening here in this church is there were some false teachers, again, and we see this all through these New Testament churches, these early churches, there was some false teaching getting in here concerning the future, what the Bible says about the future. And they were concerned and they were confused. This false teaching involved particularly the resurrection of believers. Their concern was, as we study this, apparently their concern was, we have loved ones who were saved. And they passed away. They're with the Lord in heaven. Their bodies are here. And what's going to happen when the Lord comes back, when the rapture takes place? Are their bodies going to be left behind? And how does all this play out? Apparently they had been told to some extent that the rapture had already taken place And so there was real confusion here about the return of Christ, and again the rapture in particular. So Paul writes back to them. He's writing back to them, and that's what 1 Thessalonians is. And in chapter 4, we are given the clearest teaching on the rapture of the church than anywhere else in Scripture. It's referenced other places, Corinthians, other places, Revelation. But Paul gives us the clearest, most detailed teaching about the rapture. I am convinced in all these years. Studying the Word of God, preaching the Word of God. I am convinced that the return of the Lord Jesus Christ is one of the most important doctrines in all Scripture. Jesus Christ is coming back. I believe the rapture of the church is one of the most important teachings in all of Scripture. Every Christian should be grounded. And what the Bible says about the return of Jesus Christ. Every Christian ought to be grounded on what the Bible says about the rapture of the church. Jesus is coming again. Jesus is coming again. I have a few thoughts this morning, three I want to give you. Number one, I believe every believer ought to be aware of the return of Christ Every believer ought to be aware of the return of Christ. Now I would like to think at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that is a very familiar subject for us. Amen or not? We sing about the second coming of Christ. We do a lot. We teach about the second coming of Jesus Christ in our Sunday school classes. from the smallest children up through the adult class, we will teach on the second coming of Christ. We have a Bible institute. Lord will, and we're kicking that off again this year in August. It's my plan. And we have a whole semester committed. What the Bible teaches about the second coming of Jesus Christ. We preach about it. I'm preaching on it this morning. I preach regularly On the second coming of Jesus Christ. Why? Because it's incredibly important that every Christian be aware of the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back again. The Bible instructs us repeatedly to be aware and to be prepared for the Lord's return. You would keep your place here, but I want to go to a number of passages in the Gospels. If you would go with me to the book of Matthew, the very first book in the New Testament, Matthew chapter number 24. And I want us to notice verse number 42, Matthew 24. Matthew 24, the disciples came to the Lord Jesus. And they ask him what the sign of his coming would be and the end of the world. Now that's something that fascinates everybody. What does the future hold? How does all this come to an end? Everything comes to an end. How does this world come to an end? And the Lord takes this entire chapter, he takes an extensive period of time, and he gives a tremendous detail about what the characteristics of the world are going to be when the Lord comes back again. And if you would, notice verse number 42, Matthew 24. And he says this to the disciples, and he says to you and I, he says, watch therefore. For ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. But know this that if the goodman of the house had known in what watch the thief would come, he would have watched. And he would not have suffered his house to be broken up. In other words, he's saying he should he would have paid attention. If he knew a thief was coming, he would have been paying attention. Then he goes on. Verse 44. Therefore, be ye also what? Ready. For in such an hour as ye think not, the Son of Man cometh. Doesn't say he might come, he could come, he is coming. Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his Lord hath made ruler over his household, to give meat in due season? Blessed is that servant, whom his Lord, when he cometh, shall find so doing. Verily I say unto you. That he shall make him ruler over all his goods. But if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his coming, shall begin to smite his fellow servant, eat, drink with the drunken. Now look at verse 50. The Lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, and in an hour that he is not aware of. The Lord is saying we need to be aware of the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back. He's coming back. And it shall and uh shall cut him asunder and he goes on down through there. The Lord is telling us that we need to be aware of the fact that he's coming back again Come over, if you would, to me with me to the book of Mark. Again, the Lord touches on this subject, Mark chapter number 13. Jesus Christ is coming back again. Our message is Christ. He's the Savior and He is the and He's coming back. Mark chapter 13, look with me if you would at verse number 31 Jesus said, heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. That's a very emphatic statement. But of that day and that hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father. Take ye heed. Watch and pray, for ye know not when the time is. For the Son of Man is as a is as a man taking a far journey, who left his house, and gave authority to his servants, to every man his work, and commanded the porter to watch Watch ye therefore, for ye know not when the master of the house cometh, at even or at night, or at cockrowing, or in the morning, lest coming Suddenly he finds you sleeping, what I say unto you, I say unto all, watch. What's he saying? We need to be aware of the fact Jesus Christ is coming back again. And he says we ought to be watching for it. We ought to be looking for it. The other, I think it was yesterday morning. I got up and I have go through my morning devotions. I have a little routine I go through every morning Tor at when I'm done all that, I usually just catch some headline news, just know what's going on in the world. I heard that morning how Attacks were made in the Middle East and rockets and missiles are flying all over Middle East and Israel's right in the mix of all of that I'll tell you, my very first thought was, when these things come to pass, lift up your eyes and look, for maybe the Lord's coming back. Maybe the Lord. I think every time something happens along those lines, our very first thought ought to be Jesus coming back. Jesus coming back. Now I don't know that he's coming back in relation to this, but my Lord, if I understand the Bible correctly, I believe I do, at least on this matter. The Lord wants us to be watching, waiting, anticipating, expecting. And every event that takes place ought to stir our hearts to remind us Jesus Christ is coming back. And it could very well be today. This could very well be part of what's taken place in the last days that brings the return of the Lord What I'm trying to say is this. The Bible is very, very clear. Every single one of us, from our young people all the way to a most senior citizen, we ought to be aware of the fact Jesus Christ is coming back again. It's a vitally important doctrine. Take your Bible with me and go to Luke chapter 21. Luke 21, again, the Lord touches on the same subject. And notice what he says. About our attitude should be concerning the return of Christ. Luke 21. Look with me if you would at verse 31. Verse 31. And this is one of the verses that came to mind yesterday morning. Says, so likewise ye, when ye sh when when ye see these things come to pass. Know that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand. Verily I say unto you, this generation shall not pass away till all be fulfilled. Heaven and earth shall pass away, my word shall not pass away. Now look at verse 34. Take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting. That means debauchery, sinful living. And drunkenness and cares of this light, so that that day come upon you. What's the last word in that verse? Unawares. He says, Don't you get caught off guard. Don't you be unaware of the fact I'm coming back again. And that needs to be in the forefront of your mind. That needs to be uh need to be aware of that on a daily basis, Jesus Christ coming back again. Are we foolish to anticipate the return of Jesus Christ? And the answer to that question is no. Jesus Christ is coming back. He's coming back. We need to be aware of that. Um events that take place in the world ought to cause us to look up Now, if you would come back to our text in Thessalonians, in chapter 5, 1 Thessalonians, we're in 4. If you would, come to chapter 5. And notice verse number 6. This is God's word to us. 1 Thessalonians 5, 6. Wherefore let us not sleep as do others. That's a good verse for church service. I'll just leave that there with that. Therefore, let us not sleep as do others. What he's saying here is don't be unaware. Don't uh don't uh Uh you know, don't don't let this fact that Christ's coming back slip your mind. Fall asleep concerning this But look at this last statement, but let us watch and be sober. The word sober there means take it seriously. Take it seriously. I'm afraid sometimes we've heard so much about the second coming we just don't take it seriously. Gotten used to it, just become Another thing we talk about. I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ coming back again. I'm here to tell you Christians need to wake up and look at what's going on in the world and realize Jesus Christ is coming back again It's coming back again. I don't know when. I have no idea. We're told clearly we don't know when. But we ought to be aware of it and we ought to be watching for it. The return of Christ. How fool I put this down, how foolish for believers to be ignorant of the Lord's return. There's no excuse. Told over and over and over and over and over in Scripture, He's coming back, He's coming back, He's coming back. It's foolish for it for believers to be ignorant of that. And by the way, let me address those that are in my position, pastors. If a pastor doesn't preach on the second coming of Jesus Christ, he is not preaching the whole counsel of Scripture. He's not obedient to the Lord if he's not preaching and declaring the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back again. We don't get anything else out of this service. And I know it's a very familiar, you've heard it a thousand times. It's very simple. But if we can get one thing out of this message this morning and burn in our hearts and minds, Jesus Christ is coming back again. That's our message. That's the truth. So, number one, we need to be aware of the Lord's return. Number two, I put this down: we need to be alert to the Lord to the rapture's timing. Aware of the Lord's return, but alert to the rapture's timing. Now you've heard this again many, many times, but the second coming of Jesus Christ takes place in two stages. He came the first time in Bethlehem. He was born of a virgin, little manger. He grew up. He gave himself, died for our sins, took our judgment for our sins upon himself, was buried. Resurrected from the dead and ascended to heaven right now as you and I are sitting here in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, 1005 Broadford Road, as we sit in this location Jesus Christ is literally, physically at the right hand of God, intercedes for us He says, he said it over and over and over, the Bible teaches it over and over and over. He's coming back Now, that return when Jesus Christ leaves heaven and comes back to earth literally, physically, visibly He comes back, it takes place in two stages. Now, most of us, no doubt, are familiar with this The first stage is what we call the rapture of the church. Now, here's the argument I get sometimes, and I have just not too long ago somebody took issue with me on this matter of the rapture. They say the word rapture is not found in the Bible. That's what they say. And they're correct. The word rapture is not found in the Bible. The teaching is, the truth is, but that word that we use to describe that teaching, the word itself is not there. By the way How many people here believe in the Trinity of our Godhead, God the Father God? Sure. Do you know the word Trinity is not in the Bible? But the teaching is there How many people here understand that Jesus Christ is our substitute? He was crucified in our place. He was our substitute. How many people understand that? Do you know the word substitute is not in the Bible anywhere? But that teaching is there. In fact, the word Bible isn't in the Bible. So don't let anybody Come and diminish a biblical teaching simply because the word that we use to describe that teaching may not be in the Bible, that doesn't discount the truth that's in the Bible. You follow me? And that's a big thing now. And in in different church circles, it's going around. Denying the rapture. Rejecting it. Some for no other reason than the word isn't there. But the truth is. So the second coming of Jesus Christ is in two stages. The first is the rapture. That's where, in a moment, In the twinkling of an eye, the archangel shouts, the trump of God sounds, and every single saved person, uh young, middle-aged, older, every single saved person is caught up In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, and we meet the Lord in the air. It's the rapture of the church The second stage of the Lord's return, now at the rapture, the Lord doesn't come physically back down to the earth. We meet him in the air. We read that a moment ago The second stage of the return of Christ is when he comes literally back to earth physically. Revelation describes this. He's visible, we see him. He comes back to earth in the Middle East there, and uh Battle of Armageddon, he judges the nations, and he sets up his kingdom, and that is the physical return. So you have two stages First stage is the trumpet God sounds, the archangel shouts, hoom! Every believer is gone. The church is raptured up Now, let me just throw this out there. You know it's possible to be a member, you know it's possible to attend church and not be saved. You know, it's possible to be a member of a church and not be saved. Salvation is not in the church. Salvation is in Christ. So every person that knows Jesus Christ, if you've come to the point in your life, you recognize yourself as a sinner, you've turned to Jesus Christ who gave himself on the cross Died for our sins, was very verse again, and you've made a conscious, deliberate decision. Put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and receive him as your personal Savior. The moment I do that, the Spirit of God indwells me. I'm a part of the family of God. And when that rapture takes place, every person that's done that is going to be caught up out of here. Now here's the thing Wonder what would happen if that rapture took place during a church service. I wonder. And people left sitting in the church service and look around, people gone. People gone. Would you agree that'd be a tragedy? To be so close to the truth but miss it And be left behind. So you have the rapture of the church. We're caught up out of here. And then you have the return, but in between those two stages, The rapture of the church, we meet the Lord near, then he comes back, and we'll come back with him to the earth. In between those two stages is a seven-year period the Bible refers to as the tribulation period. It is, and Jesus said this, it will be the most horrific period of time in all of human history. There never was a time like it before, there never will be a time like it again, when the wrath and judgment of God is poured out on this whole world. Now listen, there's a lot of things that call themselves churches that are anything but There's a lot of problems even in the good churches that are solid, even we're made up of flawed materials. Human beings. If I ever started a church and I needed a name, I would name it Messed Up Baptist Church. Because we're all messed up in our own little way. And I forget why I was saying that, but nevertheless, the church is, oh, regardless of condition church. Now think about this. When that rapture takes place, every Christian is removed off of planet Earth. There are no Christians left on the planet. We are the salt of the earth. We are the light of the world. If the believers are removed, there's no salt. There's no preservative. There's no influence. The light is removed And the darkness that settles down over this world as the church and the believers are removed, the Holy Spirit of God is removed from the earth. Can you imagine society and human nature completely let loose with no restraint? With no hindrance at all. Would you agree this world's a mess now? That's with the church's influence. That's with the believers' influence here. Can you imagine when that's removed? What this world's going to be like. Now there will be witness. God's going to have his witnesses, and there'll be many, many people saved during the tribulation period. But let me say this, nearly every one of them, the moment they get saved, they're going to be executed. There's going to be intense, universal, worldwide hatred for Jesus Christ and his people. Antichrist will be set up. Unbelievable plagues and judgments take place. God pours out his wrath on this whole world. And at the end of that seven-year tribulation period, and that's not the purpose of my message, that's a tremendous study, horrific study in and of itself, what's going to take place on this planet after the rapture. And at the end of that, then the Lord comes back. And he judges the nations, he deals with the Antichrist, and He sets up his beautiful kingdom for a thousand years. This tribulation period. Some suggest, and this is what I want to address, and I'll tell you how this message came about in my heart and mind. I was down in New Zealand, I believe, or it might have been just before, but I think it was down New Zealand. And I don't want to put them on the spot, but Dave and Joy had sent me a message that they visited a church when they were on vacation. And they said a few things about the church, and I'm just being curious, I looked up the church. And they had expressed some concerns, and I looked up the church, I looked at their doctrinal statement, and that church said, in their doctrinal statement, that the That the rapture will not take place until midway into the tribulation period. That the church is not going to be raptured before this horrific time. But they're going to go into the tribulation period. There are some churches that teach that the rapture doesn't take place till the end of the tribulation period, that you and I, believers, are going to go through that horrific time That is wrong. The church does not go into the tribulation period one minute We are caught up out of here before that horrific seven-year period. That's where I get the pre-means before. Tribulation. That's that seven-year period, horrific. Pre-Tribulation Rapture. Now let me give you a few passages, and I don't have much time left, but let me give you a few passages why we believe very, very strongly And I'm absolutely convinced that the church does not go into that tribulation period. We will be caught up before it takes place. Let me give you a couple here real quick. Number one, the church is promised that we will be delivered from God's wrath. Look with me in chapter 1 Thessalonians, look at chapter 1 And look with me at verse number 10. Now pay very close attention to what this verse says. And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead. Even Jesus, now look at this last statement, which delivered us from the wrath to come. That phrase, the wrath to come, can only be referring to one event, and that is that tribulation period, God's wrath on this world. For rejecting his son. God's wrath on Israel for the rejection of his son. And he says very, very clearly here that the church is delivered, that we uh uh hath delivered us from the wrath to come. That is a direct reference to the tribulation period. Notice in chapter 4 and verse 18 Of 1 Thessalonians. He says, Wherefore comfort one another with these words The rapture, I don't know about you, but to me, if I'm told in Scripture that I'm going to have to spend a period of time in the tribulation period, I don't find any comfort in that at all. But the fact that God's going to catch me up out of here, God's going to catch us up, rapture us up out of here before all this horrific time, whoo, praise the Lord. Amen or not. He's delivered us from the wrath to come. You say, well, what about all our sin? I'll tell you, where God's judgment was poured out for your sin and my sin was on the Lord Jesus Christ. And we have no more judgment we need to face. No more judgment. No more wrath of God. We do not need to fear the wrath of God. And he says we will be caught up at it here before the right. Let me give you another reason why I'm absolutely convinced we don't go in, the church is not in the tribulation period. Number two, the tribulation is God's dealing with Israel, not the church. Again, I wish you'd come to Bible Institute. We go into depth on this. But the tribulation period is referred to in the Old Testament as the time of Jacob's trouble. Jacob being Israel. It's trouble for Israel. It's when God finally deals with Israel. And he purges them, he judges them, prepares them for the coming kingdom. It is not the time of the church's trouble, because the church is removed Number three, let me give you another third reason why. I believe the church is wrong that teaches we go into the tribulation period. Number three, the church is never mentioned in Revelation 6 through 18 Say what's that mean? Revelation chapter 6 through 18 describes the tribulation period in great detail All the judgments, all these horrific things. And not one time is a church mentioned or even referred to in this detailed description of the tribulation period. No church there. We're gone. We're raptured out of here. And the fourth reason, and there's many more, I'll give you one more, is because the rapture is eminent. Now what do we mean by eminent? It means it can happen at any moment. We have no idea when the rapture is going to take place. There are no prophecies that have to take place before the rapture happens. Paul anticipated the rapture in his lifetime. In fact, in our text, we saw there, then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up. Paul was looking for the rapture in his lifetime. And that tells me there is no prophecy. It's not, oh well, you know, uh Israel has to be back in the land before the rapture can take place. No, they don't. Now they're there. That's not a prerequisite for the rapture to take place. There is no prerequisite. It can happen at any moment. If the church would go into the tribulation period, well there's a whole slew of things that take place in the tribulation period, and we would see those things happening. But that's not what the Bible teaches. Are you with me? You follow what I'm trying to say? And so the rapture is caught up, we're caught up out of here before this tribulation period. I'm here to tell you. Listen, I hope you listen carefully. This world is facing some horrific days. I don't know when, might be a year, might be ten years, might be hundreds of years. But this old book is true. Heaven and earth will pass away, but this book ain't passing away. And this book tells me, God's word tells me, that there are some horrific, horrific days coming to this old planet. And as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we are secure, we are safe, we're forgiven for our sins. And before all these horrific events take place during the tribulation sphere, God assures us He will rapture us out of here. He's taken us out of here. I don't know about you, but that makes me want to go, Woo! Praise the Lord! Now it doesn't mean we don't face persecution, doesn't mean we don't have difficulties, doesn't mean we don't face opposition and trials and heartaches and difficulties, doesn't mean any of that, but it does mean this. We are safe in the arms of Jesus. Before the old devil takes over this place through the person of the Antichrist, Jesus says, I'm going to bring you up out of here. I'm going to get you out of here. Amen? Jesus Christ coming back again. He's going to catch us up out of here before this old world goes in. I mean just look, just read the news. We see foreshadowings Of what's going to take place. Brother Lou Rossi last fall, preaching on this AI stuff, how that's all that. I'm telling you, if you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, you've got to get that settled. I got a couple minutes. I'm going to give you my last thought, and that's this. We need to be active in serving the Lord. The last thing we should do is just sit back and say, well, praise the Lord. I'm saved. Lord's going to get me out of here. I tell you, if you're thinking that way, you're a knucklehead. Now thank God I'm saved. Thank God the Lord's going to get us out of here. But we need to be busy serving the Lord. Amen or not We need to be getting scriptures into all the world so other people can get saved. We need to be broadcasting the gospel. We need to be out on the highways and hedges and and uh knocking on doors. We need to be running buses. We need to be teaching children the word of God. We need to be doing everything we possibly can To reach this world for Christ before all this thing falls apart. Before all this wrath comes down. I put four things real quick. Number one, I need to be positive about my salvation. If you don't know for sure you're saved, you need to get that settled. Amen. The last days is no time to be entertaining doubts. There's no room for hope-so, think-so salvation. In the last days, we need to know we're saved. If there's questions there, if there's doubts there, we need to get that settled because the stakes are too high to be left behind. To die in our sins. We need to know Christ as Savior. I put this down. Number two, we need to be pure in our living. We need to get right with God. 1 John 3 says, Every man that hath this hope, the hope of the rapture, every man that hath this hope purifieth himself. I don't know when the Lord's I don't know when that trumpet's gonna sound. I don't know when that archangel's gonna shout. But when he does, boom, I'm out of here. I don't know about you. When I stand before Jesus, I want a clean heart, pure life. I want to be right. I don't want to be ashamed at his coming. Bible references that. Being ashamed. So, number one, I need to be positive that I'm saved. Number two, I need to be pure in my living. I put this down: I need to protect my relationship with the Lord. Listen to what 1 John 2 says: He says, abide in him That when he shall appear, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. Abide in him. What's he mean by that? He means stay close to the Lord Stay close to the Lord. Keep your heart humble before God. I know I hound this, I have for 32 years, and God gives me 32 more years, I'm going to keep on hounding this. Every Christian ought to spend a little bit of time every day alone with the Lord. We ought to read our Bible and let God speak to our hearts. We ought to pray and tell the Lord our burdens, our concerns, our requests. Love on him, worship him, praise him, and spend some time with God, I'm telling you, that is so important as we anticipate the Lord coming back. Spend time with them. So protect that time with the Lord, my relationship with the Lord. And then last of all, I put this down. We need to be preaching the gospel. We need to be preaching the gospel, soul-winning. The gospel is the only hope in the last days. The only hope this world has. We talk about politicians, we talk about policies and programs. And they're fine as far as they go. I'm thankful for people that things they do. But I'm here to tell you the only hope is in the Lord Jesus Christ. We've got to tell people. Here in Archie, I was out yesterday, knocked on doors, and a fella out towards Gorman out there. And um got to talk to him a little bit there about the Lord Jesus Christ. He didn't trust the Lord, but I was able to talk to him a little bit Um I was traveling down to n uh on this mission trip and I was out in San Francisco. I had a long layover in the airport there. And um I was doing some things and this fell was there and we got talking and he goes, I'll buy a a total stranger, I had no idea who it was. He says, Well let me get you a lunch. He had a pass to a lounge, we went in there ate shrimp, these mi and uh steak and um steamed broccoli and um I'm telling you these mission trips are tough That means total stranger. He just invited me in. We're sitting there talking. And he said, What do you do for a living? I said, um, I'm a Baptist preacher. And he looked at me and he said, You gotta be kidding me I said, no, for real, I am. He goes, I can't believe this. I said, it's true. He goes, Two weeks ago I went to church for the first time in my life He said last week I was flying and the guy sitting beside me was a preacher and he's telling me about God. And he told me a list of about twelve or fifteen different things that have been happening in his life. He goes, what do you think? What's going on? I said, I'll tell you what's going on. God's trying to direct your thinking. God's trying to get your attention. He says, I know it. I was able for about an hour and a half go through the gospel with them, talk to him, and share Christ with them. He didn't trust Christ then and there, but I'm convinced he will. I mean he was soaking it up and I said, by the way, what do you do? He goes, well, I do the sound for the halftime show of the Super Bowl. I said, you gotta be kidding. He goes, No, it's real, I can't believe it. And he was just leaving the Super Bowl. He did the sound. I'm telling you, that fellow, all the worldly fame he has, all the world prosperity, I mean the guy's prosperous. I tell you, if you don't have Jesus Christ, you don't got nothing. Just a just a Baptist preacher trying to serve God. Just give my life trying bring people to Christ. That's all I am. But I tell you, person that knows Jesus Christ. has more as far as value is concerned than the richest, most popular person in the world. We need to tell people about Jesus. We don't do nothing else We've got to get the gospel out. Gotta get the gospel out. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to be aware of the fact you're coming back. Help us to keep that in the forefront of our minds at all times. God help us to understand your timing here and what's next on your calendar that we're going to be raptured out of here. Any one of these days, maybe. We don't know. Lord help us to be prepared and be ready and be active and serving, stay close to you and serve you. I pray that every one of us under the sound of my voice would know for sure that their sins are forgiven. They've been saved by the Grace of God and the Lord Jesus. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed this morning, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I really don't think about the fact the Lord's coming back again like I should. Actually, I just go through my life, never enter my mind that maybe Jesus come back. Maybe this morning you say, preacher, pray with me. God will help me. Keep my mind focused on that truth. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? I just need to keep that in my mind. The Lord's coming back. The Lord's coming back. God bless you. I think that's us as a church need to be that frame of mind. I wonder if there's some who would say, Preacher, I want to make sure I'm ready when he does come. I want my heart to be clean and pure. I want to do right. I don't want to be in sin. That rapture takes place. Maybe there's some areas in your life God's dealing with your heart, even right now. Something coming to mind, the Holy Spirit saying this needs to be addressed. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I need some adjustments, need to be made. Maybe there's some decisions, maybe some hard decisions need to be made. If I'm going to be right, my heart's going to be right. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. God bless you. Hands all around Listen, let's not just raise our hand. Let's act on that. Let's do what we need to do to make things right. I wonder if there's some who say, preacher, I need to get serving God. Just living my life, focused on my things I need to get serving the Lord, being a witness, giving out the gospel, serving him. Is there anything like that uplifting hand? I need to get busy serving God. God bless you. Hands all around. Now one last question. There's some someone here this morning maybe say, preacher, I don't know for sure that my sins are forgiven. I don't know for sure that God has saved me, and I need that settled I need to get that settled. Is there any like that by the update hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. I know that I've been saved. I know that God's forgiven me and I'm ready. Any at all? Any at all? Father in heaven, I ask now you bless our invitation in Jesus' name. Let's stand together head