Sunday school teacher um asked her class why Joseph and Mary took Jesus with them to Jerusalem. Little girl raised her hand and says, because they could not get a babysitter. And so Sunday. some unique Bible interpretation here. Another Sunday school teacher was discussing the Ten Commandments with five and six-year-olds. That's fun. After explaining the commandments to honor thy father and mother, she asks, is there a commandment that teaches us how to treat our brothers and sisters? Without missing a beam, one little boy answered, Thou shalt not kill. And I I can relate to that. Uh another Sunday school class, they were teaching how God created everything, including human beings and um a little boy seemed uh very fascinated by the fact that God took that Eve was created out of one of Adam's ribs And this little boy was just fascinated by that. And uh one later in the week he was laying down as though he were real ill and sh and his mother said, Johnny, what's the matter? He says, I have a pain in my side. I think I'm going to have a wife Somebody said I have a pain in my neck, I think I do have a wife. But uh anyway there go the pork chops. Two boys were walking home from Sunday school after hearing a message on the devil. One said to the other, What do you think about all this Satan stuff? The other boy said, Well, you know how Santa Claus turned out, it's probably just your dad. But um Joshua 24, if you would notice with me verse 12. This is a fascinating statement and a fascinating book of the Bible. Joshua speaking says, I have sent, speaking for God, I sent, and I sent the hornet before you. Which drave them out from before you, even the two kings of the Amorites, but not with sword and not with bow. I want to speak this morning on the hornet in the Bible. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our study this morning and pray that you would challenge us, help us, Lord, to see your hand in the events of our lives. I pray, Father, that um you would help us to trust you when things don't go the way we think they should. Things don't turn out the way we anticipate. Help us to see your hand and help us to trust you in all of this. That's my prayer for myself and for all of us. Lord, we We need you to speak to our hearts. Uh the best I can do, Lord, is share little jokes and make people laugh. But Lord, our hearts need to be fed, our souls need to be fed To hear from heaven. And so, Lord, with that in mind, I want to get myself out of the way. And God, I yield my will to your will, and I present anew, this hour, my body to you. I pray your Holy Spirit would fill me. In this book is uh is an exciting book. It's a fascinating book. It's one of my favorites uh in the Bible. Um Joshua, the book of Joshua, the 24 chapters of Joshua. Are really a record of God keeping his promise to Israel when he had told them in Egypt that he would get them into the promised land. Now it didn't all happen uh I believe on what God's intended timetable. You remember the story how God got them out of Egypt, no problem for God Got them across the Red Sea, no problem there. But when they got to a little place called Kedish Barnea, God's intention was for Israel to enter the promised land at that point. Just trust him Go forward on faith, take the land, and uh dwell there. But Israel doubted God, remember the story, disobeyed God, and for that they wandered how many years in the wilderness 40 years in the wilderness. I believe God's intention was for them to come out of Egypt, cross the Red Sea, go right in. But because of their unbelief They ended up wandering forty years, and God actually used that to help develop them and prepare them for the promised land. It's interesting, this thought just comes to mind, it's interesting how that the locusts The hail, the sun, the darkness, and even the Red Sea was more obedient to God than God's people were God said told the Red Sea to part, it parted. God told the children of Israel to enter the promised land, they refused. And so, Joshua is many years later. And it's a record, as I said, of God fulfilling his promises to get Israel into the promised land. Now we come to Joshua chapter 24. And what we have in chapter 24 is really Joshua's farewell address to his people, to the nation of Israel. He's going to die. He knows that. His purpose on earth has been fulfilled. He's run his course, and it's time for him to go to glory. So he's leaving this final address, and this final address is really a challenge. From Joshua for God's people to live for God. And you really see the heart of Joshua here. You really see his burden. He was not in this just to be, just for the position. He wasn't head of Israel and the leader of the army and the leader of Israel just so he could say, I'm the leader. That wasn't it at all And let me just throw this out. The church doesn't need people who want to get in a position just for the sake of being in a position. And people who serve God, who have a heart and a burden for the cause of Christ. And that's the way Joshua was. And you see that very clearly in chapter, in verse 15 of chapter 24. He leaves this challenge to the people of God before he dies. Look at verse 15. And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, Choose you this day whom you will serve. Whether it be the gods, which your father served, that were on the other side of the flood, in other words, back before you crossed the Jordan. Or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you now dwell. Then he says this, but as for me and my house, we are going to serve the Lord. And he's challenging Israel. He's saying, listen, he's saying basically what God told the church in Revelation chapter 3, listen, either be hot or cold. Either get on fire, either commit to God or just go on and do it. But don't be in between. Don't just be don't just put on a show. Don't just go through the motions. Either be all out for God and serve Him or just go on and live for the world. Do one or the other. So he's challenging. He says, we've made up our mind. My wife and I, my kids, our family, we've made our mind up. As for me and my house, we're going to serve the Lord. None of this phony show business. None of this just uh uh going through the motion, putting on our Sunday morning smile, and having nothing to do with God the rest of the No, no, no, that's not the way we're going to be And so Joshua is challenging the nation of Israel. Make a decision. Get on or get off. Get in or get out. It's either God or the world. It's interesting here, part of his challenge to the nation of Israel to dedicate themselves to the Lord involves rehearsing for them what God had done for them. And he's reminding them, and Paul read uh down through here, he's reminding them all that God had done for them. And he's reminding them key events in their experience and how God had delivered them and how God had used these events to advance their faith and strengthen them and help them grow. And he's saying this, based upon all that God has done for you, what you should do is determine you're going to live for God. 100% Christ is everything, the Lord is everything we live for, based upon what God has done for you. And it's interesting as you go through the scriptures. God's plea to you and I to live for Him, to dedicate our lives to Him, to commit ourselves to Him, God's plea is always based Upon what Christ has already done for us. Now keep your place here if you would, but I want you to see a very important verse in the New Testament. Would you turn with me, please, to Romans chapter 12? Now, you've been around church or reading your Bible or hearing preaching much. You're very familiar with this passage. And to be honest with you, I think every Christian should be very familiar with this passage. Romans chapter 12. And I want you to notice verse number one. Now, if this is not underscored in your Bible, I at least it should be underlined in your Bible. It ought to be part of our lives, it ought to be a key factor in our Christian life. But notice what he says here. I beseech you, therefore, brethren. That's a plea. It's not a commandment. It's a plea. I'm begging you. Beseech means to beg, humbly beg. I beseech you therefore, brethren. Now notice that next statement. By the what? Mercies of God. He says, this, I'm begging you. I am humbly pleading with you because of what God has done for you. Because the mercy that God has shown you. How many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. God has shown us mercy in saving us. Amen. I'm beseeching you, I'm begging you, because of what God has done for you, the mercy He has shown you. I beseech you there, therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that ye what? Present your bodies a living sacrifice. Because of the mercy God has shown us, because of how good God has been to us, because God, Jesus Christ, took our sins. took the judgment of our sin upon himself, suffered hell in our place, forgave us, he blesses us with food and clothing, air to breathe, bodies to function. He's been so good to us because of his mercies. Listen. I'm begging you. Present your body as a living sacrifice lord. Live for God. Sell out to Him. Commit your life to Him. Based upon what he does. We don't turn there. 1 John 4. 19 says, we love him because what? He first loved us. Our love for the Lord is based upon the love God has shown us. And so there's a very important principle here, and I hope you get this. Everything we do for God, we do not do to gain something from God. We always do it because of what God has already done for us. We try to serve the Lord here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Could we do better? Sure. But we try hard. And I believe for the most part, the majority of people in Mount Lincoln Independent Baptist Church are very sincere in our determination or effort to try and live for God. Am I right or wrong? I believe we're sincere. But we are not doing what we do to gain favor with God. We do not give out gospel tracts, we do not assemble scriptures. We do not go knocking on doors, we do not send missionaries around the world, we don't seek to take trips to unevangelized nations like Kazakhstan. We don't do all this So that God will be nice to us, so that God will show us favor, or that God will do something for us. We're doing it because of what He has already done for us. That's important. This morning, there are people in churches in our county. As we sit here now. Who will put money in an offering plate in the hopes that that will somehow earn them salvation? Right or wrong? I guarantee it's true There are people this morning who, because of the fact that they are a member of a quote-unquote church, That somehow that is making them accept the will of God and God will save them because of their church membership, because of their giving, because of their baptism or Fill in the blanks. Something we do, therefore God will do this for us. And that is completely backwards. That is the cart before the horse We do not do what we do so that God will save us or so that God will do something for us. We do what we do because of what He has done for us. We give to the Lord because He's given so abundantly to us. Right or wrong? So, Joshua is challenging the nation of Israel. He's about to die. His time as their leader is about over. He knows it, they know it. He reviews all their history. And he says, because of all that God has done for you, you need to make a decision Are you out and out for God? Or are you just going to take what God did for you and then go on and do your thing Do you appreciate? Do you have any gratitude in your heart and life at all for all that God has done for you? Are you going to live for him? Are you going to obey him and trust him? Or are you going to go out in the world and do what you want? It's a real challenge based upon what God had done for them. Now, in verse 12, come back to Joshua here. In verse 12, he makes reference to the hornet That God had sent into the land ahead of Israel to drive out the enemy. Now that caught my attention. Oh hornet. Um, look at the verse. God speaking through Joshua, and I sent the hornet. That word sent, it's an interesting word. God's speaking about the warning. He says, I sent it. The word sent means to direct, to give direction to, or to commission. God gave the hornets in the land of Canaan a commission. He gave them some directions. I have a responsibility. I want you hornets to fulfill. I sent them. I directed them. It's exciting to me to see that God is able to control his creation. And God will use even insects to accomplish His will. Read through the Bible carefully. And I really believe a Christian, if you've been saved any length of time, you really need to start working at reading your Bible through Genesis to Revelation. I know there's some portions there that aren't real exciting. I know there's some portions there that are that are kind of tedious, but all scripture has been given to us by inspiration of God and is profitable for us. And I want to challenge you as you read through there, pay close attention. And it is fascinating to see how God uses even insignificant things. To accomplish his will. Insects, hornets, frogs, a donkey, a wind, an earthquake These hornets were commissioned by God to do a job so that he could accomplish his will. You see it in history. Now, this matter of the hornets, uh I I read this, I thought, well, you know, God used a hornet. You go back in Deuteronomy and Exodus, the Lord had just prophesied that he would use the hornets to uh drive out the enemies and Israel would be able to go into the promised land. So I really didn't think a whole lot about the Hornet initially, but I got studying I found out that there are various Interpretations as to what God means by the Hornet. Oh, that's interesting. And some of them were very interesting thoughts. Some Bible quote-unquote scholars suggest that these aren't hornets at all. But that when he said, I sent the hornet before you, it's a reference to Egypt. And if you study the Egyptian history, you find that Egypt had actually sent a number of military campaigns up into Canaan. Long before Israel ever showed up, long before the Parting the Sea or Moses showed up, they had had military campaigns up into Canaan, and some suggest they had greatly weakened the Canaanite armies And that that was the hornet that God had sent, the Egyptian armies, to weaken the Canaanites so that when Israel shows up, they wouldn't have to be such a f they wouldn't have such a formidable foe foe and be able to go in there and conquer the land easily. I think that's very unlikely that that's what God's talking about. There's no indication here that uh Egypt has any part in any of this. There's a second suggestion as to what these hornets are, and I'll tell you right up front as I studied this one, I was a little tempted. To believe this one. I was a little tempted to say, you know, they have a point there. And these some people suggest that what these hornets are were figurative They weren't literal hornets, but they were it was just a figure of things that God had done to precede Israel's arrival. And then some illustrations were given. For instance, in Exodus 23, and we won't take time to turn there, verse 23-28. In that one passage, God mentions three things that he sent ahead of time to enable Israel to occupy the land. He says that he would send his angel before them. And then a few verses down in Exodus 23, he says, I will send my fear ahead of you. And at the end of that passage, he says, I'll send ornates. And some suggest that the angel and the fear and the hornets were just references to things that God had done. To prepare Israel getting there. And an illustration would be in Joshua chapter 2. In fact, if you would turn there real quickly with me, and I I don't want to spend a lot of time on this, but come back to chapter 2. How many people recognize the name Rahab Rahab the harlot. That's what we think of her. That's what she was. Rahab got saved. And because of Rahab's salvation, and because of her actions, Israel had an inroad Into getting into the land of Canaan. Look at chapter 2 and uh verse number 9. Rahab speaking to these spies that showed up, and she hid and protected them And she said to the men, I know that the Lord hath given you the land, and that your terror is fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. For we have heard how that the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did unto the two kings of the Amorites that were on the other side of the Jordan, Shihon and Ag, whom you utterly destroy uh destroyed. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts didn't melt. Neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you. For the Lord your God, he is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. You know what she's saying? She's saying, listen, our people are scared to death of you guys. Our hearts melt, our courage is gone. We've heard what God has done with and through you guys. And were scared to death. And the suggestion is that is the hornets that God is referring to, the fact that the God's actions had caused these people to lose courage and be afraid and want to get away from them Now the contrast is the way Israel viewed themselves. They said those people in Canaan, they they they're they're giants, they think we're grasshoppers. We're just nothing in their sight when in reality those so-called giants were scared to death of them And so the suggestion that the reference to Hornitier may simply be things that God was doing to soften up And to bring fear into the hearts of the Canaanites, and Israel could come in. Now when I was studying that, I thought, well, you know, there might be a point there. Then there's a third suggestion. And that is that these are literal hornets. A type of wasp that lived in that part of the country, and as I studied it, uh I found that these types of hornets in these warm climates, like in the Middle East here Have a tendency, at least years ago, to swarm. And the the encyclopedia I was looking at suggested that they would swarm, and this is their terminology, like a plague. And would come in and would literally drive out people. This hornet referred to here was would grow almost two inches long. Now that's a big baby, as far as I'm concerned. Their sting was extremely painful. And would occasionally be deadly. And here's what I thought was fascinating. I've got my Hebrew lexicon out and dictionary, and the word hornet comes from the same word the Bible uses for leprosy. In fact that word is trannet is translated leprosy many times throughout the Bible, variation of it. I thought, well, why would the hornet come from the same word as leprosy? I think it's because of this. Leprosy was feared extremely. And leprosy could be very painful. And so they associated the influence of a hornet as being to that of what leprosy would do. They feared the hornet to the same degree they feared leprosy. They wanted nothing to do with it. They wanted far away from them. So is it just Egypt? Is it figurative of God working or is it a literal hornet? I studied my Bible very carefully. And I see no reason to take it for anything other than a literal hornet. Every reference in the Bible made to these hornets in Deuteronomy and Exodus is presented as if it is an actual literal insect. That's called a hornet. So we have no reason to take this passage any other way. Israel was instructed to drive out the inhabitants of Canaan. They got in the land of Canaan, but they failed to drive out the Canaanites completely. And there were pockets of Moabites and Burgeshites and um uh Amorites and Perizzites and Mennonites, no, not Mennonites. Um there was pockets of these enemies of God. Scattered throughout the land of Israel. And they would hide themselves in caves and get in remote areas and try and mix in with the people. And Israel failed to, for a number of reasons, drive them out. They were secure in the land. They were there. They were safe, they were secure, they had what God had given them, but there was still influences from the previous Canaan still in the land. Now here's the application. How many folks? Amen. We're shikank today. That is too serious of a matter to push off. Listen. You don't know what tomorrow holds. Boast not yourself of tomorrow. You don't know what a day is going to bring forth. Last Sunday, this time, Joe Urban, Linda Hartman were here on earth. Now they're in heaven with the Lord. Next week it could be you or I. Right or wrong. So if there's doubts in your mind, if there's uncertainty in your heart. about whether God has genuinely forgiven your sins or not, about whether you're actually saved and on your heaven or on your way to heaven or not. If there's any doubt, any uncertainty at all, I'm telling you, you need to settle back today. Hell is too hot, eternity's too long, heaven's too wonderful to risk all of that. So Israel's in the land. It's not a matter of whether they're going to get in the land or not. It was settled. They're secure. They're there. It's not a question, those of us who have trusted Christ, it's not a question whether we're saved or not. That's settled. We're secure. We're there. But in every one of our lives, there's pockets of resistance. Of the old life still there warring against us. Am I right or wrong? How many people after you got saved, you were surprised to find you still struggled with sin Amen. You know what? At first, I mean it still bothers me, but at first it surprised me. I thought, man, I'm saved. It wasn't but a dare so man I said some words. Woo Ah, what is this? That's the old life. What's that doing here? You know what it is? Burgoshite, Amorite, Moabite, old flesh, hold up Resisting the new life, the new Dennis, the new man. That's what Israel was facing. We, like Israel, was not to make a truce with the inhabitants of Canaan. You and I are not to make a truce with the flesh. We're told repeatedly in the New Testament that we are to mortify the deeds of the flesh. We are to exterminate the the deeds of the flesh. We are to eradicate the deeds of the flesh, just like Israel was to exterminate the Canaanites and all their various Little tribes and groups and people groups. They were all to be driven out, but they did, and there were pockets of them throughout the land. You and I have uh aspects of our flesh whom we are at war with, whom we are to exterminate, whom we are to fight. Now keep your place here, if you would come to the New Testament, I believe, one last time. Galatians chapter five. Galatians chapter five And I'll tell you, this is a passage, at least in my mind, explains some key aspects of the Christian life. And explains why often we do some things that we do. How many people here have ever done something after we said, I can't believe I did that? Anyone here? I don't mean just today, I mean sometime in your life. What in the world was I thinking? How many people here, you ever, since you've been saved, you say, man, I feel like I'm schizophrenic. Actually, Christians are genuinely schizophrenic. Really? We have the old man, the new man. We have the flesh and the spirit. And people show up at church, you don't know which one's showing up. Is that the old chuck or the new chuck? Or the wood chuck or the old chuck? And so we have this conflict going on within us. Can I get a witness? And Galatians chapter 5 really Expresses that conflict. And if you can understand Galatians 5, what I'm going to read here in a minute, you'll have a good understanding what's going on inside your heart and life. Chapter 5, look with me if you would at verse 16 This, I say then, walk in the spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. So, right there, we're introduced to a conflict. Spirit versus what? Flesh. Now look at verse 17. For the flesh It's a reference to the old man, the old nature, what we were, the flesh, lusteth against the spirit. And I'm going to read this differently in a trade there just for explanation purposes. The flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit lusteth against the flesh. Alright, you follow what I'm doing here. And these are what? Contrary one to another. You could say these are at war one with another. The old flesh and the spirit of God that dwells within me are a conflict, are contrary one to another, so that ye cannot do the things that you would How many people here have ever thought this? Man, here's something the Bible says, the preacher says we're going to do this. Boy, I'd like to do that, but there's a part of you that says, there ain't no way you're doing that. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Flesh? Spirit. That flesh takes control and that flesh is winning the battle. I can't do what I know the spirit wants me to do. And then you turn that thing around. You walk in the spirit, and boy, the old flip, there's something there. Hey, they got a great party Saturday night. It's going to be something. The old flesh says I like, and the spirit's in control. You're walking. The spirit says, Oh no, you ain't doing that. Mortify that. I put in the margin of my Bible beside verse 17: conflict. And that's what the Christian life is. Listen, I don't know how long you've been saved. If you're a new believer, You need to settle it right now and understand that you are going to live a life of spiritual conflict from here on out. It's going to be a battle Between the flesh and the spirit. It's going to be a battle the way you used to live, as opposed to the new life Christ has given you. It's a battle between heaven and hell. It's a battle between the Spirit of God within you and what you were at one time. The old man. Sometimes people get saved and they have the idea, well I'm saved now. Sin's not a factor anymore. Well that don't last very long, does it? And here's the sad thing. Are you with me? Everybody with me? I want you to get caught up on your rest, but not now. Alright? Here's what happens. Somebody gets saved, and they have this mistaken idea that because I'm saved, I won't sin anymore. And they eventually do, right? And so when they do, they think they lost their salvation. And that's unscriptural. Well I must have lost it. I need to get saved again. How many people here ever witness to someone and they said this to you? I would get saved, but I couldn't live it. Everybody now? You know what they think it means when you get saved? They think that once you get saved, oh, then I'll live the perfect life. And they say, I could never do that. And whenever they say it to him, I put my hand down and say congratulations, neither can I. And I haven't met anybody yet that can. We can't live it in ourselves, it's the Spirit of God. So that conflict goes on. As God helped the Hebrews drive out the Canaanites, God will help us. Drive out the pockets of resistance in our life that are trying to hinder our walk with God, that are trying to weaken our faith and destroy our testimony. So how did God help the Israelites? If God helps us the way He helped them, how did He help them? Well, Joshua 24 12 says that one of the ways God helped Israel Overcome the Canaanites was by sending these hornets, these little bugs. Number one, and by the way, that was the introduction. The introduction is nine-tenths of the message. And you don't believe me, but it's true. Number one, hornets did not replace Israel's responsibility to fight. Now think about it. God didn't say, y'all just sit down, relax, I'll send the hornets in, I'll do it all for you. It's not the way it works. God told them to take bows and arrows. God told them to take weapons of warfare. God told them when they got to Jericho, the first battle, march around that thing one time a day for six days, seventh day, march seven times, shout, that thing's gonna come in, you go in and kill everybody. There wasn't a hornet involved in that. Israel had the responsibility to do what they could to have victory, and God says, what you can't do, I'll pick up with the hornets. And God says to you and I, listen, don't think you can just kick back and not do anything and you're going to have victory in your Christian life. It doesn't work that way. You can't take this Bible home and lay it on the coffee table and neglect it all week long. You can't skip church. You can't neglect prayer time. You can't fail to give your tithes and offerings and think I'm going to bless you and you're going to have victory in your life. It doesn't work that way. I've given you some responsibilities you are to do as a believer, and when you do that, then I'll kick in and I'll help do what you can't do. Amen. We've got welfare Christianity today. People think, well, I don't do anything. God will do it all for me. And somehow God is obligated to bless me and do whatever He I want, whether I do anything, whether I obey Him or not, God will send hornets and take care of everything for me. God said that's not the way it works. Listen to me. Please listen to me. You and I cannot disobey God's word and have God's blessing. Right or wrong. Now you may have a nice paycheck, you may drive a nice car, you may have a nice house to live in, but that doesn't mean you have the blessings of God on your life. That says, I'll send more and so I'll help you. But you've got a responsibility to do also. I've given some basic things that I expect from you, Israel, when you get in there. He told him, take this. uh uh city and fight that and set up this scheme. Remember a little AI after they got out of whack after k uh uh Jericho and Achan and all that finally they got all that squared away and straightened He said, I want you to go into AI. Remember the strategy there? It's just neat as can be. We'll send half of them up to the city. We'll keep the others back here hiding half the army back here hid. You guys go up and act like you're getting defeated, run away, all the people in AR come out after you. When they come out then we'll pounce on them and kill them all. And they had victory. It's a brilliant strategy There wasn't one hornet involved in it. They were simply obeying God, doing what God said. God gave them victory. And so this hornets, they were not, they did not replace Israel's responsibility to fight. Now, thank God he works on our behalf. Amen. Thank God he does the saving, but we have a part. And by the way, God doesn't save someone who doesn't do anything. God saves those who believe on him. Right or wrong? We've got to make the decision. We have to somehow get the information about the gospel Hopefully somebody will bring it to us. I mean that's the way we get it. But we've got to listen. We've got to pay attention. We've got to receive it. We've got to make a decision. Yes, I'll accept Christ. He's not going to save us when we just Just in in in something, can't think of the word. Are are you with me? Number two, the hornets did not force the Canaanites. The Hornets did not force the Canaanites to leave. They just made them willing to go. They say that the sting of this hornet is unbelievably painful. Occasionally people die when they get swarmed and they get so many stings that their body will react to the overwhelming pain and go into shock and sometimes die. That doesn't happen that's just occasionally that happens. The stings of the hornets did not force the Canaanites out of the caves and out of their little towns, but it sure made them willing to go. A hornet can be very, very motivational. And brother the Canaanites didn't want to go. They were ready to fight and die against the Israelites to stay. Those hornets showed up. They said, You know, I I feel led to move. If I get up here and says, I want everybody out of here now. You know, says, well, we don't want to leave. We don't like to leave church too early. Yeah, right. Suppose we open some windows, throw some hornets nests in here and they start swarming. There ain't a person saying, I feel everyone, I feel led to leave. I'll meet you at McDonald's, right or wrong. God doesn't force people to do what we're supposed to do, but he has ways of motivating us. You know, God sends hornets into our lives sometimes. God will send an extreme sickness where it hurts God will use that sickness to motivate us to pray. I tell you, people will pray when they or someone they love is sick who don't normally pray. I've seen it. I've seen people had no time for church, no time for the Bible, no time for nothing, but a loved one gets sick and they come up and say, Preacher, I've been praying they get well Making them pray. Only making them willing to pray. Economy goes back, suddenly bills, house payments, incomes at half or a quarter. No time for God, no time for prayer. But boy, when that happens, suddenly it fakes. I need to pray. I've seen people come to Christ, I think some genuinely, because of the hornet of cancer. I'm thinking of one couple in particular. I led him to the Lord baptized. He had developed cancer. Had no interest in God, the things of God, no concern about church or the Bible. The doctor, in the doctor's office, a hornet showed up. The doctor said we found cancer. Showed up at church. Preacher, I need to be saved. Didn't force them, just motivated them to seek the Lord. Follow what I'm saying? God sends hornets into our lives. I'm talking to some folks right now, no doubt in my mind, there's hornets right behind you. You can hear them buzzing God sent some heartaches. God sent some difficulties. God's mixed things up. God's put some fear in your heart where once there was confidence. God put some doubt. Where once you were so sure of yourself There's hornets buzzing all around. And what God's trying to do, He's trying to get your attention. He's trying to motivate you to seek the Lord and trust Him. Get things right with Him. Trials make us want to pray. Trials will make us want to read our Bible and be faithful to church. Trials will make us want to change the influences we allow in our lives and our friends. Remember my dad told me years ago, not long after I got saved, talking about the importance of church attendance and and things like that. And you know, it's just I was attending and we were just talking about it. He said, he said, uh, he said, son We were going through those dark years. He said, I'd be out in the truck. He said my heart would be so broken. And he said, I could not wait to get back home so I could go to church and get around God's people. And get a Get re reinforced and encouraged in the Lord. That hornet of heartache is driving my daddy to church. Not that he didn't want to. You follow what I'm saying These trials have come and we got the wrong kind of friends, we got the wrong kind of influences. These hornets will show up. I remember when I first got saved. I'll be very honest with you, I didn't want to lose my friends They were my friends. Well, I didn't have any other friends. These are the guys I hung out with. These are the guys, some of them I grew up with. I didn't want to lose my friends. I didn't want to live that lifestyle anymore. God had saved me. But these were my friends. And I didn't leave them. But our interests were so different. I was seeking to live for the Lord. They were living for self and party and pleasure. And it just went separate way. I wasn't forced. They didn't they just quit coming around Hornets. Changed life. God wasn't beating me over the head. You can't be with them anymore. I'm not gonna I'm gonna force you. No, no, no. Just motivated God is sending hornets in our lives to make us more like Christ. To make our hearts and lives pure and good so we can please God. You know what hornets are? The Hebrews chapter 12 calls them chastening. The chastening of the Lord. And it's because God loves us. He lets heartache in difficulty. I tell you, Thursday, down at Burdock funeral home, I was there and had the funeral for Linda. And I saw her family and Some dear friends crying. I saw her body. I thought, what if what if that was my mom? And began to weep. Sad. I shared my heart with the people in the Word of God. And that hornet of sorrow and loss. Came in and I gave the invitation for folks that would want to trust Christ. And three people raised their hand that they would trust Christ. That hornet of sorrow and loss drove them to Christ People who would probably not sit down with me one-on-one, let me show them how to be saved. But in that situation, they were motivated to trust Christ. I tell you, Friday I did Joe's funeral down in Kittsmiller. I tell you, Porter was crying so hard. What if that was my daddy? I shared my heart again and I shared the word of God. And a number of people, one we know in particular, who would never sit down with me one-on-one, let me show them how to be saved. When I gave the gospel imitation, seven raised their hand. Want to trust Christ as Savior. Hornets. They would have never been listening to the gospel had Lord not called Joe home at this time. God used that to bring them to a place where they were willing to trust Christ. I don't know what the hornets are in your life, but I know this, they're out there. And God's working, trying to motivate us to trust Him, to go forward, to be more faithful, more obedient. Father, bless us, we ask. Help us, Lord, to see your hand. The events of life, so that we will go forward with you and trust you and obey you. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, how many this morning say, Preacher, I see some hornets I see some hornets in my life. They're not pleasant. Some of them are a little fearful and they hurt. But I want God to use these to drive me closer to Christ. I want God to use these to make me more obedient in my walk as a believer. And you say, preacher, pray for me. The hornets that God has sent in my life will accomplish the purpose for which He sent them. My life can be more pure and godly and more obedient. the Lord. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. God bless you, hands all around. God sends these trials, these difficulties, these things that scare us. So we'll trust them. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. Because there's some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. You say, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know God's forgiven me. You say, pray, Try, I'd like Lord to save me. I'm concerned about that. And you'd like for me to pray for you that God will help you in that matter. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I need Christ to save me. How about it? Any at all?