Um let me just read verse seven down through nine again here real quick and then um then the message this morning. And I I've entitled the message um the formula for success. Formula for success. And my my d goal this morning is not necessarily to have Um this hard pulpit beating preaching sermon it may turn into that if the Lord uh wills, but to be more of a a teaching opportunity this morning is kind of how I wanted to to use that. So get a pen out or a pencil And something to write on, and I'm going to give you a formula right from the Bible here for success. So anyway, verse 7, it says, Only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law. Which Moses, my servant, commanded thee. Turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Have not I commanded thee be strong and of good courage? Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. Let's pray and end the message this morning Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for the day you've given us, Lord. Lord, it's just uh it's just a privilege, first of all, Lord, just to be able to be alive and and to be able to serve you, Lord. We thank you for all you've done for us. Mostly for sending Christ to die for our sins, Lord. We're so grateful for that. Lord, I ask now that you would fill me with your spirit, Lord, that you would just hide me behind yourself. If there's anything that I have in my notes here, Lord, that goes against your word, I pray that you would uh keep that from being said. And likewise, Lord, if there is something that needs to be said that I might not have written down, I ask that you would bring it to my mind. And Lord, I'm asking that you would just completely take over the service this morning. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Verse 8, at the end of the verse, there is that word Success. The word before the word success is good. All of us want good success. I think that that's just an obvious statement. We want to be successful in things. Just to kind of look at the context, the time frame of when this chapter was uh written and the events going on here. In chapter one, this is after the Exodus, after the children of Israel left Egypt. God used Moses there and delivered them from Pharaoh. And of course, then they wandered for forty years in the wilderness because of disbelief, and a whole entire generation had come and gone. This is now the second generation After the Exodus, and that is who this is being written to. And the very first verse of Joshua says, Now after the death of Moses. So we're starting off here. Moses has just passed on And Joshua is now in command. This is right before the conquest. The book of Joshua details the conquest of the promised land. Of course, the most famous being the conquering of Jericho, and then after that, Ai and so on. But that is the events that are taking place in Joshua. Now, right before the conquest, right before the campaign to settle the land, Joshua is going to prepare the people here in the first couple chapters for what's about to happen. The wars and battles that are about to take place. He is preparing for the conquest and the settling of the promised land, and at the same time, God is preparing Joshua. The main preparations that are taken note are spiritual in nature. In chapter 2, he does send out some spies. Joshua does send out some spies into Jericho, but the overwhelming uh preparations are spiritual in nature. Um And that that's very obvious there in verses ten through fifteen here of chapter one. Uh go when you go home, make sure you read that. Joshua encourages uh people to follow God and keep the commandments, mainly in verse thirteen. He says Remember the word which uh Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded you. So right before they go to to uh battle per se, uh the conquest. Of course we know uh God won that victory for them at Jericho, but right before uh they are getting ready to settle the land and go on this uh military conquest, he understands the importance of spiritual preparation. And that's not the message this morning, but it is worth mentioning. Before we take on any task, we need to make sure we are spiritually prepared. We need to make sure we're prayed up. We need to make sure our heart is right, and so on. And Joshua saw the importance of that. So, but before that, uh God is preparing Joshua. And even throughout the first few chapters here, God is dealing with Joshua. Verses 1 down through verse 9, God is talking directly to Joshua and gives him several instructions. We see several times he says, be strong. He says it in verse 6. He says, be strong and of good courage. We see that again in verse 9. Have not I commanded thee, be strong And verse 7 as well, only be thou strong. So he's given him some instruction. And we're going to spend most of our time this morning looking at the instruction on verse 8. Again, the context here is they're getting ready to uh go on this military conquest of the land of Canaan. And so obviously they want to have success. They don't want to lose those battles. And God here is giving him the formula for that. Now He is talking specifically, sure, about what's about to take place in in terms of settling Canaan, but this verse has an application of Just about every area of life. It really does. Verse 8 is where we're going to spend most of our time. And you can just see the formula right in this verse. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. That's step one. But thou shalt meditate therein. That's step two. Thou mayest observe, step three, to do according to all that is written therein. Step four. And then as a result, thou shalt make thy way prosperous and have good success. Everyone wants a successful life. We want success in everything we do. I don't know about you, but everything I do, I want to win. Right? We we don't like to lose. We don't like to fail. We don't like to we don't take enjoyment out of being unsuccessful. There's there there's a driving force in each one of us that wants to be Successful. And I think that makes sense. I want to be a successful Christian. I really do. I want to have a live a victorious Christian life, and I want to have a successful life serving my Lord. I want to be a successful youth pastor. I don't want to fail at that. I don't want to fail the teenagers. I don't want to fail pastor in the church. I want to be successful. I want to have success in being a youth pastor. I want to be a successful husband I don't want a failed marriage. I don't want that. I want to be successful in my relationship with my wife. I want to be a successful son to my parents and so on. We want success in everything we do. Um I want to be a s uh well you know I'm I'm a power lifter, I lift weights. I want I don't lift weights to lose. I I want to lift more. I wanna I want I work at it until I can be successful at the various lifts that uh that I do. I want to be successful at it. And whether it be sports, hobbies, jobs, or something else, everyone wants to be successful. And I think we understand that. We work hard at what we do so we can have success. Everyone wants to prosper, to be well off. So so the word when you you look up the word prosper in Webster's dictionary, it has the word to flourish. Has the idea of being uh being well off. And again, it goes hand in hand with successful. We want to prosper. And in every area. We want to be prosperous in school. We want to be prosperous in our job. We don't want our jobs to be unprofitable. We don't want our businesses to be unprofitable. We don't want You fill in the blank. We want to profit. We like it when if if you have any do any stocks or any investments, you like it when they go up. after you have bought them. Right? We like we like to to prosper. We like to invest in things that are profitable. We like to uh have success So, in every area of life, and I think an area that we often overlook is that of relationships as well. I mentioned I want to be a successful husband. I want my family to prosper. And I I think everyone would say the same thing. We want to have success. We want to prosper. Now If I could give you a magic pill, if I could give you a magic formula or solution that would guarantee success, you would take it. You would want it. Now, there's nothing magical about what I'm about to give you. It's just plain in the Bible. There's a formula here for success. And I I'll tell you, we can read it, and I'll I don't want to get too far out of my head myself, but the formula is hard to implement sometimes It is. But we should we should pay attention to this. And I'm going to read this verse one more time, and then we'll then we'll dive into the various points. It says, The book of the law, this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. But thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and thou shalt have good success. Thou shalt have good success. Right off the bat, we need to understand, though, what does success mean? What does prosperity mean? If our definition of prosperity is lots of money in a big house, then you you already got it wrong. You've already got it wrong. We're talking about living the victorious Christian life. We're talking about living the life that God would have us to live. Sure, we might have some nice stuff along the way. We serve a God that gives us a lot of nice stuff. Sure. But that's that's not the focus. What is your value system? We need to clear that up right away. What is your value system? What is your definition of prosperity? In Sunday school this morning we read the verse in Proverbs, and I don't have it memorized, I don't want to misquote it, but it has the idea of better is a dinner of herbs Where love is than a stalled ox and hatred therewith. You're better off to not have much But have have a have love, have a good family, have a good relationship with the Lord. What's your value system? So the value the the formula we're about to give you is for a godly value system. God's definition of success, God's definition of prosperity. That's what we're going to look at. So I breathed right into that. Excuse me. Everyone awake? Verse one. I mean verse eight, point number one. This book of the law, I'm going to scoot this down just in case. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. Now what's he talking about? He's talking about the Bible. Up until this point, what they had was the old uh the the five books of the Pentateuch, the Torah, what uh what uh God gave to Moses. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. Is that too far away now, Jamie? That's good. Alright. Thank you. So, and and and if you look at the verses preceding this verse, he's talking about the law which Moses gave them. Look at verse 7. Only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law which Moses, my servant, commanded it. He's talking about the Bible that they had up until that point. He said, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. Day and night. Thou shalt meditate day and night. Now the I the first the first thing here, the first point I want to make is this. We need to read God's Word. What they would do is understand not everyone had their own copy, right? Not everyone had their own copy. So they would get a copy and they would read it publicly to the congregation. And they would do that often. Day and night. They would do that often. They would read out loud God's Word. So the thought is here You need to be reading God's Word day and night. You gotta read it. You gotta read it. It's one thing to say you're gonna read it, it's another thing to read it. It's one thing to have a Bible sitting on your shelf. It's another to take it off the shelf. We have got to read God's word They would read it openly and publicly, and he's saying, Don't stop doing that. Don't let it depart out of thy mouth. Now, we don't have to go to a place where it's being read publicly morning and night every day because we have our own You ought to be in church when it's open, yes. But but don't just rely on getting Bible from here. You have got to get it on your own, and you've got to open it, and you've got to read it. Also, it says let it not depart out of mouth. It doesn't hurt to speak it. It doesn't hurt to talk about the Bible. You understand that right? Like it it's it's a good thing to quote Scripture. That's a good thing. It's a good thing especially when you're out and about and and If someone needs encouragement, someone needs advice. I don't know what it is. It's a good thing to be able to read the Bible. It's a good thing to be able to take the Bible to school. A good thing to be able to take the B Follow the work and read it when you need to. It's a good thing But the overwhelming thought here is don't stop reading God's Word. With that being said, how many of us have actually started, right? How many of us do read God's Word? And I'm not talking about just in church. And talking about on your own. When you wake up in the morning, talking about on your own before you go to bed at night, as a family, do you read God's Word? Do you read it openly? So we have got to read the Bible. They do they did not then have the luxury we have now of having their own copy. How many of you have multiple copies of the Word of God? We got like three or four, probably, a piece. There's really no excuse at this point for not reading it. And you can even get it on your phone, your tablet, whatever. There's really no excuse for not reading God's Word. Don't let it depart out of your mouth. Don't let it depart out of your home. Don't let it depart out of your schedule. Make sure you read the Bible. We want success. How many of you want success? Step one is read the Bible. Step one is read the Bible. God's Word. Day and night. Often. Step two. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, that's step one, but thou shalt meditate. That's step two. Meditate therein day and night. Now talk to me. What does the word meditate mean? Think. Think hard on it. Go to Psalm 39:3. I believe that's the right reference. It doesn't look right when I'm looking at it, but it might be right when we get there. Psalm thirty nine three Hold your place there in Joshua. It says, My heart was hot within me. While I was musing, the fire burned, then spake I with my tongue. A lot can happen when you think, when you meditate. A lot of times emotion comes from when you meditate, when you think. What you put your heart on is what is going to affect your, I mean that's your emotions, that's your Uh actions, the the heart dictates a lot. The emotions dictate a lot. So what are you thinking on? Right? Can I tell you something? You're always thinking on something Now, if you're like me, sometimes it's something very simple. But you're always thinking on something. You're meditating on something. You're musing on something. We have a an entire society that's dedicated to not thinking. You ever think about that? We build entire parks and call them amusement parks. It's parks dedicated to not musing, amusement parks. You learned something, didn't you? Amusement parks. Okay, they're fun. I love 'em. But what the point is, is we we try to distract ourselves. We try to not think. Sure. But the we have got to think, we have got to meditate, we have got to muse on God's Word And this says day and night. Cistency to it. This is a high frequency to it. We have got to spend a lot of time thinking. I like to read Through the Bible, I like to just read through it, but there's also times where I like to study on things, study on verses, study on passages, muse on it. You understand what I'm saying? We need to muse, we need to think and meditate. There I go again. But um we need to meditate on God's word. You might say, well that just sounds silly. That sounds distracting That sounds like it's like what do you you just think about a verse? Well yeah, it's fun. Try it sometime. Just try Genesis 1-1 Try meditating on that for a little while. Or John 3. 16. They're common verses, but you meditate on them for a while. Let's do it collectively. Let's do it collectively. Genesis 1:1. In the beginning God. Alright, let's think about this. So in the beginning, God created Okay, so there was a beginning, and God was already there, and he created. Alright, is this fun? This is enjoyable, isn't it? In the beginning, God created What did he create? Heavens and the earth. Wow, okay, let's think about that. Earth? That ground out there. Okay. You see what I'm saying? Y y y y y you think on it. John three sixteen, very common. Quote it, John three sixteen. You know it Alright, let's think about it. I cut you off, I'm sorry. That was very good. For God so loved. The world. He so loved it. I mean he loved a lot. Like a lot. He so loved the world. Wow. That he gave God gave his only begotten Son The only son. Let's think about that for a minute. You see what I'm saying? That's just I'm trying to make a point. You take you it is good to meditate and it is good to think. Because it's going to help you to do these next points coming up. But we need to not just read the Bible. Should we read the Bible? Yes. Yes. But don't just read it. Don't read it as if you're reading readers digest. Don't read it as if you're reading a news article or another book. Think on it, muse on it, meditate on it. Alright, go back in time before you were married and you were getting letters from your fiance. Go back in time. Or your boyfriend, girlfriend, whatever. And you okay, you got these letters. Now if if i if guys that are like me, we write like, you know, three sentences, and that's a lot. But man, I I can remember getting letters from Miss Courtney and she remembers both of mine. But man, you wore the page out. You didn't just go Oh, she she says, uh I miss you, I love you, that's great. Cool. Alright. Oh, you thought on that, right? You meditated on that. You kind of kept it with you and pulled it out a few times and read it over and over again and memorized it. You meditated on it. That's what we need to do with the letter God's written us We need to not just read it. It's not just another book. It's God's word to you personally So read it, but then also meditate on it. Dwell on it day and night, which means you need it both. You need to just not read a few verses a day. You need to read often, but meditate on it as well. And then, like I said, we're meditating on something, we're thinking on something. I find that the more I think about worldly things, the less I think on the Bible. And I find the more I think on the Bible, the less I think on worldly things. So if you say, well, I read my Bible, I'm good, I don't really need to think about it anymore, you'll think about something else. And you'll meditate on it. And then that will control your heart, which then controls your actions. So what are you meditating on? Step one to success: you have got to read God's Word. You've got to read it. You've got to take it off the shelf. You've got to open it. You've got to read it. We have reading plans in our bulletin. We get have um We give our the teenings they get these uh devotions that has a schedule. Get a schedule and start reading it. Maybe you want to start trying to read it through. Maybe you think, you know, I've been saved 10, 20, 30, 40 years, and I've never read the Bible through. It'd be a good thing to read it through. Start reading it. Start reading it and then think on it. And think on it. Muse on it. Step three, observe it. This one's this one I think is fun. I like to observe it. And that's ki this is kind of what Bible Institute is. We observe it. Last uh class we looked at some of the judges. Observe some of them. It's pretty wild. It's pretty cool. But um observe it. Look at your verse. Verse eight. This book of law shall not depart out of thy mouth, that's one, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, two, that thou mayest observe. That's three. Observe. What's it mean to observe something? Pay attention. To watch it. Um I might get in trouble for this, but uh you ever go people watching? You know what I'm talking about? Like you're sitting you're sitting in the car at the grocery store and you're waiting on your wife to come back out and you're just watching people. You're observing them. It can it can be fun sometimes. And then you realize there's someone observing you and it kind of creeps you out a little bit. And you're like, man, what are they watching me for? It's like, well, you were watching them. So but we all do that, right? People watching? We're watching what they do, where they go. We're trying to figure things out. We put pieces, we make up pieces of a puzzle and put them together in our own mind. You know what I'm talking about. It's fun. People watching. Why don't we do that with the Bible? Why don't we, I mean, it read it, think about it, but anticipate it. Have you ever been reading through the judges or or kings, Samuel, or or through the book of Acts and you're reading, and you remember what's coming, but you're still kind of anticipating it. You're like, oh this is my favorite part. Oh he's about to you know what I'm talking about? That's awesome. Say, well that just sounds silly. You do it with TV shows, right? You do it with movies. Oh, my favorite part's coming up We see whenever we watch a movie or something, I always say this is my favorite part. Oh, this is my favorite part. Everyone be quiet. This is my favorite part. Then like five seconds later, oh this is my favorite part. Right? We're anticipating what's coming. We're observing. We're watching. We're paying attention. Pay attention when you read God's word. Observe it. Study it. Meditate on it. But man, watch it. It has the idea, the word observe has the idea to study or to watch closely or to pay attention to. Like when you observe someone, like people watching. Or um Miss Ms. Courton, you're gonna have to forgive me. It'd be alright. Um before before we were married I saw her, obviously. Um and I I came in the back of the church where she was and I kind of sat in the back row. Noticed she was sitting towards the front, and I'm like, hmm That could be the future Mrs. Trees ice. So the next service I moved one row closer. Then the next service I moved one row. I was s being sneaky, right? I was I was closing in one service at a time. It was I was what we would call stalking. That's what I was doing. I was watching her closely Is she talking to anyone? Is is does she already belong to someone? Y'all guys know what I'm talking about. Just don't don't judge me right now, okay? Judge not lest you be judged. So so I was watching, I was paying attention, I was stalking, I was observing. First thing, hmm, I don't see no diamond. Alright Next, right? So I keep going. And um lo and behold, we courted for a very long time. It was a whole month. And then we got engaged And uh we've been married ever since, obviously. But anyway, I was I was paying attention intently. I was stalking, watching, observing We laugh, but do you do you do that when you read God's Word? If you read something you don't understand, do you just say, oh, I don't understand it? You try to figure it out You try to figure it out. Do you pray over trying to figure it out? Do you look for do you seek help on it? Do you anticipate? Do you watch? Do you it comes down to this? Do you pay attention to when you read the Bible? Do you pay attention? Do you observe it? Study it, watch it, the way you would people watch. You get people watching the Bible. It's fun You can get look at look at some of the characters you're reading about. Real people that live. Watch them. See what they do. Learn their personalities. It's fun. So step one, read Step two, meditate. Step three, observe. This is the hard one. Step four, do it. Do what? What it says. Alright, you've read it? You've studied it, you've mused on it, you've observed it. Now to get to success, you've got to do it. Verse 8: This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. We have got to do what it says. And I made the comment in an institute a few weeks ago, I guess it was a couple weeks ago, when we went through Joshua. I said pretty much the theme here is read the Bible and do what it says. Read the Bible and do what it says. That's kind of the formula in a nutshell there. Read the Bible and do what it says. This is the hard part. If you have a hard time opening your Bible and reading it, then you're going to have a really hard time doing what it says, right? Because you're not going to have read it to know what it says. You gotta start with reading it, then you gotta think on it, study it, all those things, but then you have to do it. You know, there has been times when I have planned on doing things and then I did not do them. Y'all ever do that? Anyone ever been there? You have it scheduled out. I'm going to do this, then I'm going to go here and pick that up, and then when I get back, I'm going to eat lunch, and then on my way out I'm going to stop here, then I'm going to get and then none of it happens. Right? None of it happens. Defin if any of it happens, it definitely doesn't happen the way you thought it would, right? Am I right? I would write up my own workout programs for powerlifting, right? I'd write them up. And then for some reason I know I'd skip half of it. Be like, oh, I got the main list in, I'm good. Right? You don't follow through. So then you don't get the success You gotta follow through with what the Bible says to do. You can write your own plan, but it ain't gonna be nowhere near as good as God's plan. And we understand that. So if you read the Bible Just do what it says. We get the first three steps down, but then when we get hung up on the fourth. You know, we can know everything there is to know about the Bible and then still not do what it says. We can have degrees after degrees about the Bible and then still Disobey it. We have to understand the Bible isn't just a book. I mentioned this earlier, but this is God's word. This is God's instruction manual. He's given you the instructions. For success, how to have a victorious Christian life. He's given you the instructions for it So if you've gotten to that first step and you've read it and you've studied it, you've meditated on it, now you have to do it. Good intentions won't get it done. You have to do it. Talking about doing it isn't going to do it. You have to do it. When I worked um and when I we lived in Lynchburg and I worked at a supply house down there, there was a few guys that I worked with This always drove me crazy. We'd get there at seven. That was we had to be there at seven o'clock. And um the first hour and a half they talked about what they were gonna do all day So like I'll I for I would I mean it it was like clockwork. Literally. Around 8 30 they would finish talking about what they're gonna do for the day. For the first hour and a half, they would just drink coffee and talk about all they were gonna do that day You can talk all you want, but until you do it, you're not going to do it. You follow me? You can have the best devotion books, you can have the best schedules, but at some point you have got to just do it. You can read the Bible, you can study on whatever subject, but until you do it, then you're not going to do it. You gotta do it. You gotta do what it says. Now the thought here we're having is this. This is the formula for success. And at the beginning we talked about success in, well we want to have success everywhere. We want to have success in our marriage, right? You can read books on biblical marriage. You can go to counseling. You can read your Bible day and night Seek guidance on it. But until you do what the Bible says, not going to have a successful marriage. You might want to be a good parent. Take books on parenting. You can get counseling on parenting. You can get advice from good parents. And you can read the Bible and everything it has to say about good parenting. But until you do what the Bible says, then you won't be a successful parent. You might want to have a successful business. You can get books on that, etc. If you reject God's principles on business, then you're not going to have a successful business Even lost people understand that there's print principles in the Bible, and they'll base their business models on it. They will. In any area of life, friendships. You can study all you want to on it, but until you do what the Bible says in regards to friendship, here's a big one. How to get to heaven. You can read what the Bible says. You can hear sermons. You could study it. You could memorize the Romans road. And still reject Christ. And still not get to heaven. You've got to accept them. You've got to do it. You've got to accept them for your own. Right? You apply this to any area. What areas do you want prosperity in? What areas do you want success in? Say, man, I wish I had that successful marriage. Do what the Bible says. Do what God says. I wish I had more success in school. Do what the Bible says. You can apply this to any area. The context here is they're getting ready to go on conquest, and they want to be successful in taking the land of Canaan. But you could make that application anywhere. The word prosperous it means to grow or increase to thrive or to make gain. Has the idea of um uh of having gain, of of being uh of having prosperity Now we won't always have a life of sunshine and roses, right? Rain falls on the just, the unjust, we understand that. But again, what's your definition of success? What's your definition of prosperity? We had to settle that at the beginning. But if you want to successfully live the way God wants you to live, in the home, in the marriage, in the church, in the mini in whatever ministry you're working in, whatever it is, You find out what God has to say on the matter. He does have something to say. Read it. And then study that for a while. And then think on that for a while. Meditate on that. Let that become part of your heart. And then your actions will Will come about as a result of your heart, right? Then do it. Do it. Do what God says on the matter. Good success. It says good success. Not just success, but good success. Not just living an average Christian life, but victory, man. I tell you, just a flat out, good, successful life. You can get it. You can get it. So to wrap things up, a couple questions here. One, are you even reading the Bible? That's question one. Like, are you reading God's Word? If you're not Don't expect success. Don't expect it. Are you even reading God's Word? Number two, are you reading it? That's good, but do you spend time Studying it, meditating on it, thinking on it. Are you observing it? Watching it. Are you doing it? Are you doing it? And again, that's where it hits close to home, right? Are you doing it? Are you doing it? You say, you know what, I just I just wish that I could have a more successful fill-in-the-blank Well just read your Bible and do what it says. Read your Bible and do what God says. Say, you know what? I'm trying to get to heaven. I'm doing my best. Why don't you read the what the Bible says about that? We'll show you what the Bible says about that. How you can accept Christ as your Savior and then just accept Him. Do it. Then you'll know you're going to heaven. Does that make sense? Pretty simple concept this morning. Read your Bible, do what it says, and then you'll have success in whatever area you apply it.