Concerned with how Joseph was feeling. He was concerned with what he was going to make Joseph into. Because he had a purpose for Joseph to rescue his family. You've got a purpose. God wants you to fulfill that purpose. And I know a lot of this is going to be directed maybe to these young people because I get distracted by them because I look at them and I'm thinking I'm old and they're young and I'll be gone and they'll be here. And brother, if it's not for them carrying this on, it'll all die. We've got to have them, and we're losing a generation. And we're losing a generation who's been lied to by Satan and the world and the flesh. And they're believing the lie. And we only have the truth. We also said last night that in the pit it will show who is on God's side and who's not. And people that don't serve the Lord, they don't like the people that do serve the Lord. Do not think it strange if you suffer persecution for your faith. But know this: in the United States of America, I have yet to see really any persecution. I've been to Mexico passing out New Testaments and had priests come out and throw rocks at us. Never hit us. Threw rocks at us. They're old men they couldn't throw very far. Back then I was younger I could dodge. I don't run anywhere. I have one move left. If I'm about to get run over by a car, I'm saving that move for the very last. That's alright. Don't look at me like that. Stand up Come up here. You see this boy with hair, dark, flat belly? This is your future. Go sit down, son God wants you. He wants to use you. Church, God wants to use you. Did you know this is the only institution that Christ left on this earth to carry out the Great Commission? And he promised A success, that the gates of hell would not prevail against us. He promised us that he would be with us and send the comforter while he's away. He promised us he would give us his word, his spirit, his power to carry out the Great Commission. He promised us And he's only coming back for us. This is the only institution he's taken out. This is what he died for is the church. And I'm going to tell you, the church is something special. The church is our family, our spiritual family. How many of y'all like me, you got a crazy uncle or aunt in your family? How many of you are the crazy uncle? Hey, put your hand down. It's my job. You know, you don't quit your family just because you got a crazy uncle, do you? Well, don't let something small knock you out of the saddle serving God If you get in a pit experience, look for God to get you out. When you're in the pit and you have nothing else and you're all alone and all you've got's the Lord, know this. He's teaching you that's enough. Now I've got to make a confession to you. The worst thing I ever did, my daughter, I hate to tell you all this. I did something terrible that I should have never done. Whole time she was growing up, she'd mess up, I'd say, Randy, if you don't look out, look up. I mean I'm gonna sell you a band of roving Ishmaelites And that's what happened to Joseph. You want to know something? I was stressed out one day and arguing and she was causing problems, but it wasn't that was not the main problem, it was between me and somebody else. And I took her back out in the yard. I said, You're gonna have to behave. I don't know what in the world I'm gonna do to you, do with you. She said, with tears coming down her eyes, at five years old. I guess you're just going to have to sell me. You don't know how that cut into my heart. We've got to be careful what we say to people. Can you imagine the hurt when your own brothers are the ones that sold you into Slavery. But there was no water, it said, in the pit God was with him. And when God's with you, the blessings of God follow you. And if God is with you, you don't have to advertise it. The world will know it. And the world is looking for someone where God is with them, and they know that that's God, and the blessings flow with that. Have you ever been around anybody that's really blessed of God? I have been. You look at the Yovi back there, the boy from Togo, West Africa. I just get close to him because the blessings spill over and hit on me. And I guarantee you the world sees that, and employers will hire you because they know God is with you, and the blessings will fall on them even though they're lost because they've got you. And that is true because when the presence of God is in your life, you cannot hide that God is with you. It's like it's never ending and it just keeps on flowing out. And the Lord was with Joseph. Look with me, if you would, in chapter 39. And Joseph, verse 1, was brought down to Egypt. And Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmaelites Which had brought him down thither. Look at verse 2. And the Lord was with Joseph. Let me say that again. And the Lord was with Joseph. The Lord was with Joseph in his parents' house when he gave him the dreams, was he not? The Lord was with Joseph when he was in the pit, was he not? Now he's been sold down into slavery into Potiphar's house, and the Lord is still with him. The Lord's always with you if you're a born-again believer. But let me tell you this: if you don't know Christ as your Savior, God is not with you. He's not hearing your prayer prayers. He's working things to try and bring you to repentance, bring you to a knowledge of salvation. But God is only with the believer. But know this: God has promised Jesus said, if I go away, I'm going to leave a comforter. And God is with us. Problem is many times we just don't seem like we're with God. Look what the Bible says there. And he was a prosperous man. And he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian. Let me ask you a question. Can you write your name? Could you write your name there? The Lord was with him, and he was a prosperous man. Do you want to be prosperous? Serve the right master. The Lord may tap his child on the shoulder one day. Maybe you. Are you or you? So you remember, I want to put a calling on your life, that higher calling, that holy calling, that one that should be humbling to you, that God would even consider you. He's not trying to hurt you. He's trying to help you. He is trying to make you prosperous. And you can be prosperous beyond your wildest dreams serving the Lord. I can't stand health, wealth, prosperity preaching. Our church back in Arkansas, we had Benny Hinn was coming to Little Rock, Arkansas, and was going to hold a crusade. And you know, Benny Hinn says he can put his hands on people and heal them. And it was free to get into the meeting. It cost $12 to park, but it was free to get into the meeting. I'm teaching the adult Sunday school class. I own the business in the town. I said to the folks, now you know I'm going to say something because people have been asking me about Benny Hinn. And I want to say some things and I do not want to be misquoted because it could really affect my business if it got out and I was misquoted. So I want to say some things about him, but don't misquote me because I want to be very clear. Don't misquote me. If Benny Hinn is willing to go to Little Rock, Arkansas, claims to have the power to heal people. And I don't want to be misquoted. And he will not go into the children's hospital and clean it out. And I don't want to be misquoted. He needs to be drugged out into the streets and shot. That did not go over well for the assembly of gods in town. I didn't care. Just because you're a Christian doesn't mean you're going to be healthy all the time. Let me tell you something else. I don't care what Joel Oldstein says, just because you want to follow Christ does not mean that everything's going to be prosperous in your life. And just because you follow Christ does not mean that you're going to be popular. In young people, popularity is a trap of Satan. And when you follow Christ, the problem is this. You're not going to be popular, you're going to be unpopular Because you're going to be different. And people don't like difference. They respect it. They honor it. They look at it. But they are afraid of it. When God is with you and his presence is made manifest in you, others will know it. God's presence on your life. Cannot be hidden. And if you have the presence of God, there's no need to advertise it. The Bible says, and his master saw that the Lord was with him, and that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand. Note that Potiphar not only recognized the presence of God in Joseph, but he also knew it was the Lord, not Joseph. That was the cause of the prosperity. And when God is with you, you give the glory to God, and you recognize that it is God, not you. I'm gonna get into some serious stuff. I'm trying to scan the crowd. We have some young ears here. But you know, God was so with him, so prosperous, that Potiphar did not know anything about what he even had, except for what he was eating. Because God blessed him so much. Potiphar trusted him with everything in his house. And God was with him. I shall get another glass. Young people, listen up close. Listen up close back there. You guys listen up close. We have A shortage of men and manhood in this country today. These men. We don't need no latte drinking. Skinny jean wearing, metrosexual boys, we need men. Men. We need men There's a greater shortage of godly manhood in this country. The way it's going now If you boys don't suck it up and get off them video games, we go fight that Chinaman, he's gonna pop a cap on you and shoot you. And it ain't no video game. And it's gonna be real And you ain't gonna be able to call the Starbucks when you're in the trench fighting either. And I'm too old to get out there and fight, I need you guys out there getting drafted and shot at, not me Be a man. Learn to be a man. Skin your knee. It don't hurt you. Learn how to change attire. Get your hands dirty. Come on, guys. Help me out here. Don't get no frappes and lattes. I don't want to ever see y'all one down there getting one of them Starbucks. Get away from that stuff. John Wayne never did that John Wayne just took that pot up off a strained it with his teeth, drank it black, hot. Be man! Put creamer in your car. I bet you you go to Starbucks, don't you? Don't don't lie to me. I'm in the pulpit. Don't lie to me. You're sitting on front. But do you hold your little pinky out when you get your cup? Teach. Girls, listen to me, do not marry the first thing that comes along. You're not looking for a thing, you're looking for a man. If they're not going to be men, go find you one. That almost hurt my voice. You want a man? Real man. Boys don't marry a good-looking girl. Get you an ugly one. Ain't nobody gonna run off with her. She'll be home when you get back. You marry a good-looking woman like I did, you will wear yourself out keeping her looking young. We need men. We need godly men. We need some men in our churches to do something. Most of our independent Baptist churches, the men sit around halftime bored. The women are tired of doing all the work. You guys be men. Show these boys what manhood is. Do we still have men up here? Y'all know how to kill a deer? Where's that girl that done killed a deer? Where is she? Yes, praise God. You need to let these boys see you shoot. They won't mess with you. Boy, I married Joe, I saw her shoot. Now she does not like a large caliber rifle. But I've seen her with a twenty-two. And she could hit me at a hundred yards and I could be running serpentine. She could still with open sights hit me at a hundred yards. I I behave because I can't run anymore anyway How do you make a godly man? Well, I think there's a pattern for us here in the book of Genesis. Turn with me now to the last chapter. Nope, I'm going to read the rest of this. Stay where you are. Verse 7. It came to ask after these things that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph, and she said, Lie with me. I know we've got young ears, I'll be discreet. But he refused and said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master wadeth not was in his hand, was with me in the house, and he hath committed all that he hath to my hands. There is none greater in this house than I, neither hath he kept back anything from me but thee, because thou art his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness? Look at this, and sin against God. And it came to pass as she spake to Joseph day by day, that he hardened, hearkened not unto her to lie with her, or to be with her. And it came to pass about this time that Joseph went into the house to do his business. He was faithful. And there was none of the men of the house there within. And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me. And he left his garment in his hand in her hand, and he fled and got him out And then he's going to be falsely accused and thrown into prison. But in verse 21, but the Lord was with Joseph. And the Lord was with Joseph. I gotta drink some of this. False accusations, temptations. The making of a godly man. Turn to the last book, the last chapter in the book, chapter 50 Now Daddy's dead. The brothers think he's now going to take revenge. And his brother in verse 18 also went and fell down before his face, and they said, Behold, We be thy servants. And Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God. But as for you, ye thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good To bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. Now to the meeting message. I'm going to come down here. If you're going to serve God, you're going to have to learn to remove all those secondary causes in your life. Who threw Jonah to sea? Someone give me an answer real quick. Who threw Jonah the sea? Who said sailors? Yes, sailors did in chapter one, but Jonah said in chapter two, Thou Lord, just cast me into the sea. You've got to remove those secondary causes. It's not the sailors, it was God working in that sort of thing. And you're going to see yourself in life as one or two things. As a child of God, you can be bitter with the way things happen. If you fall to the pit, things don't go your way, you're not prophets or people, all these things happen. You're going to say, woe is me, you sold me into slavery. But once you get a hold of what God is trying to do in your life, You can be like Joseph and say, you meant it for evil. God meant it for good. He you didn't sell me. God sent me here. You need to be asking yourself the question in your life, are you sold or are you sent? Some of you are living in households where you think you're sold, but God sent you. Some of you got things going on in your life you don't understand it, and you don't understand the answer because you're looking for the future and God's not giving you the sight of the future. But if you're a child of God, you have his promises, you have the dreams that he gave you. Stick with that, stick with the Lord, serve the master, and understand something. God is the one that is in cause of your life And he's in control of it. And I'm going to tell you, you need to see yourself as being sent, not sold. How do you make a godly man? This is the first thing. You're going to have to learn how to handle adversity. In chapter 37, he got thrown into the pit. It wasn't his fault. His brothers were against him. You're going to have to learn how to handle adversity. Men Boys, you're going to be manned. You're going to have to learn how to handle adversity. Things are not going to go right in your life all the time. You need to get used to it, get over it, quit your whining, suck it up, buttercup Be a man. Learn how to handle adversity. Anything worthwhile is going to be difficult anyway. It ain't easy. Second thing is this. When he gets to Potiper's house, the Lord is with him, and everything he touches turns to gold. He's prosperous. The second thing you're going to have to learn to do if you are going to be a godly man is to learn how to handle prosperity. And I'm going to tell you, there's just as many men that fall because they become prosperous as there are men who get bitter against God because they have adversity. Prosperity has ruined many a good man. Prosperity can ruin you. Prosperity can be the enemy. Remember this. If God gives you something, that's good. If Satan gives it to you, he'll take it away. Do not trust in the supply. Trust the supply earth. Don't be the rich man. I know what I'm going to do. I'll tear my barns down and build bigger ones. The third thing that you're going to have to do in the making of a godly man is what we just talked about. You're going to have to learn how to handle temptation. God's going to tell you something, temptation is going to come your way. This type of temptation hits men. I'm tired of seeing our men fall with this kind of temptation. When I was in Bible college, we had a professor, R. O. Woodworth. He was kind of getting a little dementia And so they took him away from being professor, put him on the road, raising money for Baptist Bible College. He'd come back and he'd guest lecture and he used to teach Exposition of Genesis. And he would come in there, and uh my father is a senior, I'm a junior, and he's saved later in life. He went in 67, got out in 67, I went in 67 We got 1,200 students in class. Exposition of Genesis. The old man's trying to call roll. You can't call role. We ought to just sign it in. Got down to the M's and he said, head mock. Here, sir. This rock, stand up. I told the guy sitting there, I'm already in trouble for something my daddy did. As your dad? Yes, sir. I'll see you after okay. Yeah, I am in trouble. He was funny as I'll get out. Because he was slipping. He's on this thing one day, and he's talking about this, and he said, Young man Most men crawl away from that, hoping it catches them from behind. We thought it was funny. He said, young man, don't yet let some young floozy mess up your ministry. We'd never heard the word floozy before. It was hilarious. At the same time, the only year Baptist Bible College ever had a football team. And uh somebody, one of the daddies bought all the equipment, we had a football team for one year. And colleges would schedule us off the schedule to beat up on us to get ready for the other games. And so we were going to play a team in Miami, Oklahoma. And that's a real team. And uh we wanted to take our cars and drive to the game. And we wanted to take the girls in our cars, and they told us no. And he told us about that floozy stuff right when the administration wouldn't let us take girls in our car across the state line to the ballgame. We didn't like it. We joked around, made fun of that old man. Floozies. Yeah. They don't want us to go in out with no floozies. Floozies. We use that word, use that word I don't know, maybe twenty years ago I was with some of my classmates and we were talking about college days. We were talking about that, laughing about it, then it got quiet. Started naming names. Someone said, you know, we laughed at that old man. That was some of the best advice we got in Bible college. Boys, don't let temptation bring you down. Girls, it's a different day. When I was raised up, a girl would slap your face. Okay, old people, tell me about that. They don't do that anymore. A lot of girls today they'll grab a boy. These boys need to respect you. Every once in a while just why if they ain't even done something, just slap one of them. And if you say, What'll I do? If you do it again, I'm gonna slap you again. And it'll help 'em. They need that. You need to be careful about where you are with boys. Don't trust no boy. I'm giving you girls some good advice. Boys, don't put yourself in a position. Where temptation can take hold of you. These girls don't belong to you. They belong to somebody else. How old are you again? You mess with my granddaughter. You will never see nineteen. You think I'm kidding you? Asked a friend of mine carries a nine millimeter. Who carries nine millimeters around here? The boy's coming to pick up his daughter and go out on a date. He'd never met the boy. He's going to come in and meet him. Sees him come in, takes the clip out, takes the bullet out. Hey son, can you catch? He said, yeah. Catch. Caught it. He said, next one's going to come a whole lot faster. My daughter was dating a boy named Ryan. We didn't like him. My son didn't like him. My son was Got him a M1 carbine, y'all know what I'm talking about? I know I gave my grandson I mean my son a semi-automatic weapon, weap of mass destruction, you know I'm showing him how it works, you know, any automatic like that you can pull the bolt action back and you know you don't s you you slam that home. Ryan's mama is a Uh what do we call those traveling nurses? Home health care nurse. I see him beep offing up the door. I wish I'd have been outside We had that gun tore down. I told Michael, my son, watch this. Ryan walked in the door. I took that clip, slammed it in that thing, chambered around, clicked, hey Ryan, how you doing? That's what you gotta do. I'm rednecked enough, I would shoot you. She thinks I'm playing with you. I ain't playing. I'm too old to fight you. But I can give that guy twenty bucks and he'll beat you up. You gotta learn how to handle temptation. Then the other thing is this, and I'm sure Pastor talked about how that had false accusations brought against him. And if you're going to be godly man, you're going to have to deal with people that tell lies on you and falsely accuse you. And when you're trying to do right, they might say you're a cultist, narrow-minded. What's wrong with that man? Then tell lies on you. Just make things up. And I'm going to tell you it's going to happen. But you know what keeps me straight, Pastor, whenever people want to say lies about me? My mother-in-law used to run the switchboard at the lumber mill office. She got all the gossip in the world and loved it. She'd call me up. Ted, do you know who you're running around with now? No, I don't. I'm not really. Do you know that you're going out of business? No, I didn't know that. I mean it was the same thing. What keeps me straight? Pastor, they don't know the truth about me. If they really knew me, there'd be plenty of material. And if someone's telling lies on you, just think about this. Praise God, they really don't know you. And I'm gonna get honest with you right now, if you knew me like God knew me, you probably wouldn't let me preach in your pulpit. But let's take it one step further. If we knew you like God knows you, we might not let you in this building. Praise God. There's some things that are under the blood. So get off your high horse, you are not perfect. Don't get disr derailed by people lying on you and giving false accusations. They'll question your motives. They'll question your actions. That preacher, all he's after is my money. Well, let me give you a hint. God don't need your money. And I want to be brutally honest, God really don't need you. But the truth of the matter is we desperately need God. And we need his blessings. So don't let false accusations break you. It sounds like mine. Thank goodness it wasn't mine. Lastly. And I know what you're thinking, he can really last. You had to deal with broken promises. When he was in the prison, he told the butler, you stand before Pharaoh, remember me. And he was forgotten, and promises were broken. Man, I'm gonna deal with some stuff. We should be men of our word. There's times you break promises, and you know you do. Right before I was walking down the aisle to marry my beloved wife My father-in-law Wayne Byers said, Are you gonna make her happy, boy? So I'll try my best, sir. That ain't what I ask you. And I said, Yes. I'm going to tell you if she was here today after 48 years of marriage, she'd say he did not keep that promise because I've not always been happy married to that rascal. What about you? Have you broken any promises? And people break promises to me, and I've had that happen. I think about the times I have broken promises that I really intended to keep but were beyond my power These children, they need mamas and daddies. They don't need people breaking up. I'm not fearful if this is on the internet. I don't think any of mine will listen to it. My daughter was married to somebody in ministry for fifteen years, and they split up leaving two kids. My precious first two grandchildren. One time we were crossing the street going to a gifted and talented thing because of Alex the Older One. We did not know it, but she tested out later on with 156 IQ and was not even trying, they found out. She is in the top one-tenth. of the top one hundredth percentile. She's going to the gifted and talented thing and Families going up there to see they're all ahead. It was a busy traffic. And the cars were coming and little Angela's just four years old She was scared, but I could see the fright in her eyes. And they went on ahead and the light was going to change again and I was going to follow and I grabbed her hand and all of everybody else was going just me and her. She looked up at me and I said, Angley, as long as there's breath in Pawpaw, there's nothing going to hurt you. And I meant that. I took her hand and she just looked up at me and smiled and trusted me, and we just walked across that street After the divorce, we were going someplace, and she and I was in the car together. Just her and me. Teenage girl. I said, Ainsley, do you remember when Papa promised you that he'd take care of you and as long as there was breath in me, nothing would hurt you? She said, yes. Reached over and I held her hand. I said, Wood to God. That I would have died and I would have willingly died if I could have spared you this hurt. We didn't say anything for the rest of the journey. Cause she was teared up and so was I. Pastor, I broke a promise to one of the most dearest people in the world. I would have died. I would have instantly given my life if I could have spared her that hurt. But it was beyond my ability to keep my promise. If we're gonna be godly men, we're gonna have to learn that we're gonna keep our promises. But recognize this. It is not in our power to keep every promise we make. But God has the power to keep every promise He's made to me. And He will never, ever leave me. And he will never let go of my hand. And he will never die. Breath will never leave him, and as long as he is holding my hand, nothing in this world can touch me without his permission Folks, we live in perilous times. We need godly men These girls need godly men. These children need godly men as their fathers. This church needs godly men to be the leaders. Grow some hair on your legs and be men. I am tired of sithes. Be a man. Stand for something. And when you've done all that you can do to stand, stand. We need some men to start acting like men. Our families depend on it. The church depends on it. God is counting on you to be men. Let's stand with our heads bowed and eyes closed. Father, I don't want to come across as crude. But Lord, you know my heart. Lord, you have designed us to be the protectors and the providers. Lord, we are not to be the ones lording over our families, but we are the ones to be leading our families as godly men. Lord, help us to stand in your presence. Lord, lean on your strength. Be godly men for your sake, for our family's sake, for our children's sake. Lord, for our country's sake. God help us tonight to be challenged, to be godly men. Lord, we can do nothing without you. We can't live without you. We cannot be the men we need to be without you. God draws near to you. Let your presence be manifest in our lives. In Christ's name I pray. Pastor.