Would like for us to read verse nine together in unison. When we're finished reading that together in unison, then I'm going to read verse ten again Just to kind of get our minds into what's being said here. Verse number nine of Acts chapter 16. Everybody have it there? Everybody ready? Let's read together. Here we go. And a vision appeared to Paul in the night There stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us. Verse 10 goes on. And after he had seen the vision Immediately we endeavored to go into a Macedonia, assuredly gathering. Now look at this, that the Lord had called us for to preach the gospel unto them. I want to speak this morning on the missions call. The missions call. Wednesday we kick off our missions conference. We're excited about that And uh we're asking the Lord to adjust uh uh give us the frame of mind and uh the the attitude of heart, I guess. As we go into this missions week, asking the Lord to stir us, use us, and as we read here, direct us in this matter of world missions. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now you would bless our time in your word. I'm grateful for the church service. Lord, the music uh was a blessing to my heart and uh the fellowship has been good But now we're asking your Holy Spirit to take your word and apply it to each of our hearts and lives as you see fit. Lord, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will, present my body anew And ask that you would fill me and speak through me to each of our hearts and lives. Perhaps there would be someone here today, God, you've been dealing with their heart about world missions, about giving their lives to take the gospel to the of regions beyond uh our immediate area here. Lord, I pray you would uh just uh verify that if that's the case Lord, maybe some are praying, and I trust, many are praying about the faith promise and what part they would have in that. Lord, I pray you make that very clear to all of us and that we could trust you, obey you. And see you use us in this great commission. And Lord, maybe there's someone here this morning that does not have assurance that their sins are forgiven that then when they die they go to heaven, not to hell. And I pray that you would speak to that one, stir them and uh help them to make that important decision Trust Jesus Christ as Savior. So again, Lord, fill me, I pray, and have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The Bible is the only book in existence that does not need to be rewritten Does not need to be revised. What the Bible needs is to be re-read and reobeyed. And so The Bible is our most reliable, and it is our authoritative source for the church. I was not raised in a Baptist church. I was not raised a Baptist. After I got saved, I began studying scripture. And the more I studied Scripture, the more I was drawn and convinced that the Baptist distinctives are, and I'm not trying to be critical of anybody else, but I'm simply saying this, the more I became convinced that the Baptist distinctives were the most biblical of all that I was aware of. And so the longer I study my Bible and the longer I study God's Word, the scriptures, the more I become convinced in my Baptist convictions. And the stronger I become in them. And one of the great Baptist distinctives is what we usually refer to as the first one, and that is this: the Bible is our sole authority. The Bible is our sole authority. So we come to this matter of the church. And what is the purpose of the church? Suppose somebody shows up in a community and they're going to start a new church, they're going to start a Baptist church there. And somebody comes up and says, Why are you starting the church? What is the purpose for this church being here Well, we do not get the de answer to that question from some denominational headquarters. Amen? There's not some Committee somewhere tells us what the purpose of our church was. The purpose of our church does not come from the Vatican. In Italy, they don't tell us. The purpose of the church comes from the most authoritative source there is, and that is the Word of God The Bible tells us what our the purpose of our church is. So the Bible, as I said, does not need to be rewritten. It doesn't need to be revised. We just need to get back and read it again and reapply it to our lives and start doing what it says. Now we're in the book of Acts. I like the book of Acts. Let me ask you this question. How many folks have a what you would refer to as a life verse? Anyone here? I've had various ones over my years. I'll have one for a while, another one. Life verse. Uh how many folks have, uh you would say, is a favorite book of the Bible? You'd say, well, you'd say you'd be able to answer that. You say, I've got a favorite book of the Bible. I have about 66 of them. It's whatever I happen to be reading at that time. Man, this is my favorite one. But I have a few that I go to. The book of Acts is, without a doubt, one of my favorite books. of the Bible. Like all other books of the Bible, the book of Acts is extremely important. I believe every local church ought to be very versed in the book of Acts. The book of Acts is very important for local church. It gives us a pattern. to follow. I want to learn from other churches. I want to learn from other pastors. I have and I do and see something that, oh, that would be good for us. That would be helpful. I'm not opposed to that But we must not pattern ourselves after other churches. We must pattern ourselves after the church as presented in the book of Acts. And that is our master, that is our pattern, that is our template, so to speak, the church in the book of Acts. So that to me, that tells me the book of Acts is incredibly important. For us as a church, if that's what we're looking for for our pattern and for uh examples of how we function, I believe the book of Acts is important for individual believers. And we see in that early church, as it was being established and as it being energized and growing, we see in that early church the role that church members played. And what part they had in the church and how they functioned. And so it's important for us not just as a church congregation but as individual believers. The book of Acts is very, very important. I believe the book of Acts is extremely strategic. In its placement. Just a few facts about the book of Acts. Facts about Acts is uh one is this, it's the only historical book in the Bible, in the New Testament. It's only a historical book in the New Testament. Without Acts, we would know little or nothing about the early church. We have the epistles, the epistle to Ephesians, the Corinthians, we're studying in Sunday school, you know, Philippians, Thessalonian church, we read what Paul wrote to them But when we come to the book of Acts, we find so much about these New Testament churches, their origins, how they came about, and the events that took place there. Without the book of Acts, we would learn a little about the Apostle Paul Of course, we read of him. He references himself throughout the epistles, all this under the inspiration of God. But the book of Acts gives us a tremendous account of Paul. And we see and we pick up a little bit of his personality of the in the book of Acts. And we see how his mode of operation was. And we learn a lot about the Apostle Paul, and that helps us. And this is what I'm trying to get to. And the book of Acts is strategic in that it presents to us the beginning of missions, the New Testament missions And we see the instructions of God as it is applied to the New Testament church and how that church incorporated themselves to carry out the Great Commission. And so the book of Acts is very, very important. And it's very strategic also in its placement. How many folks are with me? Everybody doing all right this morning? Okay. And it's very strategic in its placement. In other words, the book of Acts is a bridge of sorts, so to speak, between the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John And then the epistles, Romans on through. And the book of Acts is placed there very, I believe, strategically, and it shows a transition. From the time of the Gospels into the uh as the church goes forward. Now, again, this is maybe more interesting to Maybe a pastor or maybe a theological student or something, but I think it applies to all of us. Sometimes the question comes up. They ask this question: When did the New Testament church begin? When did the New Testament church begin? Well, I'd point out, first of all, the Bible doesn't say pointedly, this is when the church began. We study it and we come to a conclusion. Some people suggest the New Testament church began with John the Baptist. And I wouldn't fuss with them about that too much. And and uh I have some uh friends no doubt that would uh hold to that position. The church began with John the Baptist, his baptisms. Others suggest that the church began with the resurrection of Christ or the ascension of Christ. And that's when the church began and went forward from there. Others say Uh probably the most common uh belief would be the church began at Pentecost. That's when probably the majority of folks would say that's when the church began at Pentecost. Maybe I'm a little odd, but um that is not the time to say amen. Uh but uh I have my own theory. As to when the church began. And I think it's significant. I think it's important to understand this. For me, as I study Scripture, I don't believe there's a specific point in time A day and 12 o'clock on this day, the church began. I have a hard time nailing that down. This is my take on it I believe in studying the scriptures that in the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, we have the church, and we talked about this in the Institute just a week or so ago, but we have the church in what I refer to as embryotic form. Jesus does refer to the church. So in some extent, it is an existence at that point. In Matthew, he says, if your brothers sin against you, go with them one-on-one. And if you can't resolve it, bring another with you and go two on one. And if that doesn't resolve it, then bring it before the church. And so he references the church in a present tense type uh uh references. And so that tells me that in the Gospels it's an embryotic form. It has no organization to it at this point. There's real no structure to it They're not even necessarily assembling, as we understand later on in Scripture, as a church. So it's in what I would refer to embryotic form. It's not completely developed yet, but it's there. There's life there. There's something there. Then I see the book of Acts I see as a period when the church is being energized and becoming active. In Acts chapter 2, the Spirit of God falls upon them. And they're filled with the Holy Spirit, and they preach the Word of God with boldness. And you find over and over through the book of Acts, they were filled with the Spirit. They were filled with the Spirit. They were filled with the Spirit. They were filled with the Spirit and man they're going out And they're preaching the gospel. And souls are being saved and lives are being transformed and churches, local churches are being established all through that region. And the church is alive at this point, and it's powerful at this point, but there's really no structure yet You don't find the organization until you get into the epistles. Then we have instructions as to establishing pastors of the church And what those qualifications would be, and the deacons in the church, and what those qualifications would be. And by the way, there's only two offices, biblical offices in the church, and that is pastor and deacon. And we see that then in the epistles, and the church begins to be organized and structured. And so that's my take on it, for whatever it's worth. But the book of Acts is very strategic in that we look back there and we see, all right, here is the church being energized, here is the church becoming extremely active, and they're taking the instructions that Christ has given them They've taken them very, very seriously, and they now are seeking and obtaining the power of God upon them, and we see the world in the unsaved lips, the world being turned upside down. And they are filling the cities with their doctrine. I love that phrase and I don't have the reference, but he says, you have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine. You know what that reminds me of? Track month, road trips. I mean yesterday we filled at least that part of Cumberland with the gospel, with the message. I mean just everywhere you look, there was tracts, and everywhere you look, people are sitting there reading tracts. It's exciting. And so the book of Acts is a very important and a very strategic book of the Bible Especially for us as a New Testament church. It displays for us what a church on fire for the gospel looks like. The book of Acts displays for us what how the world responds. To a church that's on fire with the gospel, a church that taking Christ's Great Commission very, very seriously And they're incorporating that, and they're going out into their communities, and they're going out into the world, and they're going out into the regions beyond with the gospel, and how the world responds to that. And we notice that there is resistance. And the world doesn't necessarily respond favorably. And if they would have had telephones back in that day, I'm sure the pastors would have been getting phone calls. You're leaving tracks on our door. Well, God bless you. So we look at the book of Acts and we see how the how the world responds to a church that takes Christ's instructions seriously How the world responds to a church that has the presence and power of God upon them in a mighty way, and how the world responds. And we notice how the church impacted their world. And so the Book of Acts is a very important book. It's very strategic. And I think as a church, it's important that we study it very, very carefully and pay close attention to what it says and what's portrayed there. And the pattern we're given. Now the book of Acts shows us very early on, this early church, how missions, world missions, is carried out in that in that church, in that day. And that's what I want us to consider from our passage this morning. I want us, first of all, my first thought is this. Number one, I want us to notice the call of missions. The call of, and I'm emphasizing that word of, the call of missions. If you would look with me please at verse number nine again. Paul is out in the verses leading up to it, they're out on this missions trip, the mission journey. They're going from city to city. They try to go. And by the way, didn't Mark do a good job reading those names of those cities? Very good He was wrong on a few, but he was very good. No, you can say him however you want, I guess. But he's gone, they get they're going throughout Pergia. And the regions of Galatia. But notice the end of verse number 6. What does it say the Holy Spirit did? They're trying to press forward. And the Holy Spirit, what did he do? He forbade them from going into uh uh going into um uh the in Asia He kept them from going east. The Holy Spirit says, no, you're not to go that way. Anybody here find it maybe odd that the Holy Spirit would say, no, don't go there with the gospel? Isn't that kind of odd? And then you read on there, and he says, and after they were come to Mycia and they essayed to go to Bithynia, look, what happens again? The Holy Spirit, what? Suffered him not. No, you're not going there. I'm not going to let you go there. And as they're passing by Misea, they come down the Troas, and there he has this great vision. And this man from Macedonia is saying, come over and help us. Come over and help us. That is the call of missions. Now I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but this is important to understand. This is not a call to missions. Paul was already on the mission field. Paul was already in missions. It wasn't him sitting at home preaching and teaching the church or teaching the Sunday school or working a bus route or Or, you know, preaching in children's church or whatever, and uh Spirit of God touches heart, I'm calling you to the mission field. That wasn't it at all. He's already there So it's not a call to missions, but this is a call of missions. This is somebody who is very active in missions. And God is directing him as to where his missionary efforts are to be focused, are to be carried out. The call of missions. The call of missions. God, the Bible is clear. God expects all believers to be involved in world missions. Now, if I was sitting in church service and the preacher said the Bible is very clear That God expects all Christians to be involved in world missions. If I was sitting in a church service and heard a preacher say that, you know what I would do? I would say, Amen! That is absolutely the truth. God expects all believers, all believers, to be involved in world missions. Well, God wants some to be more involved than others. I don't buy that for one minute. God expects you and I here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in Oakland, Marin, to be as active and involved in missions as we do, Brother Richie, over in Mongolia. There's not degrees of involvement in missions. It's all God's people that are expected by God to be involved in missions. in one capacity or another. God expects all believers to be involved in world missions. Missions is not an elite special forces. Well, there's these certain people, and they're highly trained, and they're very, very special, and they have these unique gifts and abilities, and they're the ones that are out there doing missions work. That's not biblical at all Every one of us are to be involved in missions work in some capacity, in some way. Um uh missions is not an elite special forces. Now, having said that I have a world of respect for the missionaries that we bring through here. Man, the hat's off. I want to salute them. They're my heroes. I have tremendous respect for them. But you and I, as believers, are not to be any less involved in missions than what they are. They simply have a different region. They simply have a different area where God has directed them. The call of missions had directed them, the richies to Mongolia, the The um uh the uh Scots to Japan are going to be with us. The Hollands to Norway are gonna be with us. Uh Brother Delp to Philadelphia is going to be with us. That's the call of missions Am I making sense? Everybody with me? How many folks are glad you're not in jail? Say amen. How many folks are glad you got a good night's rest and you don't need to rest now? Say amen. I got a little quiet on me on that one Amen. Missions is the common purpose of the church. That is what we are. World missions. Taking the gospel into all the world. Missions, get this, it should be and is in a biblical church is the normal mentality of the church. Can I suggest to you we think uh oh church, oh missions That's what it is. Missions is the everyday mentality, everyday life of the church. World missions. World missions. I want to make this statement. Any church that does not have missions at its very core is missing the purpose of its existence. The church is not a social club. It is not a form of entertainment. It is not a Get together, have a good time, funny games thing. The church is been given a great, tremendous commission, purpose To take the gospel into all the world. Now does that mean mean we can't have a good time church? Sure. Doesn't it mean we can't get together and fellowship and and uh roast hot dogs and um you know eat fried chicken and um uh barbecue ribs? And let's quit. Let's go eat. I'm hungry. No, I mean there's a place for all of that, but that's not why we exist. Amen or not? And so the very core of the church is missions. And any church that does not have missions at its core, I believe, is missing the purpose of its existence. The call of missions, the call of missions. Not two missions. We've been commanded to go to we've been commanded to carry out missions. But the call of missions, where? Where we carry that out, where that locale is. I see in the Bible four motivations for missions. Under this thought, the call of missions. You might want to jot these down. Four motivations to missions. Number one, I put this down. This is all under my first head, the call of missions. Number one, the command from our Lord The command from our Lord. How many here ever raised kids and uh how many folks here uh are or have at some point raised kids? You are now or you have raised kids. How many people have you ever told your kids you told them to do something and they said, well why do I have to do that? Anybody here get that? How many people said this back to him? Because I told you to. Can I get a witness? Listen, and that's true. But you know what? If God tells us to do something, we ought to do it. Man? It's God Tells us to do something we ought to do it. And we've been given very clear instructions, commanded by God. Now keep your place here in Acts, if you would. And I'm going to look at a few verses. Some of these you're going to be very familiar with. Matthew chapter 28. I know it. He's talking about missions. We're ending up in Matthew 28. Yup. We're probably going to hear it several times this week in the conference. Why? Because it's our great commission. Matthew 28, and I want us to begin reading in verse number 18. Some of you no doubt have this memorized. That would be good. Be good to underscore it in your Bible. This is the commission we've been given. This is the command we've been given. Verse number 18. Are you there? Matthew twenty-eight. Look at verse 18. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. How many people believe that? Say amen Christ is all powerful. He has all authority. Now look what he says. Go ye therefore, because he has this power, this authority, because of that He has every right to instruct us and command us here, and he says, go ye therefore and teach all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I commanded. And lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. You could write in the margin of your Bible sign that you could put this, the Great Commission. The Great Commission. That is what God has instructed us to go into all the world, to go therefore and teach all nations. Those that respond to the teaching and preaching of the gospel by faith, trusting Christ their personal Savior, we baptize them. By the way, every person after they get saved ought to get baptized. And I believe the Bible pattern is after you get saved, you ought to get baptized as soon as possible after you've been saved. And so go that, and those that receive, uh, were to baptize them. And then those that get baptized were to teach them to observe all things, but God has instructed us, the Christian life, serving the Lord, witnessing, then going out as uh as um Christians into all the world. So the Great Commission, turn over to Mark chapter 16. Last chapter of the book of Mark. Matthew, Mark. Chapter sixteen and look with me if you would at verse number fifteen. Now I'll be honest with you, I've been praying as I Prepared this message. I've been praying that God's Holy Spirit would take these verses, take these truths, these statements of our Lord, and burn them deep in our heart and soul. And maybe God would stir some hearts to be involved and be a part of this great commission, this command we've been given of the Lord. Look at verse 15 of Mark 16. And he said unto them, what's that next word? Read it with me. Go, ye therefore, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. I underline that in my Bible. I've got it highlighted. I circled the word go and I circled the word preach. You can put in the margin of your Bible, you can put this, our Great Commission. To go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. This is the Lord's command. We have it twice now. Come with me, if you would, to the book of Luke and chapter number 24. Luke chapter twenty-four, all the way towards the end of the book of Luke. And notice with me, if you would, verse 46. Luke chapter 24 and verse 46. The Bible says, of course, this is the Lord Jesus, and said unto them, Jesus speaking, thus it is written. And thus it behooved Christ to rise from the dead the third day. How many people believe Jesus died on the cross and rose again the third day? Believe that's true. How many people believe that's a historical fact? Documented historical fact. Christ was crucified, buried, and rose again the third day. Alright? Look at verse 17. Now, this was written. It behooved Christ. This is written. This was a four-time written. Look at verse 47. And that repentance and remission of sins should be what? Preached in his name, where? Among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. Do you know what you do right in the margin of your Bible there? Great commission. Great commission. Repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name in all nations. In all nations. Alright, let me take you to one more. John chapter 20. John chapter twenty, and notice with me verse twenty one Now before we get there, before we read that, I want you uh uh how how many folks are s still with me? Everybody alright? Everybody doing okay? Why did, let me ask this question before we read this, what was the purpose of Christ's coming? Why did he show up? Christmas morn, took on flesh? Lived his life. Why did why did why did Christ take on humanity? To seek and to save that which for the Son of Man has come. To what? Say it with me. Seek and to save that which was lost. That is the most concise summary of the purpose of Christ's coming. John 3. 16. For God so the world, he gave his only begotten Son. Whosoever believes him shall not perish. So we understand very clearly, how many people agree with me? We understand very clearly why Christ came. Understand it. He came to save souls. People be saved. Offer salvation from sin and eternal judgment Alright, now let's look at John chapter 20 and look with me at verse 21. Then said Jesus unto them again, peace be unto you. Now look at this. As my Father has sent me, what? Even so, send I you. Now, of course, you and I can't save souls, right? We can't do that. We can't do what Christ did. But he sends us forth to declare what Christ has done for us. You know what you could write in the margin of your Bible cite that verse? Great commission. Great commission. And so One of our motives, why do we have missions conference? Why do we emphasize this? Why do we why why is mission such an integral part of our church? And all this, why is why is all this? Uh number one, we do this because we've been we've been commanded by Christ God has commanded us. How many folks would say, alright, that settles it? We don't need any more motivations. That's all we need. Anybody agree with me? I said it. He said it. Do you ever see that bumper sticker? God said it. I believe it. That settles it. Anybody see that? I would rearrange that. I would say God said it, that settles it. Therefore, you better believe it So we've been given clear instructions by God. How many people believe that? Say amen. God's instructed us to go into all the world. So that's one of our motivations, is God's clear uh uh instructions. And I think it's interesting you get to the book of Acts, we see how that's played out. We see how the church understood these instructions and Christ reiterates them in early Part of the book, chapter 1, verse 8. He reiterates there, you know, you shall receive power after the Holy Ghost come upon you. You shall be witness unto me, both in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the world And so, uh, and we look in the book of Acts and we see how that plays out. And we see a church taking that instruction, that command, very, very seriously. And following that and applying it to their lives. I think it's interesting in the book of Acts, the overwhelming percentage of missions work carried out by the in the book of Acts is by average Christians. It's the church folk that are carrying this out. It's the church folk going out on these uh mission trips and carrying them to different regions And if you study Acts very, very carefully, it wasn't this elite forces. It wasn't an elite group. In fact, at one point, the apostles didn't go and all the others went, and they stayed back in Jerusalem. And so we've been given a command of the Lord. Number two, what's our second motivation? Number two, I put this down, the cry from hell. We have a command from the Lord, and not ought to motivate us and stir us to be involved in missions, to give ourselves to go to the mission field, but there's a cry from hell. Turn with me, if you would, back to the Gospel, Luke And chapter 16, again, a familiar passage In Luke chapter 16, we have the Lord, so to speak, in so many words, he's kind of opening a window, a spiritual window, and we can look into hell And we can see a little bit what life in hell is like. As horrific as that is He opens a word window for us, and we look and we see, and we find this rich man who died in his sins, who died unsaved. Who died in rebellion against God, and Christ opens this window, and we see this rich man in hell, and he's crying out to Abraham. And he says, Father Abraham, send Lazarus, send me dip his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in these flames. I'm telling you, there is nothing funny, there is nothing humorous about this place called hell. It is the most horrific thing in existence. And Christ and God and the Bible takes this place called hell extremely seriously And nowhere in the Bible do you find them laughing about hell, nowhere in the Bible them joking about hell, nowhere in the Bible do you find anybody taking this place called hell very lightly It is a horrific place. In fact, Jesus said at one point, it's better to cut off your arm and go to heaven with one arm than to go to hell with two arms. Better to lose an eyeball, better to lose a leg than it is to go to hell. I'm telling you, we live in a day and an age where the world thinks hell is a joke and churches think hell doesn't exist. And they're both wrong. They're both wrong. And so Christ opens this window into hell and he says, this is this rich man in hell. And he's tormented in these flames. And if you will look with me, he makes a profound statement in verse 27 of Luke 16. And this is the rich man in hell, and he's crying out the father Abraham, and he makes this statement I pray thee, therefore, Father. Now he asked for Lazarus to send Lazarus and dip his finger in water and cool his tongue. And Abraham says, no, you can't do that. You can't leave there. He can't leave here. There's no going back and forth. It's locked in. Then look at his, look what he says. Therefore, then he said, I pray thee. There's a man in hell praying. I pray thee, therefore, Father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house. I underlined that phrase, send him, and I wrote in my margin, missions. Here's a man in hell praying for missionaries. Praying for somebody to go from where they are to a place where people need the gospel. They need the truth. They need the Word of God. And he says, send him to my father's house. For I have five brethren that he may testify unto them, lest they also come unto this place of torment. Here is a man in hell crying out, oh Father Abraham, please send a somebody. This is the call of mission, somebody wherever they're at, send them. To where my brothers are. They're lost. If they can know the truth, they know how to escape this place and not come here. People in hell desperately want someone. To go to their families and their friends and tell them how to avoid hell. Now think about that with me. As you and I sit here in a comfortable building, as you and I have our Bibles under our hands. And we sing these beautiful songs and we're blessed by the choir and the music and the programs I'm not stretching scripture. There are people in hell pleading. Somebody please go to my family. Somebody please go to my friends. Tell them how to avoid this horrific place. Look at the last phrase of verse number 28. Lest they also come into this place of torment. Now I got studying this, I got looking at that word testify, for I have five brethren that he may testify unto I looked that up. This is one of the definitions came up right away. It said this: to earnestly declare that which is true. The word testify, if I understand it correctly, has the idea of urgency to it. To earnestly. To earnestly So we have a cry from hell. Out of hell comes a desperate cry for soul winners and for missionaries. From heaven, from the Lord Himself. We have a very clear command to go into all the world. Let me give you a third motive we have for answering the call of missions. The compassion in our soul. Would you turn to Romans with me very quickly, Romans And I want to begin in chapter number five. Go past Acts. You get the Romans. And come down to verse number five. Romans five, verse five And hope maketh not ashamed. Now look at this next statement. I have this underlined in my Bible. Because the love of God is shed abroad where? and our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us. So he's talking to believers and he says, believers The love of God has been shed abroad into your hearts. The Holy Ghost has done this. This love that God has for the world, for God so loved the world. That love is placed and shed into your hearts by the Holy Ghost. For scarcely for a righteous man, verse seven, will one die. Or let's come back to verse six, I'm sorry. For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die. Now here's this classic statement. But God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us And he is telling us there in verse number five that this love that God has for sinners, this compassion that God has for the unsaved This love that God has for the wicked, unsaved, He has taken that love, and the Spirit of God has shed that into our hearts, has poured that into our hearts If I understand this passage and others correctly, that's telling me this: that every saved person somewhere, the Holy Spirit of God, has put a concern in their heart and soul for the salvation of others. That love and that burden is there. Come with me, if you would, to chapter 9. And we looked at these just recently in a message and preached on these, chapter 9, verse 1, Romans. Paul is a phenomenal example of somebody the love of God was shed abroad in his hearts for the lost. He says, I say the truth, verse 1. I lie not, my conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost, that I have a great heaviness and continual sorrow. Where? And my heart. What is that heaviness and that bar that sorrow that I could wish myself were a curse from Christ for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh? Paul is saying, my burden, my desire, my compassion for my brethren according to flesh to be saved is such that I'd be willing to sacrifice my own salvation for them to come to Christ. Where did Paul get that compassion? Where did that come from? It didn't come from his flesh. A few years earlier, he's killing Christians. He's trying to squelch this message. But now he says, I'm willing to sacrifice my eternal destiny for others to come to Christ. You know where that came from? Holy Spirit of God put that in his heart. It was shed abroad in his heart. Look over at chapter 10. He makes, he kind of says the same thing in a little different fashion. Chapter 10, verse 1, brethren, look at this. My what? Heart's desire. And prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saying, where did that heart's desire, where did that come from? I'm telling you, it was the Holy Spirit of God shed that love and compassion abroad in his heart. And what I'm suggesting to you is every genuinely saved person somewhere, down inside their heart and soul, regardless of how Cold or hard, that heart may become somewhere down inside the heart of that believer, there is love placed by the Holy Spirit of God for other people to be saved. I have a tremendous concern. I'm deeply concerned for any person who claims to be saved, but does not have a desire to reach the lost. I like what the one preacher said years ago. He says, my he says, I don't have a problem with the fact that the pagans and the heathen around the world are lost. He said, I don't struggle with that thought. So I know that's true. He said, what I struggle with is someone that doesn't care about them claims to be saved. And I'm deeply disturbed by somebody who claims to know Christ as Savior and yet has no desire, no burden, no concern whatsoever for others to be saved. I'm deeply concerned for any church, any church that claims to be a church of the Lord Jesus Christ, a Bible-believing church. And has no effort in trying to reach the loss, no effort in taking the gospel around the world. I'm concerned for that church At best, it is a dead, backslidden, cold, hard church in desperate need of revival. So what is our motivation? This call of missions. This call to a place or whatever. Well, we're motivated, one, by the commands of our Lord. He has told us very clearly. We have this cry coming up from hell, send somebody. We have this compassion that's been poured out in our hearts. And now we come back to our text, and I end with this, Acts chapter 16. Acts chapter sixteen And again, verse number nine. And a vision appeared unto Paul in the night. Now, Paul's already out there. He's heard the command. He understands the cry. He has the compassion. This vision appears to Paul in the night, and there stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us. I tell you, I want to preach on that phrase help us. Say, come over and help us. What is he asking them for? Money? Are they needing money? Are they needing food? Are they needing houses? No, look down at the verse number 10. He says, surely gathered the Lord hath called us for to what? Preach the gospel. You know what the help they needed was? The gospel. That's the greatest help that will ever come to anybody The call from afar. We have this command from our Lord. We have this cry from hell. We have this compassion that those spirits put in our hearts, but there's also a cry from afar. As I mentioned earlier, this is not a call to missions. They're already involved in missions. This is a call to a specific place. A person may be called to be a missionary to a place without the gospel, but no one is called two missions. You follow what I'm trying to say there? God, uh I I pray every year in a missionary. I pray all through the year, and you've heard this, we talked about it, I pray that God will call out missionaries out of our church. I've I've presented myself, Lord Scores, maybe hundreds of times. Lord, I'm here. If you want me to go, I'll go. The older I get, the more unlikely that seems But the fact of the matter is we long for and we pray and we anticipate and we look to the Lord to call folks to go to the mission field out of our church. And God calls missionaries to certain places, but he doesn't call people to missions. We're already part of that. That's why we exist. And so we have this call from afar to a location, to a place. I hope I'm making sense. Missions is an assignment given to us by God, to all of his children. But sometimes we see and we see a country like Kazakhstan, and we talk about it, and we pray about it, and we try and keep it in front of us, and God touches a heart And he says, I'm calling you to this mission field of Kazakhstan, or Japan, or Norway, or Philadelphia. That's the call of missions. It's to a location. It's to a place. And I've said this so many times, but When I was in Bible college, every time they had missions conferences, they're at Highland Park, these huge missions conferences, man, I'd I'd go forward and say, God, I'm ready to go. I want to go to the Philippines. That's where I'll go me. The interesting thing is now the Philippines is sending missionaries out around the world. It's amazing. And I and God, every time, every effort I made, every step I took forward, it was like those verses we just read. The Holy Spirit said no. The Holy Spirit, every door we closed, I could not My wife felt called the missions. When we started dating, we felt that way. God said, no, no, no. And I thought, God, if you and then we went the first mission trip, we went down to the Dominican Republic. And we knelt the last night I preached the final message and I responded to my own preaching and the invitation. We knelt at the altar. I said, God, if you want us here, we'll go. God said, no. I said, all right, God, if you're not calling me to the mission field, a foreign field, if that's not the call to the foreign field, then I'm going to do everything I can right here to get those who are called out there and do what I'm expecting, anticipating missionaries out there to do, I want to do here. I am a missionary, but here. And so the call of missions is not a call to missions. We've already been commanded. We already have a cry from hell. We have this compassion in our hearts. But the call of missions is to a location, to a place. Does it make sense? Make sense? There's so much we could say about this. It's interesting. The call here came to somebody who was incredibly busy. He's out there getting after. He's going everywhere he can. He's knocking on every door. He's going to every neighborhood. He's going to every community. He's going to every city, every country, regions of the world. He's going, going, going, going. But God calls him over, here's what I want. And this is speculation, I've got to quit. But I thought, what if God hadn't forbidden him to go to Asia? You understand when he went into Philippi, and from this point on, when he went over to Macedonia, that redirected the whole gospel message up into Europe. And for Europe all into the Western world. This call is phenomenally significant in our history. It redirected the direction the gospel was going up this way. Into a into, let's see, if you're looking, it would be up into Europe and then England and over to the Western world. Paul was fixing to go this way, over into the east, India and China. And God redirected them. I wonder, this is speculation, but I wonder what our world would be like if God had not redirected them and China and India would be the center of the gospel going out. How different our world would be. And so what I'm trying to say is this, this call of missions is significant. It's not to be taken lightly. We ought to say, Lord, here am I. Use me however you think see fit, wherever, whatever role I play. Let your heart have your way. We sing it all the time. Hear am I, Lord, send me. Hear am I, Lord, send me. I will serve thee faithfully. You're my Lord. Send me. Came across a fellow, I think this kind of illustrates a little bit. Fritz Chrysler. That name meant nothing to me. But apparently he was, some time back, a famous, world-famous violinist. And he earned millions. He made a tremendous fortune with his compositions and concerts he did. But he was a very generous man, and the history tells us that he Gave almost all of his finances away. He just, he would give it away. Even to the point where he became so broke That he had to sell his violin. When he was on one of his trips, um He came across, he discovered uh oh uh I'm sorry, let me take it back. Uh so he when he discovered an exquisite violin on one of his trips, he couldn't afford it. Now he had lost his other one, but he couldn't afford this new one He raised enough money for the asking price, and when he came back to the seller, he found out that the seller had already sold it to a collector. Now here's his phenomenal violinist. The violin is gone, he's trying to get another one. He made his way to the collector's home and offered to buy uh buy the violin. The collector said it had become his prized possession and he would not under any circumstances sell it. Chrysler was devastated. He's about to leave. He had an idea, and he said, could I play the instrument one more time before it's consigned to silence? The owner gave him permission, and this is their statement. The Grand Virtucio filled the room with such heart-moving music. That the collector's emotions were deeply stirred. And the collector said this, I have no right to keep that to myself. It is yours, Mr. Chrysler. Take it into the world and let the people hear it. You know what I believe? God has given to us such a great salvation from sin and hell. And it is not ours to keep. And to hold up to ourselves, we're to take it out into all the world and let the world hear it. You know what that is? That's missions. That's missions into all the world. We're going into the most important week of our year, I believe, our missions conference. I'm asking our church to take it very seriously. I'm asking our church to pray, God, what would you have me to do? What role do I have in this? I believe God, I know God wants to use us. I believe he is using us and he wants to use us in greater ways. But it depends on us whether we hear that call. Not two missions, we're already committed, but the call of missions. Get involved. Amen? Father, please stir our hearts and challenge and help us. In this matter of world missions, I pray that every one of us, beginning with myself as an individual believer That your Holy Spirit would stir and lead and direct us into what role we have, where that call of missions leads us, and what role that leads us into. And I'm asking you to use us as a church and use us as individuals, myself, in this great commission. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many this morning would say, preacher, I don't want to take this great commission lately. By God's grace and with his help, I'm willing to make myself available to the Lord however he sees fit, whatever role I play. But as God leads me and directs me and speaks to me, I'm already now deciding I'll be submissive and surrendered to God's leadership in my life. How many like that by the uplifted hand? That's my heart and my prayer as a Christian. God bless you. Hands all around Now I don't know. It's between you and God as far as where that plays out. God calls someone to a field, Puerto Rico or Brazil or wherever And that's between you and God, and I say you trust him, you obey him, let him have his way. But if it's not that, then it's here, then we have a role to play here. In prayer, financial support, soul-winning evangelism here locally. And doing our part. I wonder if there'd be some this morning who say, Preacher, I'm not sure. And when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. Don't play with that, please. Don't ignore that, please. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need that settled. I need to know for sure. That heaven's my home and my sins are forgiven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? I'm concerned. I need that settled. How about it? Any at all? Father in heaven, you know our hearts. You know where we're at And help us, Lord, to trust you and obey, to live by faith, and let you lead and direct us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's claim the invitation.