1 Corinthians chapter 1, would you stand if you're able in honor and in reverence to the reading of the Word of God? The Bible says Paul called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God and Sosthenes, our brother, unto the church of God, which is at Corinth to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus Called to be saints with all that in every place call upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord both theirs and ours. Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ I thank my God always on your behalf for the grace of God which is given you by Jesus Christ. That in everything ye are enriched by him in all utterance and in all knowledge. Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you, so that ye come behind in no gift. Waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall also confirm you unto the end that ye may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful, by whom you were called under the fellowship of his son Jesus Christ our Lord. Now I'll stop reading right there, but we will be using our Bibles throughout the course of the message, and therefore I trust you'll leave them handy. Let's bow our heads, shall we, for a moment of prayer. Father, I love you today. Thank you so very much for yet another opportunity to stand and proclaim a portion of your inspired, inerrant, infallible word. Thank you for my friend, Brother Fox, my how his message has stirred my heart this morning about this matter of investing in the lives of those that we lead to Christ. And then Lord, I pray right now for Dr. Smith. I pray you'd use him in a very special way. Knit our hearts together this morning around the truths of your word. And we'll give you glory and honor in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Thank you for sending you can be seated It is while reading the 18th chapter of the book of Acts we discover that God used Paul to found as well as to establish the local church at Corinth. However, having departed the city for Ephesus after a relatively short time there, Paul began to learn of serious issues that had arisen within the church Which in turn was distracting the Corinthians from keeping the main thing. The main thing Therefore, Paul is writing the letter before us in order to remind these Corinthians exactly what God intended for the main thing to be. Hear me this morning, God never intended for the local Bible-believing church to major on discord distraction or drama. Those things aren't the main thing. The main thing is the work of God. The main thing is really what we're considering here these days: revival, soul-winning. Making much of the work of the Lord, not only the enlisting of the saints for the work of God, but the evangelization of the sinner by the will of God In fact, I believe with all of my heart that Paul makes that point very clear as early as the first few chapters of this letter. Therefore, before we dig into these verses for just a few moments, let's consider the first portion of 1 Corinthians chapter number 1 by way of introduction to the message. First of all, when you look in verse number one, here you see the greeters. We not only read about the apostle, but we also read about his associate by reading about a man by the name of Sosthenes. So, yes, in verse number one we read about the greeters. In verse number two, we read about the greethead, as the Bible teaches us in the text that Paul is writing to the church of God, which is at Corinth. Then in verse number three, we read about the greeting. Paul writes, Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. But then in verses four through seven, here we see what Paul has to say about the gifts. He writes, beginning with verse four, I thank my God always on your behalf For the grace of God which is given you by Jesus Christ, that in everything ye are enriched by him. Watch your Bible now. In all utterance and in all knowledge, even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you. So that ye come behind in no gift, waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, here in this portion of 1 Corinthians chapter 1, Paul As he is led of the Holy Ghost to do so, is writing about the gifts. He's specifically writing about the gifts of utterance and knowledge that God had abundantly blessed the church at Corinth with In fact, when you study about that church at Corinth, you'll discover that God had gifted them in any number of ways. However As a result of carnal issues that they had allowed to creep into the church, there was a danger of misusing those gifts and ultimately taking them for granted. And therefore, Paul is writing the letter before us to admonish them, and in fact, he is imploring them, according to the text, to not make the mistake in doing so. In fact, the immediate occasion of Paul's writing this letter can ultimately be seen in verse number 7. Why is he writing? Why is he begging the Corinthians to get back to the point where they are soul-winning and reaching others with the gospel? keeping the main thing, the main thing. Well, he says in verse 7, so that ye come behind So that ye come behind in no gift, waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. I think when you study the context of Paul's writing, you'll discover that these carnal Corinthians were coming behind. Brother Fox, according to the Bible, they were bringing up The rear when it came to the work of God as a result of carnality that had begun to creep into the church. Can I tell you what their problem was Their problem then was the same problem that I'm seeing church after church after church that I'm in. They have been distracted from keeping the main thing, the main thing. Can I say that one more time? These carnal Corinthians had been distracted. Yes, they had been detured, and they had been distracted from keeping the main thing, the main thing. And every time I read these verses of Scripture, particularly verse number seven, I am reminded of the sad plight of many churches across our great country this very day. God has blessed them with various gifts in order to be effective for the cause of Christ, but more times than not, as a result of carnality that creeps into the local church, they too make the same mistake these Corinthians had made in failing to keep the main thing the main thing And everywhere I go, I I come in contact with pastors and preachers and missionaries as well as evangelists That are so discouraged. They've taken their eyes off of the Lord. And I realize we shouldn't do that, but we're only human and we take our eyes off of the Lord and we fix them on people more times than not as well as problems. And when we do, every time we'll get discouraged and we'll ultimately get distracted. From keeping soul winning and door knocking and world evangelism on the forefront of our ministry. This sort of reminds me of the story of two pastors Uh they had fallen into a trap of discouragement and they wanted to get together for lunch one day and and uh sort of share each other's burdens and prayer requests one with another, and so they decided to go out to lunch. They went to a barbecue restaurant and then there was a western motif. It was decorated with things from the West. They sat in a booth and they shared their lunch together, and they, as they were sharing prayer requests, they happened to look on the wall of that restaurant, and there was a picture, Brother Fox, of a locomotive There was a picture of a train on the wall. One pastor looked at that train and he said, you know, God has blessed me with some of the members of my church. They're sort of like the engine of that train. And I'm not the only one that has to pull the load. They get in there with me and they help me pull the load when it comes to reaching others with the gospel. The other pastor that was sitting with him, he was amused by his analogy, looking at the train, the picture of the locomotive on the wall, and so he proceeded to say, well, you know, I've got some members of that train that's sort of like those cars You see, whereas the engine pulls the load, the cars, they help me carry the load. And boy, the pastors begin to talk and thank God for those church members that labored with them to reach others with the gospel. However, after they looked at the engine and after they looked at the cars, they ultimately came to the very end of that train. They saw the caboose They saw the car that was content to be pulled or drugged along. They saw the car that was simply content to bring up the rear. And they both agreed that whereas they had few engines that were willing to pull the load, and even fewer amount of church members that were like those cars that were willing to help carry the load, they did have an overwhelming amount of Cabooses within their church membership that were simply content to bring up the rear when it came to the cause of the Lord Jesus Christ. What can I tell you that is exactly the problem here in the Church of Corinth? That's why Paul wrote in verse 7, so that ye come behind in no gift, waiting. For the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now for the next very, very few moments, I want to call your attention to three things Uh three reasons why, according to this very chapter, why there is no reason to bring up the rear when it comes to soul winning. When it comes to world evangelization, when it comes to reaching our friends and family members and co-workers and classmates with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ And as I give you those three reasons, here's what I want to entitle my message. There's no excuse for being a caboose. Can I tell you when it comes to this matter of soul winning, when it comes to this matter of reaching the world with the gospel, when it comes to keeping the main thing, the main thing, according to the chapter before us? There is no excuse for bringing up a rear in the service of the Lord. There are three reasons in this chapter that Paul lists that proves beyond Any shadow of a doubt, my brother, there's no excuse for being a caboose. Number one, I want you to know there's no excuse for being a caboose because of the coming of the Lord. Can I prove it to you? Look at verse seven. Paul writes, so that ye come behind in no gift, waiting for what? The coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Can I tell you why? That I never want to bring up the rear That I never want to come behind in the service of the Lord because just as sure as I'm standing in the pulpit of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, before I lay my head on my pillow tonight Jesus could come. Now I know we preach about it. Brother Fox, oftentimes we sing, Jesus is coming soon, morning, night or noon. But I wonder if we really believe it Because if we really believed it, Pastor Leatherman, don't you think? We'd be busier than we've ever been busy before to reach others with the gospel? Can I tell you, it's more than just a fictitious story. It's certainly not a fairy story. Tell Jesus is coming. He could come before we're blessed to see the sunrise of another morning. He could come before the service tonight. Why? He could even come before Brother Smith preaches. And after Brother Smith and I I leave, yeah, Brother Fox will preach after that. Amen. But Jesus some of you didn't get that Jesus is coming. I believe that with all of my heart Don't pass that opportunity to knock on a door today because you may not have another opportunity. Don't pass up that opportunity to give over and above your regular tithes and offerings so that others can hear the gospel because that may be the last offering you give. to world evangelism. Jesus is coming. And we've all studied about the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible teaches us that the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together within the clouds to meet the We're going to the judgment seat of Christ, those of us that have been redeemed by the blood of the Lord, and we're going to give an account of how faithful we have been at the judgment seat of Christ to carry out God's command to reach a world with the gospel here. While we're with the Lord for seven years, tribulation is taking place on this earth. And by the way, aren't you thankful We're not going through one second, not a millisecond, of the tribulation period. But at the end of that seven-year tribulation period, we're coming back. We're coming back with the Lord. He'll set up his millennial kingdom on this earth. The word of God teaches us that we will rule and reign with him for 1,000 years. That's why it's so vitally important for each of us to be faithful right now and determined to never bring up the rear when it comes to the service of the Lord. Because our faithfulness now is determining our spot of service in the millennial kingdom. So there's no excuse for being a caboose because of the coming of the Lord. Amen. Secondly There's no excuse for being a caboose because of the consistency of the Lord. Can I prove it to you? Look at verse number nine. I love the first three words of verse number nine. God is faithful. In fact, I knew there would be a lot of preachers here this morning, Pastor Leatherman, and uh I I really wrestled with preaching on those just those three words. I I like to call that message Three words that keep me going for God. It isn't the paycheck in my pocket. It isn't the plaque on the wall. It isn't the pat on the back. No, it's the faithfulness of God. God is faithful. Brother Brett, do you want to know why? There's no excuse for being a caboose. Not only because of the coming of the Lord, but because of the consistency of the Lord. I I tell you, some of us need to to just absolutely refuse to have the mentality, well, I'm not going to serve God because somebody did me wrong or somebody said something. Listen, if that bothers you, you'll never do anything for God. God has never failed you. God has never let God has be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake The Oh preacher, I used to give to missions so that others could hear the gospel. But the family that I love that were serving God on the mission field, they quit. They quit serving God and they came home from the mission field, and I just determined I was never going to I want to tell you if you believe that, you are a fool. I tell you, God didn't come off of the field. God didn't forsake you. If the only reason you give so that others can hear the gospel is because of the people that you are giving to, as opposed to the one that you are giving for, you'll never mount to anything for the cause of Christ. The consistency of God. God is faithful. You don't know why you can preach again? Because God is faithful. You want to know why you ought to be faithful in your regular tithes and offerings and faith promise offering? Because God is faithful. Uh preacher, this is why you and I can get into a car and travel literally thousands of miles a year fanning The flame of world evangelism because when men aren't faithful, God is faithful. There's no excuse for bringing up the rear in the service of the Lord because God is. Faithful, the consistency of God. Since I'm not going to preach the message, God is faithful, let me give you my outline right quick before I give you my last point. Number one, the person. Of God's faithfulness. God. Paul didn't say men were faithful because more times than not, we're not. God. That's the person of God's faithfulness. God. The permanence of God's faithfulness. God, here's the permanence. Is do you know what that little word is is? It is a helping verb that is always used in the perfect and present tense. Do you know what that means? That means if the Bible says God is faithful, I'm going to say it just like we used to say it in the foothills of North Carolina where I was born and raised. If God is, there'll never be a time when God ain't. For you higher class people, if God is, there will never be a time when God isn't. If the Bible says that God is faithful, that means when you go to bed tonight, whether or not you are discouraged or not, whether or not your heart is breaking or not, it will not enter Does not change the pract. That God is still faithful. He is faithful. That means He'll be faithful tomorrow morning. Should we be blessed to see the sunrise of another morning? That means when we go to bed tonight, he'll be faithful that means When you get the disturbing phone call that says, I'm sorry, there's nothing else we can do, it will never change the fact that God is faithful. Hey, preacher If that church you love so dear turns on you and votes you out next week, I got news for you. God is faithful The permanence of God's faithfulness. And then you see the persona of God's faithfulness. And I say persona, I use that word persona. Because that word faithful is a word that literally personifies the God that we serve. So there's no excuse For bringing up the rear in the service of the Lord because of the consistency of God. God is faithful and finally. There's no excuse for being a caboose because of the calling of the Lord. Not only the coming of the Lord, verse 7, not only the consistency of the Lord, verse 9. But beginning with verse 10 and continuing all the way through verse number 31, the final verse of the chapter. There's no excuse for being a caboose because of the calling of the Lord. And let me explain, and I'm through. In verses 10 through 31, God, through the pen of the Apostle Paul is calling the local church at Corinth back into fellowship one with another. The enemy has caused division within the church. The enemy has caused distraction, discouragement in the church To the point that according to verses 10 through 31, there were those that were placing more emphasis on ministers than they were the master. There were those in the local church at Corinth that were placing more emphasis on saints than they were the sovereign. And so the greater majority of this chapter, God is inspiring these words that he might call the church back into fellowship one with another. Lord I wonder how much more could be accomplished for Christ if we could all just pull together, just like that engine. If we all be willing to carry our share of the load, just like those cars, and refuse To be pulled along, refuse to be a caboose and bring up the rear when it comes to the service of the Lord. I don't know about you, but I want to be faithful to do my part. And I want to get on the same page with those men here today, those precious ladies here today of like faith and of like practice that believes after all these years we can steal. impact this world for the Lord Jesus Christ. There's no excuse for being caboose. Because of the calling of the Lord. You've listened so well. Would you bow your heads with me today? Oh Lord Jesus, I'm so grateful for your Bible. Lord, you know my heart. I don't want to come behind. Or I want to be just like those cars. I want to carry my fair share of the load. Lord, I want to be just like that engine. I want to pull when it comes to the work of God instead of being pulled along myself. Father, thank you for a chapter in your inspired, inerrant word that reminds us there is no excuse. For being a caboose. The preacher's coming to carry on the service as he sees fit. I encourage you to do what God would have you to do, preacher.