Thank you, Pastor. Ah, so good to be here tonight. It's just as someone has said is uh my age is just good to be anywhere. Amen. All right. We've got our third chalk drawing completed. And uh I'm curious, I mean I like this one the best for the week, let me see your hands Oh, okay. Brings them up high there. Don't be ashamed of them, yes. Alright, there's a bunch of them there. And uh how many like that one I did last night for the best for the week from the sea How many like the first one I did? Mm-hmm. Okay, there's some of you hadn't raised your hands, and I wanna know why. What do you expect me to do? I mean I'm doing the best I can. You surely you like something. Yeah. All right. Well I'm just kidding around, but uh yeah I like this one here. Uh you'll find a similar picture back on my rack back there. If you don't win this one, well you can buy one back there It's a print and uh uh that is an ac the uh the print of an acrylic painting that I did and this is of course a chalk drawing. This Is an original. Alright, did you have a good day today? Amen. I'm glad you did. Uh if you'll take your Bible and turn to me in the book of John, uh I don't know how much the preacher has said about the uh about winning the chalk drawings. Did you cover all that, Pastor? All right, let me just hit a couple of things here. So many of you are there's there's several of us out here that I I don't recognize. Well now see ya, I don't recognize ya. And uh so that means you're visitors. And that means that that since you've come tonight now you are eligible to uh try to win one of the chalk drawings. If you're interested in in uh the You see we're giving them away on Friday night to the people who brought the most visitors or I should say really who have the most points because Uh the way we're doing it now, uh we're it's more of a point system than it is a visitor system. Uh it has to do with visitors, but we allocate uh certain number of points to For instance, if a person has never been to this church before since since Brother Leatherman has been here, if they've not been here, then if you get someone like that there that's never been here, why you can count them as five points instead of just one And the rest of you poor old people are just one. I'm sorry to say you just that's all you're worth. Just one and one night. Not even the second night. Uh can't count 'em but one time. And uh uh so I think uh I think that pretty well covers it. And uh Uh my wife will be back to the table if you're interested in any of the artwork. Um that Christmas is coming up, they make good gifts. They're they're not expensive. We tried to keep the uh the price is down where people feel free to you know they don't doesn't uh they don't have to go to the bank and borrow the money, you know, that type of thing. And uh so you avail yourself of that if if it uh uh if it please you. I hope you'll like the drawing we do here uh the uh drawing under the lights. I think you will. And uh but that's a that's a just a pretty picture. I I love the false seas, don't you How many of that's uh that's a favorite time of the year for you? Let me see your hands. Yeah, about half of you anyhow. And the other half are probably spring people, is that right? Yep. Pastor. How many spring people do we have Okay. Got a few spr more fall than spring. Fall's my favorite, so I like I like the fall color. All right. We're in John chapter four. If you'll find your place there, we're going to read a few verses of scripture and a familiar story that we've all uh heard um and read many times. uh but never never gets boring to me. It's just something about uh uh these stories where Jesus is involved in personal lives and uh I've noticed that in the in the scriptures here. He he makes it a point to to get involved with people, with individuals, because that's why he came, seeking to save that which is lost. And so any individual we talked with, why, you know, they they trust uh they hadn't trusted the Lord. So they he's talked to to uh A lot of them and for the s sole purpose of winning them to Christ. And that's the important thing. We're gonna read uh let's see. I guess we'll we'll we'll just read the first uh start at verse six. And uh no, that's no, let's start starting verse one. It says when therefore the Lord uh knew how the Pharisees had heard that Jesus m uh made and baptized more disciples than John, though Jesus himself bought baptized not but his disciples He left Judea, and he departed again into Galilee, and he must needs go through Samaria, and then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sikar, or Sikhar, and uh uh near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. And now Jacob's well was there, and Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, he sat thus on the on the well, and it was about the sixth hour. And there cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water, and Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink, and for his disciples were going away into the city to buy meat And then saith the woman to uh of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, asketh drink of me which is of uh am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans And Jesus answered, and he said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith unto thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldst have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water And the woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep, and from whence then hast thou that living water? Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle? And Jesus answered, and he said unto unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again. But whosoever will drinketh of the w drinketh of the water that I shall give him, uh, shall never thirst. But the water that that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. Now the woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water that I th that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw. And Jesus saith unto her, Go tell thy husband and And come hither. And uh the woman answered and he said, I have no husband. And Jesus saith unto her, Uh thou hast well said, I have no husband, for thou hast had five husbands, and and he whom thou now hast uh uh is not your uh thy husband. He that thou now hast is not thy husband. In the uh what sayest thou uh in that sayest thou truly And the woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet, and my f our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and ye say uh that in Jerusalem is a place where men ought to worship. And Jesus saith unto her Woman, believe me, the hour cometh when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet in any d uh yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father. You worship you know not what uh you know what you know not what. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews But the hour cometh and now is, when the true uh worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such to worship him. God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and truth. I realize this is a long passage, but I'm going to continue reading because I want us to get the whole gist of it And so in verse 25, the woman saith unto him, I know that Messiah cometh, which is called Christ. When he is come, he will tell us all things. And Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he. And upon this came his disciples and marveled that he talked with the woman, and yet no man saith, What seekest thou, or why talkest thou with her? And the woman then left her water pot, and he w and she went her way into the city, and saith to the men, Come see a man which told me all things that I ever did. Is this not is not this the Christ? And when they came out of the city and uh then they went out of the city and came unto him, and in the uh meanwhile his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not of. Therefore saith the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him aught to eat? And Jesus saith unto them, I am My meet is to do the will of him that sent me and to finish his work. Say not ye There are yet four months, and then cometh the harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are white and all ready to harvest. And he that uh reapeth receiveth wages and gathereth uh fruit uh unto uh eternal life. That both he that uh uh That soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. And herein is is that saying true, one soweth and another reapeth. I sent you to to reap that whereon ye had bestowed no labor. Other men labored and ye are entered into their labor. Many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman which testified, he told me all that ever I did. Our Heavenly Father, we uh read a lengthy portion of Scripture which has never wasted time. And we thank you, Lord, for this story. The reason I read it, because it's it's such a a precious story, a story a story of love, a story of grace, a a story of determination, a a story of of uh reception. Lord, there's just so much uh in these these verses. And Uh Lord, I pray that you'd speak to hearts tonight. I don't know if there's one or a man here that uh perhaps feels just like this woman at the well. And but I pray if they if they do that they may partake of this this uh this living water that Jesus offers the free gift. May they come to know Him as their personal Savior Lord, I pray that you'll speak to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. Our text today presents us a woman who is wearied by life. She's uh when when you read down the about her, and that's the reason I spent so much time reading, I want you to get uh all the details uh at one shot so we don't have to go pick pick here and there, but we basically know what kind of a woman this woman was. She is a woman that uh uh Well, I guess you'd call her a a woman of ill repute, possibly. Uh I I'm not really sure uh whether she'd be considered a harlot or not, but certainly in some uh circles she would be. But the one there's several things about her, it doesn't take much to figure it out. Uh she came She came at an unusual time of the day, the middle of the day is not the time she usually comes and gather water. And she came and there was no one else there, only Jesus So that tells me that that she came at at at the time that she felt more comfortable and probably because the women of the city hated her because she probably knew their husbands m more intimately than they did, perhaps. But the point of the matter is that she was a a woman that that was thirsty inside. She came to the well to to get to get water. And uh uh what she left with uh took care of the thirst and she never touched a drop of water. Do you notice that? She never did get a drop. Uh Jacob's well is an interesting well. I was reading one guy, he said that when he dropped a stone into the into Jacob's well, that it took two and a half seconds to hit the bottom. That tells me it's pretty deep. Uh somewhere I read it was like a hundred foot uh deep well. And uh uh regardless it's uh it was a deep well that uh uh she made comment about But uh I want us just to look at a few things about the about the woman and about the Lord. I see it's all it's all there in the scriptures First I would I would look at the tragedy of her life, because she certainly was a social outcast because of what we've already discussed. And worse worse than that was the fact that she was a spiritual outcast, just as every person is. According to the book of Ephesians, man is dead in trespass and sin. And uh what's uh that makes them uh alienated from God Uh the verse of scripture that that speaks of the separation that sin causes. It says your sin is separated between you and your God, and your iniquities is Hidis face from you. Speaks of that separation because of sin. And certainly a person without Christ is a sinner. And tragically, why The person with Christ is a sinner. There is a difference though. Saved sinners and lost sinners. And that confuses some people. But the truth of the matter is that uh every person is lost until they've been born again by the Spirit of God. Every person uh on the face of this earth from the time of Adam Who plunged the whole human race into sin whenever he committed when he sinned against God and disobeyed God. From that point on, every human being, all of mankind, is dead in trespass and sin And needs that new birth that Jesus spoke to Nicodemus about when he told Nicodemus, a religious and and uh uh self-righteous and uh and and probably as a good a man morally uh as you could find. But he told this good man, uh, you need something more than your righteousness, because all of your righteousnesses are as filthy rags. What you need is a new birth, a new life. uh uh a new uh uh a new uh oh what can you say? Uh a new birth. Just leave it at that. You must be born again This woman here, she comes to Jesus and she's she is uh uh you'll notice I couldn't you could you kind of e grasp how that uh that Jesus drew her to himself very slowly to He just he just eased him, put eased her into the position where she finally recognized who he was, and then he finally said, I'm the one you're talking about. And she freely gave herself to him and received that that water of life that changed her life. So I marveled at how how the Lord just asked the right questions at the right time and put her in a position to have to face, number one, what she was and who she was Probably wasn't an easy thing an easy thing to face up to the fact that she'd been sleeping around, sleeping around town. Five men you had for husbands and the one you're with now is not your husband, but you're living with him. Isn't it strange how how today uh just uh l Uh a couple living together uh is all right. They don't have to be married just as long as they're they uh love each other. I wonder if you took the the the the word lust out of the whole thing. I wonder if it would still be love. You figure? I don't know. But I do know this, that it's uh it's not right. It's still a sin as far as God's concerned. Fornication and adultery, the the sexual sins, whether it's homosexuality or what it is, it's still, according to God, it's still S-I-N. It's all it's all there And sin is sin and it's never changed. You know that's the thing about the Word of God. It's still the same. The way it was when it was pinned by the hand of the prophets and and the apostles. uh it's still the same. I still can read the same same words, they still mean the same thing and and uh we have to either uh face the fact that this is God's word and it says what we are and accept that Or we're going to have to make up our own heaven because we won't have the right one to go we won't have his to go to if you don't take his as as uh the word of God. So I see this woman, she's brought face to face with who she is. And she has to acknowledge that. Before anything can be done, a person must come to that realization. Realization that they're lost on their way to a devil's hell. I remember speaking to a lady years ago and and she d absolutely she she you couldn't get her to admit she was lost, it wouldn't have made any difference. She dropped dropped a rock on her head. She still would not accept the fact that she was lost As far as she was concerned, you know, she was good enough to make it. And that's tragic because that's the first step in salvation. A person must get lost before they can get saved. And so uh I see uh she was a a social outcast, uh as you could see from from the men that she'd been sleeping with, she was a spiritual outcast and uh uh as I've already explained. And then I want us to look at the tenderness of a Savior's love. Did you notice the first part of that where it says and uh he left Judea and he departed again into Galilee and he must needs go through Samaria? And he had been walking since that morning early. So he'd been walking about six hours to the to the noon hour. He's probably walked maybe twenty miles that morning already. And he was a weary person. His disciples didn't go with him. They went on into town. He stopped off at uh McDonald's there and got some hamburgers, I reckon, or something like that. But but he he he went to the well There was something more important to him than getting something to nourish this physical body of his. There was something that was that was driving him more, and it was just simply a desire to see another person receive him as their personal savior. Another person that has escaped the the uh uh attack of Satan and and uh the the capture of Satan. He wanted to He wanted to meet up with a person that needed this water of life that he had to give. And so that's a that was that was his whole mission, to g to walk all those miles and to be sitting there at the well when she come walking up with her uh bottle empty bottle of water, an empty bottle upon her shoulder, uh to get uh some water out of Jacob's well. He had done all that just doesn't that speak to you of of a tenderness A tenderness of heart. He looked over Jerusalem and he he the Bible said he had compassion. Looked over Jerusalem and cried out, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Thou that hast killed the prophets and so forth. He said, I would have gathered you as a as a mother hen would gather her chicks under her wings. That's the kind of a savior that we're talking about. We're talking about one who who cares with such depth that he go to any lengths to uh to save that individual. Oh Come to think of it, he did then. He went there as far as he could go. He gave his entire life. He gave his life. An atonement for man's sin. So I see him as he as he talks to this lady. And uh You'll notice that she points out the fact she says that you being a Jew, how how come you're asking asking me for water? Me, a Samaritan woman There's uh you see Samaritans were like half-breeds. They were Jews that had uh married up with uh Assyrians and They were they were what you would call a half-breed. They and the the the full-blooded Jews were very critical of that and they didn't care for those people at all. In fact they hated them and would have nothing to do with them They would walk clear around the city to get away from meeting with someone like this and here Jesus is asking her for a drink of water. And going even further than that, instead of having her provide for his need, he was going to provide for her need. That was almost unheard of by a Jew But that's uh the kind of a man that Jesus was. You see, he looked beyond the the uh uh the the political correctness of the that day. He looked beyond the the uh Uh uh what do you call it? Um uh I'm thinking you know uh say again. Prejudice, that's the word I wanted right there. Prejudice of that day. He looked beyond all those things that would have normally kept the average Jew from dealing with this uh woman of Samaria and uh and and spoke to her in gentle terms, drawing her to himself. I guess God's justice is just a little bit different than ours, isn't it? And he's hearing me a stiff of water here. I think that chili's dried me out. I was one of those things, I guess. I was looking to see where I am in my notes. I have to be careful here. I don't want to jump ahead too far. Anyway, he's he's he's tender in his in his graciousness. Jesus works with this woman's patiently. He took her where he found her, and he gently brought her to the place where she needed him, and she recognized that need. He stands at the door. The book of Revelation tells us he stands at the door and knocks. Jesus is not going to beat anybody over the head to save him. He offers himself and he c he he he uh he I I was gonna use the term beg, but that's not what he does. But he does uh uh invite That individual who's never known Christ, never known the free pardon of sin, he does invite that individual to come. The picture there in the book of Revelation, though, he speaks of the church there and he stands at the door of the church and knocks. There is an application we can make because I believe he does stand at the door of the heart of individuals. That individual who needs to be saved, needs to be born again by the Spirit of God And I believe he gently knocks upon that door to try to get that individual from the inside to open it because that's what it takes. The individual himself must say, yes, I want Jesus Christ He's not going to beat you to beat the door down and come in and force you to trust him. But it's simply just, well, you know, the offer is there. Let he that that uh is a thirst, let him come and take of the water of life freely, he says there in Revelation chapter 22. He's tender in his gifts. Verses 10 through 14, he says, Jesus answered and said to men, if thou knowest the gift, of God. And who it is that has the uh that saith unto thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water And where she comes back, well how can you you don't have anything to draw with? And then he says, Whosoever drinketh of this water in verse thirteen shall never thirst again. That really uh uh uh caused her ears to perk up and she says, give me that living water. I would to God that that everyone uh had the water of life. Because there's when when you receive the water of life, uh did you notice the wording in the scriptures there? How s how he describes it's it's It's a water that's springing up into everlasting life. Notice that word springing up? There's something about that that tells me that there's a joy in that Those who have been born again by the Spirit of God, they know, they remember that day when they trusted Christ as their Savior. And it may not have been a great emotional explosion Because that's not what salvation is all about. Salvation is a middle heart thing that simply reaches out and grasps the truth of God's word and accept it as theirs. He says, if you will believe in thine heart, with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. And that's what God speaks through speaks to is the heart of an individual. If he's standing at uh your heart's door right now and knocking Then you need to just simply open that door, open that heart by faith, just say, Lord, I recognize my need, first of all, and I recognize that you can meet that need And I'm asking you to come into my heart and to save me. And the Bible teaches us that if we'll call, he'll save. Isn't that what the Bible says? Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved Well you say, Brother Williams, don't you have to be sorry for your sin? You know, I believe when a person calls upon God from the heart, that there is already a turn or a change of direction in that mind, that man or that woman's uh mind. And that's that is biblical repentance. It's a change of direction, a turning away from uh to the to the Lord, away from sin. And so if you're here tonight and you need a Savior, you need this fresh water that's going to change your life. Because therefore if any man be in Christ or a new creature, old things are passed away, behold, all things become new. That's what this new life is. That's what this living water does. It gives you a refreshing look on life. Gives you a new life. Every term that that uh is formed around this matter of redemption and salvation, carries with it the thought that that it's a a second, if you want to, if you want to term it this way, a second chance at life. Is there anyone that wouldn't like to go back and get another shot at this thing called life? So that you can make the the right decisions here because you made some bad ones there and you did this and you did that and You wish you could erase it all out and start all over. That's what God is offering. Oh, it's not that you can undo the things of the past, but forgetting those things which are behind, Paul says, I press towards the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. And so that's what salvation does. Gives you that second opportunity to uh uh to make it right. Trusting Christ, living for God, and your life has changed in a moment in the twinkle of an eye. It changed her life. Did you see notice how things changed in her life whenever she finally acknowledged the fact that he was the Son of God? He said, I am he. The first thing she did, she dropped her water pot and headed back in town. So she she forgot her original objective, which was to come in with this water pot, fill it with water, and take it back to the house. And so she she that was one thing that was new, wasn't it? Changed her objective for that whole day. She went back to town and did you notice what her activities was? It wasn't to go back to town and and and take up where she left off But rather she she went back to the men that she knew. And there she said, let me tell you about a man that told me everything that I did. And I bet a bunch of them were going, ugh. Huh? And uh everything. And I want you to meet him. Her whole life had turned around in just a few moments at Jacob's well because she took of the water of life free. You're here tonight. Can I ask you a question? Are you thirsty? Is there is there uh are you thirsty? Huh? That's just physical water. That'll take care of the next five or ten minutes, or maybe the next hour or so. But he offers you something here that uh where it satisfies your thirst forever. Think about that. Forever. You'll never thirst again. He'll satisfy every need that you have. Whatever that need is, it's amazing what what God's grace does in the life of an individual who just simply receives Him and trusts Him to meet every need. Are you saved tonight? If you're not, then tonight, will you come and get that matter settled? Let us take an open Bible and show you how to be born into the family of God. If you're here tonight as a Christian, and maybe maybe you're just not, maybe you're not, your life is not springing up into everlasting life. What I mean is the joy is gone. Usually when the joy is gone, the basic reason is just simply sin. That's all it is. And so when you take care of that, the joy is restored. Let's bow our heads for prayer. Father, we pray that you take this feeble attempt at a message. And speak to hearts. If there's one lost here, two or three or four, may they find their way down this altar right after we show the chalk drawing and be born into the family of God. I pray for Christians, Lord, uh, today. So many of them are walking around in this world and they've been discouraged and disappointed and they they sort of have taken a uh back seat and have just kind of let the world run over. Maybe this is the night that they need to come once again and have that that uh joy and that love and that desire to serve you restored once again in their life Do a work here, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. If we can have the lights out in just a moment, let me get off the platform. Oh yeah. So the income is a very important thing to do. From the cross, Jesus looked around at those who were watching him there. He saw the one who was going to put a spear in his side. No doubt the the ones that had taken the can of nine tails and lashed his body 39 stripes. was there. There were those who were jeering and others had plucked his beard. And yet he looked out over that crowd, and I believe with probably a tear running down his cheek for each one of them, he said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. There's that that tender tender mercy still showing that grace oozing from every pore in his body. And all because for God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son. All of it because of the love of the Father. Which was manifest by the love of his son, who was willing to obey and do what was necessary for mankind to have eternal life. What is it that what is it about this that we take so lightly? Can we not realize that That God the Father, the one who just spoke the worlds into existence, or the Lord Jesus, God spoke the worlds into existence. That one wants to have a relationship with each one of his children, each one of his creations. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He doesn't want to leave anybody behind. And when Jesus died on the cross, his blood was sufficient. To save every individual who is willing to come to him by faith. He that hath the Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. The difference between heaven and hell is whether you believe, whether you have Jesus Christ as your Savior. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Nobody