Bike home, I think uh what was the little girl that said that in Wizard of Oz and clicked her heels together? Miss Vicky and I have tried that several times from South Carolina and it does not work. Um but we uh we do try it occasionally. We love to be home and Four grandkids up here now, so uh it's uh it's incredibly difficult, but uh we uh we have been hard at it this year down there. Um this has been an incredible year for Beacon of Truth We uh as I announced in testimony, I believe, uh last week, uh we're going to uh go over a million and a half scripture booklets this year that we've printed. Uh we've printed our first English King James Whole Bible this year. Uh we printed our first whole Bible last year. That was in the Samoan language for the island of Samoa. Um so uh we've done some incredible things. We uh appreciate so much. Our church, a prayer support that we get from you guys, the financial support we get from you guys. There is truly no place like home, and there's no church like Mountain Lake Independent Baptist. Church. And um I don't get to preach often um but um when the Lord leads, I mean that's fine. I'd never felt really called to preach, but John Arce said he'd never felt called to preach either, but he never felt not called. Um so when the Lord gives me opportunity, I'm glad to stand behind a pulpit and fill it or or to speak whatever uh you know occasion needs to be. Um but there are some pulpits that you get behind that you're just comfortable behind and the people are easy to preach to. I heard a lot of preachers when I first started with the ministry talk about liberty to preach, and I never understood what that was. But there's tremendous liberty to preach at Mountain Lake Park. Y'all are attentive, you're responsive, and uh it just It's very easy. All pulpits are not as easy to preach from. So that's to your all's credit. It's to Pastor's credit. And you guys are just the greatest that there is Uh so I just wanted y'all to know that. Turning your Bibles with me tonight to the book of 1 Corinthians, chapter 13. I hope you brought your Bibles with you tonight and are prepared to use them. I'm going to use them uh a few times uh throughout the message. While you're turning there, I thought of something this morning. By the way, didn't Brother Grant do an excellent job this morning? Um I I tell you what, I um uh uh I enjoy um Not so much being away, but being able to come back. I mean when you guys see him every week you see the daily growth. When we don't see him for months And then we come back and get an opportunity to hear him preach. We see that growth and we see those steps that he's taken. And I was impressed this morning, Brother Grant. God bless you. You've done a fabulous job. I enjoyed that. I enjoyed seeing that with Brother James when James was here and you'd see him mature and you see him growing and getting more confident and um it would just it was awesome this morning, Brother Grant. I really enjoyed that. So there's another compliment, so mark that one down for me I'm going to cash in on that one day. I don't know what I'm going to get, but we'll soon see. First Corinthians chapter number thirteen. Let's uh look at verse number thirteen by itself. We'll look at the entire chapter a little bit later. The Bible says, and now abide faith, hope, charity, these three, but the greatest of these is charity. The Church of Corinth was founded, of course, by the Apostle Paul during his second missionary journey. This book was written basically for cleansing of the church of false conceptions, intellectual pride, social evils, and some other disorders. But the last five chapters of 1 Corinthians have some tremendous doctrine in them. They have some great truths, some great helps to help us along the way, and I believe that this chapter 13 um is uh is a tremendous chapter. It is a key um to our Christianity. Um for the grant mentioned this morning, evolving uh as a Christian, and and I I I was quite skeptical also whenever I read that title in the bulletin this morning, but I am proud to say now that I am a pro-evolution Christian I like that. I like we need to be changing. We need to be constantly moving. If we are stagnant, we become a sitting target. And when we become a sitting target, Satan is more than happy to take as many shots at us as he can to knock us backwards, and he'll do that. If we stay still and stand still, uh how many deer hunters do we have out here? Is it easier to hit a running deer or one that's standing still? It's a lot easier to hit one standing still. Stu's back here shaking his hand. I guess he's one of those guys that thinks he can shoot at a moving target a little better, but um but uh no Satan would love to knock us down, so we need to keep moving, we need to keep changing We need to keep evolving so that we are better Christians. And um I was amazed at that message and how it ties in with this one tonight. So This, I hope, is just a little bit of icing on a fine cake that he's made this morning. So let's ask the Lord to help us this evening as we look at these three things Dear Lord, I thank you for the opportunity to stand behind my pastor's pulpit tonight. Lord, you know I love him, and Lord, uh he's been a great uh man of God, and he's been a tremendous influence in my life. Lord, I thank you that he's had the opportunity to travel out west and to see his grandchild. And Lord, I pray that you would give him and Miss Kathy a pleasant, wonderful time and Lord, safe journey as they travel home Lord, I pray for the church tonight. Lord, I'm encouraged each time I come home, I see new faces. I see faces that have stayed from the last time. And Lord, the church is growing. Lord, we just uh a good crowd tonight, and Lord, I just uh am encouraged, Lord, by what you're doing here, and Lord, I thank you for it. I pray your blessings upon them Pray you'd hedge them about and protect them. We know Satan would love to disrail and or derail and destroy and and Lord uh just run amok this place, but Lord, we pray that your hedge of protection would be about them And Lord, we ask tonight, Lord, that I first of all I surrender to you, Lord, and I ask you fill me and use me tonight as your mouthpiece. Censor everything I say. May I say nothing out of turn but everything that you would have me to say And then Lord I ask that you would move among the people tonight, and Lord, speak to their hearts. God, without you, this is nothing, this is all vain. So Lord, we ask that you come down and your presence be felt in a mighty way tonight. Enable me, Lord, I pray, and help us to understand. And we'll thank you and praise you for it in Jesus' name. Amen. Faith. Faith I've preached on before, but as I prepared this message, I was doing a little more studying on it and and I actually found what I consider to be a little bit better definition of faith. But before I get into that, I'd like to talk about what faith is not. Faith is not something mystical or some invisible attribute. It's not something that uh that we conjure up. It's not something that uh is hocus pocus, so to speak, or or something that we don't understand, or something that we can't uh really understand or get a hold of Faith is is not just focusing our minds on something and forcing ourselves to believe and accept something. That's not what faith is either. So it's important that we understand what faith is not. But then it's also important to understand what faith is. And this is where I come to the new definition that I discovered. And I don't know exactly who penned this, but I I think it's incredible. Faith is accepting And putting into practice the promises of God. I used to use Hebrews 11:1 as a definition of faith, and that is still good. Hebrews 11. 1 tells us that faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things to come. But I like that faith accepting the and putting into practice the promises of God. Um we've talked about faith before and and and over the many years and the messages that have been preached from this pulpit. Faith has been preached on a lot. And we understand that faith is like a muscle. It's something we must exercise. It's something we must use. But the thing that I thought was neat about this is when you put something into practice And especially faith, when true and real faith is present and exercised, action is the result. If you have a true and honest faith in something, action becomes the result. Turn with me over to James, chapter number two. Book of James, chapter number two. I'd like to look at verse number fourteen down through the end of the chapter. James chapter number two. Beginning reading in verse number 14, the Bible says, What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit? Even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. Yea, a man say, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. Thou believest that there is one God, thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? Was not Abraham, our father, justified by works when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? Seeest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect. And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness And he was called the friend of God. Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only Likewise also was not Rahab, the harlot, justified by works, when she had received the messengers and had sent them out another way. For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also. So what is James trying to say here What James is trying to say about Abraham is that Abraham put the promise of God, which remember God promised to raise up a generation behind Abraham. Abraham, when he had his only son Isaac, he put that promise into practice. By going ahead and obeying what God told him to do by sacrificing Isaac. Now we all know that Isaac was not sacrificed and that the angels stopped Abraham before he was Why was he willing to go to that point? Because he believed in the promise of God and he took action on it. It's that simple. When we look at Rahab, Rahab put the promise of God to preserve her and her house into action, and she hid the Hebrew spies and she smuggled them out of Jericho. She put that faith into action. She actually did something about it. Now, I could say James is telling us in the in verses 18 and 26 that just like the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without action is dead also. Um suppose I said tonight that I believe this pew here would hold me up. I could walk around it and I could say, you know, hey, yeah, that's pretty sturdy. It's made of dead wood, right? And uh it's I believe oak. I mean it's rather heavy. It looks pretty stout. I'm a pretty good guy sized guy and and I say, well yeah, I think that pew will hold me, but I just walk around it Is that faith? That's not faith, is it? But now if I said, I believe that pew will hold me and I sit down in it, now that's faith. Because I'm putting into action what I believe in. Okay, so tonight, when we have the Bible and we talk about the promises of God, we have to put action behind that faith. Otherwise, James tells us our faith is dead. Faith becomes an action. It's something that we have to do. You know, as I was preparing this message, I was reminded You know, pastors and preachers, they'll talk about things sometimes, and and and if you uh are are really involved in the work and you really know what's going on, like Brother Mark, Brother Grant, and You know, some of the others that are around that are that are very much involved in what's happening, you'll hear a terminology that I've heard used for years, and that is that ninety percent of the work is done by ten percent of the church And as I heard that, I thought as I was preparing this message and I was studying out faith and I was looking at this and faith being action, I thought to myself, does that mean that our faith is that weak? Is the faith in our church that weak? That only 10% are really putting into action what they believe in? And 90% of the people are setting back and are stagnant and are setting still? If that's the case, then we must be taking terrible hits from the devil as he shells our position because we're standing still How many of you remember Dr. Bill Barrens, a great friend of mine, passed away, went to be with the Lord last year. He used to preach a message called Move or Die. And he used, of course, his illustrations from when he was in Vietnam and and and you know he learned over there very quickly that they had to continually keep moving. They couldn't just hunker down in a foxhole or everything on the battlefield would be trained on They had to keep moving. Hey, we as Christians are the same way. If you read in Ephesians chapter 6 about the armor of God, do you ever notice there's nothing on your back? We're not the turn and run. We're to be advancing. We're to be moving forward. And by faith we can do that by taking the promises of God and moving forward. Folks, we all have heard this before, so why is it that we lack faith? We've heard this preached about and we've studied it and we've read it on our own Why is it that we lack faith? It is essential to our Christianity. We simply must have faith. The next thing that I'd like to look at, the next word that we had on here, we talked first about faith. The next word that we see in verse number thirteen is hope. Turn with me, if you would, to Romans chapter number eight Romans chapter number eight. We're going to look at verses twenty-four and twenty-five of Romans chapter number eight. The Bible says, For we are saved by hope, but hope that is seen is not hope. For what a man seeth, why doth he yet hope for? But if we hope for that we see not, then do we with patience wait for it? Now, how many folks here tonight have seen heaven? Anybody? Well what do we do? We hope for it, don't we? We want to go there someday. So it's pretty easy to understand this illustration. Let's look tonight at what hope is not. Hope is not wishful thinking. I'm not just thinking wishfully that heaven's going to exist and I'm going to go there someday. I have a hope based on God's Word. That's what the world will tell you, that it's just wishful thinking. I even read on the internet, and I this this really at first I laughed. When I first read this, I laughed. I thought, man, this guy is really out there. But then as I as I really was looking at it, I I I felt sympathy and compassion for the fellow because He's really in a bad way. A fellow wrote on the internet, hope is a bad thing that keeps you chained to the system. That's what he thought hope was. So he said, I don't have any hope. And I thought to myself, wow, how would it be to go through life with no hope whatsoever? I mean, I look forward to getting to heaven someday. I look forward to to see in some of the men that have gone before me, like my father, my grandfather I never met. He went to be with the Lord before I was born. Uh from what I understand as a tremendous testimony, a wonderful man of God. I I long to meet him someday. I love to see my Savior. I love you know I I just hey, I don't know about you, but you know, I'm gonna I'm gonna fight you to to lay at Jesus' feet for a few days and you know a few thousand years maybe and and just thank him and praise him for what he's done. I'm not worthy. Of what he's done for me. So I have a hope of heaven. This fellow that says there is no hope, it's a bad thing, and keeps you chained to the system, he doesn't know what hope is. He doesn't understand what it is. He needs Jesus Christ. He needs Jesus Christ as his personal Savior. He needs to understand the work that was done on Calvary. He needs to understand the price that was paid. You know, there was an incredible, horrible price paid for our sin. You know, when we sin, a lot of times we we we have a tendency to look at our Heavenly Father and His love and compassion and take that for granted. You know, there was a horrible, incredible price paid on Calvary for the sins that we've committed. And we need to remember that. But we have hope. What hope is? Hope is the direct result of faith. Turn back to Hebrews chapter 11 real quick. And we're going to look at verse number 6 in Hebrews chapter number 11. Hebrews chapter number eleven, verse number six, the Bible says, But without faith it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. The Bible says it's impossible to please God without faith I say that is because a faithless people, listen to what I'm about to tell you, this is how I'm explaining hope I say it's impossible to please God without faith because a faithless people are a hopeless people, and a hopeless people are worthless. They're defeated. If you look at history, you study history, and you look at people that were conquered and that had no hope, they were defeated, and they were beaten, they were of no good. They were of no productive good to society. They were just they were beaten, defeated, trodden down, they had no hope, they had no plan to get away, they had no plan or hope of success, nothing on which to build upon, so they were defeated and useless. That doesn't sound like something God wants, is it? God wants somebody productive. God wants somebody that we've seen today is evolving and changing, trying to reach others for Jesus Christ, trying to lead other souls to Christ. trying to get other folks into heaven and stay pluck them out of the fires of hell and put them in heaven someday. Um you know it's an incredible thing the opportunity that we have to print God's Word. We have A couple of you maybe have seen the press run. There's some videos. There is a machine that goes at the end of the press that catches those booklets and and puts them in those bundles that you guys see when we come out here that have the plywood on the ends and they've got that strap on them. And as they go through there, there's a little steel uh panel that just kind of moves back and forth. It's called a jogger, and all it does Is it takes those papers as they come out, they vary a little bit where the press lays them down on the table, and it just straightens all their edges so it's nice and neat And I have stood there before on different occasions and watched that m that as that works and as those scriptures are just kind of evened up there and they go up into that machine through those belts and into those bundles, and I think, man. Look at the souls going through the pearly gates. Is each one of those books run through that machine? And they get put right in order and shuffled right on through and they get put into those bundles. And we're told seven to ten people read each one of those scripture booklets if just one. Get saved, that means we've reached 1. 6 million people and added them to uh to the kingdom of heaven this year. What a tremendous opportunity and blessing that is. But it's hope. It's hope. That's what hope is. Hope is is watching how faith and hope work together. Hope is To be able to see our faith in action, and that as a result gives us the hope that we need in heaven to look forward to. We need to wake up. You know, we're Lulled to sleep by our flesh and by the devil. He wants us to be ineffective. I struggled a long time with doubts of my salvation. You know, it's very difficult to be an effective witness for Christ if you doubt your salvation. How am I supposed to explain to somebody else that this is how they can go to heaven if I'm not sure of it myself? I struggled with that for a long time. And I finally got assurance of that. You know, I actually had I actually when I got saved, I actually had uh or was saved and baptized twice before somebody ever gave me assurance of my salvation sat down and explained to me exactly what I had done and what I had gotten and that it was eternal. And that was just a mistake that was made But hey, we need to, as we get someone, and I'm excited to see the new folks, Ken and Karen and some others, you know, they're in here, and hey, they're being discipled. They're learning about what they're doing, about their salvation. And growing and uh you know, giving testimonies and praying and I mean, i it's just an incredible thing to see, and that's the way it should be done. And there's all kinds of folks here that can testify to the fact that, hey, this church teaches us what we need to know. This church equips us. You know, I come across some some some preachers sometimes that are Bible school uh graduates. Uh they they've got a degree that they hang on the wall But you know, when it comes to practical knowledge of their Bible, they're not any better than I am. And I've never been to a day in Bible college, but I sat in that pew a long time under a tremendous Bible teacher that equipped me to handle the situations in life that I face is tremendous. And that's what hope is tonight. So We've seen what faith is. We've seen what hope is. So the next thing we need to look at is charity. We need to look at charity. What is charity? Charity, turn with me if you would. We're going to go back to 1 Corinthians chapter number 13 to look at that. But I handed out, I asked a couple fellows tonight to help me out And this is something I wanted to point out for your Bible study. I hope is a help to you. And I asked a couple fellows tonight to read some definitions for me. Now the first one that I'm going to ask for is a definition of charity. And charity is mentioned here in 1 Corinthians chapter number 13. So I did the common thing that most of us do and today, whenever we uh want to get we want to nail down um a definition of something. I pulled out my smartphone and I Googled it. And I came up to it Merriam Webster's website for Webster's Dictionary And I pulled up the definition of that. And James, I believe you have that one. Could you read the definition of charity for me according to today's Merriam-Webster Dictionary? Okay. So that basically says that charity is the act of giving money or something to someone else, correct? Is that what you get from that? That's what I got from that. How many think that's the definition of charity? A couple? Okay. Brother Mark, you have now listen to this. Listen to what I'm about to tell you. The definition that Mark is about to read come from Webster's dictionary of 1828. And if you type that in Webster's Dictionary 1828 in Google, you'll be brought up to a site, I think it's Schaefer something, but it will give you Webster's 1828 dictionary definitions. Mark, could you read that for me, please? In a general sense, love, benevolence, goodwill, that disposition of heart which inclines men to think favorably of their fellow man and to do him good Well that's entirely different, isn't it? Entirely different. Let's look now at First Corinthians chapter number thirteen. The Bible says, Though I speak with tongues with the tongues of men and of angels and have not charity, I am become a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Charity suffereth long, and is kind. Charity envieth not. Charity wanteth not itself, is not puffed up, doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil. Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things Charity never faileth, but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For we know in part, and we prophesy in part But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child. But when I became a man, I put away childish things. For now we see through a glass, darkly, but then face to face, now I know in part, but then shall I know, even as also I am known And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three, but the greatest of these is charity. What charity is not? Charity is not empty actions. We've all heard it. We've all done it. I'm guilty of it. I'm sure you are. Giving somebody lip service. Oh, well, you know, that's nice. Or, oh preacher, that was a great message. You can't even remember what his text was Um, you know, y just these sorts of things. Um those statements can be genuine and they can be heartfelt and meant, in which case They are charity. They are an action. Or they can be completely empty in vain. Just something that somebody says just to get through the moment. Um, donations. Um are you giving your tithe to the church so that you can get a tax write-off? Or are you giving the tithe to the church because you love God and because you love what the church is doing? You see what I'm saying? There are different motivations for our actions. So, what charity is? Is charity compassion? I say yes. Compassion is a little bit different definition than than than love and that is it's a a a sympathetic i it's grieving or or sympathizing with somebody and relating directly to whatever the hardship is that they're going to. That's what compassion is. Love, is it love? It could be love. It depends upon your definition of love. If you go through and you pull those two dictionaries out that we talked about and discussed earlier, you're going to get two definitions for the word love as well You're going to get the world's definition of love today, which is a sensual feely thing, or you can get the definition of love, which is something that you have to work for. You have to work toward. How many folks in here have been married today more than twenty-five years? You raise your hand. Was that just a feeling or was it something you had to work at? Something you had to work at, wasn't it? Yeah, I fall in that category too. There are some moments when I really have to work at loving my wife. There are some moments when my wife really has to work at loving me. There are some times when it's pretty easy. You know, I mean, hey, we please one another and everything's going great. And then all of a sudden I do something that she doesn't think is right And hey, you all know, you know what I'm talking about. Love is something we have to work at. Here we see that word again. Work at. It's action. Love is action, just like faith is, just like hope is. All these three things tie together. And what I'm trying to say tonight, church, is this. If we look at 1 Corinthians chapter 13, charity is long-suffering, it's humble, it's sacrificed, it's patient, it's forbearing, it's enduring, and it's kind. These are all things that we need to be bestowing, the Bible tells us, on other Christians, on our brethren. Hey, you know what? The person sitting next to you is no more perfect than what you are. The person sitting on the other side of the auditorium is no more perfect than what you are. You know, I personally have a real hard time when a Christian gets upset with another Christian and leaves the church. That just eats me up. Because they are no more perfect than the individual that they're criticizing or that they're leaving over. Hey, we are just forgiven human beings that are not glorified yet. Now when we're glorified and we're in heaven someday, if we make a mistake which ain't gonna happen, then you can part over it. But that's not gonna happen. Because we're going to be perfect and glorified. But when we're here on hell, hey, I'm the number one guilty person. I can be abrasive as a gravel road. I can say things sometimes and hurt people's feelings. Not intentionally, but just the way I come about saying it. Hey I couldn't forgive others. Why shouldn't they forgive me? Now I'm not giving myself a license to go out and just rip you apart. That's not right either If I love you with these things that are described here tonight, then I'm going to try my best to not do that. But offenses, Jesus told us, will come. Offenses will come. We must have charity toward our other toward Christian brethren Charity is the greatest ability that God gives us. Compassion works and fits so well here. Compassion, as I said earlier, is suffering with another. What compelled, think about this tonight, what compelled Jesus Christ to come out of the ivory palaces and into this world of woe? What compelled him to do that? Compassion, charity, love, those things. Um Jesus' life was all about charity and compassion for those he healed, for those that Betrayed him. He called Judas what? Enemy? Did he call Judas enemy in the garden? Called Judas friend. Judas was giving him up to be crucified. Those that crucified him, what did he say on the cross? Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. He loved those that were nailing him to the cross. And he died for them. Hey, I'm not adequate. Pastor's not adequate. Nor has there ever been a preacher that stood in a pulpit that is adequate enough to describe to you the compassion of Jesus Christ. His love for us was so immense. Fellow Christians, we must have charity for the brethren. Remember these words that were picked out of 1 Corinthians 13. Your brother and sister in Christ You must love them with that same compassion. The second thing that we need to direct is compassion and love and charity toward is the lost. Turn with me to the book of Matthew, chapter number nine. Book of Matthew, chapter number nine. Begin reading in verse number thirty-five of Matthew chapter number nine. The Bible says, and Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. Look at verse 36. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth laborers into his harvest. Isn't it great to be saved tonight? It's a wonderful thing, isn't it? If you're saved tonight, think about this. The love that we are loved with never commenced. And it will never end. Always been there. That love is available to all. But as Brother Grant mentioned this morning, the rocks aren't going to jump up and do that. They could have, if that's what God wanted to do. But he commissioned us to do that. So those rocks are not going to tell other people about Jesus Christ. Those trees are not going to tell other people about Jesus Christ. The only people that can share with others what Jesus Christ did is those that have Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. They're the only ones that can reach others for Christ. Hey, the Holy Spirit has to do the saving. But we can sure do the telling. He's commissioned us to do that. Christian, shouldn't we be dedicated to reaching the law? Shouldn't that be our focus? Shouldn't we be taking action toward that? Instead of being stagnant and setting still and taking hits, let's move forward in the battle and let's push the battle back to the other side and let's win some of the loss to Christ. Faith, hope, charity. These three. But the greatest of these is charity. Let's all bow our heads. How many folks would say tonight Uh Miss Jennifer's coming to the piano. She's going to play a verse of scripture in a minute. But how many would say tonight, Preacher, I need to develop these three things in my life? I'd like to pray for you tonight. Would you I need to develop these three things in my life. Would you lift up your hand? I'd love to pray for you tonight. There are hands all over the auditorium. How many would say tonight that they know beyond a shadow of a doubt that they're saved and they're on the way to heaven? Would you lift up your hand for me tonight? Amen. Appreciate it. There are a couple that weren't able to raise their hand tonight in the auditorium, and I would encourage you in a moment. I'm going to pray for you. That God would give you courage. But I would encourage you, if you couldn't raise your hand tonight, that you know you're going to heaven when you die. I encourage you to come forward as Jennifer starts to play. But let's have a word of prayer and then we'll uh then we'll have our invitation. Dear Lord, I thank you for these folks tonight that were honest and they need to add these things or improve these things in their Christian life Lord, we all uh in some limited human way acknowledge what you did on the cross at Calvary. But God, we just can't comprehend in our physical human bodies what your love and your compassion really is. But God, we understand from your word that we need to put it in our lives. So God, I pray that you would help us. Lord, to have stronger faith, greater hope, better charity. Lord, that we might reach others with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And then Lord, I pray for those tonight that, Lord, may be unsure of their eternal eternal destination and they don't know for sure that they're going to heaven when they die. God, more important than anything here tonight is that they accept you as their personal Savior So Lord, I pray that you would give them the courage to come forward. And Lord, that we might get someone to take the Bible and take them in private and show them what the Bible says about knowing for sure they can go to Heaven. Please give them that courage to do that. Lord, it's not about joining a church. It's not about getting baptized. Lord, it's about faith. So Lord, I just pray that they would come and Lord, be able to we'd be able to show them how they can know for sure they're going to heaven when they die. Lord, please bless our invitation. And Lord, speak to hearts, we pray, in Jesus' name Would you all stand please with your heads bowed and eyes closed? As Jennifer plays, we'll have a few verses of invitation. If the Lord spoke to your heart tonight, please come. Meet him at the altar. Share with him what you're what you got out of the message, and let him work in your life.