Actually, be in the book of Mark, Mark chapter number four. Mark 4, it's good to be home. I always enjoy coming back over to this area. It's good to see the familiar faces as well as some of the new. It's good to have my family with me this time. I believe the last time I was here I had my children with me. I didn't get to have my wife with me, but I'm glad to be able to have my children with me as well. and my wife. So it's exciting. Uh my children are doing good. I noticed that you all been praying for my son. He's actually going to Lexington tomorrow tomorrow, so be in prayer for us as we leave. But uh it's gonna be an exciting time he uh we're excited he's actually up and walking now. A number of you've been praying that that would happen. He's up and walking, so I appreciate your prayers for him and uh we're just trying to get a diagnosis and that was all we're trying to do. I mean he's health wise, he seems to be doing fine, but we're just trying to figure out why he's So delayed in some things. So he's seen a number of doctors, one in Lexington, he's seen a couple in Morgantown. He actually has another one in September in Morgantown. So I thank you so much for praying for them, Mother. They're doing great, and the one on the way is doing well too, so we really appreciate your prayers for my family. Uh church is going great over at Calvary Baptist Church in Mannington, West Virginia I was just talking with somebody we love working with the young people over there and I'm sure Marcus he does it downstairs there. We love working with our young people. I tell uh You know, a pastor uh one time was talking to me, he said, you know, I'm not sure if I have you preach or have so and so preach. He said, Well if they want the opportunity they can have it. It's not that I don't like to preach, just I get it all the time. They don't get as much as I do probably I mean I may not be with the adults all the time, but I get to do it with the children. I see just as big an opportunity as I do with the other people. I mean they're some call 'em the future of the church. I say they're just as much of the church today as anybody else. They can do just as much for the Lord. So Do pray for them and pray that they'll follow the Lord, but we're trying to get God's word instilled in them. But it's really exciting to see what God does with our young people, and I appreciate your prayers. I'm glad that but it's good to come back home, like I said, once in a while. Hopefully you found the book of Mark right now. Um I'm going to begin reading in verse number three. I'm going to read a little bit of portion of scripture to start us off. I'm going to be up front with you tonight. I'm the kind of person who likes to take note I believe in taking notes in church. I believe in getting good notes to because I don't remember things. I'll go back home and I'll forget what was talked about, so I get like having a good notebook. But I'm gonna be honest with you, you're the type that takes the notes, you're probably gonna hate this kind of message type These are those kind of messages that I always hate taking notes for because I look for that five-point outline or that three-point outline. I really don't have much an outline for you. I'll try to give you one as much as possible, but y I will give you a bunch of verses that I think will help you But I'm going to start in Mark chapter four and verse number three. The scriptures say, Hearken, behold, there went out a sower to sow, and it came to pass, as he sowed, some fell by the wayside, and the fowls of the air came and devoured it up. And some fell on stony ground where it had not much earth. And immediately it sprang up because it had no depth of earth, but when the sun was up it was scorched, and because it had no root It withered away. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no fruit, and others fell on good ground, and did yield fruit. that sprang up and increased and brought forth some 30 and some 60 and some 100. We're going to drop down to verse number 13 What we have here is I I like using these kind of illustrations with children. What we have is what I call with the children an object list, and Jesus Christ isn't just telling stories here He's going to take something that we can relate to here on earth, something that we see quite often, an object, so to say, and bring a spiritual truth. to help us understand something. So he gave the story, he gave the earthly aspect, something that we can grasp a hold of. Someone throwing the seed out there, planting a garden, so to say. What's the spiritual application he has for us? Look at verse 13. And he said unto them, Know ye not this parable, and how then will ye know all parables? The so are so with the word. And these are they by the wayside, where the word is sown, but when they have heard, Satan cometh immediately and taketh away the word that was sown in their hearts And these are they likewise with their sown on stony ground, who when they have heard the word immediately, receive it with gladness And have no root in themselves, and so endure but for a time. Afterward, when affliction or persecution arises from the world's sake, immediately they are offended. And these are they which are sown among the thorns, such as hear the word, and the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lust of other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful And these are they which are sown on good ground, such as hear the word and receive it, and bring it forth fruit. Some thirtyfold, some sixty, and some a hundred. A great truth that Christ has, and I wish we had time to dig into it all, but the Lord really spoke to my heart about one of these feeds, one of these hearts that I'm afraid that a lot of people have in this generation. And it's found in verse number six. But when the sun was r up, it was scorched, and because it had no root, it withered away. I want to bring a message that I've entitled Night, They Have No Roots. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you so much for the Bible. I thank you so much for this good church and the peop people here, and I thank you so much for their love for your word. I thank you for this crowd tonight that's Willing to come on a Wednesday night to hear your word preached. And Lord, I pray that be it would not be in vain. And I pray, Father, that you would guide my words clearly tonight and help me to speak that which you would have me to speak. Lord, I pray if there's a soul here that does not know they're going to heaven someday that they would be saved. I thank you so much for the truth of your word. I thank you so much for this story that you have given to us, and I pray now that you would use me as a vessel in your hands now. In Christ's name, amen. We come to a portion of Scripture and it's talking about one thing. It's emphasized in verse number fourteen, the sower soweth the word. One thing I love about coming home here, uh I like about this church that I know when I come here the word is emphasized. I am thankful for a church that believes in the King James Bible and that the people, the English speaking people can come to it and is the inspired preserved Word of God. You and I hold in our hands the scriptures that we can take and we can come to this book And see these words, and it's as if these disciples who wrote them were writing them here for us today. Why? Because God did not want us to go without his word. God has given us the word for the English-speaking people here. I'm thankful for a place that emphasizes it. A place that encourages. I know d I know Pastor Leatherman. I know he encourages weekly usually Have you read your Bible at least one day this week? Have you read your Bible every day this week? I'm thankful for a place as we were just looking at that emphasizes scripture memory. I believe that God's word is very important. In this portion of Scripture, we're given a number of types of souls, and I wish we had time to deal with each and every one of these souls. But I want to look at that one tonight. There was one type of soil that God talked about, He called it stony. You know, the Bible often talks about a heart that is stony. If you and I are not careful, if we do not watch ourselves, we might become this type of soil. As I mentioned, the verse number 14 teaches that the seed that is sown is God's word. And God's word is coming to you, and it comes to me, and we have a choice to make. What are we going to do with it? Oftentimes when I hear this parable taught, I often hear people ask, or people describe us. having the roots. In fact I recently heard one on this and it was a powerful message. Reminded me about how roots help the plant get the nutrients it needs. It helps it stabilitize that it enables it to be stable. It was a powerful message. And as I met meditated upon this portion of scripture and came across this portion of scripture and worked hard and meditated upon it. Something occurred to me and I didn't really I never noticed it before, but I thought it was amazing. You know, the seed is the one that's planted, it's the seed that grows the root. Oftentimes when I think of the root growing, I think of it in our lives But as we know, the seed is the word of God, and the word of God is what grows roots. And I look at that and I think, well, God's Word doesn't need stability. God's Word doesn't need nutrients So what does the roots do for us, the soil? If we will allow the roots, what does it do for soil? So I got to thinking, I got to studying what roots do for the soil, and I found much of the same thing Roots will improve the structure of soil I found. The roots will be able to allow dig tunnels that allow air to come through the soil as well as the water and nutrients that come into the soil I thought it was amazing that's what God's Word does to us when we allow it to come into our lives. It builds a structure in our lives It's an amazing thing to me to have someone who lives like the world, does all the things this world promotes, the drinking, the hollering, the cursing, and you can go on down the list. They can come to this book and they can trust and believe in the words of the Lord Jesus Christ. And it can change their structure of their life. It can do it for you, it can do it for me if we will just allow it to do so. I think of roots that provide nutrients for the soil as well as I did this study. God's Word has the nutrients that we need for our daily lives. We come to this book, we can find the nourishment that we need. I encourage our young people, they need to be in God's Word on a daily basis. And that's not just the young people, that's you and I. We need to come to God's word on a daily basis. If the only uh only thing you get from God's Word is the preaching on Sunday morning, and if you come to Sunday night and Wednesday night, that's all you get. You're going to starve yourself spiritually. You ought to be a person that doesn't just come to this book three times a week. You ought to be a person that gets in this book on a daily basis. God can speak to your heart. As I mentioned, I that's the one thing I like about here. You pull out your bulletin, you can come to God's word and you've got questions that you can ask yourself. Why does Pastor Leatherman do that? I don't want to get ahead of myself because God because he wants you to be a good student. Of God's word. God doesn't desire for you just to come to church and learn. God's desire for you is to search the scripture daily, just as those Bereans did, to see if those things are so You ought to be a good student to get the nutrients that you need from this book. I think of the um I believe the preacher was a Dr. Lee Robertson. He talked about the five-star Christian. Five things every Christian needs, one of them on the list was God's word. He talked about how people when they were struggling in his church, if he sat he sat 'em down and he talked with those people who were struggling, he said often they were missing one of those five things, if not more of those five things in their life. The person who claims to be a child of God, the person who is a child of God, if they neglect this book, They're going to struggle. God's desire is for you to learn the truth of this word and then live by the principles that are in this book. It gives it nutrients. It prevents erosion of the soil I found. In other words, the soil it helps not to decay those roots do. It keeps it s uh stable. I thought how God's word will keep a Christian from corrupting themselves. You cannot do everything this book tells you to do and corrupt yourself with this world. It's not going to happen. You will not go the way of this world if you do what this book tells you to do. You know while I look in my life, I don't see someone who's perfect. But I can tell you what, when I look in my life and see the mistakes, I can find that it's because I'm not listening to what this says. I'm doing what this wants. And when I do what this wants, I'm going to find that it's going to corrupt me. Here's some other truths I began to find when I began to think about the fact that this seed, when it was planted, what it does Think to yourself, what comes first, the plant or the fruit? The plant comes before the fruit does Oftentimes a Christian, when we get saved and or even after we've been saved for a number of years, we want we desire to have we if we're not careful, and I don't recommend this, we'll compare ourselves Say, oh this person, they're like this, they're doing this, and this person's doing this, and I'm just I'm just a nobody. We ought not to compare ourselves with anybody but this book, but let me tell you something, don't expect to be the five-star Christian overnight. Don't expect to see all those fruits overnight. God needs to allow God's word needs to work in your heart. That plant needs to take root in your life. So many Christians live a lackluster life because they just have no relationship with this book. I found in my life when I do what this book tells me to do and I get in this word. The other things come naturally. Because when I obey what this tells me to do, and when I get inside this, the fruits come naturally. Why? Because the roots, when the word of God gets rooted in your life and in your heart. The fruit just comes out. God desires to use his word in your life. If there is going to be fruit in the Christian life, the soil of his heart must be suitable for the word to take a hold of them. I also made this note, at any given point a Christian's heart can change the soil. Maybe here tonight and you're at one point was like that Seed that was on good ground. That's where we desire to be. We didn't desire to have a heart, or we ought to desire to have a heart where God's Word can come in and the roots can dig way down, and we can get stable in the Word of God. But how many times do we see someone who endures for so many years just to fall by the wayside like Solomon did in his latter years? Oh, may that not be us here tonight. May we get in God's word and it get a hold of our hearts My challenge to you tonight is simply this, is there roots in your life? So that's my basic introduction and outline. The rest of the, if you're taking notes, the rest of these is just going to be verses. I want to look at a few verses tonight. and we'll go home. Turn with me if you go to Joshua chapter number one, verse eight. I believe y'all are, and I know I'm preaching in the choir now, I believe y'all are in a church that promotes this book I believe you're taught how to study this book. But I want to share with you some truths of God's Word. On letting the roots get down, the roots of God's Word get in your heart, get deep in your heart. What ought our relationship be with this book? Some of these verses I I remember Pastor Letterman doing the memory verse challenge. Some of these verses you may have memorized, but they're great dealing with the Word of God. Look at verse number eight of Joshua chapter number one. It says, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth But thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success There's a couple of truths I want to draw from this. We could actually make a message out of this first, but there's a couple I want to draw here. We need to meditate on God's word. If I can't get anything else across to you tonight, church, listen to this. We need to meditate on God's word. Meditate. You know the Muslims teach to meditate. They meditate. The Hindus, yoga and all that, they meditate, but they all meditate on the wrong things The world meditates. I didn't think of the atheists. You know, some of them arguments they come up with, they didn't just wait, have a dream one night, wake up, and say, that's what I'm going to do. They meditate. It's amazing to me how many Christians meditate, but not on the book. You get around the average Christian and look what comes out of their heart and their mouth. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with sports, but a lot of people meditate on sports a little too much. I gotta put a guard up to my life to be careful of that. I'm all for family. It's instituted by God, but I tell you what, you get around some people, that's all they talk about. And I'm not saying there's something wrong with family, but listen, where's the Christians who talk about this? Who talk about the Bible? We don't think about it. Our thoughts aren't on it. I mean, even if we don't talk about it with other people, let's just look at our thought light throughout the day. They're not here. Oftentimes it's not there because we don't put anything there. We won't meditate on something we don't read. We gotta be in God's Word. We gotta be constantly in God's Word. But we need to meditate on God's word. We need to be thinking about this book. I tell you what, when that temptation and sin comes in your life, and the devil's going to put temptation in your life. By the way, we looked at that seed in Mark chapter number four. It's that when that temptation, when the heat of this world came, that's when they left. You know why? No meditation. There's no roots. And when God's word is not rooted in your life, When those temptations come, as we've seen with the stone and ground, you see a Christian whose fruit just withers away. We ought to be people who think and ponder, and that's all that word meditate means to think, to ponder on. Who think about God's word. Is God's word on your mind? I'll tell you danger we all have if we're not careful. We come to church, have a busy day, think about what we're doing tomorrow. Instead of getting God's word to meditate in our hearts. I tell you what, when I was coming here, it's easy to think about what I'm going to be doing tomorrow. Oh, I'm going to be traveling. I'm going to be doing this. God desires for us to think upon his word. We need to meditate. I could spend time there, but I'm not going to. I need to move on. This verse also teaches us another aspect, there in day and night. That's another one I want to look at. I'm glad that there's people, at least I know what Pastor Letterman does, and I'm glad for people in my life who encourage me to be in God's word on a daily basis. But the more that I study it and the more that I look at it, the more I'm thinking, boy, God's word emphasizes day and night. I'm at a point now in my life where I try to get in two times a day, because once isn't enough. You know, we ought to be in God's word constantly. This ought to be a routine of our daily lives. This book ought to be. It's easy for us to make other things. I think it's because we don't have someone attacking us. We have the devil attacking us with this book. The devil has no desire for you to get in this book. But God desires you to have a constant relationship with the Word of God. And a constant relationship is not just reading a chapter and saying, okay, I did my duty for the day. Listen, I I'm gr it's great day if you can read a chapter today, but you ought to be getting something out of it, which we're going to get at in a little bit. God's word ought to be speaking to your heart. I like to encourage people to take a pen, mark their Bible. You look at my Bible, you'll see pen marks. Why? Because God made something stand out to me And God's word is trying to get a root in my heart, and I wanted to make sure that I marked that so when I come back, and when the world comes back, I'm able to go back and say, Look here, Satan, look here, devil. This is what God's Word says. And don't think the devil doesn't know God's word. When Satan came to Jesus Christ, he said it is written himself. Do you know God's word enough that when Satan combats you with this very book, that you're able to defend it? You ought to meditate and you ought to spend time in it constantly. I recommend day and night. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. I think that's a big key. That's the last one I want to look at in this verse. This book ought to be the authority in your life. There's a lot of people, in fact, the number one person that comes to my mind every time I talk about this subject is down Pensacola I ran into. There's a lot of people that have God's word here, but it's not here. I still remember that man's face to this day. He could quote scripture, a lot of scripture that at the time I couldn't even quote. He had it here, but his lifestyle style showed that it was nowhere here. Why? Because this was a textbook to him. I know the young people aren't here, but I tell you what, the danger for a young person growing up in a good church, a good home, and thank God for good homes for good people like that. But the danger is this has become old textbook. Just a bunch of words that you get in your head. We were teaching our young people the Baptist distinctive. I love that the number one thing is the biblical authority. Why? Because this is our authority. This tells us what to do. There ought to be a time in your life and in my life where God's word takes authority over our lives. It's what He says, not what I want. And that's an everyday battle. There comes times where there's going to be decisions that you are going to make and you're going to have to make up your mind. Am I going to do what my flesh wants me to do? Or am I going to do what the Bible principles tell me to do? I gotta obey this book. Why? For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. The average Christian, if they were to write this verse by their lifestyle, not by their lips. Oh, with their lips they say, yes, the word of God will make you prosperous. But with their lifestyle, if they wrote this verse, they say, a good career is what's going to make you successful Having money is what's going to make you successful. You look in the average home of the average Christian And you see parents who teach their children how to work a good job, and they'll teach them how to have good character traits, and they'll teach them how to be nice to others, and leave this out. If you're a home that has children, I I plead with you, I beg with you, have family devotions. Make sure your children are getting the Word of God in their life. Make sure they un and don't just give it to them. Make sure they're getting it I love devotion times with my children. I love asking my daughter questions and having her respond back. I see that she's getting it here. Hopefully they're getting it here. One day it'll get to here. But teach them the Bible. It's sad to go out into society and see people who don't even know the principles of this book. We call them Bible stories, they're actually Bible truths, but it's sad to see people who don't even know the Bible accounts in this book. Why? Because this has not become a priority in our lives anymore. Its roots are not in our hearts anymore. We've become stony ground. And we're watching us shrivel up in these deep, dark times. Turn with me to the book. Oh, let's look at the book. Let me turn the page here on my notes. So we looked at Josh one A, I want to look at Psalm one. Psalm one. Another familiar verse, Psalm One If you're familiar with verse number one, we see what this man in Psalm 1 does not do, but Psalm 1 verse 2, I like what he does. I want to emphasize. It goes along with Josh 1. 8, and that it reminds us that this is how we're going to be prosperous, that how we're going to be successful. But there's one word I want to look in this verse that says, but his Delight is in the law of the Lord. You delight in this book. Do you find delight and joy in God's Word tonight? God has given you the riches. I love this book. You know, I like how one person played it. It's so shallow that the young the youngest Christian can just wait waddle in it, but it's so deep that the deepest theologians can't get all the treasures out of this book. Do you delight in getting in the truth of this book? A lot of people just don't love this book anymore. It ought not to be the Christians, surely, but there's a lot of people in this world they don't want this book anymore. If you don't see that, you need to get your head out of the sand. Look at what's going on all around us. We have people who want to see this book out of our government. We have people who want to see this book out of our country. They don't like this book anymore We have a devil that wants to destroy a book that teaches your young people how to have good morals. We have a nation that wants to destroy a book that teaches them how to respect others. A book that teaches them how to do what is right. They're doing that because there's a real wicked devil out there, there's a real wicked world out there, this is a spiritual battle And it we need Christians that love this book enough that's willing to stand and say they can't have it. That get it in their hearts and say, you know matter what they do, I'm going to keep it with me. I think we lost the love of this book because it's not precious anymore to us. I think of in the book of 1 Samuel when it says that the Word of God was precious. Precious. I think of back in the early days, the Christians, I can only imagine in my mind's eye how they would take the pens and they would write on the paper the precious words of God Nowadays we don't have to do that anymore because somebody's done it for us. What are we going to do when they don't do that for us anymore? Are you willing? Do you love this book so much that you say, you know what, I'm going to get I'm going to make it my own. I'm going to do it for me. This book ought to be a delight, not a drudgery, not a pain, but a delight. Look with me if you would to 2 Timothy 2. 15. There's a number of others I want to look at, but I'm going to try to wrap this up. I'm going to look at two more verses, then we'll close. So if you were trying to keep an outline, you know, Joshua 18 teaches us we need to have God's word in our lives and it needs to be our authority. We looked at we need a delight in God's word. 2 Timothy 2. 15, I don't know where I told you, but that's not where I turned. 2 Timothy 2. 15. You tell me if I quote it right. I think I can quote it right without getting there. Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed. rightly dividing the word of truth. You need to be a good student of this book. As I mentioned, reading it just a chapter a day, uh that's a good start. You know when I started reading the Bible, I think I got a few verses in. You gotta start somewhere, but listen, you've got to get past reading it. You ought to get why what are you reading? That's why I encourage I like these questions. Ask yourself those questions when you go through the portion of Scripture. You've got a strong use that book. Use the tools God has given you. We are blessed in a nation. God has given us tools to be able to study the word of God. We ought to do it. You ought to know what you're reading. God's desire is not for you just to make a checklist of this. God's desire is for you to have a personal relationship with Him and to speak to your heart through this book. God desires to speak to you through His Word. And it's not just through the preaching, it's through you getting in the book. God wants to speak to your heart. God wants to share something with you. Isn't it amazing that you serve an Almighty God who knows just what you need and is able to give it to you from the Scriptures? You can open up this book, and it amazes me. I can be going through something in my lifetime, at a certain time in my life, go through my devotions and say, you know what, that's what I needed just right now. Because we serve an Almighty God that lives and has a living book, wants to talk to you, but how many pass up that opportunity to get in this book? Because they don't want to be a student of the Bible. They just want to we got a lot of Christians who are cozy, they're fat fed and happy. They got everything they want, and they they got they're saved, they're on their way to heaven, they are in a good church, and they're just satisfied with what they have, and they won't they they don't want any more. God's desire for more in your life God desires to get the roots in your life. God desires for this word to get a hold of you. Because when God's word gets a hold of you, you can't sit still. When God's word gets a hold of you, when those roots get down in there, you've got to share it with somebody. When God's word gets a hold of you, you're going to pray like you ought to. When God's word gets a hold of you, you're going to change. Because he said, sanctify them through thy truth, thy word is truth. It's going to sanctify, it's going to cleanse you, it's going to change you. I think of in James, when he says if a man be a hearer and not a doer of the word, how he compares that man to someone who looks in the mirror, sees something wrong, knows something's wrong, and just walks away. And how many times do we have people just reading this book, but not being good students of this book? And not taking it and applying it to their life. God doesn't want to just instruct you. God wants to guide and direct you. He calls a lamp unto my feet, the psalmist does. In other words, it's not just showing me the way, it's directing me in the way. God wants you to be directed by this book, and the way you're going to do that is you've got to be a good student of the book. One last verse, Ephesians chapter 6. I'm going to wrap this up. There's a lot more I'd like to look at. Ephesians chapter number six. Ephesians six and I'm going to begin reading verse number ten while you turn there. The Bible tells us this, Folly, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil I'm going to read down in verse number sixteen, above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith you shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. Verse number seventeen, and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word. of God. God desires you to get in this book because you're in a real life battle and this is what you're going to be able to defend yourself with. I don't think there's a person in here who would love to send our military out and not arm them. Send them out in the battle, just don't send them with any weapons. You figure out what to do. But how many of us are going into spiritual battle on a daily basis on our own without our weapons ready to go? We need to be good students of God's word because we are in a spiritual bound. We need to know how to use our weapon. I have with me here in my pocket a trainer pen. They call it an epi pen trainer. I have a son with uh allergies and what this was given to us for is so that way we could practice with it. So if we ever was in a real life situation that we need to use the real deal, which we have, we'd be able to know how to use it because we practice with this. They didn't want the first time we ever used one to be the actual one. They want us to have practice with this one because it's a real life-threatening situation. They want us to know how to use what we needed in case we needed it. God is telling you you need this. You could be on a One day you could be where the temptations come and they're coming. The devil's gonna attack you. And if your roots are not if the roots of this book are not down deep, They're on that stony ground. The devil's looking for a heart in here that's just waiting to be stony. Because when those roots don't have a hole, when those temptations come, as the Mark 4 teaches, you're going to fall. We need to have our battle ready. We need to be good students of this book So I was thinking about what I could say is when I come back home. One thing I could say if I don't get to see you again for a while, I pray that you're in this book. If you're in this book, if you got this book's got a root in your life, I'll see you again. I'll come back. I'll know you'll be faithful. Because you'll be doing what it tells you to do. Father in heaven, I thank you so much for your opportunity to share your word tonight. Lord, I thank you for giving me this message, Lord, and I pray it's a help to your people. No, it's the very basics of the Christian life, but Father, I feel like that's what we need in our DNA. I pray, Father, that we would be students that love your word and that we would just get in it and that we meditate upon it, that we would allow it to do the work that you want it to. I pray for each and every individual in here that they would allow God's word to change their lives, to mold and make it after the Lord Jesus Christ. Ed bowl eyes closed. Maybe you're here tonight on a Wednesday night and say, Brother James, I don't know one day that I'm going to heaven. I don't know if I had that settled. Anybody like that, I'd like to pray for you. I always ask the young people that, but I know just because they're you're adults doesn't mean you didn't all know it. So anybody here says, Brother James, I don't know I'm going to heaven someday, as you close in prayer, would you pray for me? Anyone at all Father in heaven, I thank you so much for the opportunity to be here tonight. Lord, I pray that you bless us as we go in the prayer meeting. Thank you so much for the opportunity to pray. I ask now that you bless us as we go about the rest of our day. And thank you, Father, for your goodness to us. We ask these things in Christ's name. With heads by eyes closed, I'm not sure. I pray that you still do. Maybe at this time, I don't think we have a piano player, but it maybe the Lord spoke to your heart. We'll take a few minutes and you can come to the altar and pray. Maybe the Lord's impressed upon you to do something with this word. I encourage you find a place at this altar and allow the Lord to stir that you make a commitment to it, the Lord.