Verse 15, 2 Peter chapter 1. Moreover, I will endeavor that ye may be able after my decease To have these things always in remembrance. He referenced these things again. And so I put down, uh I've entitled it. The title doesn't really match the message completely, but I called it things we must remember. Let's pray together. Father, bless our time now in this little verse That you've given to us. Obviously there is profit in us, in this verse for us. We can learn some doctrine here, reproof for correction. We can learn instruction in righteousness. So fill me with your spirit as always my prayer, and that you would teach us some lessons from this simple little statement that Peter pens here. And so I yield my will. Lord, I just give myself anew to you in this hour. Fill me with your spirit. Help me communicate. Lord, what you have clearly. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Peter's being a little redundant here. Anybody notice that? He's kind of repeating himself. Notice there in verse 12. He says, I'll be there I there wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance. Down to verse 13, he says, um I think it means as long as I'm in this tabernacle to stir you up by putting you in remembrance. In our verse here at the end, he says, have all these things always in remembrance, remembrance, remembrance. And so he's emphasizing the importance of remembering certain things and we looked at that previously. But he's he's I I I got thinking this some people might say, preacher, you're just preaching the same thing over and over and over. Well that's because Peter keeps saying the same thing over and over and over And so he wants us to get in remembrance. Then another thing he references three times right here in a brief period of time. Look at verse 13 He says, I think it is me. And then he says this, as long as I am in this tabernacle. And the implication being what? He's alive, but the implication being he's not going to be at some point. He says, as long as I'm in this tabernacle, this is what I'm going to do. The implication being I'm not going to always be in this tabernacle So he's referencing in an indirect way his death. Then, if you would, look at verse 14. Knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle. Again, he's referencing the time of his death. And then verse 15: Moreover, I endeavor that ye may be able after my disease. So his his coming death is on his mind. And it's a it's a factor. Here's what I'm trying to say. His impending death is a factor on why he's writing what he's writing Because I'm going to put off my tabernacle soon. This is what I'm doing. This is what I'm doing. So he's being a little repetitious here, being a little redundant. He keeps referring to the same thing over and over. We come to verse 15, and he's basically uh in so many words repeating some things he had said before. But there's a reason for that. And I just want to give, I said, and I said I was going to be brief, I mean it I want to notice number one, three observations from this verse. I'll share them with you. Number one, I notice his obvious concern for those who are following him. He's he's he's coming to the end of his term. He's coming to the end of his life, and there's gonna people behind him that are gonna be left behind when he passes on, then they'll be going on And he is obviously very, very concerned, I guess you could say it this way, in the generation that is following behind him. Did you notice that he says, I endeavor that ye may be able after my disease to have these things in remembrance? He's concerned Their spiritual well-being. He's concerned for their their ongoing walk with the Lord and growth in the Lord. The word endeavor there, moreover, I will endeavor. That word's translated multiple times, the word diligence. He uses endeavor here. Moreover, I will endeavor means to, I'm going to work diligently at this There's an idea of haste behind it. I'm not wasting time. What I'm going to do, I need to do I think he's saying, my time is short, and whatever I'm going to accomplish, however I'm going to help this generation behind me, these people behind me, whatever I'm going to do, I've got to do it now. Has the idea of working earnestly. It's not a low priority in his to-do list. The word endeavor means to make every effort. So he's saying this: my time is short. And I am applying myself, I am endeavoring diligently to the folks that are going to be left after I'm gone for their spiritual well-being. You know, we don't, Jesus said, I need to work while it's day. The night cometh when no man works We if we're going to do anything for God, I think if we're going to do anything for God, we need to do it now. Now's the time. Um so well I've had I wish I could I wish I had I wish I had seven thousand dollars for every time somebody said to me If you're gonna wish a number, money, you might as well wish a big number, right? If I had a dollar, well if I had seven thousand dollars Every time somebody said to me, Preacher, one of these days I'm going to this, Preacher, one of these days, you know what I found out? One of these days never comes. If we're going to do anything for God, we need to do it now. I make this statement, there's someone you know that's unsaved. There's someone you know that needs a witness, and you're thinking of them right now, I would venture to say. They're on your heart and mind. I tell you, if you're gonna if you're gonna talk to them about the Lord, I'd say now's the time. So we're not we're not promised tomorrow. And I know different situations require different approaches. But uh Peter's saying, listen, my de time of my departure is at hand here. My time of my decease, I'm in I'm applying myself diligently to make sure The people that are left, when I'm going, the people are left that they're well, that they're spirit for their spiritual well-being. Those helping those that are left behind is a high priority. I found that people, when they uh pass away when uh when they pass on they want to leave heirlooms back to the family. I we have a rocking chair back in my study in the back of the house That was, I believe, my grandmother's mother's rocking chair. It's an old wood rocking chair. And she passed it on to uh my grandmother and my b grandmother to my dad and to my dad passed it on to us. Uh that's something special, right? That's an heirloom. That means something. We want to pass something on to someone support. In fact, my dad had uh several things when, you know, was coming down The end of before he moved down, he said, Now Dennis, he got and he had my two s two sisters, and it was very difficult growing up, two sisters and no brothers. But um He says, now I want you to have this, I want you to have this, and he had some things for the girls. It was important to him to pass some things on. You know what I'm talking about? Peter, it was important to Peter that he left behind some things when he was gone, but they were not rocking chairs. And it wasn't china cabinets and blankets. It was there's, it was, he wanted to leave behind, he wanted to leave behind with them a knowledge of God. He wanted the next generation to know God. In Psalm 78, it says it teaches the same thing. That the generation to come may know the works of God. Um I I I've been praying this, and You know, I enjoy it, but I don't want to just read about what God did in years gone by. I want to see God do the things he did under Billy Sunday and John R. Rice and these great men that he used, D. Al Moody, Spurgeon. I'd like to see God do that. And I would like for the next generation to experience the power of God in their lives. You follow me? And I think that's what Peter's saying. I've got a little bit of time left and I'm applying myself that you all know God. And you understand what he can do in your life, these young people. I appreciate what I said tonight, Pastor Matt and Ms. Courtney And helping these young people know God and how He can use them and what He can do through their life That's what Peter's saying, I believe. He wants to pass on an heirloom, but not furniture, but a knowledge of God, a relationship with the Lord. He wants to be sure Those that are left behind have a relationship with God. I appreciate our church so much and the emphasis on young people. And um, you know, one of these days, they're the ones going to be here. A lot of us are gonna pass on. We're gonna be on if the Lord tarries, right? You say, Well, what a blessing he is to come to church tonight, tell me we're all going to die. But the fact of the matter is, us older folks, come on now. And I don't know about you, but I want to, after I'm gone, whenever that is, I mean after I'm gone, if the Lord tarries, I want to make sure the old King James Bible is still being preached from this pulpit I want to make sure folks are going out, knocking on doors in communities, winning souls, sharing the gospel. After we're gone, we want to work, we want to give ourselves and diligently endeavor. The folks that follow behind us, keep those buses running. Keep that radio straight. Keep the gospel tracts going out. Keep faith promise missions going out. And we have to work at that. That doesn't just happen. You know why one generation dies off? Because the previous generation didn't endeavor to keep them online and help them know God. Are you with me tonight? And I think that's what Peter's saying. He's saying, I don't want this to die off when I'm out of here. It's a suggestion, and this is just a little interesting, as I was studying this. He says, I will, moreover, I will endeavor that ye may be able, after my decease, to have these things always in remembrance Some Bible scholars, people smarter than I am, suggest that he may be referring here, that he says that you'll keep these things always in remembrance. He may be referring to the Gospel of Mark. You say, why would he be referring to the gospel of Mark? Well, Mark, if you remember from 1 Peter, we believe there's strong evidence that Mark was Peter's secretary. They were very close. Their family was very close. Mark's mother was very close to Peter and Peter's family. We saw that in Acts in different places. And Mark was pretty definitely the one that pinned down 1 and 2 Peter for Peter, under the inspiration of God, of course. And it suggested that because Mark wasn't an eyewitness of all that the Lord Jesus Christ did, Peter was And it suggested that Peter had actually given a lot of information to Mark, who then, under the inspiration of God, recorded the Gospel of Mark. And you say, well, how do you come up with that? There is actually a bit of a historian that lived just not long after Peter died. And he was pretty prolific in his writings. And he recorded down this idea. He recorded down that Peter had given a lot of information to Mark when he was writing the Gospel of Mark. And so it's very possible and even likely that Peter was the source of information for Mark for things that he did not see himself. And all this, of course, takes place under the inspiration of God. God is moving. God is supernaturally, the Holy Spirit's bringing this together. And so Peter is very concerned about the spiritual well-being of those coming behind him. It's a high priority that they know the Lord, that they're grounded in the scriptures, that they're living by faith. And I believe that's a challenge to us as a church. And maybe I do this too much, but I'm grateful for a father who left me a good name. I don't have to be ashamed of the name that my daddy left me. I'm grateful for a father who left me in an example of what it means to live by faith. You know, anybody that has one fork, one knife, one spoon, one bowl, one plate, one coffee cup, and is happy as can be, that person's living by faith. Right? Some of you ladies here have ninety-five shoes. Actually ninety-five. I would like to do the same thing for my boys. Some of the older folks know what I'm talking about. I would like to be able to leave for my boys a good name. Wouldn't it break your heart if your children were ashamed the way you lived your life? The way you talked, places you went and did, stuff you'd watched, things you read. Wouldn't that be a shame? I believe we ought to apply ourselves, I think we ought to give ourselves pretty diligently to leave behind a good name, a good example, a good testimony. Give ourselves diligently to make sure the folks when we're off the scene, the folks that are left behind, they're strong in the Lord and they know God and they they have they they uh know what it means to live by faith and trust God. So it's pretty obvious he's concerned for the following generation. Second thing I notice in this verse is the cause of Christ is greater than any individual. In other words, Peter's going to pass off the scene here shortly, his decease, but the cause of Christ is going to go on. It didn't end, the church did not end with the death of Peter or with the death of Paul or John or Thaddeus or any of the other apostles. The church went on, the church went on. They had their role, they had their generation, they served in their time. But the church goes on, the cause of Christ goes on. What I'm trying to say is the cause of Christ is bigger than any individual person. Acts thirteen, thirty-six says David served his own generation by the will of God and fell asleep. Do you know the cause of Christ didn't end when David died? It went on. Went on. It's bigger than us. It's bigger than you and I. Moses passed off the scene, the great leader. Oh no, what's going to happen? God raised up Joshua. And the cause of God went on. Went on. It's bigger than any one of us. Abraham. It went on. Paul died. It went on. You're here in Peter, if you would, come over to Hebrews 11 just quickly with me. And verse uh chapter eleven, Hebrews eleven, verse twenty four. It says, by faith, Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called a son of Far refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches Then treasures in Egypt, the reproach of Christ, greater riches than the treasures in Egypt. For he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. In other words, Moses understood that The things of God, the kingdom of God, was bigger than his own pleasures that he might go and indulge in, and anything this world had to offer. The cause of Christ was much bigger than that. And here's what we do sometimes, and there's nothing wrong with recreation, there's nothing wrong with hobbies and stuff like that and having some things. But here's the problem. The problem is we see our hobbies and our pleasures and our indulgences. We see that as bigger than the cause of Christ. And that takes priority over it And the fact of the matter is, Peter is saying, listen, I'm going to pass away, but this thing's going to go on. And so many of us are investing so much time and effort into things that are going to die off with us when we can invest in something that goes on beyond. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? And so it's much bigger. Men die, but the cause of Christ goes on. I'm glad Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church didn't die when Ed Wilt left. It's bigger than Ed Wilt. And as much as I love that man, as much as respect I have for him and his dear wife, and the investment they made here in Oakland fi 50, 60 years ago. And all they did, I thank God for them, and we respect them, we named buildings after them, but I'm telling you, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is bigger than Ed Wilt, it's bigger than Dennis Leatherman, it's bigger than any one of us. And it goes on, it goes on, it goes on. And that's what Peter is concerned about. He says, I want the generation to come, those that are left behind, they need to be grounded, they need to be strong because this thing's bigger than me It has to go on. It has to go on. Last of all, I note this. Number one, he's obviously concerned for those following him. Number two The cause of Christ is bigger than any one of us, any one individual, and number three. Come back here if you would He says, moreover, I will endeavor that ye may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance. I want you to keep on going when I decease. He uses that word, my decease. Now this is where I thought it got interesting. The word deceased there is only used three times in the New Testament. One is when Peter's on the Mount of Transfiguration with the Lord Jesus, and they're talking there, and they're discussing Jesus' decease. His death, burial, and resurrection, eventually, eventual ascension. It's also used in Hebrews chapter 11, if you would. I should have told you to stay there. Come back there. And it's used in Hebrews chapter 11. But a different word is used for the same word. Verse 22 Hebrews 11, 22. Notice what it says. By faith, Jacob. Hebrews 11, 22. By faith, Joseph. When he died, made mention, look at this, made mention of the what? Departing of the children of Israel, talking about coming out of Egypt And he gave commandment concerning his bones. In other words, before Joseph died, he told his brothers, all the family were down there, one of these days, God's going to take you out of Egypt, and when you go out, take my bones with you. I don't want my bones here in Egypt, I want them in the promised land. But notice the term he uses here. He says, made mention of the departing. That word departing is the same word that Peter uses in 2 Peter, my decease. So here's what I'm getting at. Peter refers to his death. He used the word decease. The word means to depart. It literally means my exit. Remember the little cartoon? How many people here remember on Saturday morning watching cartoons and eating cereal with too much sugar in and it all got syrupy at the bottom and you'd scoop up the milky syrupy sugar? Anybody remember that? And those cartoons were great back then. They weren't perverted. They were just dumb And inevitably there'd be somebody, and I forget who it was, one of those cartoon figures, they would say this: exit, stage, left. Anyone remember that? I don't remember who said that. Exit. That's what Peter said. Listen, he doesn't say my death, and we touched on this before, he doesn't say my death is my decease, my my uh um My what's the word I want? Cease to exist. The death is my my demise. He says, death is just going out this door into another room. Just going from one place to another place. I tell you, in my mind, that's one of the most beautiful pictures of death for a believer. It's just a door. An exit says, exit, step out of here, and up in heaven. Isn't that something? And I look at all Peter's saying about his death. I don't see one hint of worry. I don't see any hint of fear on his part. Now I believe God gives his people When it comes time to die, I think God gives his people dying grace. Anybody ever hear that? I think he gives us a piece, a strength, when it's time That's why sometimes I'm in a situation and I get scared I'm going to die. I think, well, I probably not going to die because I'm scared to death right now. You know. But God gives dying grace. And the wonderful thing is, as believers, we do not have to fear death. It's not something to terrify us. It's not something to be worried about. Wring our hands. It stepped from one door into another door, another place. I couldn't help but think of Chuck Coddington. Y'all remember Chuck? What a guy. He started coming out and Claire and little Artie came not little Artie came with him. And they were such a blessing. And Chuck's in the Bible Institute, eating it up. He's coming out soul-winning. I mean, he's just all in. Then they find the tumor. Like that, down in the nursing home, he's gone. His son I never met before, came up during that time, was with his dad, and passed away. We planned the funeral together. And his son, and you've heard me say this before, his son said to me multiple times. And this is burned in my heart and mind. He said, my daddy was so faithful. He said, my daddy taught me how to live the Christian life. He taught me how a Christian lives. And then he said this. Daddy taught me how a Christian dies. And for Chuck, it was just a step from here over into glory. He knew what was happening. He knew what the situation was. And at least to me, I'm private maybe it was different, but to me, he was not rattled. I know I'm safe. I know I'm secure. I know I have a home in heaven That day came, you opened the door, stepped over into Glory Land. Isn't that a wonderful thing? That's what Peter's saying. That's what Peter's saying. Let's pray. Father I ask, Lord, that you would help us to invest ourselves in others, their spiritual well-being. Help us as a church to understand that. This whole thing's bigger than our church or any one of us. Now we've got to give ourselves to help others and be an example and a testimony and leave behind an heirloom that is not materialistic. But it is eternal and of eternal value. I pray for our young people. I pray they would know you God, I pray they'd have a walk with you. I pray they would experience your presence and your power in their lives like we have seen in years gone by. Wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how we'd say, Preacher, I want God to use me to help others to be stronger in their faith. I want my life to be a testimony, encouragement, a help to others in their faith in God. Any like that uplifted hand, I do. My hand's raised. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I uh I understand this is bigger than me. I need to get I need to quit making my life all about me. I need to get it on Christ, on eternal things. Maybe some of us need to ask the Lord to help us die to self. Get our eyes off ourself, get it on others, get it on eternal things. Any like that, preacher, I need to I need to learn die itself. I'm there, my hands raised. And then how about we just commit ourselves on a Sunday night to live for God this week and be a light shining in an old dark wicked world? Maybe an old altar is a good place. Say, Lord, here I am. I just give myself, use me this week, Lord. Father, bless our invitation. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.