Go two chapters back to chapter sixteen, and we're going to read together, if you would, verse number twenty-five. Proverbs fourteen, verse twelve first. And then Proverbs 16, verse 25. And we're going to be using our Bibles, going to several passages throughout the message. So I encourage you to keep them handy. And I hope you'll follow along with me and take note in the Bible what we're referencing here. Proverbs chapter 14, look with me at verse number 12. Would you read it together with me? Ready? Verse 12, all together. There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. Come over to chapter 16, and notice with me verse 25 Proverbs sixteen, verse twenty-five. Alright, you got it there, ready altogether. There is a way that seemeth right unto a man. But the end thereof are the ways of death. Repeated verbatim. There's a way that seems right Unto a man, but the end of that way is death. I want to preach this morning on the the subject. Things are not always the way they seem that they are. It's a way that seemeth right, but things are not always what they seem. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for a good morning. Lord, we're excited about the weather. It's encouraging and brightens our spirits a bit. Lord, I'm excited about the scriptures that are going to be shipped out here. And head out to other countries, desperate need of the gospel. Lord, what a privilege to have a part of something like that. And my heart is stirred. The music's been a blessing. The fellowship has been a blessing But now we're going to look at some sobering passages here, Lord, something that I believe we need to take very, very seriously, give our attention to. So I ask that your Holy Spirit would help us to do that. I pray your Spirit's presence would be very evident in this next few moments in our midst. I pray you would convict us, help us to think things through a bit. Uh consider our own spiritual well-being where we're at spiritually and are standing with you. So Lord, you have to do that. I can't And I yield my will, I present my body to you, Lord, as best I know how, that you would speak through me, you would take my tongue. my body and use it to speak to each of our hearts on this serious issue. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen We live in a day where we are saturated with information. Right or wrong. How many people remember when you were young, had the old Britannica encyclopedia? 14 tons. Of books. And man, you could go in that Britannica encyclopedia and you could find all kinds of information, stuff around the world. Those things were fantastic. But you and I live in a day when that little cell phone I referenced a bit ago, we have as much we have a thousand times more information available to us through that dumb smartphone. Than Britannica ever dreamed of having. We are saturated with information about anything and everything. Number of years ago, dad was visiting, he was up in living upstate, uh up Pennsylvania then, he was down visiting, we were watching a baseball game, and he just off-handedly said, I wonder how many baseballs they go through in an average Major League Baseball game. I thought, huh, that's curious. Guess what I did? I Googled it. Twenty years ago, I'd have never dreamed I'd be saying Google from the pulpit. I Googled it and found out that there's about, if I remember correctly, about 90 baseballs they go through in an average baseball game. Information. Saturated. We are saturated with information. We have more information available at our fingertips right now than the history of the world has ever had before. However, with all this information, I look at our world, I look around, and I believe we're starving for wisdom. We have so much information, yet we have so little wisdom. It's incredible to me how foolish we can be. When we have so much information available to us, people with so much information can be so foolish. I believe this is a true story. I read about a fellow that got an apartment And he got in, got setting up, and he got in the in the bathroom and there was a bathtub. Remember the old iron claw bathtubs, remember those old things? He had one of those there and the thing was absolutely filthy, just greasy and grimy And he had your typical cleaning equipment, uh uh uh cleaning um what do you call it? solutions, cleaning stuff, and uh he's spraying it and wiping down. It's just smearing the grease around. He can't get the thing clean. So he decided he was going to Google And he Googled up how to clean a nasty bathtub. And one of the suggestions was use gasoline. Get a rag and use gasoline and wipe it down. So he thought, I've got some gasoline out. I'll go get some gasoline. He got a rag, got gasoline, and lo and behold, it cleaned that tub up, sparkling clean. It was beautiful. It worked beautifully. The only problem was there was a terrible odor. I mean it stank. And so he went into one of his boxes he was setting getting unpacking and he got some aromic, aromaic. Candles album. He had all kinds of information, but he didn't have much wisdom. And he lit that candle to get rid of the smell of gasoline. And the conclusion was, in the article I read, he survived, but the apartment did not We have tons of information available to us, but we're not very smart. We're not very wise in a lot of ways. Proverbs chapter 14 and verse 12 and chapter 16, verse 25, that we just read together. If you've been around a Bible-preaching church, and by the way, not all churches are Bible preaching. But if you've been around a Bible preaching church, the church that's true to the Word of God preaches the Word of God, I'd venture to say, if you've been any length of time, I'd venture to say you've heard these verses referenced at some point or another, right or wrong? It's a way that seems right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. We quote those verses. Bible preaching churches often quote those verses And what the verses are addressing, the subject that these proverbs, these two pithy sayings, these proverbs, what they're addressing is a situation Where somebody, a person makes a very sincere decision. They're very sincere. But that decision, that direction of life, that those actions that they take, though genuinely sincere Have horrendous consequences. Horrendous consequences. He's referencing, making a very, very serious mistake There is a way. Seems right unto man, but the end is what? Death. Death What a tragic mistake. And I tell you, it's disturbing sometimes how carelessly People are at making profound decisions. How thoughtlessly somebody will just make a snap decision, not think it through. Sincerely believe, oh, this will be fine. And it ends up absolutely tragic. Absolutely tragic. What God is doing in these two verses and others very similar to them, we'll notice a few in a bit What God is doing is He's giving us in His love and His compassion for His creation for mankind, He's giving us a heads up. To put it nicely, he's giving us a very genuine, sincere warning that decisions have consequences. Actions, behavior has very real and in many cases irrevocable consequences. And he's warning us. He's warning us. Come back up, if you would, chapter 14 there. And verse number 9. Brother Matt read this to begin to get the context here. Chapter 14 of Proverbs, verse 9. Notice that first statement there. I have this underlined very boldly in my Bible. And what's it say? It says, fools Make a mock of sin. God, in his love for us, God in his concern for our well-being, what is best for us in the long run. Will give us warnings. He'll warn us of consequences, of decisions and actions we take with the idea, with the intent that we would heed those warnings. But verse number nine tells us that there are fools who just mock that. Now, what does it mean to mock something? Laugh at it, ridicule it, make fun of it. Right? But there's also an aspect to that word mock there that simply means this: to just push aside as if it's unimportant. To just push aside as if there are no consequences, this will not affect me in any way And we live in a day and age that's obviously the world, the world's lost and lost in darkness, but it's even creeping into our homes. Let me think it back, not creeping in, it's flooding into our homes and our churches and our institutions of society. And it's this idea, I can just do whatever I want and there will be no negative consequences. I can just do whatever I want. It doesn't matter my behavior. It doesn't matter my decisions. It doesn't matter my actions. And the Bible says that that's a foolish way to think. That's a foolish thinking. God warns us of the dangers of certain actions and consequences of certain lifestyles and behavior and decisions we make. And God does that because He loves us. He cares about us. He wants what's best for us. And we can be foolish and just blow that off. We can be foolish and just say, ah, I'm not going to pay any attention to that. I can mock it. Or I can pay close attention and heed that. Here's the thing, here's a sobering thought, and this is a bit of a this is a I believe all our messages are serious, but this this is a sobering subject this morning. And here's a sobering thought, and that is this: you and I have one life to live. We don't get any do-overs. We can't go back and try again at this thing called life. Now, specific events throughout, we often have second chances, but I'm talking about life overall. I don't get to go back and live my life again. And I don't know about you, but the older I get, the more significant that is becoming in my mind. This is it. One shot. And I can make What I think is right, I can make decisions what seem fine And just disregard what God says, and just disregard what the Bible says, and just disregard God's love and concern for me, and say, hey, I think this is fine, I think it's all right, and go on and get to the end of my life. And find out I was wrong. You say, oh, but preacher, I was sincere. I meant well. Listen, you can be sincerely wrong. Sincerely wrong. History. History is filled. With folks that ended in a had a their life was a tragic ending. But they were very, very sincere. They meant well. The decisions we make do have consequences. The direction we go in life does have consequences, not just here and now, but have eternal consequences. Eternal consequences. Not everything is the way it seems. This seems fine to me. How many times have we heard this? Well, I don't see anything wrong with this. This looks okay. I'll go in the refrigerator, open up. There's a container wade in the back there. I've seen it for months. I'm hungry. I think it's fine. End up having your stomach pumped. Now there's silly little things like that we laugh at, but they're but life is serious. This is all we got. If those that say there is no God, if those that say this is it and it's over when you die, if they were correct, then who cares? Right? But they're not correct. They're wrong. At the end of the life, physical life that I have on this earth, There's a destination to be arrived at. I want us to consider three things from these verses here. These two verses we quoted, they're identical. The first thing I want us to notice is that Solomon, who's the human penman of Proverbs, of course, we understand that, God being the author, but Solomon references life's direction. Now let me explain what I mean by that. Look at verse, if you're in chapter 14, look at verse 12 there. He says, there is a, what's that three-letter word? There is a way. There is a way. The word way, I got looking up, is used 69 times in the book of Proverbs. It refers to, when he says there is a way, it's referring to a path Or one definition said a trail that you would follow. If you ever get out hiking, go to Swallow Falls or up here. Anybody ever hike up to the highest point in Maryland? Up there going up uh 219 up the hill. Anybody ever go up there? And there's a little path, you follow that trail. That's what the idea behind the way is. There is a way. There is a trail. There is a path And the interesting thing about the word has this idea. It's not just a general whatever, just wandering, meandering path. It is a path or a way that is leading to a very specific destination It's a specific word. And one of the um one of the uh definitions had this idea, a journey. leading to a very specific destination, a very specific locale. And the idea behind that is your life and my life, and we often refer to it this way, people will refer to it this way. Your life and my life is a journey. We're traveling this path called life. And this way, this trail, this path, this journey Is leading to a specific destination. The life that you are living, the life that I am living, is leading To a place somewhere. There is a way, a path, a trail, a journey that seemeth right unto man. If you've been around, as I said before, if you've been around preaching very much, or you've read your Bible at all, studied it any degree, It is overwhelmingly clear in Scripture that life leads to one of two destinations. There is a way. There is a path. There is a trail. My life, I am traveling a path, I am traveling a trail trail. I am on a journey. And the Bible very clearly teaches that at the end of this journey we call life, at the end of this trail path we call our life, there's one of two destinations. There's a way. There's a way. You and I are on that path right now. You and I are on that trail. By the time we meet next Sunday morning, Ten forty five March twenty fourth seventeenth. Well I turned my clock a week ahead March 17th, there's a very real possibility that somebody under the sound of my voice has arrived, will have arrived at the way, the destination your life is leading. There's one of two. There's no, there's not three. There's not five. There's not one There's two places we end one of two places we end up. You would take your Bible, turn to me the book of Matthew. Now stay here in Proverbs because we'll come back. Told you we're going to use our Bibles a bit this morning. Come to Matthew chapter 7. This is the third of three chapters that give us the Sermon on the Mount by the Lord Jesus Christ. Sometimes liberals, quote unquote Christians, will say, Well, I just go by the teachings of Jesus. He was all love and positive and good and Happy and he was love and he was positive and he was good and he was happy. But that ain't all he preached and taught And in the Sermon on the Mound, the last chapter of that sermon, chapter 7, if you would look with me at verse number 13. And here we have this reference to this way, this path, this journey. That every one of us are on. It's called life. And look at verse 13. Enter ye in at the straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way. There's a way. Seems right unto man. Enter in at the straight gate. Why? For wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth. Now a path, this journey goes to a specific destination, a specific locale that leadeth unto what? Destruction. Destruction Now look at this tragic statement. And many there be that shall go in thereat. Jesus is saying to you and I that this thing called life, this way, this path, this journey called life, one of the destinations is a place of destruction. And the tragic is, I ha I hate to even think this, but most people Are down going living their life down that trail, down that path, going that way. Most people, listen, most people are on their way to hell. That is tragic. There's one of two destinations. He references the second destination. Look at verse 14. Because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life. And that next statement is said. And what? Pew there be that find it. I don't know about you. That bothers me. I'm uncomfortable with that thought. But nevertheless, he tells us that there is a way. There is a destination that life leads to. And it's one of two places. It's either destruction, which Jesus used another term, and throughout the Gospels he'll reference it directly, hell. A very real, literal, actual place, as presented by Jesus, as presented in scriptures, it is a literal place. That many lives, the path of many lives, the journey of many lives are going to end up there in a very real, literal place called hell. Now, the purpose of this message is not to describe what the Bible says about hell. I think most of us understand it. It is unimaginably horrible. It is eternal. No escape. Once I cross that threshold, as an unsaved person, cross that threshold, this way that I've traveled, I cross that threshold out into eternity, I end up in hell. There's no coming back. It is settled, eternal. And then the other way is a way to life. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. That way leads to the presence of God, leads to God's presence, heaven. Jesus refers to it as eternal life. And so God is through Solomon and Proverbs telling us, hey, listen, I love you. I created you. I love you dearly. And you need to understand that your life is a journey, your life is a way. And it ends up in one of two places. Either heaven or hell. Either heaven or hell. Every life ends up in one of these two places. A year from now, who knows? Maybe some of us will arrive to where that way is leading. Who knows? An hour from now. We don't know what tomorrow holds. We can't boast about tomorrow. We don't know what a day may bring forth And so he gives us a very, very serious thought. There is a way, there is a way. Now I want us to notice this, my second thought on this, is Solomon references the a life direction, the way But then he no he references uh uh a human deduction. Come back to Proverbs with me if you would There is a way, there's a journey, there's a life, a destination that my life is leading to, one of two, heaven or hell. And there is a way that, what's the next word? That's a key word that what seemeth right unto a man. Now I use the word deduction in my outline. To deduct something means to come to a conclusion. Maybe I've reasoned a little bit and redid a little reasoning and said, all right, here's my conclusion. I can live this way, I can believe this way, I can make these decisions, and it's going to be okay, it's going to be right. It's going to be fine. There'll be no negative consequences. Deducting, thinking it through And it's interesting the terminology he uses. He says, There is a way that seemeth right unto man. He doesn't say this. Notice what God doesn't say. He doesn't say there is a way that is proven to be right. This guy's not traveling on the proven path. It's what he thinks, what he's deducted. It seems right to me. It's not a way that has been declared by God. So I think so. I talk to people all the time, of course, in my position as pastor, I talk to people all the time about the Lord, about heaven and hell, salvation. I mean it's all the time. That's what I do. And you know how many times I hear somebody say something like this? I'll ask them this question, do you know for sure That when you die, when you arrive at your destination, you know for sure that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. You know how many times I had people say this to me, oh, I think I'd go to heaven. You know what they're saying to me? They're saying, it seems to me, the way I see it, I think I'd be okay. It'll be right I think. Oh, I hope so. I believe I've got a handle on this. Seems to me like everything's alright. Turn with me if you would, if you're there in Proverbs, come back to chapter 12, and notice with me verse number 15. Now God uses, did you ever notice in studying your Bible, God uses some strong language sometimes? God, a lot of times, He doesn't pull and He punches, He just kind of says it the way it is. And look with me if you would at chapter twelve, verse fifteen. The way of a ouch, the way of a fool. Look at this. Is right in his what? Well, I think it's alright. I don't think there's anything wrong with this. I don't think I need that. I don't believe that's necessary. Come over, if you would, to chapter 21 of Proverbs. And look with me if you would at verse number two. Again, the same thought about seeming right to me. I think it's alright. Are you there? Proverbs 21, look at verse 2. Every man, every way, there it is, every way of man is right in what? His own eyes. But the Lord pondereth the heart. Well, preacher, this is the way I see it. Well, preacher, I just think it's like this. Ah, you guys preaching on heaven and hell. You guys preaching you must be born. Oh, you've got to be saved. You guys preaching that this is sin and you shouldn't do that. And God condemns this and God wants you to do that. You guys talk. This is the way I think it is. You know what the Bible says that person is? They're a fool. Anybody that takes their own reasoning, their own deduction, their own thinking process, their own understanding, and they place that in place of what God clearly says. Is a fool. Is a fool. Perhaps they didn't give it a whole lot of thought. They just assumed that they had the right information And they were wrong. They were wrong. Years ago, my grandmother, my dad's mother passed away. I was we were on a mission trip out in Utah, we were with Brother Mike Barden. And we were helping put a roof on and different things preaching. And got the call that grandma passed away and the funeral was going to be Saturday, so I flew into Pittsburgh. Kathy came up and met me. Do you remember, Kathy? I was hoping she wouldn't be in the service for this illustration. She met me there. We drove from Pittsburgh to Philly and the funeral was Saturday and we had to leave as soon as the funeral was over. We get back for church Sunday. I was exhausted. We've been out there all week working. I flew back. It was late at night. We got in Friday night. And I was tired. It's about a four and a half, four-hour drive back, depending who's driving And so we're coming across, some of y'all know Pennsylvania, we're coming across from Allentown across 78 over towards Harrisburg, if you're familiar with that pass. And then you get 81. And I just assumed everybody knew that Maryland was b south of Pennsylvania. So I was tired. I said, Kathy, would you mind driving? I was I'm gonna sleep. I got church tomorrow. I'm gonna sleep. And uh you hit you know, you hit eighty one, just go south and We'll get down there. So I f I fell asleep. I was out. It was about two hours later. I woke up. She's driving just and I'm looking out and I've been on 81 hundreds of times and I'm looking around and say, I don't recognize this. What where are we at? We're on 81 And there's like big rocks and we're getting in these things. And I said, where in the world are we? And this is before you had GPS and all that. And I'm looking around and it said New York State Line, five miles. Said New York. Yeah, I went north. And at this point she still was convinced it seemed right to her this was the way to go. I think Kathy, Marilyn is south. So we turned around and I drove the rest of the way. Now, to her in her defense, she had never driven that way before. It seemed right. She was absolutely even when I woke up and I started questioning, she was absolutely convinced that this was right, this was the correct way. But she was wrong. Now I never give the illustrations where I'm wrong. I only give the ones where she is wrong And you know what it cost us? A couple hours, some gas money. Got back a little late. So it was a sincere mistake. He was sincere. She didn't deliberately do that. It was sincere. And it cost us a little money, a little time. But life is serious. And you can be as sincere as can be as a person can be. But if you don't have this matter of your soul's salvation settled, it is tragic, tragic consequences. It costs more than just a few hours. It costs more than a couple bucks of gas. It costs an eternity of torment and horror. The deductions. Well I think it's fine. I think everything's all right. I think I'm good. When it comes to life and death, theories and speculation are not good enough. When it comes to heaven and hell, theories and man's speculation is not good enough, I've got to know Where this way's leading. I have got to know where I'm going to end up When I get to the end of this journey. If you would, turn with me and I'm gonna need to wind down here, but come back to First John with me if you would. First John in chapter number five. And when you get there, 1 John 5, look with me if you would at verse 11. I'm going to start reading. We're going to go down through verse 13 and pay very, very close attention to what God is saying here. He says, this is the record. This is the truth. This is what God has given to us. That God has given to us eternal life. That's what we want. That's where we want to end up. And this life is where? It's in his Son. It's in the Lord Jesus Christ. He that hath the Son hath life. And he that hath not the Son of God. Huh, that's not life. These things have I written unto you That believe on the name of the Son of God. Now look at this next statement. That ye may think that ye have eternal life. No. That ye may hope. No. That ye may what? No. He's saying, listen, God does not want us living our lives, heading to a direction, a destination, where we just think it's right. We just hope that's the correct destination. God says we need to know That where I'm heading is the right place. Where I end up is heaven and not hell. These things have I written unto you. I've given you my word, so you don't have to just lean on your own understanding and lean on your own reasoning and what you think and what seems to you to be. This is what it is. And you can know based on what I've promised, what I've said, life is in his son. And then you can know. That's where you end up is life and not death. Life and not death. This is what is right. This is God's word tells us what is wrong, not what we think is right, what we deduct is wrong. But what God says is true. So he references man's deductions. No seeming, no thinking, no hoping. But knowing based on the Word of God. Now, let me give you my last one. I'm about out of time. I want us to notice that Solomon, first of all, references a life's direction. There is a way. Then he references human deduction that seemeth right unto a man. But then he references a tragic destination. But the end thereof are the ways of death. The end thereof, the final destination is death. Now, I want to take a moment and explain something. Death does not mean death does not equal ceasing to exist Some people, there's some cults that teach that when you die, you cease to exist. You're annihilated, you no longer exist. That is not the truth. The Bible references death. What death is, it's not uh does not mean to cease to exist. It is a condition of existence. Death is separation from God, separation from good and right, pure and holy The death being referenced here is a separation from God forever, as we already mentioned, in a horrific place called hell. There is nothing good, there is nothing pure, there is nothing right, there is nothing pleasant. Death. The end thereof are the ways of death One last reference, if you would come back to Matthew again, the Sermon on the Mount, chapter 7, same place we were. And notice what again what the Lord Jesus Christ says in verse number 21. Matthew 7, 21. This reference, then we'll bring this together. Matthew chapter 7, first book of the New Testament, Matthew chapter 7, look at verse 21. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, Shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Now look what he says. He expands on this. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, would have we not prophesied in thy name? Thy name cast out devils, and thy name done many wonderful works. Then will I profess unto you I what's that next word? I never knew you. I never knew you. Imagine that. Jesus says, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Tragic destination, tragic destination I read about a lady, I believe it's a true story. I think it might have been in Russia, I don't know where it was, out west. It's years ago. And a lady was traveling with a small child on a train. They were going long distance. It was winter time. And she was very worried. She had never been this way before. I was visiting family or something. And she was very, very worried that she would not get off at the right stop. at the right um station. She was worried she'd get off the wrong s at the wrong station. So she kept saying to the um The the conductor, the guy that walks up and down. She kept saying to him, please, I'm very tired. I may fall asleep. I've never done this before. Would you please tell me where I'm supposed to get off. What station is mine? He checked her. He says, yes, ma'am, you can count on me. You can trust me. I will make sure you get off at the right station. She was comforted a bit and f was a little settled with that and sure enough as that train went down, the cracking of the tracks It's dark, it's night, it's snow, and the train's plowing its way through heavy snow. Finally, the train kind of came to a stop. And the fellow in the seat behind her had heard her keep asking the conductor about what her stop was, what her stop was. And the fellow turned around and he said, ma'am, this is your stop. I've been counting, watching which stops we were, and this is the next one. This is the one you went off. She goes, well, where's the conductor? He says, I don't know, but I know this is your stop. If you don't get off, you're going to miss it. She said, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Grabbed her little baby up, got her satchel, and running up down the steps, and stepped out into the dark. Right as she stepped off the plane, the engine fired up and train took off down the track It went a good ways. Heard a toot. The conductor came back and he said, ma'am, your station's up here. And he says, where's the lady here who's worried about getting off? And the fella head says, Well, we stopped at her station back there. In the dart And he goes, no, no. There was something laying on the track. The train had to stop. We had to clear it. There was no station there. She got off in the middle of a snowstorm in a wilderness somewhere with her baby. They panicked, they called, they tried to reverse that thing, they got back there, it was an hour or so later. Found her and her baby froze solid on the train track. Everybody believed it was right. The fella heard. They were sincere. Yeah, this is it. This is it. But they didn't know what they thought It cost her and her baby her life. You agree with me? That's tragic. I tell you what's even more tragic. Somebody that disregards the clear teaching of Scripture It says, I don't care what the Bible says, and I I think it's this way, and I believe, and this is what seems right to me. The Bible says that person's a fool. They get to the end of their destination. The end of that way is death. If you're not saved, listen, if you're just playing I hope you'll listen to a preacher. If you're just playing with your soul salvation, And you're just blowing off what God clearly teaches in His Word. And maybe to you it's just a joke. Maybe to you it doesn't seem very important. But I'm telling you, as a preacher of the Word of God, there is a day coming. When this life will end, we step out into eternity. And it's either heaven or hell. Either heaven or hell. You better not we cannot play with that or just this is what I think. We better get our nose in that book and find out. This is what's true. And I'll tell you what's true. Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. You must be saved. You must turn to Christ. Trust Him as your Savior. Take seriously what God's Word says. Father in heaven, I pray that you would use this sobering truth. I pray that nobody under the sound of my voice, God, would toy with this or postpone or disregard. The important decision to be saved. God, I'm asking for your Holy Spirit to bring overwhelming conviction And folks would turn to Christ and be saved. And Lord, those of us who are saved, help us to take very seriously our responsibility to share it with others, and our responsibility to live as a Christian should live. Not lean on our own understanding, but in all our ways acknowledge you. Let you direct our paths. Our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know. I've trusted Christ. I have biblical basis for my assurance of salvation. I've got that settled. How many like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I've got it. God has saved my soul. I know based on scripture. All right, thank you. How many would say, you just raise your hand, I wonder how many would say, preacher. And I'm not living for God like I should. Now that doesn't mean we lose our salvation. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about being a testimony, about taking what God says seriously and not living a Christian life that seems right, but what God says. It should be that. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I know. I know there's areas in my life that I have got to get in line with the Word of God. God bless you. There's hands all around. That's revival. And I say, no, not what I think is right, but what God says is right. That's what I follow. How about it? Any others? God's Holy Spirit's dealing with you. I know it is. I know he is. There's things that are not right. As a Christian, you say I need to make that right. How about it? Others? How about it? Is there someone here this morning say, preacher? I can't honestly say that I know for sure that God has forgiven my sin and saved me from sin in hell. I don't want to play with that. I need to get that taken care of. I need to settle that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? You may be a good person, you may be a fine human being, but unless you be born again, unless you trust Christ, Destination is horrific. How about it? Any at all uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I've not had that settled. I need that settled. How about it? Listen, you can be religious and as lost as a drunkard. You don't trust Christ. Now, Father in heaven, we all know folks that need Christ. I pray you'd help us to live Christian life in such a way that they see you in us. And I pray you'd help us to verbalize, share with them the message of Christ so they can be saved. Help us, Lord, in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together ahead