But I'm very grateful. Second Peter chapter three, verse number fifteen. Peter's writing, of course, and just a refresher Peter's writing to believers who have been scattered all over because of persecution. They fled for their lives. They were booted out of their homes. They left their communities. Some of them were physically beaten. Several lost their lives. for no other reason than they were disciples of Jesus Christ. And so he's writing 1 Peter to encourage them and give them some instruction. Second Peter And my impression in studying it, 2 Peter, they've kind of settled down into these regions throughout Asia Minor there. And um they're re-establishing their churches. So he's writing to them. And if you'll remember, chapter 2 and much of chapter 3, he has been warning them about these false teachers coming in. They're re-establishing their churches, they're getting their feet back on the ground And these false teachers are creeping in. So he writes a very, very strong warning to them about that. And then chapter 3, these scoffers making fun of the idea that Jesus is coming back again, new heaven, new earth And he's finishing up the letter here, and he's bringing it back much like Jude does in the book in that little book of Jude. He urges them to stay focused on the Lord and their own spiritual development. So he's writing about that. Now notice what he says here in verse number fifteen. He says, And account that the long suffering of our Lord is salvation. Now we looked at that last week. couple of weeks ago, the long suffering of God. How many people are glad God is long suffering? Phew. I mean a daily basis, I thank the Lord for his patience, his mercy, his long suffering. But then he goes on and says this. He says, even as our beloved brother Paul also, according to the wisdom given unto him, hath written unto you, as also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things that he's been talking about, the return of the Lord, being faithful. Now look what he says. In which are some things hard to be understood. Which they that are unlearned and unstable rest. That word rest there means twist or pervert. We're going to talk about that in a future message. As they also, as they do also the other scriptures, to their own destruction. But he makes this little phrase here referencing the Apostle Paul. He says he wrote some things that are hard to be understood Did you ever read the Bible and come across something and say, man, that's hard to understand. I'm not sure what he's talking about there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Peter says that Peter, it's not because you and I are dumb, although that may be a factor in some cases, but there are portions of Scripture that are hard to be understood Peter acknowledges that in Paul's writings. And so I want to talk about that a little bit tonight. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now or study your word. And we're grateful for the Bible, and the power of your word has just recently has just really struck me how powerful this book is. And so help us be faithful. And God, we want to be true to your word. I want to be in my preaching and teaching. I pray you'd use your word to bear fruit in our lives. It would have an effect, and we'd be a good witness for you in this old world. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Peter's emphasizing, as in a previous message, the importance that because God is long-suffering, we should not abuse his patience Right? God's very patient with us, but we shouldn't abuse that. We should use his patience as an opportunity to grow and get right. We get out of the will of God. We do something stupid. You know, we um uh anybody here since you got saved did something stupid spiritually Yeah, we say something, we do something. Sometimes we don't even think, it just happens, it's like, oh, what am I thinking? I wasn't thinking Sometimes, I hate to say this, but I've been doing this, involved in this long enough, I know this is true. Sometimes we just sin on purpose. Huh? We know it's wrong. But old sinful nature wants it and boom. And God is so patient with us, and He suffers long. And we have to be very, very careful. Now I know I'm rehashing a little bit what we preached before, but we have to be very, very careful we don't abuse that. And rather use that long-suffering, that patience God gives with us, that room, He gives us room to make it right. That's what that's all about, that long suffering. And for the unsaved, he's very patient with them, he bears up, bears with them a long time so that they have opportunity to get saved And so for you and I as Christians, we have to be very, very careful that we be diligent that in God's long-suffering to press forward. In fact, look at verse 14 This is what we preached on last time. He says, wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, the new heaven, new earth, the return of Christ, that ye may be found of him in peace Without spot and blameless. That's what we should be pursuing. That's what we should, that should be our be very diligent, our effort to our lives be without spot, without without stain of this world. uh be pure and blameless and peaceful, not fussing and fighting and all that. And uh and so he's emphasizing that And I think what he's telling us here, it's not enough just to be diligent and, let me use this word, militant against the false teachers. We're told to contend. It's a military term, actually. It comes from, and that means to oppose and fight. Do not allow false teaching in. And uh we've been very diligent about that, I think, here at the church, being very, very careful in our music, in our in our uh the people we bring in to influence us. I've tried to be very diligent um in what we use, the materials we use, we need to be diligent about that. However, we in in in opposing the false teaching and the corruption of the world that is constantly trying to infiltrate In opposing that, we have to be careful we don't neglect our own personal spiritual well being We've got to feed ourselves. We've got to grow ourselves, grow in the Lord. And he's going to emphasize this even more so as we wind down this chapter. We're going to see him addressing that. We can get all worked up over evildoers. How many people here ever got worked up over people doing wrong? And we do. Man, you open the door on politics, man, people get worked up. And liberals and false teaching, we get all worked up on that. However, we mustn't be negligent in our walk with God. Let me just say this. We ought to, and I emphasize this, I believe this with all my heart, we ought to be diligent in establishing a daily devotion time. Every Christian ought to have a time. Every day I get alone with God. I read scripture. I meditate. I absorb scripture into my heart and soul, my mind. I pray, I pour my heart out to God, my needs, I praise him, thank him. There has to be that daily time, a daily time of that. That is so important. Prayer, scripture reading, scripture memory. We ought to work at that. Personal separation. That's probably not preached enough. But keeping myself separate from influences that corrupt me out there in the world. And um and now it's not out in the world. Now it's in our pockets With the internet and all of that stuff. And we got to be diligent in personal separation. Keeping myself, my own spiritual well-being. Um, church attendance. God gave the church. The church is God's idea. This is his plan, his design. It's the bride of Christ. And the whole uh one of the major purposes of the church, of course, is missions. That's up there. That's the top. But the church is designed to help you and I as believers grow in our faith The whole functioning of the church is so that I can grow in my faith and be strong in the Lord to be that witness out in the world And so I can't neglect the church. It's so vital in my spiritual growth. Soul winning, personal soul winning, sharing my faith with others and my witness. And we could go down the list So that's Peter is emphasizing this, them personally staying close to God, staying strong in the Lord, strong in their faith. Keeping their walk with God, what it ought to be. And he's emphasizing that. And now, our text, he is appealing to the Apostle Paul. And he's referring to him to reinforce what he's saying. Notice he says there in the middle of verse 15, he says, even as our beloved brother Paul. Now that phrase is interesting. If you know anything about Paul and Peter's relationship, that statement is significant. Peter is referring, would you agree with me? That phrase there, that's a term of endearment. Our beloved brother Paul. Just that statement there, that sounds to me like Peter loved Paul. Huh? Sounds to me, and some of the stuff he says, Peter had tremendous respect for Paul Now you say, why is that so significant? If you would take your Bible and turn with me to Galatians chapter number two. There was an incident earlier on between Peter and Paul That could have affected Peter's attitude and his appreciation for the Apostle Paul. But to Peter's credit and to a testimony to his spiritual maturity It helped them. Galatians chapter 2, if you would notice with me there, verse number 11. Now Paul, P this is Paul writing, and he's writing to the church at Galatia. And he references an encounter he had with Peter. Now listen to what he says. He says, but when Peter was come to Antioch, look at his next statement. I withstood him to the face because he was to be blamed. Whoa. These are two titans of the New Testament church. And Paul says, I had to withstand Peter to the face because he was to be blamed. He was wrong. He's writing this in the Word of God for all eternity. He goes on and explains. Verse 12: For before that certain came from James, he did eat with the Gentiles, but when they were come, he withdrew and separated himself from the Gentiles. Fearing them which were of the circumcision. Who are those that are of the circumcision? Who's he talking about? The Jews. So Peter, when there was no Jews around, he's sitting down eating with the Gentiles and fellowshipping with the Gentiles. Some Jews, those of the circumcision, show up and put and Peter's like, whoops. And he separates himself from the Gentiles when the Jews are there. Paul rebukes them. Look, he says at the end of verse 12, fearing them which were other circumstances. And the other Jews dissembled themselves likewise with him. Peter had profound influence. I mean you have they're here eating and the Jews show up from Jerusalem. Peter Woo, he gets away from the Gentiles. Oh no, me, huh? No, I'm not with them. And the other Jews do the same thing. Do you remember when Peter said after the resurrection And he had denied the Lord. And he says, I go a fishing. Anybody remember that in John? What did the other disciples do? Say, we ain't going fishing with you. We're staying faithful. Did they say that? No, they said, we're going with you Peter had profound influence on people. And here, when he's doing that, what is he doing? He's being what? He's being hypocritical. He's okay with these people when there's no Jews around. The Jews show up. Whoops, he separates. Paul says, I had to withstand him to his face. Verse 13, and the other Jews assembled sight likewise, insomuch that Barnabas was also carried away with their dissimulation. That word dissimulation means putting on a show, hypocrisy. Even Barnabas, the son of thunder, the son of consolation, I should say, was his nickname. But when I saw that they walked not I Uprightly according to the truth of the gospel. What is the truth of the gospel? Truth of the gospel is Jew or Gentile are one in Christ. This is unscriptural separation. So they were not, they walked not uprightly according to the truth of the gospel. I said unto Peter, before them all, this is public rebuke. If thou, being a Jew, livest after the manner of the Gentiles and not as do the Jews, why compelest thou the Gentiles to live as do the Jews? We who are by nature Jews by nature and not sinners of the Gentiles. Paul's rebuking him for this, publicly rebuking him Can you see that if somebody generally, let me back up, generally the principle is in leadership is you rebuke privately and you praise publicly All right, that's a good principle to get your mind rebuked privately, praised publicly. Paul rebuked him publicly. In front of everybody. Peter, you're wrong. You're being a hypocrite. Quote. Now, why did he do it publicly? Because he was influencing others Everybody needed to know that this is hypocritical, this is wrong, this type of behavior, this unscriptural separation. There's biblical separation, there's unbiblical separation, this was unbiblical. If I separate from someone because of the color of their skin or because they're educational level or because they're financial level, I am a hypocrite. If I separate someone because they're living in sin and they're doing wrong, then that's biblical. You with me? So he publicly rebukes him. Whoa! Can you see where Peter might say, huh, and get in a huff about that? I can't, I haven't seen it happen in people. Rebuke is not easily taken by immature Christians. Rebuke is not easily accept by those who are immature in the faith, immature in the Lord. They get offended and they get angry and they get bitter. Oh, yeah, well, if that's the way it's going to be, cyanora. But Peter didn't do that. Peter is strong in the faith. He's mature enough to accept rebuke and to make him a better man. And so we come to Peter back here in 2 Peter chapter 3, and we find Peter is praising Paul. He loves him. This is years later. And Peter saw the truth and what Paul said and did. He appreciated it. He accepted it. And he was a better man for it. And he was grateful for Paul's intervention. Our beloved brother Paul. He could have gotten bitter. He could have gotten hateful about it, but he didn't. He accepted it. He accepted it. Paul coming back, if you would come back to our text again. Paul, it becomes obvious in what Peter says here is highly respected. in those churches at this time frame that he's writing. He was recognized as an apostle Not just by Peter, but by the churches in general. They all recognize Paul is a man of tremendous character, a man of tremendous respect. He's an apostle of God. That is a calling to a very specific office that no longer exists. And they recognize that. And so he appeals to Paul, and he goes back, even as, now notice in verse 15, we're back in our text, even as our beloved brother Paul. So he's reinforcing his statements. He's trying to verify, get some credentials maybe behind him in urging upon those believers to grow and be diligent, don't neglect the long-suffering of God. And he and he refers to Paul to verify what he's saying. Now I notice three things very, very quickly that he references, he appeals to Paul about. Number one, he appeals to the wisdom of Paul Notice what he says there. He says, even as our beloved brother Paul also, according to the wisdom given unto him. Peter is saying Paul has tremendous wisdom. It was given to him. Now here's my question. I'm studying this. My question comes to mind: is what is wisdom? What is wisdom? If somebody asks you that, how would you define wisdom? It's various ways. Yeah. I mean there's it can be defined in so many aspects. It has so many ram areas where it's applied and and so to narrow down a distinct simple Definition of wisdom, it's not easy. I put this down: the ability to gain knowledge and use it to carry out God's will. Wisdom is much more than simple. Having wisdom is much more than just having knowledge. A person can have a lot of knowledge. A person can be highly educated. A person can have a very high IQ and yet be a fool. Right or wrong? So wisdom is more than just having knowledge. I think knowledge is to an extent necessary to have wisdom, but wisdom is the ability to take that knowledge I have and then apply it and use it and put it in place so I can carry out God's will. Now, worldly wisdom, follow my thinking. Worldly wisdom is I take the knowledge I have, let's say for finances, just for sake of illustration. A worldly wise person would take that knowledge they have of finances and how it works and good and bad things to do with it and all of that, and they can accumulate great wealth Because they're using that knowledge they have to accomplish a purpose of gaining wealth, getting rich. Now, in and of itself, there's nothing necessarily wrong with that, but that's not wisdom from above What Peter's talking about here, that Paul had, was the wisdom: take all the knowledge I have, determine the will of God, and then apply that knowledge so my life fulfills the will of God. That's wisdom. That's wisdom. And so the abilities I simplified it a little bit more than that. The ability to determine the best course of action As a believer, as a disciple of Jesus Christ, every day we make decisions. Every day we are in circumstances and scenarios where we've got to determine what is the best course of action in this situation, in this encounter with this person, this conflict that's going on, this opportunity. And wisdom is the ability to take all this information I have from the Word of God and from experience And then apply that. What is the best course of action here? Wisdom. Wisdom. And so he goes back. He's appealing to Paul, the wisdom that Paul had. Notice what he says here, the wisdom given unto him. What's that tell us about wisdom? It's given. Paul, as educated as he was, he spoke multiple languages. Paul was brilliant. But the wisdom we're talking about that Peter's reference here was given to him It wasn't something he developed on his own. It wasn't something he worked up. James says in chapter 1, verse 5, if you lack wisdom, if any man lack wisdom, let him Ask of God who giveth to all men wisdom liberally and abraid not Proverbs chapter 2 verse 6 says, For the Lord giveth wisdom. The Lord giveth wisdom Paul's wisdom that he had in determining the best course of action, how to fulfill the will of God, carry out the will of God, was given to him by God. Again, I should have had you keep your place there in Galatians, but come real quickly back to Galatians with me. And Paul references this, I believe, indirectly, how he got this wisdom, where it came. Galatians chapter 1, and look with me if you would at verse 11. Galatians 1, 11. Paul is kind of giving his testimony here about how he ended up as an apostle and how God gave him this wisdom. Look in verse 11. He says, but I certify you, brethren, writing to the believers at Galatia there, that church That the gospel which was preached of me, the gospel he was preaching, is not after man. I didn't get it from men. This wasn't some man's idea, the gospel of Jesus Christ, death, burial, resurrection. I didn't get it from man. I put in the margin of my Bible beside that statement, Paul was an independent Baptist. Say, was Paul a Baptist? I think so. He didn't have that name, but he d undoubtedly believed the Baptist distinctives. They're biblical, right? Come on, somebody help me here. Then notice what he says, for I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it of man, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ. The wisdom Paul had was given to him by Jesus Christ, was given to him by God. And so it's a gift. Take your Bible if you would, real quickly. Everybody doing all right out there? All right, five people said yes. Come with me to Job. Job, chapter 28. Would you agree with me? Job might know a little bit about wisdom. He was an amazing man. Amazing. One of the people we get to heaven, we definitely want to meet and talk to. Job 28, and look at verse 12. And he asked the question we're talking about. It's like he's in on our conversation tonight. Verse 12. He says, but where shall wisdom be found? And where is the place of understanding? How do I get wisdom? Where do I find it? In the university? Where do I find wisdom? In the library? On the mountains, way up with some guru sitting up on top of a mountain somewhere? Man knoweth not the look at verse. Man knoweth not the price thereof of wisdom Neither is it found in the land of the living. The depth saith, It's not in me. The sea saith, It's not with me. It cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof. He's talking about wisdom. You can't buy wisdom. It cannot be valued with the gold of Ofar, with precious onyx or sapphire, the gold and the crystal cannot equal it. The exchange of it shall not be for jewels of fine gold. There's nothing material worth it. You can't buy it. No mention shall be made of coral or of pearls, for the price of wisdom is above rubies. The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, neither shall it be valued with pure gold. Wow, well whence cometh wisdom then? Where is the place of understanding? Where do I get it? Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living, kept close from the fowls of the air, destruction and death, say, we've not heard the fame thereof with our ears. God understandeth the way thereof, He knoweth the place thereof, God knows where wisdom is, He understands how you get it For he looketh to the ends of the earth and seeth under the whole heaven to make a weight for the winds and weigheth the waters by nature, by measure, when he made a decree for the rain and a way for the lightnings of thunder Then did he see it and declare it. He prepared it. God did. Yea. And searched it out. He's talking about wisdom. God. Now look at verse 28. He makes this final statement. He answers his question. And unto man he saith, Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom And to depart from evil is understanding. So Peter is writing to these believers, and he's urging them to not abuse God's long-suffering, resist these false teachers. Wait on the Lord, do right, live right. And he appeals to Paul and Paul's wisdom, even as the wisdom that God gave Paul. It's gift of God. It's a gift of God. To reject the word is to reject wisdom. To say, I don't fear, I have no fear of God. Is to say, I am a fool. I am a fool. Because the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. God gives So he appeals to the wisdom of Paul. Second of all, he appeals to the writings of Paul. Come back here to our text again, if you would. Even as our beloved brother Paul, also according to the wisdom given to him, hath written unto you. hath written unto you the writings of Paul hath written unto you. Most If not all of the books that God used Paul to pen, about 13, maybe, I think he penned Hebrews. So we're looking at 14, 15 books of the New Testament. That Paul penned. Most, probably all of them, were already written and in circulation at the time that Peter made this statement. So he's referring here to the writings of Paul, even the wisdom given unto him that hath written unto you. He's talking about the New Testament books that Paul penned. Under the inspiration of God. They were known throughout all the churches. They're being circulated throughout the churches. Paul's writing, they were very familiar with what he was referencing here They were being studied in the churches and taught and preached, just like I am, the book of Peter, teaching and preaching from this in our series. Churches were doing that with these writings of Paul. They were clearly recognized as Scripture. So I don't think Peter here, when he mentions the writings of Paul, I don't think he's simply appealing to Paul. I think he's appealing indirectly to Scripture. Paul's writings, they were scripture. They were inspired of God. They're part of the canon of the Word of God. And he says his writings reinforce what I'm saying to you, support what I'm saying to you. You know what Peter was doing? He was giving biblical support for his argument. And every preacher that is a sincere preacher that is right with God is going to base his messages on the Word of God. My opinion will never bring revival to a church. My opinion will never save a soul. My opinion will never change a life for the Lord in a miraculous way. The only thing that brings revival, the only thing that brings salvation, the only thing that changes the nature of a man is the Word of God. Not my opinion, not Dr. Joe Blow's opinion, but the Word of God. And that's what Peter's saying. The writings of Paul, the scripture support what I'm saying. Of course, Peter's writing under inspiration But in so doing, he's appealing to Paul as the penman of Scripture. The Scripture was the higher authority. No matter how great or how wise a teacher or a preacher may be, Scripture is the final authority. I or anyone else stand along, anyone else, Pat Creek, uh uh Richard Harper, any preacher we bring through there Anytime a preacher says something maybe as contrary to scripture, and I assure you we would never do it deliberately, but anytime we do, Scripture is the final authority, not the preacher. Not the teacher, not the Sunday school teacher. And then last of all, I end with this. Now you're I wonder if you're going to like this. I don't know. He appeals to the wisdom of Paul. He appeals to the writings of Paul. He appeals to the are you ready? Do I have your attention? He appeals to the woolliness of Paul. How about that? The wooliness of Paul. What in the world? Well, I gotta be honest with you, I had to look that one up. Thank God for thiss thesauruses. You're gonna learn a new word. In fact, this is the word of the week, woolly. And it doesn't mean in this context what you think it means. When you think of something woolly, you think of what? A caterpillar. Right? A little woolly caterpillar? Or a sheep, right, Cambry? That's not what the word means. I'm making a bigger issue out of this word than it really is. The word woolly used in this context here, what I'm trying to use it for, means this: to be vague. Or unclear or hard to grasp. Do you ever hear somebody say, I just can't wrap my head around that? Anyone ever hear that phrase? What they're saying is that's woolly I'm trying to start a new fad. Woolly. And notice what he says here. He says also, and this is what prompted this message to an extent and all as also in all his epistles speaking to them of these things which are some things hard to be understood. They're woolly. I can't wrap my head. Paul wrote this stuff under the inspiration of God. I'm reading it. I'm studying it. I have a hard time understanding. I can't grasp what he's getting at, what he's saying here And I'm here to tell you there are portions of Scripture that are that way. If anybody tells you they've got a handle on all the scripture, they understand it all, they've got it all down, they are not telling the truth. Peter himself said, eh, some of this stuff is void. He didn't say that, but now I want to be careful. Peter's not criticizing Paul here. I read multiple commentaries on it. I want to see what other people said about this hard to understood. Because I found it hard to understand. And some of them suggested, one in particular suggested that Peter was being critical of Paul, and he wasn't writing plainly, he wasn't writing clearly, he was muddying it up. People couldn't understand. That is not what Peter's doing. And the reason I know that is because Paul wasn't, Paul was the penman, not the author. God was the author. And what Peter was writing down was what Paul was writing down was exactly what God inspired him to write down. So he's not criticizing Paul, but I think rather it's an indirect praise of Paul, and this is what I'm getting at. I think Paul's understanding of the deep things of God is was hard for us to under grasp. I think Paul had an understanding of the things of God that average person like me just, man, that's over my head. I can't follow. The sovereignty of God. Sometimes that's tough to understand. Sovereignty of God, free will, man. You know, and Paul had a grasp of that. And Peter's recognizing that. Listen, this is no ordinary book. There's no other book in the world like this. And I'm grateful for Christian schools. My wife graduated from an ACE school, Christian school, and I'm grateful for them. They can be good, they can be bad. But one thing, an issue I often had was when you take the Bible and you teach it like any other book in school. You have history, you have literature, you have science, you have Bible, you have mathematics, you have current events, you have social studies. Wait a minute. This is not like the others This book stands above and beyond any writing of man. And Peter says, listen, this is the Word of God. And Paul, under the inspiration of God, wrote some things that as the heavens are higher than the earth. So these thoughts are higher than our thoughts. You with me? There's truths in this book that these little children can understand. These little children like Chloe little children. I'm teasing you. But little Nikita and these little children come in on the buses. And there's truths in here, little bus kids understand. I read a thing recently and I thought this was interesting, I gotta quit. But I read a thing recently that seems like the only people that have a hard time understanding the King James Bible are university professors. They're the only ones going around saying, Oh, I can't understand that. I found little bus kids understand it just fine. They don't have a problem. Got a good teacher, teach them. So the Bible There's teaching in there that's so clear and so simple little children can understand. And there's teaching in here so profound. We will never grasp until our glorified minds in the presence of God. Isn't that amazing book Peter appeals to Paul, particularly the writings of Paul, to verify. I am with S. Here's my final application. There's two difficulties in the Christian life. You've been saved any length of time, you know this is true. Or not, you're going to find out at some point. Number one, carrying out God's will consistently. Right? Doing the will of God consistently. We have a revival meeting or preacher or Sunday. Man, Sunday night, I'm gonna live for God this week. Oh will of God, I'm in the will of God, Monday shows up. Boom, I mess up. That consistency, getting and doing what God's will is consistently. Anybody here ever get about Monday or Tuesday, Wednesday, and you and you got did something or you didn't do something, and you say, I knew better than that. I knew Huh? That's a challenge in the Christian life being consistently doing the will of God. And and I don't I don't think it's knowing the will of God. I I I'm looking at this crowd, intelligent crowd For the most part. And we know what God's will is and the basic things, right? For the most part, we know what God's will is. There's some things that are out there that maybe we're trusting God to lead us. We know what God's will is. I like what peel what David said. He said throughout Psalms, he prayed this several times. He said, Lord, teach me to do thy will. He knew what God's will is, he just needed to do it consistently. That's one of the challenges in Christian life. That's what Peter's challenging them. And the second one is this: controlling my priorities Keeping my priorities right. The whole people mess up. We mess up in our Christian life when we get our priorities out of whack. Matthew 6, 33. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. In other words, if I get my priorities right, God will work it all together. Got to work it all together. So we know what the Bible teaches. There's stuff we understand, but there's stuff very, very clear. We know what it is. Let's do it. Let's do it consistently and make it a high priority. Amen. Father, I pray you'd help us tonight as we finish out this Mother's Day. Lord, we're going into a new week. I pray that you would just lead us. Help us, Lord, to do your will consistently this week, as Peter instructs us. And make that a high priority. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many of us here tonight would say, Preacher, I know what God's will is in particular issues. I know what his general will is for me as a Christian, and tonight I want to renew my commitment to do and live out the will of God in home, at work, in the community, here at the church. Any like that by the uplifted hand. I want to renew my commitment. To live out what I know is the will of God as given in the Word. God bless you. That's about every hand. I can't imagine a Christian not wanting that. How about this? Maybe some would say I need to get some priorities out of line back in line. The Lord's been dealing with my heart. Some are out of whack. I need to get them back in whack. Get him back. Any like that? I've got some priorities. I really need to get back in line. God bless you. God bless you. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name.