First Thessalonians chapter number four. Thank you, Brother Damian. Uh to help you remember brothers Damian's last name is Jalapeno. And so you can remember I really don't even know what your last name is, Salaya or something? Jalapeno. I don't know how I called him jalapeno, uh, but that's been a standing joke for years since we've met. But 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, thank you so much, and I was so excited to see uh everybody that's here. Uh 1 Thessalonians 4 verse 1. Bible says, for lo demás, hermanos, os rogamos, I'm just teasing. Some of you looking what uh furthermore, then we beseech you, brethren. And exhort you by the Lord Jesus that as if you have received of us how you ought to walk and to please God, so you would abound more and more. For you know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus, for this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that you should abstain from fornication. We could read on through the chapter, but for time, we'll cut it off there. And uh would like to talk tonight about what my home church taught me to help me on the mission field. What my home church taught me to help me on the mission field. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you, Lord, for the excitement here, Lord for what you're doing in our life. You you you came that we might have life. Lord, thank you that we don't have to go to hell. But thank you for that you came not that we just have eternal life, but that we have an abundant life on this side of glory. And thank you, Lord, for the excitement that folks have here for souls. And but then they just love uh serving Jesus and love their their fellowship in Christ here at our church and thank you for the love for missions and uh for them uh receiving us into their family Blessed tonight, Lord. Have your will in the message, and have your will in our decisions. In Jesus' most precious name we pray. Amen. As Pastor said, the church doesn't call The pastor doesn't call, but God does call. But the church is responsible to equip us for the work of the ministry. And my home church uh taught me some things to be able to help me uh for the work of the ministry fifty-two years ago. I mentioned this morning, I think I may have mentioned it three or four times, uh during the last few days, uh uh Sunday school bus started picking my brother, sister, and me up. Uh forty-two years ago I finally got saved After going to church there for so long, I went to our academy, spent my last year in high school washing dishes and peeling potatoes at a restaurant. Uh then I went to Bible Institute there. I went went off to two more years of college, House Anderson College, and thirty-six years ago God allowed me to start a Spanish ministry at our home church Um my I met my wife there. Uh she came after I was pastoring three years single. My pastor was there uh watching over me and uh but uh after she followed me around for three years I said, Okay, okay, I'll marry you And if we really tell the story we both were following each other. It really wasn't one of those things love at first sight and uh but um praise the Lord for my good beautiful wife And and uh twenty-seven years ago we arrived in the Dominican Republic and have been there and what a what a pleasure it is uh to be able to serve him there. But to be able to serve him there I had to learn some things first. And we better be ready. And sometimes we're not ready at a at the time we've been trained. Uh but there there's one thing learn to be a doctor, another thing, I don't care if you want to be a brain surgeon, you're not operating on me first. I want you to practice on some other people first. Amen Uh in in the Dominican Republic I've made my my share of mistakes. When I went there another pastor tried to get me to teach in his Bible college and they were going a different direction anyway But I told him and he wanted me to be a char in charge of half of his pastors that went out and I said, How can I be in charge of those guys? I haven't started a church here, I don't know. Uh but uh my home church did teach me some very important things and I dare say as I talk about this tonight you'll say, Well That's what we've learned here too. What did my home church teach me? First of all, my home church taught me how to live My home church taught me how to live. I don't know if you remember the initials TGIF, thank God it's Friday, and you know, Friday so we can party. enjoy the weekend and and of course usually church is not included uh i in the weekend. Uh that that was my life, but I come from a r uh a rough family uh with a rough uh lived in a rough area uh with a rough lifestyle. When I was in junior high school, French Georges County started busing And our our school uh went from uh from ninety-five percent white to ninety-five percent black, and I pastor a black church, so I'm not so I'm not saying that in a prejudiced way, but it was a war zone It was a terrible time. I hated life. I went to school. I hated going to school. Uh you had to go to school ready to fight and I could fight, but I was scared to death. Uh every day going to school And I I got into drugs, got i and and and um I I I didn't learn from mom and dad. Uh kind of mom and dad, my dad uh thought he's kinda like Elvis Presley Uh and and they were th they were like cool people and and they they drank and listened to their music and had their parties and and but I got saved And my my home church taught me to live a different way. Amen. Taught me to live a different way. If you look in verse number one. Says, furthermore then, we beseech ye, brethren. Now I like wind-sucking preaching, Brother Leatherman. I do Now I think you have to have something to say, uh, but I don't like exclusively when sucking preaching. I like different people differ different way. Dr. Creed, I hear years ago. Boy, he was all over the platform kicking uh the microphone stands, knocking them down like uh other people did, and uh he kind of calmed down uh through the years, but his content And his message has never changed. And um, but I'm saying that my job as a preacher is to preach God's word to you. And uh I know there's other jobs. Uh uh, but the m I believe my main job is to preach and teach God's Word, and then the ball's in your court. Amen. It's not my job to convince you. No, I I better pray. I better walk with the Lord. I better have a clean life Uh uh that that that's uh of course uh a no-brainer, uh but uh it it really is the Holy Spirit that's going to work in your heart and your life. Amen. I say all that to say in verse one that says, For them we're in better brethren We beseech you. My home church begged me to do right. Pastor Leatherman can't make you do right But praise the Lord for a church, Pastor Leatherman, and the brothers and sisters here, that they beg you to do right. Maybe you have a difference of opinion sometime Folks, we can't make you have a different opinion than what you already have. But we can share the scripture with you, share some life experiences too in a practical way And beg you to do right. My home church begged us and gave us ideas how we could do it to read our Bibles To pray. They hand tracks out. Our pastor used to say, when people come to church, uh look for people that are sitting by their self. People that look lonely, walk up to them, shake their hand, say hi. And a and so we w tried to be friendly. My home church taught me uh how to live a pure life, how to how to wait for a good godly wife. And I'm glad I got the right one. I was twenty-nine years old, just a couple months shy of 30 My wife and I didn't have our first child until we were 30. Our last was f w w when when we were forty. And so we're a little older with w with our kids. But I'm glad that my home church begged me to do right And we beg you, teenagers, do right. The world is trying to bomb bombard you with weird ideals today. But we beg you just do right. Live the right way. My home church not only begged me, my home church exhorted me. If you look in verse one again, furthermore, bear them We beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus. We should exhort one another. Look in Hebrews chapter number three and verse twelve. Well I don't know about you that uh my dad was not real expressive. He didn't say I'm proud of you, son. He didn't say I love you. Didn't give me a hug. But my dad was he could get on us. He could rip our face off. He could rip the other part off too. A good old whipping. Uh and we were rebuked and punished. My dad all he had to do was look at us. We knew that later we were going to get it We didn't touch stuff in people's houses and stuff when we were growing up. But look at Hebrews chapter number 3, verse 12. It says, Take heed, brethren And that, of course, gives the idea of probably Christians, that there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief and departing from the living God, but exhort one another when Daily, while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. Folks, we need to encourage one another. Need to help one another. I won't mention his name just in case you come down. I don't want you to think bad about him. He's a good boy. But there's a boy in our church, his uh he started coming And when he started coming, I asked the bus driver, I said, Is that the Pentecostal preacher's son? He said, No. I said, Are you sure? I saw him right next door to their church And so I went on a bus with him after service and dropped him off and found out he he lived there but it was and he wasn't the Pentecostal preacher's son, he was the head deacon's son And so I went and visited the head deacon of that Pentecostal church and I said, you know, I think that y'all sh your son should go to church with you. I didn't want problems. I didn't want to divide the family up. And of course I would have rather had them there with us, but Uh well they said he doesn't want to go. They're mean to him there at the church. And uh not kind to him and he really loves you, he loves your church, and he was in our Bible institute. And his dad asked if he could come. I said, No, you go to Pentecostal Bible College. We teach different doctrine and uh well he ended up leaving and came to our church. But anyway, I'm saying all that to say he started coming to our church and shortly after I found out why people were mean to him. Oh, you ever meet somebody that they can joke with you and say whatever they want, but you can't joke with them? Uh he he he um he said something mean to somebody uh one time to a a young lady and he said um are you pregnant? Oh look at your belly ho And I was mad gonna punch him in his nose and Noami said, No, leave him alone and and so I told the girl, I said, What you need to tell him is so and so I can lose this belly anytime I want, but you can never change that ugly face of yours. Encourage one another, exhort one another daily. Amen. But what I'm saying is He's had some issues through the years, but he's uh he was in our Bible college for eleven years. He's been up and down, in and out. But he's still doing good, and I believe he may not go out and pastor, he may go help somebody, but we've tried to encourage him, and he's still there Just stay faithful. When you get mad, somebody sits in your seat. One of our ladies came one time and in the very beginning she started coming and came and tapped on my wife's shoulder. She said, excuse me, move, you're in my seat My wife got up and moved. The next service, knowing me was sitting in the same place, right about where you are, Brother Mark, and the lady came up and tapped on her shoulder again and said, please you need to move. And and um she's come to church all those years, Sister Gloria. And Gloria, she's a she's a catbird, uh, but she uh uh I asked her recently, I said, Gloria Did you know that when you were moving my wife out of her seat years ago that that uh that was my wife? And she said, Yeah, I knew. I said, why did you move her out of uh out of the seat if she was my wife? She said, because she was sitting in my seat. Folks, uh the simple truth is we can't make Gloria do or be anything. We beg her to do right. We exhorted her to do right, and we showed her how to do right. And verse one again says Furthermore then, brethren, bret then we beseech you, brethren And exhort you by the Lord Jesus Christ that as ye have received of us, yeah you ought to walk. People ought to receive it of us and not just from the Word. Now a lot of us can get up and preach uh A hellfire and brimstone message and well you ought to do this, you ought to do that, but there's one thing preaching it, there's another thing practicing it. Amen. And praise the Lord for a church that showed us Not just preached it to us, showed us how to live a consistent, godly Christian life. Wellington, you know Pastor Wellington pastors of Resurrection Baptist Church. They didn't have a pastor for ten years and he went in and took it, was doing a great job with it. But Weddington, I've been in churches with him, and he's even come to keep the sway meal, and he preaches my messages word for word. Even give some of the same illustrations. Well, praise the Lord, I must have taught them well. Amen. I taught them how to preach. And and we really ought to teach one another How to love the Lord. We right now are trying to think some some ladies have come and gone. Most of our good workers we send out to start another church, so we're constantly training people. And right now we're challenged with, okay, who can work with the ladies. Okay, and we we really would like to take and have an older ladies group and a younger ladies group, but who can take those younger ladies And show them how to be a godly wife, a godly mother, a godly Christian woman. Amen. That is our job. To teach the ladies in our church how to live a different way. How to teach the the men in our church to live a different way. And look at what a word right in the middle of this verse, real interesting. It says, Furthermore, then we receive you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus, that as ye received of us how ye ought How you ought. I know it's just one word, but alt means useful, advantageous, beneficial, needful, uh behooval, expedient, incumbent, and in other words It's really beneficial for us to walk the right way. I'm glad that my home church taught me how to live because it's helped me in the Dominican Republic But it's helped me to have a beautiful family. It's helped me to have good health so far. It's helped me to have God's protection and provision. Um Carl-Brother Carlton White and I both were saved out of a drug culture. We were saved about six months apart And Carleton uh he he uh went to Bible college with with me and Rick Connors and some others and and uh he graduated, got married, and I don't know what happened But he ended up uh getting divorced and and he uh was living on the streets and at some point he then ended up in jail and then he was back out of jail and living on the streets and eating out of trash cans and suddenly found him at Independent. uh outsoul went in, gave him a track, uh uh selling t-shirts, he what he was doing, and he got excited and came back and he went to Brother Dove, who's our associate pastor for years, and said, Brother Dove, what do I need to do to get back? He said, you need to start over. You need to start from zero. So he went to our Bible college again and did all the classes and even took uh extra extra classes and got everything they offered and he started working in the prison ministries and I think he's in five different prisons and he actually fell by the wayside again And then he got he he got right again in his back, working with it. Well Carlton's not an evangelist, not a pastor, not a missionary But he does preach in the m in the prison ministries and he came down to Dominican and I explained to our people he is not a preacher, our pastor, he is not a not a missionary, but he preaches in prisons and I want him to preach to you. He got up to preach And he humhauled around for about five minutes and cried, wept. And Brother Leatherman Carleton said, Uh I I know you're probably wondering why I'm crying. He said, I'm having a rough time. He said, me and Steve grew up together. Me and Steve have the same background. And he said, Steve's not any better preacher than I am. Steve doesn't have any more talent than I do, but I can't do what Steve did does now because I messed my life up. You know you really ought to do right. Amen. Maybe some of you say, oh, Brother Sidder said he was saved out of the drug culture, so I at least can take some drugs for a while. No Don't be an idiot. Amen. I know that's a big word. Uh uh maybe I shouldn't say that word, but uh we ought To serve the Lord. Praise the Lord for a church that taught me how to live. And there's a second thing my home church taught me that's helped me on the mission field. My home church taught me how to love. Look in verse number nine. But as touching brotherly love, ye need not that are right unto you, for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another. And of course we know the great greatest commandment is to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, all thy soul, all thy mind, all thy strength And then our neighbor as ourself. And then verse ten, and indeed you do it towards all the brethren which are Macedonian, but we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more and more Just loving one another is such a big thing. Amen. We need to love one another. I'm I I mentioned starting the message the type of background I come from. I I grew up in a fighter's home My mom and dad fought from and argued, it seemed like from the time we got up to the time we went to bed. Uh uh I love my parents. And it probably wasn't as bad as maybe I remember, uh, but it was real bad. We grew up with a lot of anger, bitterness, jealousy, selflishness, yelling, violence in our home I remember what uh I didn't watch him do it but uh see and after he did he broke my mother's arm and it was in uh like a thousand little pieces the bone and when she died three and a half months ago she still had the bar in her arm. But many of us grew up in a home of alcohol pleasure seeking, trying to keep up with the Jones. My biolog biological father was not good to me and my brother and sister. He and my mom divorced when we were real little My stepfather n uh never told me he loved me, never gave me a hug, never and I'm not uh uh st sitting before a psychologist now trying to uh blame on him everything. And don't misunderstand me He was a he was a good man. He he worked hard, uh, very disciplined as a Marine Um and uh he tried to give my mom and three kids and weren't his kids a good life although we weren't his children by birth, but I remember when I was a new Christian, my mom and him split up. They eventually got a divorce. But I remember watching at Independent How the men would sit next to their boys and put their arms around them in the service. I thought, wow, putting an arm around their boy? I've never heard a man say, I love you. And uh uh that was weird to me and people started at church there, started saying they loved me and my sister and I would go and we didn't like leaving. They used to have to cut the lights off in the church for us to leave because we loved being there so much. My stepfather tried to commit suicide. He took a whole bottle of fills, and Brother Dove went to visit him in the hospital. Then he came and said, See, when's the last time you saw your dad? I said, he's not my dad, he's my stepfather. He said, Well, he loves you. I said, he doesn't love me. He said, if he doesn't love you, why did he ask about you the whole time I was there? I said, I don't know Where brother Dove made me feel guilty. And he taught me that you need to love your dad. He might not have brought you up, but he he he might not have been your real dad, but he did bring you up I felt guilty, and I'm not trying to make you feel guilty. You may not be able to go after a family member. It may be a terrible situation, but I still could So I went to see him. I didn't want to. He was it was awkward. He was eccentric. Uh he talked about what he wanted to talk about He was a big man. His arms were bigger than most of our thighs. Uh uh he had no enemies uh because he could take care of any of them. But I went and honored him for Father's Day I started honoring him for his birthday. We would go for 4th of July. On Thanksgiving, I would take my biological father's mother to his house for Thanksgiving. We would spend Christmases with them. And when my son was born, my dad's name's Michael. Guess what? My son's name is Michael. And we established a relationship, and Brother Leatherman, I started to love my dad. I I hated him. But when Jesus comes in he teaches us to love. Amen. And I was at my dad's house in April of 2009. And we were leaving and my stepfather came my stepmother came running down the hallway, said, Stevie, Stevie, your dad is real sick and he won't go to the hospital. And I said, Well let me go in and talk to him. I asked him what was going on. He said, Well, I think I'm gonna die. I don't wanna die in the hospital. I said, Dad, I won't let you die in the hospital. Uh if you if if you're really sick and you need to be at home, I'll make sure that you're at home and And we went through everything and he was at a hospital and had to fly him in a helicopter in the other hospital and he remembered Vietnam being there and throw threw up all over himself and he ended up at home and my dad was dying My dad never let me share the gospel with him. Always cut me off. And I wanted to share the gospel with him. My stepmother said, Don't share the gospel with your dad because his buddy Ricky's gonna come and they mo may want to have a couple of beers. And it will be embarrassing to him if he can't have a beer with his buddy. Now I thought, you gotta let my dad go to hell for a couple of beers? What kind of friend is that? And so I prayed and prayed and w was there with my son Michael for a month. And we um uh finally on Easter Sunday weekend on Saturday night, I prayed all night and The Lord let me know. Talk to your dad tomorrow, whether your stepmother wants you to or not. And so I was ready. I went into the kitchen in the morning on Easter morning. Got a cup of coffee. My stepmother came in. She said, Stevie, if you want, you can talk to your dad today. I said, Thank you, Trish. I was gonna talk to him anyway. And I figured if you didn't like it, you could hate me the rest of your life, but I'm not going to let my dad go to hell. And so I went on the balcony and and asked my dad if I could show him how to be saved. He said yes. And I was careful. You ask about, you know they were sincere, I sure hope so. I sure hope so. If it was because of my effort he was. I I hope he was. My dad never did anything for anybody unless he wanted to. He said yes. When we finished, he said, Yes, I do want to be saved. He prayed. Then he stuck his hand out. He said, Stevie, you did a good job. I said, I'm not shaking your hand, Dad. And I gave him a big hug. I said, Dad, you gave me the best gift. That a dad could give to a son. No, you're going to heaven. He he went in the house crying and my dad wasn't a crier And he said, Trish, he said, Steve, he said that I gave him the best gift that I ever gave him. I went to church, told everybody about it, and came back. He was sitting on the couch, he couldn't or on a chair, he couldn't get on the couch And uh with his truck driver buddies and all of a sudden my dad's sitting there, he said, Hey! Hey! I'm not going to hell anymore to all his buddies. And they started laughing. They thought that was funny. He said again, hey! Hey, I'm not going to hell anymore. And they laughed again. And then the third time he said, and one of his buddies said, Mike, tell us why you're not going to hell. Why? He said, Because this morning Stevie saved me. I said, Dad, that wasn't Stevie. That was Jesus. Said, I just showed you how. I was there just a few days later as my dad breathed his last breath. And he went to heaven. I sure am glad my home church taught me how to love. Well, I went to the Dominican Republic just before I went, a Spanish boy from Venezuela named Romolo It was like my wife and my son died in a gang fight and I began to question being in the d going to the Dominican. I didn't want to be there anymore. For the first time, my desire completely went out the window. I went anyway. And but I hated being there. And uh I I would close my eyes at night and I'll turn the fan up real loud and try to imagine I was in the States here. And just over a a a year after being in the Dominican, we were robbed in our bedroom at gunpoint and knife point That made it worse. And then we had an experience where was a guy named Jesus. It's not the same Jesus you know. That was stealing from our church. He periodically would steal the wiring outside of our church And then would take and sell it back to us. He said the electric company came and they were gonna confiscate the wires and I actually did you a favor and and so like four or five times he sold us back our own wires and We did something, I don't remember what we did to get it taken care of, but we were working on the building. We had this light blue wheelbarrow. And some teenagers were sleeping at the church at night watching everything and I told them don't let any of the neighbors borrow any of the tools, especially Jesus, because they're gonna break them or they're gonna steal them, and uh I prohibit you to let anybody so I came to church And guess what I came and here Jesus was pushing a light blue blue wheelbarrow. I thought he must really liked our wheelbarrow. He went out and bought his his own wheelbarrow and his work and and I found out that it was our wheelbarrow. So I came in the church, these guys are sacrificing at night, sleeping, watching everything while I'm home in in in the bed, uh getting a good night's sleep And I yelled at them and humiliated them and and I was right, but I wasn't right the way I talked to them and as I was talking to them, yelling to them, Jesus came in, Jesus Brought the wheelbarrow all washed hosed down, cleaned up. He said, Here's your wheelbarrow. I'm like, Okay. And then I had to preach. That was one of my hardest messages I ever preached. After I preached, I went to Jesus and said, Jesus, you can borrow our wheelbarrow. I'm sorry. I acted like a jerk. And I gave it to the Lord, and the Lord showed me that I didn't love the Dominicans. I was always ready for somebody to stick a knife in my back, and guess what? Somebody can stick a knife in my back any time and somebody can do it here. But I I hated being in Dominican. I don't remember what happened, Brother Leatherman But not too long after that, one day I woke up, and Brother Damian, I loved him in the Dominican. I loved the Dominican people. I wasn't loving on them. I knew I was supposed to. I was taught to. Aren't you glad that even though it takes a while That we're at a church that teaches us how to do right and we want to do right, we finally can start putting it in practice, amen. My home church and I know I have I have four minutes. You didn't tell me what time to start, but I figured thirty-five minutes, amen. I don't know. Uh Uh my home church taught me how to live. My home church taught me how to love and my home church taught me how to labor. If you look in verses eleven And twelve says and that you study to be quiet and to do your own business and to work with your own hands as we commanded, that you may walk honestly toward them which were that are without, and that you may have lack of nothing. I got saved on Saturday night When Brother A. T. George won me through the Lord, I went to church one Sunday and got baptized. Uh that next Saturday I was on the bus that dropped and Waldorf dropped us out to go soul winning. I didn't know how to do it, but they'd given me a a paper that I had to memorize. And I went with uh one of the assistant pastors' son. He said he knew how to do it. We knocked on the door and a guy came to the door and the guy that was with me just looked at me I'm like, I already told you I can't talk. I'm here to learn. I'm I'm gonna listen to you and and he wouldn't talk. And so the guy started closing the door. I thought this guy's probably not saved And I said, hold on a minute. And I stuck my my my my finger in the guy's face and I said are you or or and I started crying. I said, are you sure that if you were to die that you're going to go to heaven? And he looked at me and looked at the other boy and I was crying and he he started crying too. The man He said, No, I'm not. And with my finger in his face, I said, if you don't get saved, you're going to go to hell. And I said, Can I show you how you can go to heaven? He said, Yes. And I shared with him how to go to heaven. He got saved I did that in four other houses, five houses. I've since I've gotten more fine tuned uh about how I do it. Uh and some of us are more fine tuned but we're not willing to share the gospel of people anymore. But praise the Lord the church taught me how to work I got in the bus ministry. I got singing in the choir. I started working in primary and junior clubs. I was at church uh uh seven days a week. Now, I don't think we have to be at church seven days a week, but I was I was given the devil seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day, so I gave it to the Lord. Uh praise the Lord for what a what a great church with so so many things to do. Amen You feel you feel like you're almost here. I I think I was thinking like on a spiritual cruise ship. Amen. There's so many activities. You look at the bulletin Like what uh it's not what can I do, what can I not what what what am I not gonna be able to do? There's so much to do here. Praise the Lord for this church, amen My home church, lastly, taught me how to look for my Savior's coming. My home church taught me how to live, how to love, how to labor And have the look for my Savior's coming. And if you read the verses, you will just read verse sixteen says, For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout And with the voice of the archangel and the t with the trump of God and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Verse 18, wherefore comfort one another with these words. Very famous verses about the rapture when When I was ready to get saved in nineteen eighty two, the planets were lining up um and uh Anyway, that's what the scientists said they were lining up and they said there were gonna be earthquakes and and tidal waves and hurricanes and all this stuff and it was gonna be the end of the world and I said no Mr. Bland, our Sunday school teacher, he said that no man knoweth the day or the hour, so nobody knows. But my problem is I wasn't ready. So I began to think, well what if it does come to an end? And I was worried. I was in my bedroom crying one night and my my sister came in and said, What's the matter, Stevie? I said, well Uh I I think Jesus might come back and I'm not ready. She said, Well there's a man that comes in the restaurant all restaurant all the time and gives us tracks and is always preaching about Jesus I was always in the back washing the dishes so I didn't know him. And she said, Maybe we can go to his house. I went to his house and he shared the gospel with me. When he was sharing the gospel with me Uh I knew the verses. I knew uh the gospel and he said, Steve, would you like to be saved? I said, I sure would. He said, And you believe if you asked Jesus to save you, he would save you. I said, No, he wouldn't save me He said, why not? He said it's too late for me. He said, I'm too wicked. I've lived such an evil life. And he and he said, No, you can be saved. I said, No, I can't. He said, Yes, you can, you can be saved. I said, No, I can't He said, Yes, you can. He said, Well, God's a liar. I said, Don't say that. God's not a liar. He said, Well, you just called him a liar He said, Don't you think Jesus knew you were going to be a sinner? I said, Yeah. And I realized I could be saved. He said, Would you like to pray? I said, Yes. He said, pray with me this prayer and as not uh magic, just you Jew asking Jesus and he said, Dear Jesus, I said, Dear Jesus. I know that I'm a sinner. I I I prayed twice as fast as he prayed because I figured if Jesus changed his mind, I'd better get it out as quick as I could. And I got saved I'd smoking a lot of dope, I drink a lot of alcohol, and you don't you you don't uh you're not going to heaven because you feel good. But I felt good after I got saved, felt better than I ever did, felt like I was walking on clouds. And then he had two daughters, Molly and And Debbie. I don't remember which one did which, but one played the piano and the other sang this song. And I was I was able to look for my Savior's coming The right way. And I'll I'll sing one verse of the song that they sing. I saw a blind man Tagging a hong, he could not see as he walked through the throng I said, my friend, I feel sorry for you But he said up in heaven, I'm gonna see just like you. I'll see all my friends In Hallelujah Square, what a wonderful time We'll all have up there, we'll sing and praise Jesus His glory to share And you'll not see one blind man in hallelujah square. I praise the Lord for a home church that taught me how to live. Taught me how to love. Taught me how to labor. Taught me how to look for my Savior's coming. Even so come Lord Jesus. I'm glad that I've been able to win my dad to the Lord, my mom to the Lord, my grandmother to the Lord, but there's some more people that need to be one. Keep praying for us that we can help people look for the Saviors coming the right way. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this church. Thank you, Lord, for what we've learned here, for what I learned at my home church, what I'm trying to teach our people, how to live, how to love, how to labor, how to look for your coming. Lord, help us to do those things. Help us, Lord, to be able to really help others Because we've learned these things in our life, with our heads bowed and our eyes closed, the pianist is going to begin to play the piano, and I'd ask you to stand in an attitude of prayer. If God spoke into your heart I've encouraged you to respond during the the the beginning of playing the imitation