Church is the preaching of the Word of God. That's the centerpiece. Okay? So we're going to pray and we're going to open the book, all right? Oh Lord, how wonderful Lord, as we just heard Brother Williams recount the history of how you've led us for 60 years through the mountains and the valleys You have been faithful. Everything about you is great, Lord. Everything. Including how you've led our church, how you've led our pastor. And Pastor Matt and all of our people, thank you for this historic day, 60 glorious years. Now, Lord, you know, every time we gather, we open the Bible. Now, Lord, help us. We look to you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. I made it very easy. Go to the final chapter of the entire Bible, Revelation 22. Everybody can find the text today. And I will mention we got some CDs back there. And the newest CD back there is called Friends singing the gospel. It's 18 fellows that I know across the country, pastors and music records. We gathered in January, recorded this. I think you'll like that. And I'm going to have back there, finally, some prayer cards. After 29 years as an evangelist and you folk asking, where's your prayer card? Here it is. I hadn't had a new publicity picture taken in 19 years There's one right there. The thing was I looked exactly that old 19 years ago. You know what I'm saying? Picture didn't change much. The CDs are any size donation. Now let's get to the Bible. Revelation 22 and verse 7 Now when I pause, I want you to say the next two words. Everybody help me now. Verse 7 is Jesus Christ speaking. And Jesus said in verse 7, now when I pause, say the next two words, two words. Behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he that keepeth the saying of the prophecy of this book. Verse 9 You help me again when I pause, say the next two words. This saith he unto me, see thou to it, for I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of Now in verse ten, help me again. And he saith unto me, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of Okay, verse 18. For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in one more time, verse 19. And if any man shall Take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life and out of the holy city, and from the things that which are written in this book. The title of the sermon is this book. Read about eleven chapters of the Bible this morning. I've read through the Bible six times this year. This is the only book that can straighten a man out. It's this book. A family. A family needs this book. A home needs this book. A business. I went down to a cell phone company headquarter in Texas. They have 49 employees. Know what I saw in 49 employees desk. I saw this book. They're a Christian company. They brought me down there to preach to them. Preached to a cell phone company. I went to a uh insurance company in Ohio and they said, Brother Fox, they flew me in and said, Would you preach this book to us? I got there and there are 300 employees. You know what we got out? We got out this book. By the way, that insurance company is flourishing. They're following the principles of this book. Homes that follow the principles of this book will flourish. Now, maybe not according to the world But according to the things of God, you'll have peace in it. You can't put a price on that. They don't have all the money. No, but they've got God. And they've got this book. Oh yes, I'm telling you, our church, for sixty years, it's been this book. Pastor Letheman, you've never got up here and said, you know what, I think I'll just uh I think I'll just get my constitution out. I've got one in here. I carry one everywhere I go. But you've never said, let's get this out and let's preach this one. Never This gave me a little bit of freedom and protection, all that stuff. It's this book that changed my life. I mean I I'm thankful for this, but I'm never going to preach this. I'm always going to preach this book. What our church is going to do too. It's this book, our Sunday school. What do we study in Sunday school? This book Oh, it's this book. Now, I remember my very first copy of this book. My dad. My dad worked at Newport News Shipbuilding. Man, at one time 26,000 employees. Big company has 14,000. That's still pretty big, not as big as it was. And um There's a man in there that sold stuff. He was an employee, but during the lunch break, he always had something for sale. Yeah, that was his little side hustle. And um he had sell toothbrushes. I mean, you name it, he sold it. But he's a Christian man. He's a member of Grace Baptist Church of Hampton, Virginia. Though my dad didn't go to church, that man named John said to my dad one day, he said, I just got me some Bibles for sale. They're one dollar each. And he said, Now, Mr. Fox, I know you've got a boy. That was me. I was six. John said, I know you got a boy, and what that boy needs is one of these Bibles. And he somehow convinced my dad, who didn't even go to church, to buy my first copy of the Bible I didn't go to church for two more years after that, until a citywide crusade came and they brought me to the meeting where I received Christ as my Savior. And uh when I was thirteen years old, I was a member of Grace Baptist Church at this point. I was not a member, I was an attender. And uh I was not allowed to be baptized until I was 14 I didn't get permission from my parents till age 14, and they let me get baptized. And I walked forward as a little boy And Pastor Douglas said, have you answered the call to preach? I said, no. God's called me to be a be a be a be a because I stuttered. To be a be a servant. God's calling me to be a servant. And Pastor Dudley turned me around and said, God's called Byron to be a full-time servant of the Lord. How many going to pray for him? And that church says, we're going to pray for him. And six years later, I was being licensed and ordained. As a young minister of the gospel, be commissioned out to preach this book. And my pastor, though I stuttered, my pastor said, you know For your ordination, uh it probably good for you to write out your doctrinal paper Rather than me try to say it. When I get very tired, when I'm very, very fatigued, I go right back to that stuttering. Uh and that's why I have nine pages of notes. I gotta write out every word I plan to say. Well I'm telling you I've got written down here. And I've worked hard to try to memorize it to tell you. And so I wrote out my doctrinal paper, Pastor, and I brought a few lines from it today. A little part of the section about this book. As a boy, I wrote this. I believe in the verbal, plenary inspiration of Scripture. This Bible is verbally inspired. Plenary means it's complete. I believe in the verbal plenary inspiration of Scripture. I believe every word of the Bible was written under the direct influence of the Holy Spirit. I believe the Bible is without error and is accurate in every detail. The Bible is the foundation of my Christian faith. That's what I wrote at as a boy. And that's what I believe today. And that's what you better believe today too Because it's absolutely imperative that we get certain about this book. That's imperative, friends. You'll never get much of anything settled in your life till you get it settled about this book. Now, my salvation, and if you're a Christian, your salvation depends upon this book The Bible says in 1 Peter 123, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. So my salvation depends on this book. My sanctification depends on this book. Jesus said in John 17, 17, Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. Our usefulness to God. Church, do we want to be used of God? Pastor, do you want to be used of God? Deacons, we want to be young people won't be used to God. It all depends on this book. Oh yeah. Our our uh our assurance depends on this book Somebody recently tried to intimidate me and scare me, you know, and I said, stop it. It's not working And he's trying to tell me how silly this book is. He said, like the where the Bible says it's a sin to be left-handed. Well that's not in this book. There's a lot of critics that criticize this book that they don't even know what's in it. It's obvious. You know there's a war over this book There are three hundred and eighty four thousand places in America that call themselves churches 384. 384,000 places they call themselves churches. But in a recent George Barna survey, it was found out, it was discovered That out of the 384,000 places that call themselves churches, only 107,000 said that this was the inspired word of God So at least two-thirds of the churches in America do not stand on this book. I don't know what they're standing on. But they're not standing on the right foundation. If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? There's a lot of foundations being destroyed right now. We better get back to this book. There's people who despise this book. There's a little fellow named Porphyry. Poor furry. Poor furry. Say it with me. Ready? Poor furry. He lived in A. D. 200, thereabouts, about 1800, 1850 years ago. And there was a group of people he hated. Porphyry hated preachers. And beyond that, what he really hated was this book that they kept preaching. And oh, Porphyry decided he had launch a war against this book. He was tired of this book. This book was no good, according to him. In fact He wrote a 15-book set. There were 15 books in his set of books that he wrote against this book. Now, let me ask, does anybody here today own a copy of Mr. Porphyry's books? You don't. You know why? Because there's none in existence. They're all gone. They can't be found anywhere. Anybody in this room have a copy of this book? Yeah. This book's still here. Mr. Porphyry, except What historians of the same era had told us about Mr. Porphyry's books, we wouldn't even have known he ever wrote 15 books against the Bible. You better be careful trying to fight God. God will win. Mr. Porphyry, you despise the book, and there's a lot of people today who despise the book. There are people who try to deny the book They say, Oh, that book's full of myths and legends. May I tell you there's never been one spade of dirt turned by any archaeologist who's ever found any proof against this book. But during the course of this sermon I'm going to tell you a little bit. about some folks that found out that, huh, this book is right. Even though it been said it was wrong. It turns out this book just keeps being proven that it's right. There's people who try to Despise the book, people who try to distort the book, people who try to dissect the book. Oh yeah. They get their uh measuring tape out and they get their scaffold out and they get the microscope out and or they just try to cut the Bible up. And they think like the Bible is some kind of a history book or some kind of math book. You know what this is? It's a love letter from God to man. I wouldn't know anything about what what's really important in this life if I didn't have a copy of this book. Oh yeah, there's people who distort the book. There's a lady, a woman in Georgia running for big office there. Who just recently made this statement at Allen Temple in Woodstock, Georgia? She was at a so-called church. This was right after the Roe v. overturned And this woman politician said, I am the daughter of two pastors. I have a strong moral core. I was trained to read and understand the Bible, and I will tell you this. There is nothing about the decision to eliminate access to abortion care that is grounded in anything other than cruelty and meanness and danger. Big wrong to that ma'am. In fact I don't commonly write letters to people like that, but I wrote her a letter and gave her twelve passages from the Word of God where that the life issue is not a political issue, it is a Bible issue. It is in the book. There was a ridiculous so-called preacher in my state of Virginia. Ridiculous! Seven weeks ago Who got up in the pulpit and said this from the pulpit. He said, God is pro-life and he's pro-choice. No, he's not. You've not read the book. No, it's this book. It's this book. People try to disregard it. They say, ah, it's not important. I was out door knocking in Winchester, Virginia And I came to the door of a very regal, sophisticated lady in town. She ran the museum. And she came out and I said, My name is Byron Fox. I'm out from Emmanuel Baptist church this week and I'm telling folks about the Bible. She said, sir, I run this museum. And she started telling me about credentials she had and so forth and so on. And then she said, Sir, I want to tell you, the Bible was good in its day, but today it is passe. That's a big fancy word saying it's outdated. It's irrelevant today. I said, ma'am, I'm a guest on your porch this morning. But you're standing there in a body that God Himself made and designed. And you're breathing air that God is allowing you to breathe. And you're standing on the earth that God Himself created. Ma'am, I'd be very careful about talking that way about the Bible. There's a lot of people who just try to disregard the Bible. Some say uh what we really need to work on, uh Mr. Fox, is just to uh socially improve in our country. It's not socially, it's transformation we need. Transformation. I'm talking about salvation. When you get saved, you become a new creature. Amen. I don't want to just be a better uh state of Maryland, a better state to go to hell from. No, I want to see what the Bible says about how to get right with God. Amen to that. So you and I need to study the Bible. We need to know the Bible. We need to live by the Bible. We need to live by it, don't we? And we need to assimilate it into our lives. We need to stand on it. So I've got just a few little points. That's all um oh we're doing great on time. Nobody look at the clock. We're doing great Here's a few little points I want to make today. Point one, we know this book is the Word of God because of its scientific accuracy. Oh yeah, oh yeah. Uh skeptics, atheists, liberals, they all claim the Bible has scientific errors in it. Um You mean like when Moses was alive, the science of that day where it said that the earth was held up by five pillars? You didn't find that in the Bible. Why? Because that's not real science. But that was the science being taught when Moses was alive. And then you know what? They came up with another idea, how the earth was held up Oh yeah, yeah, according to science of the day, then the earth was on the back of an elephant. Really? What was that elephant standing on? On the back of a turtle. Well what was that turtle standing on? On another turtle. What was that turtle standing on? Another turtle. It was just turtles all the way from there. Oh yeah. Isn't that silly? Completely silly. None of that's found in the Bible. Why? Because none of that's true. None of that is true. The earth is suspended in space. Wow. Where do you get that from? Well, we know that to be true today, but we know it is true according to the Bible. Listen carefully. Job chapter 26 and verse 7. He, God Almighty, he stretcheth out the north over the empty place, and hangeth the earth upon nothing. Now wait a minute. Job, how do you know that? God told him. See, this is an inspired word of God. We just take for granted that everybody uh has always known the earth was a sphere, that it was round or just hanging there in space. I mean there's people who used to think the earth was flat You know. Columbus Be careful Columbus, you might sail right off the edge and Yeah. In 1492, Columbus sailed the ocean blue. You know all about that But the book of Isaiah was written 750 years before Christ. And the scientists in Isaiah's day, they didn't know the earth was a sphere But Isaiah, by divine inspiration, wrote this. Now if you're listening, say amen. This is the book. Isaiah 14, verse 22, it is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth. And the habitants thereof are as grasshoppers that stretcheth out the heavens as a curtain and spreadeth them as a tent to dwell in. It is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth. Well, Mr. Isaiah, how'd you know that? God told him. See, this book is scientific. It's not a science book per se, but scientifically it's always right, always right. The circle, uh, the globe, the sphere of the earth. Well, I read it this uh two weeks ago. I like reading different science books and all that. And I read about this fella, Hipparchus. Hipparchus. Hipparchus. Ready? Hipparchus. Okay, Herparchus, yeah, yeah. He lived in 150 B. C. Herparchus lived in 150 B. C. And he counted the stars. And he scientifically made this announcement. There are exactly 1,022 stars. And that was science for 250 years. And then another fellow came along named Ptolemy. And Ptolemy said, Her Parchus is all wrong. There's 1,026. Well, then uh another thousand or so years later, a fellow named Galileo he makes the first crude telescope and he he gets it out and he looks and well there's millions of stars And the latest estimate, I'm looking at these numbers. The latest estimates with these gigantic oh Powerful, I mean potent telescopes. They're now telling me that just in our galaxy alone there has to be at least 200 billion stars And they the best they can guess across the entire universe that it's a big number, 200 sextillion in the universe. That's 200 followed by a lot of zeros, okay? That's a lot of stars. And you know, a few years ago, at Christmas time, these commercial come on TV. Name a star after your relative Send in your thirty-five dollars. Too late. God already numbered the stars. See, he knows the exact number, and he gave them all names He knoweth the names of the stars. That's what this book tells us. The Bible's just right. In all science, including biology We've had some silly things being taught to our children. I'm telling you, the foundations of our country being destroyed. And foolish things. The Bible says that we are fearfully and wonderfully made. This body is amazing. I mean, you just think and you can move arms and You got teeth and you got hair and how many hairs you got? I don't know, but God knows how much hair everybody has. He knows how much sand at the sea. You don't know how much. How many little units of sand are who knows? God knows. God knows it all. And uh this biology. Uh you know I was reading a little bit about it and uh different ones uh uh William Harvey in 1615 who discovered that blood circulates throughout the human body Well Leviticus uh chapter seventeen, verse fourteen, um life of the flesh is in the blood, the Bible says. And um then this uh this fellow Dr. Summowise. Sumelwise. I'm giving you all kind of hard names today. And I had to write them out phonetically or else I wouldn't know how to say it. Dr. Summowise Yeah, he comes along, he's a physician over there in Vienna, and he found out it's important to wash hands The other doctors in his day mocked him so much, he had a nervous breakdown. And yet the Bible has always taught the importance of sanitation, the importance of running water. The importance of quarantining. Quarantining. We learned about that during the the pandemic. It's been in the Bible all along. Um uh changing clothes. Young people take showers, use soap and water And change your clothes. Yeah. Uh yeah, all that's taught in the Bible. Bacteria having time to die. This Bible, it's not a science book per se, but every way you look at this book it's right. Include scientifically. Point number two. We know this book is the Word of God because of its historical accuracy. Oh yeah. You know at one time when I was a boy Oh, you teenagers, rise a boy. I heard all sorts of things. I heard this. I heard this. During the lifetime of Moses, there was no written language. Well that's odd because Moses used a God to write Genesis, the first five books of the Bible. If there's no written language, how'd he write it? But when I was aboard, there's no written language during the lifetime of Moses. And then they found these archaeologists found the Tel Armana tablets And you know, during Moses' lifetime, not only was there writing, there was a postal service where you could send letters back and forth to each other. Pretty amazing. All you skeptics of the Bible who try to say there's no written language, you were wrong, and the book was still right. On and on. You know, they they made fun about uh there in Daniel historians said Belshazzar, he was not the king, and blah blah blah blah blah until archaeologists found out that Narbonus and Belshazzar were co-regents. They were both kings at the same time. And that little section about Daniel being made the third ruler of the kingdom, it was going to be Narbonus and Belshazzar and Daniel. The Bible just keeps turning out to be right. This book, the Bible. Think about the unity in this book It's one book composed of 66 books. 1,189 chapters. An Old Testament And a New Testament, thirty-nine books in the Old Testament, twenty-seven books in the New Testament, it takes about seventy hours to read the whole Bible through, maybe seventy-five And all these books written by about 40 different people under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, written over about a period of sixteen hundred years, thirteen different countries involved, three different continents involved, and all these people from all these different backgrounds Some were shepherds and some were kings and some were soldiers, some were fishermen, and all these different ones that were used of God to write it down for us. Amazing Two prime languages, Hebrew and Greek, a little bit of a third language here and there. But there's one theme throughout this entire book. It's the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's the theme of the whole book. Brother Fox, you've been reading through the Bible a lot. What is the whole book about? The whole book's about Jesus. And about how he left heaven and came to this earth and died on a cross as a substitute for me. All my sin was laid upon him. All your dirty, filthy sin was laid upon him. The whole state of Maryland, the whole world. Everybody, he, Jesus Christ, he who knew no sin became sin for us. How do you know that? It's in this book. This book is all about Jesus. It's got one theme. It's got one hero. Jesus. It's got one great big villain. Who's that? The devil. Well, Brother Fox, I believe there's a God, but I don't believe there's a devil. Uh friends, there is a devil. Satan is real and he's seeking whom he may destroy. He's destroying people. The devil take everything you've got. He'll take everything you've got. He will destroy you. The Bible has one giant purpose. That's to get people to God And not one job, not one title of this Bible will ever fail. No, no. It's forever settled. This book also has prophecy in it And all the prophecy has either already come to pass or will come to pass. Oh, where was Jesus born? He was born in Bethlehem. You know, I mean he was alive before he came on earth. You know that. Jesus Christ is eternal. But he left heaven and was born in say it again. Which city was he born in? Bethlehem Oh, little town of Bethlehem. I've been there. In fact, I got to sing right there in Bethlehem. I wrote a song for the occasion. I sang um uh that song I wrote I'm trying to think of. Bethlehem town, Bethlehem town, tiny village where the Lord came down. It was just a little village when Christ came. Oh, today it's got about 50,000 people in it. Still not a mega city by any stretch of the imagination, but about 50,000. You go into Bethlehem, and they got signs as you enter Bethlehem, where Jesus Christ was born. It's on the signs as you walk in, as you drive in. You know, a lot of cities have something to talk about. Bethlehem's got a lot to talk about. Well, was it prophesied that Jesus Christ is going to be born there? Oh yeah, hundreds of years before Jesus was born in Bethlehem, this book had already told us. He's going to be born there in Bethlehem. In fact on and on and on. In Psalm twenty-two we find out uh uh about Christ being crucified. That was before we even knew about this form of capital punishment named crucifixion. And uh the Roman government uh using that. And and then uh about the the the the um betrayal of christ and it's on and on and then about the resurrection of jesus christ have you have you heard that jesus christ rose from the dead Y'all heard about that? That's prominent. Because if Jesus Christ had not risen from the dead, there would be no salvation. There'd be no reason for us to gather on a Sunday morning. But brother, he rose on the first day of the week. Well, how did God do that? Friends, God who spoke the entire universe into existence, He just spoke it into existence. When you have all power, raising your son Jesus from the dead is not hard It's not a hardship for God. No, no. See, prophetically the Bible is always right. And then I'd say here at the end, the life-changing power in this book. Yeah, you see, the Bible is up to date. Uh I've preached funerals, I've I've um had baby dedications. Do you know, by the way, by the way There's people who would like to have this book banned from the country. Do you know at one time? At one time it was against the law to own a copy of the Bible in Scotland? Against the law. You know in Canada right now it's a crime to preach port to preach portions of this book. It's a crime. Did you know that? There's people who would like to make some preaching of this book a crime in America. Um you know Our freedom didn't come from our House of Delegates. Our freedom comes from God. Our founding fathers knew that. And I contend, as far as I like that First Amendment by freedom of speech, I contend if our pastor does not have the freedom to preach this entire book. Then there's no freedom of speech in America. But our preacher needs to preach all the book, whether it's against the law or not. Amen to that And we're going to stand with this book. And it's got the life-changing power in it. It's quick. It means it's alive. It's a sword. It's a hammer. We had a man come to our church named Don. Don came to our church. Boy, he's angry. Don Ferris. Oh, he was angry. You know why? His wife Kathy had come to our church and received Christ as her Savior. And now all she could do at their house Was get out this book and read it. And he came over and said to my preacher, You have turned my wife into a religious nut. All she does is sit around and read this book. And he said, No, I'll just tell you something, preacher. That book is silly and stupid. There's all kinds of mistakes and contradictions in that book. And my preacher was not really intimidated by Don. He stood up. He said, Don, I'm running my whole ministry. We're running this whole church off this book. My whole life is based on this book. Darn, if there's mistakes, and I want you to show them to me right now. Don says, I don't know where they are. He said, but I'm going to tell you something right now, preacher. I'm going to go home and I'm going to get that book out of her hands. I'm going to read it and I'm going to find all of them and I'm going to come back and I'm going to see you. He went home, said the Catholic, give me that book. He said, I'm going to read this book to you until you're sick of it. He's angry. It was two weeks of reading the book till he got saved. He teaches fifth and sixth grade boys at our church. You know what he teaches them? He teaches them this book. I came with nine-page notes, he'll go and there were 20 pages. I'm not kidding. Best Sunday School Teaching Ever Seen. What changes life was this book. When my dad got everything right with God, I'm telling you, everything changed at our house. Everything changed. My dad has never been the song leader at church, but he came but he became the song leader inside of our car. We suddenly going down, we're not listening to country music or pop music or rock and roll. No, no, inside the car we're singing hymns. Why? Because it was this book that changed my dad's life This is the only book, friends. Now, if you're going to heaven, you're going to go to heaven by the way the book teaches. There's only one way to heaven. Oh, there's people who think, oh, I'll get to heaven because I've uh I've done more good deeds than I have bad. That's not how you get to heaven. I can tell you stories of heinous people. I'm thinking of someone I led to Christ nine days before he died. He had lived an entire life of total immorality. And nine days before he died, read him this book and he received Christ. There's people who killed other people. They've read this book, got saved. There's a man who had a radio station, not a radio station, but a radio program on a big station. That uh this preacher came in town having a crusade, having a gospel meeting And this radio man who was a very immoral man and a drunkard, he decided as a joke he'd ask the preacher to come on and interview him, you know He said, you know, before I have him on, I'll just go over there and hear him preach so I can really make fun of him. And he went underneath that tent and the preacher Said this that night. There's someone who's underneath this tent who is a big fraud. He is a total fake. That radio guy said he must be talking about me. Well he had pretty angry He went and got drunk. Then at 2 a. m. he went to where the preacher was staying at the hotel and knocked on the hotel door of that evangelist and said, um Won't you pray for me? The band said, I won't pray for you. Your problem is between you and God. He said, But you can come in here and I'll talk to you about God, but I'm not praying for you. That was 2 a. m. By 5 a. m. that man got on his knees and called out to God, please save me. The way that book says, please save me. I want to be saved. Maybe sometime I'll tell you more about that fellow's life. That fellow ended up getting fired by the radio station because he'd gotten so saved, he'd gotten so right with God, then when he went back to the station, they said, We got this beer company going to sponsor you. He said, I won't do it if a beer company is associated with my program. They said, Well, you're fired I wish I could tell you more. Look, look, it was this book that totally changed his life. I want you all to stand with me. Everybody stand. I myself Look this way. I myself am not scared about going to hell. For me. You know why? A little over 50 years ago, I was in a citywide crusade, and they asked people to come forward who wanted to receive Christ as Savior according to this book. And I went forward on that Thursday evening and I received Christ. The best I knew how as a boy that age, the best I knew how, I repented of my sin. Jesus said, Except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. Jesus is a judge, friends. He's a savior. One of these days, we're all going to give an account. And on that day, I don't want anybody in this room or anybody watching online to hear from Jesus, Depart from me. I never knew you. There will be people from Maryland that will hear, depart from me. I never knew you. There'll be no more mercy in that day. Because you've died in your sins having never received Jesus Christ as your Savior. So in that great judgment day that the Bible talks about. All that matters is whether or not you've gotten saved. The way this book says. Would you bow your heads? Right where you are, if you are troubled That you're on your way to hell, that you've never received Christ as your Savior, you need to get that fixed today. I'd say don't delay it another second. Right where you are, here's what, let me tell you what, please listen. Here's what the Bible says, here's what the book says. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, shall be rescued, shall be saved, saved from going to hell, saved to get to go to heaven, rescued from your sin. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. The Bible says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Brother Fox, why are you going to heaven? Because I believed on Jesus. I put my total dependence on Jesus Christ. And He saved me. So right now, where you are, if you're troubled that you're on your way to hell I urgently implore you to call out to the Lord right now I was in a service in a state where the president of the sheriff's union, the biggest sheriff in the entire state, in front of five of his deputies, he got saved. I led four politicians of Christ last year, by the grace of God. I seen a judge get saved this year. Six weeks ago I was at a uh God and country rider and I preached you can be religious but lost. And that night the judge received Christ as his Savior. He'd been a lifelong Catholic. You can be religious and not go to heaven. You need to get saved the way the Bible says. Call out to the Lord right now. Pray something like this: Dear Lord, please forgive my sin. And Lord, I repent of my sin. Say it to the Lord right now. Tell him. He can hear you pray. Tell him, Lord, forgive my sin, please. And Lord, I put my faith in Jesus Christ. Lord, rescue me. Save me. I want to be a Christian the way the Bible teaches. Help me, Lord. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Heads are still bowed, eyes are closed. Where there's some people this morning who just now called out to the Lord to save you, and you're happy about it. If you just today caught up, nobody else looking, but I want to rejoice with you, is there some folk this morning who said, Brother Fox, I just now called on the Lord to save me? And I'm happy about it. Would you slip a hand up right now and let me see? Are there some people who just this morning you called out to the Lord to save me? Would you slip a hand up right now? You know, the other night we had six or eight people underneath a gospel tent in West Virginia That received Christ as their Savior. How about you? Anybody here call on the Lord this morning? Now let me ask you: how much have you been studying this book? Do you have a dedicated time every single day to study this book? To read it? To study it And how we do it as far as applying it to our lives, are we living according to the Bible? I mean, everything the Bible tells us to do, are we doing it? And everything the Bible prohibits, are we abstaining from that? I want to open the altar first for just the men. All the men that right now, sister, if you'll just start playing, all the men that want to come and rededicate themselves to the body. Yeah, come on men. Come on.