Ask, uh, does this really work? When you stop to think about, all right, fifteen thousand scriptures here, part of a five hundred thousand scripture project, does it really work? Uh you took part in the crusade for Nicaragua. We have sent one point four million scriptures into Nicaragua. So I'm gonna think about that for a minute. They are being distributed and just this week while here at Mountain View, I I or Mountain Lake, uh I always it's such a view. uh that uh I I I get the view and the lake mixed sometimes. Well I got out of that one didn't I uh I just got a report this week from Nicaragua. There's about two hundred and fifty-five different preachers that are taking part. They want to reach every single home in Nicaragua. That's their goal. Every single home. Just recently, just a few weeks ago, fifty-one of those pastors were out and distributing and working and some of their workers with them. And uh they distributed a little over 15,000 of the scripture books. Now I'm talking about going door to door, handing them to people. Of those fifteen thousand scripture books that were given, over nine thousand of them Accepted Christ as their personal Savior. They not only received the book But allowed the soul winner to go through the entire plan of salvation with them, and over 9,000 of them trusted Christ as Savior. Of those 9,000, 3,000, 500 of them went to church and made a public profession of faith that next Sunday. And of those 3,500 some that made that public profession, 402 of them followed the Lord in believers' baptism. So you decide, does this really work? God only knows that's what we know about. How many have taken them into their home and read that and followed the instruction and got down on their knees and trusted Christ as their personal Savior. Only heaven will reveal the number of people that have been saved in the countries that we've worked in. And so I I commend you for the work that you've done, for the job that you've done, for the investment that you've made. I commend you for that good work and your desire to see people saved not only here, but in other parts of the world through your I commend Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church for your concern and your burden and your desire to see people come to know Christ as their personal Savior. And we deeply appreciate the prayers of this church, the investment financially of this church into our ministry to help us reach out to other parts of the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I commend you for this tremendous, tremendous drive to put out tracks in your own community. Let me tell you just a bit, if I could, what that has done. You've set the example for other churches. There are churches this year that never have had a track month at their church that have gotten on board with this And thousands upon thousands of tracks are being distributed all across this country. It all originated here. It all got got into my heart here. Now we've printed tracks for years. We started in nineteen ninety-two and And uh we had uh when I pastored, we had we had uh teams that would go out all the time. We we distributed over the course of the year. about 250,000 tracks at our church in Dry Run, uh in Duncansville, Pennsylvania. We had track teams that literally were going up. But we never we never had that that one month goal that we really concentrated on it, nor did we encourage other churches to do the do what we were doing. This year something's happened And it all was born right here in this church. And there are multitudes of churches that have never Challenge their people in a one-month period to put a number of tracks out like they are this year. And I I commend you for that. I got a fire here myself, burning in my heart as a result of what you've done, and your preacher and I have talked, and we decided that, hey, let's have an annual track month. Well, nothing special about April except that it works for you. I've talked to several preachers this week. Some are kicking their program off next week. The month of May is their month that they're going to do their track distribution. Some have called and said they're doing it this summer. Some have called said they're doing it in the fall. But the idea is Massive amounts of gospel tracts are being distributed. If if we passed out three hundred and fifty million tracts in the United States of America and one soul Oh, I feel a shout coming on right now. If one soul, just one single soul, was saved as a result of that. What does it profit a man if he gained the whole world and loses his own soul? One soul saved would be worth all the investment. All the prayers, all the time, every effort to get out the Word of God, to see that one soul come to know Christ as their personal Savior. That one soul could be sitting right here in this auditorium. It could be sitting right here. Now let me ask you this question. Are you thankful that someone shared the gospel with you? Are you thankful for that? And there's going to be multitudes of people in heaven out of Kenya, Africa. But are going to be thankful that someone in the United States of America, over there in Oakland, Maryland, when you didn't know whether the sun was going to shine or whether the snowflakes were going to fall There's going to be they don't even know what snow is in Kenya, so we won't be able to talk about that. There'll be people in heaven. That is going to show their gratitude because of this church and others like this church that have gotten the gospel to them for them to have an opportunity to get saved. And preacher, I I love you. I thank God for the fire that burns in your soul. I I get around your preacher and I get 50 ideas. I I really do. I get fifty ideas every time I look at them. Well we could do this. Well we could do this. We could fire up this. We could reach that. We could And folks, really, when it's all said and done, the only reason that we're here, saved by the grace of God, is to carry the gospel to somebody else. That's why we're here. That's why we're here. And I just thank the Lord for this church, this ministry, and what you're doing. And I praise the Lord that we can work with with this church and see the hand of God doing what he is doing. As I mentioned on Wednesday night, I'll mention it here again this morning. Pray for the fellows down in South Carolina, Brother Chip and my son. Uh they're firing up the press. The truckload of paper did finally arrive on Friday. It was supposed to be there on Thursday. It didn't arrive on Thursday and uh they were trying to find out where it was on Friday morning. Uh the dispatcher called and and said that uh we're sorry your paper's not going to be there till Monday and uh we just uh there was a mix up with the with the the transportation and whatnot, but it will be there Monday. And uh fifteen minutes later they called back and said the truck is fifteen minutes from your place. Hope you are still there And uh fortunately they were, and uh they've unloaded uh the rolls of paper and I I ask you to pray for Chip and Doug as they fire up that press and They begin to print in scripture. We'll be printing uh Spanish scriptures. So pray our next project is in Spanish And we really need your prayers that God will use those fellows to do something that they've never done before and accomplish a great task for the Lord. If you have your Bibles this morning, I'd like you to go back to that passage of Scripture in Matthew chapter 5 that was read this morning. While you're turning there on your Bibles, let me also express my sincere gratitude for your prayers during a very dark and deep valley that my wife and I have had to go through this year. I can tell you this, that God's grace is sufficient for our every need. And I can thank you, thank you from the bottom of my heart for your prayers. uh for what you mean to us and uh how the Lord has graciously been with us and uh showed us his marvelous grace. I I truly praise the Lord for that. It makes no difference how dark and deep the valley might be. The Lord is there. He's given us a promise that he'll never forsake us. And I've discovered that that is true when the sun is shining and uh when the pit is deep. Uh I've discovered that when things are going well, but more importantly, I've discovered it that when things aren't going well at all, he's still there. He's there to help you. He's there to encourage you. He's there to comfort you. He's there to see you through. The Lord never brings anything into our life to make us bitter. He brings things into our life to make us better. I've heard and I have felt the breath of Satan on my cheek. What's the use of going on? What's the purpose of going on? What what why why why do you need to do that? I've heard those words. Straight out of the pit of hell. And I'm thankful this morning that greater is He that is in us than He that is in this world. And we've determined until we're safe on heaven's shore, we're just going to keep on going. We're just going to keep at it. For another soul, for another group of people, for another people's group that has never heard the gospel. We're just going to keep on going till Jesus calls us home. In the Book of Matthew, chapter 5, a familiar passage of Scripture, Matthew 5, 6 and 7 Our Lord is addressing his disciples. It was a great multitude that was following him for the miracles that he was performing, for the words that he was speaking. And uh so much so that that he sought for uh uh relief and went to a mountain and called his disciples unto himself and began to instruct them on some principles and things that he felt they needed to know. There are things that we need to know as well. If you're a follower of Jesus Christ, if you're in the family of God, Matthew chapter 5, 6 and 7 is important information that you need to be aware of, and you need to hear the Lord speaking to you from this passage of Scripture. He's instructing them and telling them exactly what he wants them to embrace and what he wants them to incorporate into their lives. And he comes to verse number 13 and he makes this statement. Ye are the salt of the earth. In verse number 14, he makes this statement: ye are the light of the world. And then in verse number sixteen, he makes this statement: let your light so shine. I thought about these verses, and I believe one of the things that he's trying to tell us here is I I want you to be so salty, and you know what salt does, it flavors food. Sometimes too much of it makes it too flavorable, and it's not good for you. But it makes you thirsty as well. Am I right? And I believe you and I, as Salt, ought to be living in such a way that we make people so thirsty to have what we have that they would seek out to know Why we are the way we are. And then he says, you're light. You're the light of the world. You're taking my place as the light of this world. And you know what it's like to go into a dark room. You you know I I I I know ladies just shut your ears for a moment. I need to talk to the fellas. Ladies are are so atmosphere-minded, you know, when they want to be romantic and whatnot. They want the lights turned down and they want the restaurants that you don't even know who's sitting across the table from you. And uh, you know, atmosphere is created when that occurs. I like a break room. I like a lot of light. I like number one to see what I'm eating. And number two, I like to see who I'm eating with. And number three, I like to see who else is eating around me. And so I like a bright and and uh uh well lit house, church. I like light. And the Lord says, you're light. You're light. You're light to this world. And I want to bring a message on this subject this morning, this little light of mind. Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Father, thank you for this wonderful day that we have. What has been accomplished this week in the putting together of these scripture booklets, it just warms and excites our hearts because, Lord, we know uh these books represent souls. Uh people going to be reached with the gospel. And I just thank you so much for uh Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and the privilege of partnering with them and working together, praying together, crying together, reaching out to this world together to tell people about Jesus. And I pray in these next few moments that you just help us to lay hold of this scripture and to really receive it as from the Lord that you want us to be salt and you want us to be light. And Lord, I'll thank you for what you do. Save the lost and encourage and bless your children. And we'll thank you in Jesus' name Amen. This little light of mine, you remember that song that we used to sing in Sunday school? This little light of mine, this little light of mine. I'm gonna let it shine, I'm gonna let it shine, shine, let it shine till Jesus, something like that. Uh anyhow, uh I'm a preacher, not a singer. Um Byron Fox can do both, and I don't like him. But but nevertheless, uh that's what inspired that song. This this verse right here Let your light shine. You are the light of the world. Inspired the writer to write that little song, and we teach it to boys and girls. But mums and dads need to know it as well The Lord is impressing upon our heart that we are salt and we are light and we need to be that in this world in which we live. I think the bottom line of assault and light is simply this. I want you to be an influence to this world I want you to influence people as salt, I want you to influence them as light, and I want you to bear testimony as light and as salt about me. You are sent as an ambassador of heaven to influence this world about God. About the Bible, about Christ, about salvation, about church. That's our job. That's our assignment. That's our responsibility. I'm sure that you would agree with me this morning that this is a wicked world in which we live. And uh the foolish preacher would say things are getting better. The dumb preacher would say things are getting better. That we are improving in this world. I got news for you. Things are getting worse by the minute. And the Bible reminds us of that: that it's going to get worse and worse and worse as we see the day approaching. I would have to say this morning that there's a malignancy of evil in this world that is growing in proportion. There is activity that never would have been on Main Street before that all of a sudden is acceptable behavior in the United States of America and other parts of the world. And the Bible describes it as an abomination. The Bible describes it as flat-out sin. The Bible describes it as iniquity. And to that kind of a world, you and I, as salt and light, are to influence them about God, about the Bible, about Christ, about salvation. About church, about heaven, about hell, as light and salt were to influence them about those things because this world is evil. I'd have to say that not only is the world evil But we're the only hope the world has. There there are multitudes of people that'll bow down to a shrine today, that'll bow down to an image today. That'll bow down to a man-made carved-out image that can't hear, that can't see, that can't speak, that has no answer For the very cry that comes from the soul of that individual that bows down to that image. That's darkness. And the only hope that they have of things being different for them is you and me. That have been called to be salt and light in this world. Do you notice what the Lord says in this passage of Scripture? Ye are He's not inviting us to be. He's making a clear, unmistakable statement: this is who you are. You are light, you are salt. He's not giving us an option as to whether we'd like to be this. He's stating a clear fact that you are light and you are salt and you are influencing Others with your life. It makes no difference who you are this morning. If you're safe, you're influencing somebody. It might be a good influence or it might be a bad influence. Those lazy buzzards that couldn't get out of bed this morning because they were too tired and overwrought with a few activities yesterday and didn't make it to church this morning are influencing They are influencing their mates, they're influencing their children, they're influencing their neighborhood, they're influencing people that they work with, they are influencing them What do you call them? Beds. It's more important to lay in a bed on Sunday morning than it is to get out of bed and go to church. Amen, preacher. You're not going to say it, I will. That's the society that we live in. And if we don't reach the new will. If we don't tell them, who will? If we don't influence them, who will? You are salt, you are light, and it's time that we do something about it. I believe the Bible makes it quite clear that our our message is the message the world needs to hear. Our message is the message the world needs to hear. It's the message of salvation. Send the light, the blessed gospel light, let it shine from shore to shore. We sing that. We're to participate in that. And that's the message that the world needs to hear. There's all kinds of decisions that are being made today to try to bring the nations together. We're signing treaties and we're promising money and we're sending our soldiers into combat all for the purpose of trying to bring settlement to this world. I've got news for you. It's not going to work. The heart of the problem is the heart. What the world needs to hear is that Jesus saves. We need to be sending multitudes of troops into every area of society to broadcast the good news and preach the message of the cross. So that people can come to know Christ as their personal Savior. Treaties won't change the heart. Money won't change the heart. Jesus changes the heart. And that's the message the world needs to hear. Let me give you three simple things and we'll be finished. As I look at this passage of Scripture, Especially in verse number 16, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Three things I want to draw from that. Number one, there's a choice to be made. You notice that little word let? You're gonna have to make a decision. You're gonna have to make a choice Let your light shine requires a decision. He's already told you you are light. Now a decision has to be made. Am I going to let that light shine? Am I really going to let that light shine? The truth of the matter is, some have no light whatsoever. And do you know why? They've never been saved. You might be sitting in this auditorium this morning and have no concept, no idea what I'm even talking about, because you've never met Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. You're still in the dark. You have no answers and solutions to the problems of society. You don't know how this thing is all going to work out. You don't know how you're going to get out of the mess that you're in. You're in the dark. And people without light can't be light. Have you ever been frustrated when the electric went off and you couldn't find matches, you couldn't find candles, you couldn't find a light, uh a flashlight, you couldn't find any of that. You were groping around, tripping over coffee tables and rugs and everything else, breaking your neck, trying to find those things. That's what this world is doing They're tripping over trivial things that are sending them to a crisis eternity because they have no light. They have not the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And you can't share light if you don't have light. And there are people sitting in this auditorium You have no light. You've never been born again. You've never trusted Christ as your personal Savior. You still are in the dark. And then let me say this. You might be sitting in this auditorium today and your light is awful dim. It's just not shining very bright. Oh, you'll come to church and you're with the church family and the church folks and I can sing send the light, send the light, send the glorious light, let it shine from shore to shore. I can sing those songs. I can stand when they stand. I can sit when they sit. I can go out when they go out. But as soon as I go out that door, boy, I turned the switch way down. I don't want too many people to know I'm one of those things called Christian. Dim light. A dim light. You you don't want to be seen praying at McDonald's. Your light's dim. Let alone take your Bible into a public place and sit in a restaurant and read it. Your lights them. Standing with a group of men down at the shop and All of a sudden a controversial subject comes up. You know exactly what the Bible says about that, but I'm not going to enter into that conversation. That's too controversial. What's the problem? Your light's dim. You haven't you haven't trimmed your wick. You haven't turned up the heat. You haven't got it shining bright. And there's a lot of people today that are intimidated by this world, and they are not going to let their light shine. Because of the shame that it'll bring to you. Woe is me. Oh, they shut the door in my face. They made fun of me, woe is me. Your lights dim. Could I say this? You might be sitting in this auditorium this morning and you are sending out a confusing light. You're one thing here. But you'll be another thing tomorrow. Church, yeah, it's fine. I can sit in that service. I can sing their songs. I can be involved in their activities. But Monday morning when I go to work or I go out into society, oh I no, no, no, no. I don't want to be known as one of those followers of Jesus. You're one thing here and you're another thing there. That's a confusing light. There are people sitting in neighborhoods beside Christians, they can't figure them out. I can tell you this. Sometimes the world knows a whole lot more about what a Christian is than what Christians do themselves. They know that Christians are going to speak different than the rest of the world speaks. And when you start speaking their lingo, you're sending a confusing light. They know that Christians won't go to some places. And when they see you going, you're sending a conflicting light. They know that Christians are not going to be involved in certain activities. But when they see you participating, you're sending a confusing light. You're gonna have to make a decision to let your light shine. Let it shine brightly Let it shine boldly. Let your light shine clearly. And let your light shine continuously till Jesus comes again. First thing, choice needs to be made. The second thing that I'd call to your attention is the course that we are to pursue. The Bible says, let your light shine before men Clearly, boldly, consistently, faithfully, diligently, before that's out in the arena of activity. The course that you and I are to follow is this world. We're to reach this world. We're to reach men and women with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The target is the world. I'd be the first to admit to you. I can't do it all. Jerry, I want to, but I can't do it all. I need Jerry after Jerry after Jerry after Jerry. To jump on the the bandwagon, to get in the team, to to get involved. James, I can't do it all. I want to. I desire to, but I need James after James after James after James that'll get involved. Preacher, I can't do it all. I want to. I really want to. I want to saturate this whole world with the gospel. I can't do it alone. I need preacher after preacher after preacher after preacher. We'll say, I'll get involved. The course that you and I are to pursue is this world. We're to reach the world, not just a portion of the world, not just a particular section of the world, but we carry the responsibility of the world on our shoulders. Do you know in 1970? How many of you remember back that far? How many? I mean, you were alive in 1970. Let me see your hand. That's over three-quarters, almost a hundred percent of the congregation. I'm amazed. So you remember 1970? Yeah, I remember the sixties too. I remember the fifties as well. And I faintly remember the forties as well. I'm not going any further. In nineteen seventy, there was three point nine billion people in the world As nineteen seventy. Two thousand twelve today. Over seven billion people in the world. But let that get a hold of you. That's more than double since nineteen seventy. The population is growing at a faster rate than what we are reaching the population We have probably 3,000 plus independent Baptist missionaries in the world Of those 3,000 plus Baptist missionaries in the world, they'll be able to reach approximately 5,000 people in their lifetime. Calculate that out. The numbers don't calculate. They're not on our side. Put a box of those scriptures in their hands. And all of a sudden, it's not 5,000 anymore. It's seven to ten people with one booklet, they'll be able to reach for Christ. They'll be able to get the message of salvation to them. So when you send a million books to a particular field, you're talking between seven and ten million people that will be reached with those books. And to put it in proper perspective, if our course that we're to pursue is the world, then that means I'm responsible for the 1. 4 billion people that are in China. I've never been there. How am I going to reach them? If that be the case, the 1. 2 billion people that are are in India, I'm responsible for them. I've been there twice, but how am I going to reach them? If that be the case, the 143 million people that reside in Russia, I'm responsible for them. I've never been there. How am I going to reach them? Japan has 128 million people residing in that country. I'm responsible for them. How am I going to reach them? They tell me that there's 113 million people living in Mexico next to the United States of America. I'm responsible for them. How am I going to reach them? The Lord told me to let my light shine. He told me the place that I'm to let it shine is to this world. And so we carry the responsibility of reaching every single one of them for Jesus Christ. There's 94 million people that live in the Philippines. 76 million people that reside in Iran. 51 million people that reside in South Africa. 49 million people that reside in Burma. Thirty-four million people that live to the north of us in Canada. Twenty-one point five million people live in Romania, and every single one of them is my responsibility to reach them. How are we going to do that? Let your light shine. Let it shine. Let it shine boldly. Let it shine brightly. Let it shine continuously. Target the world with the gospel and go after it. I'm sure when we get to heaven, the Lord is not going to be impressed on how many ball games we played. The Lord is not going to be impressed on how many Walmarts we attended. I can tell when we're on the road and my wife is with me, when we're getting close to a Walmart, she has this twitch. We're in Walmart County. There's one around the corner I think I told you before when I kick the bucket, I want her to bury me in the middle owl at a Walmart, somewhere in the United States of America, and I can be assured that she's going to visit me Our call, our commission is to reach the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Think about what it's like to be without Jesus. We described it as lost. We describe it as hopeless The bottom of the barrel is hopelessness. I have no hope Of a better tomorrow. I have no hope of any improvement. I have no hope of anything being changed I'm hopelessly lost and can't find a way out We describe it as, and probably the worst of them all, without God. Without God. May I say to you, I don't know how I would have got to this point today were it not for my Lord. Without him I'm nothing. Without him I'm hopeless. I'm in the dark. I'm lost. And I'm thankful that I had a God to turn to. That hears my cry, that knows my hurt, that has an answer for the need And doesn't remotely remove himself from any given Oh, I feel the shout coming on right now. Preacher, he does not remove himself from any given situation that I find myself in But he wants to throw out the lifeline and rescue you. We're to be light, that kind of light. To this world. The Bible says, let your light shine. How can I do that? I'd say first and foremost, you can do that through your prayers. Paul cried out and he said in First Thessalonians five, Brethren, pray for us. The church has got to get back to praying. Us people need to get back to praying. I mean seasons of prayer, urgent prayer. I'm talking about really getting hold of the horns on the altar of God and not letting go until the blessing and the power comes. I'm talking about clinging to the altar until the victory comes boiling into your soul. Prayer, earnest prayer. You need to be praying for one another. There's people sitting in this room that are walking in dark valleys that you know nothing about, and your prayers could make a difference in their life this week. You need to be praying for this preacher. Every day Satan is looking for a way to capture him, to silence him, to remove him. And it's only the prayers of God's people that can encircle him and summon the angels of heaven to protect him. From every fiery dart that Satan sends his way. Prayer. Earnest prayer. Earnest prayer. Agonizing prayer. The kind of prayer that Jesus had in the Garden of Gethsemane when great sweat drops of blood poured from his brow As he talked to his heavenly father about the mission that he was on. Would to God we'd get that kind of a burden! There's not a person in this building today that does not have a loved one outside the fold. Your family circle is going to be broken when we get to heaven. And ought to try to stir our knees in prayer, agonizing prayer, prayer that won't let go until God comes in power and rescues that loved one. From the pit that they're going to find themselves in for all eternity. Prayer. That's how you let your light shine. You get down on your knees before a holy God that can make a difference in a person's life and you pray and pray and pray. How about praying for the missionaries? And I'm not talking about just putting your hand on a list of fifty-some missionaries and say, bless them, Lord. I'm talking about getting every one of their names before the throne of grace and saying, Lord, please keep them safe today. Now I'm talking about praying so earnestly that God would instill within them wisdom on how to reach their assigned community with the gospel of Christ. Talking about praying earnestly that it won't be our plans, but his plans that is instilled within our heart to go into a world that desperately needs to hear about Christ. Talking about earnest prayer, eager prayer. That's effective, and we see results. Can you look over this past week and say, God did this, and God did this and God did that? In response to your prayers. Answers to prayer is so abnormal today that once we get one, we think, wow, look at this. That ought to be a daily experience. God wants to answer our prayers. But there's just a fundamental rule that is found in the Bible to getting your prayers answered. And the Bible says there's maybe a remote possibility that he will hear you And even more remotely, he might answer you. And even more remotely than that, that it might be what you've asked for. Hmm. It's not what my Bible says. Ask, and it shall be given unto you. Your prayers aren't being answered. It might be because you're not asking. Why don't we pray for each other to walk purely in this world? Sin is abounding everywhere. Am I right? You don't have to move very far until you encounter the footprints of the devil. They're everywhere. I I I I just say this, if you watched television this week from the hours of eight o'clock in the evening to eleven o'clock at night, and you did it every night this week and you were watching major networks, ABC, NBC, CBS And I don't care who hears this around the world. If you sit down and you dieted your mind on that I guarantee you you need to hit the altar this morning and get your heart right with God because all kinds of trash and garbage went flooding into your mind And what gets in your mind affects your heart, and what affects your heart is sooner or later going to show up on the outside of your life. How can I let my shine my light shine through my through through my praying? How can I let my light shine through my giving? Huh, I knew it, preacher. We can get down to that sooner or later. I get so tired of going to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. They talk about money all the time What have I heard this morning? 50 bucks for a box. Pass plates to pick up an offering. I guess we haven't done that yet, have we? We might change our mind about that. Having faith promise in a few weeks. That's all they talk about. How we can get more money out of the pockets of Poor church members that come to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm just not going there anymore. That's all they want is my money. Do you have the same philosophy about Walmart? They even post signs as to how much. And then put a smiley face on it Line up a whole row of cash registers. You can't get out of the store without going through one of them. Put buzzers on the door that if you just kind of forgot And you didn't go through the assigned place. Bells and whistles go off. Guns are pointed at you. Fark it over, son Could I could I clue you in on something? God doesn't need our money. God doesn't need our money. He owns the cattle in a thousand hills. We're just giving back to him what he already owns. He's already claimed it. I work for it. Whose air are you breathing? Did you manufacture that? Whose soil are you walking on? Did you make that? The Lord gives, the Lord takes. It's appointed on a man wants to die, then after that the judgment. Someday you're going to bite the dust. Someday, if the Lord carries his coming long enough, you're going to be the next funeral procession. I sure don't want to face them ashamed. Let your light shine. Give. And it shall be given unto you. I've heard people say, well, I don't give to get again. I just give. Huh? I give to get. Preacher, what would you say? I give to get Do you believe the Bible? Give, and it shall be given unto you. The more that is given to me, the more I can give to the work of God. And so I give to get, to give, to get, to give, to get. Which one comes first? The getting or the giving? Duh. You're going to have to get before you can give. I see you're really liking this. I'm gonna let my light shine. How can I do that? Through my prayers, through my giving, through my going. That's that's what that's all about. And I I I just say to you I don't know how close you're going to get to the 50,000, but I guarantee you you can reach it this year if the Lord carries his coming. It doesn't have to stop tomorrow or today. The same excitement and enthusiasm that you've been doing it for the last four or five weeks is the same that can propel you to keep on doing it the rest of the year. It's just not a particular season. It's a way of life for the child of God. And that oh I did say a third thing, didn't I? Then I'll be done. Three things. Number one, a choice that needs to be made. What was my second? A who? A course that we need to pursue. Let's see. How about the consequences that are sure to come? Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. And I feel a robust South Carolina shout coming on me right now, camp meeting style that's going to rivet the walls, shake the rafters, and Make those pews move around a little bit. Glorify him. When you let your light shine. He is glorified. He is exalted. He is he is lifted up And he says, if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men unto myself. That's what we're here for, folks. And so right in the midst of instructing them on principles that they needed to know, Jesus said, Oh, by the way, your salt and your light go influence the world. Go do something for the world. Now let me ask you a question. Is your light shining? Is it really shining? Or are you trying to suppress the fact? You know, I think we have so muddied the waters about Christianity that it's pitiful. We've taken that term Christian and we've so watered it down that it practically has no significant meaning whatsoever. To be a Christian means a follower of Jesus Christ. It means that I am a purchased slave of the Savior. I have no rights of my own I make no decisions on my own. I have to follow him and do what he has commanded me to do. And by doing that, he is glorified, and souls get saved. Maybe our problem is we haven't been exactly what a Christian ought to be And our lights are not very bright and shining boldly, consistently, and faithfully for the Lord. He's not giving us an option today. He's telling us what we are. You're salt, your light. Now go act like it. Go do it. Go accomplish it. Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.