We've been working our way through the book of Ecclesiastes. We're coming down to the end of Solomon's sermon that he preached in Jerusalem late in his life. And has been uh was inspired by God and preserved for us here in God's Word. And uh we have been um Learning all kinds of stuff. How many folks enjoyed this study in Ecclesiastes? I don't know if you got half out of what I did. I see this book in a whole different light than what I did before. And um uh it's helped me tremendously. Ecclesiastes chapter twelve, um little uh Raymond um Hitchnell comes in. He always sits down front here on Sunday mornings. You'll you all know who I'm talking about, Raymond down here, Carol's son. And uh we always chat a little bit before Sunday school and he tells me what he did all week. Just about every week he goes to the library and he gets old westerns in the library and he watches them and he tells me all about it. And so I got thinking, I thought I ought to go down to that library and see what's going on there. So I called down to the library to make reservations, but they were booked. And um I didn't have any I couldn't get down there to it. They were booked. Yeah. Alright. Ecclesiastes chapter 12. You all would be disappointed if I didn't give these great jokes every now and then. Verse number one, Ecclesiastes chapter twelve, verse one. The Bible says, Remember now thy creator, when? The days of thy youth. Then he expounds on that a little bit. He says, While the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. In the years, the evil years, the evil days, I don't have any pleasure in them. While the sun or the light or the moon or the stars be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain And look what he begins here. He begins a very unique description of the of a old body, an old worn-out body. Look what he says. In the days When the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease, because they're few. And those that look out of the windows be darkened, and the doors shall be shut in the streets when the sound of the grinding is low, and he shall rise up at the voice of a bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low. And when they shall be afraid, also when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fears shall be in the way. And the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail, because that man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go about the streets. Or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the wheel be broken at the cistern, then shall the dust return to the earth as it was And the Spirit shall return unto God who gave it. I put in the margin of my Bible beside verse number three, I put this down, this old house. Anybody ever see that show years ago? It used to be on PBS. This old house. Well, he's describing an old house here. Let's pray. And ask the Lord to challenge us. Father, I'm grateful for this book of Ecclesiastes that you've you inspired Solomon, recorded this and then preserved it for us. I pray we learn from this. What he described here is inevitable. It's life. I pray that the truth that he presents here would challenge us. And I pray particularly, I know we've been, Lord, we've been kind of zeroing in on this, but I think the application is primarily to young people. I pray that you would help our youth and help us to help our youth to know you and love you and live for you. Bless the message. Fill me with your spirit And uh open our hearts and minds to what you have for us, Lord. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We pointed out last time that we looked at verse number one. That Solomon is bringing this message. This is a sermon he preached, I believe, in Jerusalem. And the first part, of course, he talked about his experience living without God, pushing God out of his life, under the sun. Now he's bringing this thing to a head. He's bringing it all down to a conclusion. He's making application. And his application here is to youth. To the youth. He's focusing on the youth. He's giving some profound advice. Of course, this is all God's word, so he's giving advice, and he's expressing his concern for young people. He has shared his experience, his frustration of living under the sun. And what he wants that to be is a lesson. for the young people and learn from what his mistakes were and learn from what his experience was And to enable them to walk with the Lord. How many parents here you've ever thought to yourself, boy, I hope my kids learn something from my life? Anybody anybody here think I spoil I hope they learn not to do what I I hope I always I always prayed my boys would be better than me want them to learn from me And um I think that's where Solomon is. He's looking at this generation coming on behind him. He's at the he's at the golden years of his life. Things are winding down. And he's looking at this generation coming on. And I can almost feel, particularly verse number one, I almost feel his heart aching for them. And his heart longing for the youth to know God and avoid the mistakes I made and walk with the Lord. Remember your Creator in the days of the youth before these days he's about to describe come upon you. What a heart, what a heart. I was traveling up to Connecticut to preach for Brother Steve Heimbull a year or so ago I don't think it was last year maybe, I forget. It's been a little bit a while ago. I was driving up there and I didn't take the best way. I just followed anybody here use GPS when you're driving? Use GPS. I got it on my phone. I use it all the time. And um so I was following that thing, and it got me going up right through New York City to get up there It was a Saturday afternoon. It was kind of a late Saturday afternoon, so I was thinking, ah, Saturday night, there ain't nobody out in New York City driving around. I'll just drive right through that thing, it won't be nothing. I learned something. New York City never sleeps. And I got up there in a mess. I mean it's like five, six lanes, b par bumper to bumper, parking lot, going through, and I'm thinking, man, it's gonna be midnight till I get up there And my little GPS, my little uh thing came up and had an alert. And it said, it didn't say it audibly. I turned the sound off. I don't need any more women telling me what to do. I'll tell you that right now So I don't even have the sound on there. But his little alert came up and said, we've found a better route. We'll save you 45 minutes on your trip. And I I thought, ha. I ain't listening to that thing. I know better. I'm gonna do, I'm just gonna keep on going the way I was going. It took me two and a half hours to get through there I was frustrated. I was mad. I had to fast and pray all night just to get right with God so I could preach that week. So we're coming back from Missouri. My dad and Kathy and I were out to see Sam out there. We're coming back. We're coming through St. Louis, and lo and behold, we come up, and this little thing came up. Bing! It said, dad traffic ahead, we found a better alternate route for you. I told him, I said, I'm going to try it Last time I didn't listen to it. I was mad and I was, it was vanity and vexation of spirit the whole time I'm going to try it. And so I did what it said. And I went out and got around there. And lo and behold, I got around all that. There was a rack and construction. I got around all that stuff and we came out. We came out on a on an entrance onto the highway and I could look back and you could see them all backed up. It was right before that entrance. And it brought me all around that And I thought, you know, I was happy. And I listened to it. And I think and I thought of that as I was thinking about Solomon here. And uh he's he's looking back to the generation coming on. And he sees the young people coming up behind him, and he'd been through some terrible stuff. He made some terrible decisions And he's looking back at them and he's he's giving them advice. He's giving them and they can do one of two things. They can just keep plowing on the way they're going and just disregard his advice to take another route. They can just plow on and find the same thing he found. Vexation of spirit in vanity. Or they could listen to him and heed his advice. And end up living a life pleasing to the Lord. And that's the way I see the book of Solomon, or the book of Ecclesiastes I see it as a sense here. He's writing to young people, much like Proverbs, and he's urging them to have faith in God and trust God and commit yourself, Lord. And uh remember your creator, you're not your own, you're his, he has a plan for your life. Trust him and let him lead you I see a sense of urgency on Solomon's in his words here. Look what he says. He says, Remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not Nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say I have no pleasure in them. It's almost like he's saying, and I know we touched on this before, it's almost like he's saying, listen You better listen to what I'm saying. Put the Lord where he needs to be. Get this thing settled. Because before you know it, this gonna thing's gonna be over. It'll be too late. Somebody said the best time to get saved and dedicate your life to the Lord Jesus Christ is in your youth. And I say, Amen to that. And they said the second best time to get saved and dedicate your life to the Lord is today. You didn't do it when you were young. Need to make get that settled today. He mentions evil days here in verse number one. While the evil days Come not. We pointed out last message that that is not talking about morally evil. It's not talking about wickedness. When he uses the word evil here, he's talking about things that are unpleasant. A stage of life where physically it is unpleasant. A time of life where physically it's difficult. A time of life where there's affliction, physically affliction. And this is the one that I connected with. I'm beginning to connect with more and more all the time. A period of life where everything's painful. Everything hurts. Can I get a witness? He says, and then he says, the years uh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. In other words, you know, I I don't enjoy hurting all the time. I don't enjoy these aches and pains. I don't enjoy these limitations in my life Verse 2, I think he's referencing back to the days of youth, maybe what we would call the springtime of life, where the days are bright and it's carefree. Did you ever sit there and look at little kids running around and just carrying on and you think, oh, the carefree days of youth? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I think that's what he's referencing here. These days will be upon you before you know it. And probably the only people that appreciate that statement are the folks that are in that stage of life. They're here before you know it. Boom. Here I am. So he's advising young people, now's the time To settle your salvation. Now is the time to commit yourself to the Lord. Now is the time to get in line with God's plan for your life and let Him lead you and direct you and walk with Him. Trust Him Now, because before you know it, these evil days are going to be upon you. Verse 3 through 7 is what we're going to look at here. And these are, I believe, some of the most creative words used to describe the body of an old man. Uh it is it is just tremendous literacy here as he illustrates these evil days that he's urging the kids to get things right with God, get committed to Christ now. for these evil days and he describes these evil days and what he does is he pictures a body that is elderly that is that is old that's getting up there And he pictures it as a house, an old house. And it's fascinating. All I'm going to do is I'm just going to come down through here and look at these statements he makes. And I want you, in your heart and mind, while we're looking at it. Before I say, see if you can associate what he's talking about with the physical body. Now let me before we do that, let me say this. It's not uncommon in the Bible To compare our bodies to houses or dwelling places. The Bible does that numerous times throughout Scripture Uh throughout the scriptures. Uh Eliphaz in Job, he's talking to Job, and he's actually giving Job a little bit of a hard time there. He's not being very encouraging to him. But he references the body and he refers to the body as a house of clay. In 1 Corinthians 5, verse 1 and 2, Paul references the body. He refers to the body as our earthly house. Then later on, he refers to it as a tabernacle. When the Bible talks about a tabernacle, not the tabernacle, but a tabernacle, what is it really talking about? It's a tent, a type of tent that you would live in. And it refers to the fact that our bodies are a house, it's a earthly house, it's a Tabernacle, it's simply a tent that we live in for a while. Second Peter chapter one and verse thirteen, Peter refers to the physical body again as a tabernacle or a tent. Now, our bodies are very closely associated with our existence. How many people know that? That's where I would say duh Somebody says, Preacher, I can't be there Sunday, but I'm going to be with you in spirit. That always creeps me out a little bit, you know. So, though our bodies are closely associated with our existence, with our beings, having said that, you and I are not bodies. Right. We're a spiritual being. We're a soul. That's what we are. And we inhabit this body. We live in this house. Now some houses are nicer than others. But this is the house we live in Um so some are double wise, yeah that's true. Um quit quit saying stuff. You're gonna get me in trouble. But you and I are not a body. And I and I mention this often at funerals. In fact, just about every funeral I'll point out, that body in the casket laying there is not the individual that passed away That's just the house they lived in. They know the Lord as Savior. They, what they are, they are with the Lord as Savior. If they're unsaved, They're separated from God in hell. But that's not them. This body is not you and I. You're hammering a nail and you hit your thumb. You don't say, oh, I hit me. Say, I hit my thumb. That's not me. This body is not me. It's what I live in. It's what I dwell in. And so when Solomon here is illustrating to the youth These evil days, these unpleasant, painful days of affliction, and uh in the later years of life when the body begins to deteriorate, the bagatti begins to break down, he's describing it as a house That's in line with the rest of Scripture because that is what we our bodies really are. It's a house for the soul. Now, as we look at this, we wake make our way down here, we're going to see a body that's wearing out, he describes. But I want to point this out, and we've got folks in our church. That fit what I'm going to describe here perfectly. The body may be wearing out. The body, the house, may be starting to shake on its foundation and shingles may be coming off. And um uh The old body may be breaking down, but however, that does not mean necessarily the spirit is breaking down. And Solomon is talking about living in a body. And you and I can be strong and vibrant and healthy and alive spiritually, even though this whole thing's falling apart. This old thing's falling apart. So let's look at how he describes it. It's very, to me it's it's almost entertaining. It's fascinating. The creativity of Solomon under the inspiration of God. Look at verse number three. Now let's look at this. We'll go through it quickly. Look at verse number three. Now he's talking about this old house. The evil day is uh in the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble. The keepers of the house shall tremble. In your mind, you think, oh, what would that be? I think he's referencing, and again, I looked at what other smarter people than I am had to say, and there was a couple varying, but for the most part they agreed with me. And when they agree with me, they're right I think when he refers to the keepers of the house trembling, I think he's talking about the arms and the hand. Keeping the house. They're what keep the house in order. And he's referencing the arms and the hand. And did you notice, and some of you maybe already have, but do you ever notice as these old hands get uh as old arms get older, they get a little bit weaker. Anybody notice that? I used to stand in the mirror and do this and it went up. Now I do that and it hangs down And you'll see sometimes and some of some are already experienced this, old hands start doing this. Start trembling. And that's what he's describing. The keepers of the house. He says that the keepers of the house shall tremble. The strong men shall bow themselves. The strong men bow themselves. I think there he's referencing to our legs and our knees, maybe the shoulders. The person gets older, those old legs don't aren't as strong as they once were, and the old knees start to uh cause some problems and the shoulders begin to get down, and it actually you find if you're not careful, you start uh kind of bending over a little bit. Then he goes on and he says, look at this. I like this one. And the grinders cease because they are few. Anybody want to take guess what that is? Titi. First, I thought he was talking about West Virginia, but um uh I'm sorry. But the old teeth aren't all there. I was reading one fellow uh was writing some things about this and he said he was at a grocery store. And there was an older fellow there and he was getting these little parade foods. Is that the word parade? Right. And he got these and he had this and he was kind of talking to himself, getting all that, and the the preacher went over that was saying this, he went over to us and said, Oh, you got some grandkids uh getting food for the grandkids. He said, grandkids, nothing, they're for me. I can't chew stuff no more. The grinders are few. The grinders are few. Then look what he says. And those that look out of the windows be darkened. What's that talking about? The eyes Sight begins to diminish, the eyes get weaker, the glasses get thicker, need longer arms. Look at verse number four. He says, and the doors shall be shut in the streets when the sound of grinding is woe. It's like the doors are shut. Outside there's work going on and people are he uses the term grinding here, but maybe there's jackhammers out in the street and there's trucks going by and the The noise and the hubbub out in the streets, the grinding going on out in the streets, but it's like the doors are closed. What's he talking about? Don't hearing Old hearing goes on. Get harder and harder hearing. Hearing begins to fail. Then look what he says here. Some of y'all know about this. And he shall rise up at the voice of a bird. What do you think he's talking about there? The older we get, I find that we wake up in the middle of the night And you can't hardly sleep, wake up so early, and sleep tends to fail. When uh you know, teenagers can sleep till noon. Or later. But when you get older, you can't do that. So well, you wake up. You wake up. Uh then he goes on in verse number um And uh then he goes on here. He says, Rise up at the voice of a bird. And then the last part of verse 4 he says, And all the daughters of music shall be brought low. I think he's talking about the old vocal cords here. The voice begins to waver and quiver. It's not as strong as it once was. And man, you could just belt it out. As it gets older, that voice tends to weaken and tends to uh quiver a little bit. Verse number five, and when they shall be afraid, also when they shall be afraid of that which is high And fears shall be in the way. I think he's talking about the older you get, the more nervous you are about climbing up on higher places. I was over with my dad, he's got a fan, and he was doing something with the fan. He had a stand, uh stepladder he got out, and he called me up and asked if I'd come over. He said, I started to get up on that thing, on that stepladder, he said, I didn't know if that was a good idea. That's characteristic, that's typical, isn't it? Boy, but used to be, man, we climb that ladder, get up on that roof, run around. You should have saw Brother Mark over on the roof last year that putting that thing running around on that thing. And I'm not that old, but I was up there. Fear. I tell you what's a real fear in older age, a fear of falling. Fear of falling. And what a creative way he describes this. Then he goes on and he says uh fears, he references the fears, and then I like this one, he says, and um Fear shall be in the way, and the almond tree shall flourish. What do you think he's talking about there? Old hair turns gray Old hair turns gray. That word flourish has one of the ideas in the meaning, it's kind of obscure, but uh it has the idea it not just uh turns gray but it flies away And that happens too. Gray hair or no hair. Then he goes on. And the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail. Now I looked at that and I thought, grasshoppers shall be a burden, and desires shall fail. What do grasshoppers do? They eat, they're noisy, but there's one thing you think of a grasshopper. They hop! They jump around. And zing zing. We'd catch them with a little bang, they go over there. Some of them can fly. They fly. And I think what he's talking about here, he says, jumping around is a burden now. I don't see a whole lot of people jumping rope. Hopping around. Do you ever watch little kids? They jump just for the sake of jumping. Just boing, boing, boing, boing, boing, boing, boing, boing. And he says, those days are gone. That jumping around, that hopping and running around, that spring and the step is no longer there. And then he comes to this. Because that man goeth to his what? His long home, and the mourners shall go about the streets. He says that old that old body, that old house, just breaking down, breaking down, breaking down till finally it goes to its long home. The word long home there, that long means eternal, everlasting. That long home, that place that's been prepared for me. Jesus mentioned it to his disciples in John chapter 14. He said, I go to repair a place for you. This whole body wears out. But I'm going to say this, and this is the important thing I think to take away from this. Though the body wears out, the soul goes on. The soul goes on. Of course the mourners would reference, the mourners in the streets would reference a funeral procession, something like that. Then verse 6 he kind of elaborates here on this a little bit. And he uses again very flowery descriptive terms. He says, or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken. Now most of the studying I did on this and what f people suggested is some sort of lamp or maybe like a chandelier type thing, and it's held by a cord. And that cord breaks and the lamp is gone. The silver cord or loose and the golden bowl, that would be like the lamp, is broken and life is over. Or the pitcher be broken at at the fountain or the wheel be broken. The idea there is what I understand has been suggested is a well and they're pulling it up and the and they have a wheel, they're turning that wheel and pulling that thing up and the rope breaks and phew, the bucket goes down and Is gone. He's referencing the end of life. And what he's saying here to the young people is this: life goes by so fast. Life goes by so fast, and this whole body breaks down, it's not going to live not going to live forever. And you need to get things right, you need to get in tune with the Lord, you need to walk with God from youth. Verse 7, then shall the dust return to the earth as it was, and the Spirit shall return to the God who g unto God who gave it. God who gave it. The body decays, returns to dust. Spirit, the person, what we are, goes to be with the Lord. What a sober thought he leaves with the youth. And he says, remember thy creator now in the days of the youth, when these days that he just took seven, eight chapters, chapter seven, eight verses to describe, says, they're coming on you, they're coming on you. How many people here wish they got saved younger age? Amen? So our advice, our suggestion to the youth is live for God. Now you say, well, what about us? We're old, we're all we're adults. What about those of us in the Lord? I tell you what, let's live for God now at this stage in our life. Let's live each day. So, oh I don't know, this is discouraging. I don't know how many days I got. Well let's take every day we got and live at full force for the Lord. Let's just be out and out for Christ. This is what I got, this old house, and I'm going to fill it with the Spirit of God, and I'm going to use it, and what I can do, I will do, and And uh I just want to be live every day, regardless of my stage in life, I want to live every day for Christ, to be a witness, to be a testimony to the goodness and grace of God. Then when this house is done and I'm called home to heaven, the spirit goes for your Lord I'll give him the glory for the rest of eternity. I want to do something a little different. I was telling Pastor Matt, I want to do something a little different for invitation tonight. I almost did it last week. But I would like, if you guys would work with me, if you if you'd cooperate with me here, I would like for all our young people under 18 years old You would come down, just stand across the front here. Would you do that for me real quick? All our young people, under 18 years old, just line up across the front here This are the people that this passage is addressing. Just in a line right across, down on the floor here, yeah. Just line up across here, both sides. He's saying, Remember thy Creator in the days of thy youth. This this stage of life Make sure you know the Lord Jesus, Savior. Commit your life to him. Dedicate your life to Lord Jesus. Come on up here, Gabriel and Jackson. Don't you just love these kids? Oh, I thank God for them. I thank God for them. I'm gonna give the invitation. We're gonna have Lord's Supper here in a little bit, so maybe you want to just use the altar just to prepare our hearts for Lord's Supper But I would like, and Jennifer, if you could come on up here, if one of these children is your child or maybe your grandchild or whatever, I would like for you to come up and you and the kids, when we give the invitation, just pray together. That God would lead them and direct them and protect them. And that their lives would be lived for the glory of God. Now there's some kids up here that don't have their parents here. They don't have any family here. I would like some of our church folk. If you would take one of these young people that don't have parents here and pray with them and just kneel at an altar and ask God to bless and keep them and use them for God's glory. Those of us that are living in these old houses, maybe God can help us be a blessing to these kids coming along, be an encouragement to them. Amen.