Matthew seven. Why don't you turn there? Matthew chapter seven. The Gospel of Matthew seven. And I appreciate the work, I sure do. And there's something about when preachers are in a meeting I'm not kidding you, whether the quality steps up or not, the volume does. I guarantee you the volume always steps up. And most preachers uh think they can sing. Uh far fewer can sing than think they can sing, but most preachers think they can sing, and I'm one of them. I think I can sing. And uh whenever my wife is with me, um she has asked me, please don't sing during the preaching, and so a lot of times I do just to show her who's in charge of things, you know, and so I'll get to singing while I'm preaching and um I'll look down. Just is it is it on and she's gone. And I say, Oh yeah, that shows her. I'm showing her who's in charge there, amen. And so anyway, I do appreciate the good singing. I've enjoyed the singing a g a lot. I sure have. And the spirit of the meeting and the choir, thank you for those good specials. We had a blind piano player at uh Southwest Baptist Church for many years and Dale told me when he hears me sing he wishes he was deaf as well as blind. So I guess that's pretty well his judgment on uh the quality of my singing. But anyway, I know I know good singing when I hear it. I do that. And so I've enjoyed it a great deal. And thank you, Pastor, for the opportunity and for just uh the church hosting a meeting like this every year and And Brother Smith, God bless you and thank you for your friendship and the good work that continues to go on under uh your leadership at the Sword of the Lord. Matthew chapter 7, if you don't mind standing for the reading of the word, if you need to remain seated, you may. At Southwest Baptist Church, open your Bible means stand up, and everybody stands up. For sometimes forget to tell a guest preacher and everybody stands. And the same thing is true in our singing. We always stand up and somebody says, Open your songbook, I just stand up. And sometimes I'm standing right down here And sometimes we're on verse three before I realize I'm the only one standing, and that gets a little bit embarrassing. Uh but anyway, I like to be able to uh stand and give honor to the word of God, and I'm sure you agree that that's uh worthy. Chapter 7 and verse number 7. We're just going to read through verse 11. And uh somebody might want to say, Praise the Lord for a short text. Short text is always in an independent Baptist church a sign of a short sermon. You know that. You don't know that. Okay, well we'll see how it works out here tonight in Matthew chapter seven. Very familiar uh to many a very familiar passage in verse number seven. Brother Smith mentioned uh how that the message that he just preached was born, how it came to pass. And um I'll I'll just tell you real quickly that uh at the end of last school year, early summer Uh I went on the campus, the students were all gone, and uh only a few were there for the summer courses we were offering and so I went and just walked around all the property and through the facilities and we're getting ready to do some upgrading and of course upkeep during the summer months And I went into our men's dormitories. We have three new ladies' dormitories and then another ladies' dormitory that we'd really done extensive work on, and they're very livable And I went into the men's dormitories and uh became convinced that uh they they have served their purpose. In nineteen ninety-eight we took a Bible college campus that had been shut down for seven years and had existed for about forty years and uh two buildings we used for men's dormitory. One was built for a dormitory, the other we turned into it. They're they're done plumbing wise, electrical wise, functional, they're they're done. We've got it we've gotta move 'em out. And so I'm uh convinced that we have to have new men's dormitories to be able to progress and move ahead and and function legitimately. These buildings have served their purpose and it's it's going to be a shame if we don't get them replaced. Well, you know what that means? That means money. That means a lot of money. That means probably in our case, depending on how we go about it, three to five million dollars. And uh we don't want to incur any more financial obligations than we have. And so uh I mentioned to our Executive Vice President, who's a wonderful man, I said, you know, we've got to start thinking about uh new men's dormitories. I'm convinced that in the near future as soon as possible we've got to tear these dorms down and build greater dorms. That sounds rather uh like something you've read in the Bible, doesn't it? And so I said, but it's time and I I'm convinced in my heart I I know it's over. And I told Brother Copes, I said, Boy, it's gonna take a lot of money, and he is the executive vice president of I said it's gonna take a lot of money and he goes, Yeah And I said, I'm I'm talking about some major money to do this. He said, Yeah. And I thought with his wisdom and understanding and grasp of financial matters, he would have some words of encouragement or wisdom and all he did is say, Yeah. So I thought, well, no need talking to him anymore about this and so I started talking to God about it. That's probably a better course to take anyway. And so in the course of my praying about these men's dormitories, uh literally this is what transpired. I was telling God the the need and I was explaining about the the cost and the economy in our country and the uncertainty in the economy and this isn't a good time and while I'm explaining to God all these details about what it's going to take to get it done So help me. I'm I'm not weird. I'm just saying I believe God can speak to us. And by His Holy Spirit, He imprompts us and puts things in our mind in biblical answers. And while I'm telling God all about it, he said, Ask. It's like you're giving me all this information, which I probably know more about it than you do. More than likely he does. Ask. I don't need any more information. I want you to ask. And that hit me. It hit me about like that. And it drove me to the passage here. And the theme of our school year this year is the year of ask. It's an asterisk. A S K. Ask, seek, knock. And it's right here in Matthew chapter 7. We begin reading in verse 7. Ask, Jesus said in this portion of the Sermon on the Mount, ask, and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened Or Jesus said, let me enlarge upon that. Or what man is there of you whom if his son asks bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? If ye then being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children. How much more shall your father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? Now, last night we preached out of the book of Ezra, and the title of the sermon, for those of you that were not here, and refresher for those that were here, how to have Everything you want from God. And more. Now for those of you that weren't here, no, it's not a contemporary sermon on positive feel good thinking and the health and wealth preaching uh gospel of our day. That's not where we were. It's actually a Bible sermon. And so we were there in the book of Ezra, chapter number seven, and tried to lay that out. And tonight I want to further uh dwell upon that thought and asking and receiving from the Lord And the title of this message is this. This is no blank check, however. This is no blank check. And indeed it is not. This is not a blank check from God. Whatever you want. And people start thinking about all their carnal desires and worldly ambitions. That's not what it is. However, it's really good news for the children of God. I'm I'm talking about major news. Thank you for the message on being blessed, and maybe this will be just an extension of that, you know. Ask and seek and knock, our Savior said. Father, we do thank you tonight for the privilege to assemble together once again. Thank you for the appetite that folks have for your word. I'm sure that there are uh meeting places that are sometimes called churches that People couldn't imagine meeting together in uh Sunday morning and Sunday night, and then Monday night also, and then Tuesday morning and Tuesday night And it's almost a thing unheard of in this day and time. But I want to thank you for men and women that are assembled here that remind me of Mary of old, to whom Jesus said, Mary hath chosen that good part Which cannot be taken away. And I want to thank you for the men and women and the young people that are assembled here tonight that have a desire to hear from you and have an appetite for your word And I pray that every soul might be fed and encouraged and uh the lives of your people made better as a result of them having given attention to the word in these meetings. Thank you again for your goodness in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, God bless. You may be seated. This past summer my wife and I uh found a few days, about a oh a week or uh I think it's actually nine days that um we set aside and After I preached a youth camp in Arkansas through a deal that was offered got a condo on a beautiful lake in northern Arkansas. A setting similar to this, not quite this beautiful, because Arkansas was in a drought, and uh one day we had plans to go do this or that, but it was 111 degrees And dry as a bone. I mean it was just wretched hot. So we just decided we would stay in this very comfortable place where we were staying and just enjoy the day and talk and play table games. She likes to do that too and and just uh hang out that day. We decided to do that. In the course of that day we were talking about uh family vacations that we ha had taken over the years and while we were raising w while we were raising our children. And we talked about some of our favorite experiences and I said, well, what about that one in uh nineteen eighty one? And she said, eighty-one, eighty-one. I don't remember. I said, well what happened in eighty-one? And she said, Oh yeah. She said, I didn't like that vacation. Well our son came along by surprise and uh when we were thirty-six years of age and when Samuel came along uh he was two months old and at the time we were going to take our vacation And so we decided we're gonna take a a o an Oklahoma vacation. We're gonna go the places that we can go to in a day and be back home and stay at night. And as we sat there and talked about it, uh we were reflecting back on having a child, uh kind of unexpectedly a surprise to us at that stage and and uh didn't know we were gonna have any more children. He was younger than seven years younger than our youngest child. And we were talking about how utterly dependent A baby is upon their parents. And I said, remember I I was even carrying a d if I wasn't carrying him, I was carrying the diaper bag and sometimes I was carrying both and feeding the kid and I think that was the one time I changed uh one of our children's diapers. We have three children. I I've actually changed one diaper uh out of three, which I was pretty I thought I'd get some kind of plaque on the wall for that, but my wife disagreed with that. And so I think it was on that vacation I did that. And I had fond memories at that time my wife did not. She did not particularly enjoy that vacation. It's interesting, though, that how when you reflect back on your child-rearing experiences, how dependent that child is upon their parent. even through their, you know, childhood years and their development and even into their teen years more than they want to admit. But we understand the process, don't we? That in a parent-child relationship, the longer you go and the older the child becomes, the less dependent they are upon their parents. And that's the way it's supposed to work. Right now that same child is uh thirty-one years old and he has uh two daughters, age five and two. And uh another one on the way. Uh in uh January, I think, is when our daughter in law is due. And so now our son is a teacher in a Christian school and an administrator in the high school of that uh uh of that Christian school where he is and uh he is uh very uh working hard to be a good father and a good church member and a good school teacher and a good citizen. He's gone through all of that kind of thing and so I notice that in this day and time Samuel asked me for nothing. He didn't ask me for anything. In fact I'm more apt to ask him for something than he is to ask me. I'm trying to get in condition for my later years, you know, where he's thinking that way. He needs to take care of dad. You know, it's not too early to start on that And so anyway, Samuel's not asking me for anything. And I offer him things. Dad, you don't have to do that. And I want to be a blessing. Dad, you I don't need that. You don't need to do that. And so that maturity process comes And somebody says, Oh, I see where he's going. He's talking about spiritual maturity. Yeah, but there's an interesting thing about our spiritual life and our relationship as God's children to our Heavenly Father. And the interesting thing is that the older we grow, if we are indeed maturing in Him, the more aware we become of our dependence upon Him. So there the comparisons kind of break down, don't they? Because in raising a child, you want to raise them to learn how to take care of themselves. A thirty-one-year-old dependent crybaby is not a blessing. Somebody say amen to that. And so in the uh in the uh realm of our families, we want the child to grow and to develop and to become self-sufficient that way. We're talking about in terms of the needs of life and working and finances and all of that kind of thing. But in the father child, I'm talking about the God-believer relationship, it is actually true that the longer we go as a child of God, the more we become aware of our dependence upon him. Now listen to me. If your thinking is not that way, you're not growing in the Lord. You're not growing in an understanding of who he is and who you are I find it interesting that as I've gotten older there are nine little children that call me grandpa and ten coming. By the way, we're gonna have nine girls and one boy. So the thing is all out of whack as far as the balance is concerned there, but we love it all, you know, it's great. I have nine children that uh call me grandpa and I got a wife that calls me her husband and three children that call me dad and I love the sound of that as well and sons and two sons in law I get along with and a daughter in law that I love very dearly and And I mean it's just a it's a it's a wonderful time. I've had hundreds of people that called me pastor, I've got people that call me preacher, and all of this kind of thing. I mean, look at all the hats that all of us wear But I decided and understand this that no matter how old I get, nothing is gonna change between if I have the sane mind And I understand the Word of God and live in the Word, I'm never going to get to a place in my life that I don't come before the Heavenly Father and feel like an absolute child before the ancient of days I am now sixty-seven years of age, and I don't feel any less childlike or dependent upon God than I did. As a matter of fact, I find that I am increasingly in need of him and aware of my need of him. Is everybody with me here on this? Now the interesting thing is as Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount is discipling his disciples, and that is what he is doing. He is teaching them what it is going to take to be his disciple. And something I never noticed till fairly recently is that in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5, 6, and 7, by Matthew's record In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus teaches his disciples and sixteen times refers to his father as their father Their heavenly Father, sixteen times, three times in chapter five, twelve times in chapter six, and one time in chapter seven. That Jesus refers to God, his father, as their heavenly father. I I find that very interesting So that if you go through the Sermon on the Mount, you may not hear anybody make a major theme out of the Sermon on the Mount, that it is the fact that God is their father and they are his children But actually, if you want to stop and think about it, one of the side issues in the Sermon on the Mount, it's like the text is screaming out to us And the text is screaming to us, My Father is your Father. That's what Jesus is saying to his disciples. No, these are men that are going to be ha having the mantle put upon them to continue to perpetuate the gospel and who are going to lay what we would call the very foundation for the doctrines that we embrace and teach today. I didn't say that. The Apostle Paul said that the uh the apostles themselves, that they were like the foundation. They're the ones that were propagating this truth upon which uh the uh we build and we continue to perpetuate And Jesus is saying to them, never forget this, my Father is your heavenly father. So can I say it again for emphasis? You didn't act too excited about it, so I'm going to keep saying until you get excited about it That in the Sermon on the Mount, it's like the passage is screaming to us where Jesus is saying, Never forget this, my Father is your Father. Now this is a great dynamic for this reason. We're needy. We are needy. We are very needy people. And with this in mind, Jesus gives us these incredibly wonderful and encouraging words. Ask. And it shall be given. Seeking you shall find. Knocking it shall be open to you. Everyone that asketh, receive it. Everyone that seeketh findeth, and everyone that knocketh, it shall be open unto them. Come on. These are great words. Probably I need to stop for just a moment. And say that these were never, these words were never intended by Jesus to fuel what we call the health and wealth gospel, which is another gospel. Which is not another. Well I'm confused about a lot of things, but I'm not confused about what I just said. I meant to say it like that. Because you know Paul said that there were some that were preaching another gospel which is not another And and Jesus never meant for these words to fuel the perversion and the twisted teaching and preaching that comes from the health and wealth gospel crowd as they preach their gospel, which is another gospel, which is not the gospel. See? That was never the intent of Jesus Christ. I for a number of years um I've had the practice on Saturday night, I've done this for years and years actually, of polishing my shoes. I had two brothers who are in the military, my youngest brother is eight years older than me And he really got me into the shoe polishing business. I thought he wanted to teach me how to keep my shoes shine. Actually what he was doing is teaching me how to shine his shoes. And which it worked out pretty good. So anyway, uh I've always been big on keeping my shoes shined. So every Saturday night I'd shine my shoes. If I had five pairs of shoes and I only wore two that week, I would even polish the ones I didn't wear that week that I polished the week before. My wife would just shake her head. And I don't know why I did it, I'd just do it. And I got to worry on Saturday night, if there was not a good football game on, or a baseball game, or a basketball game on then I would check the so-called preaching stations and kind of keep a thumb on the pull speed of what's being said out here in modern day or contemporary preaching and even the charismatic crowd, some that are on the television So one night I was polishing my shoes and I turned to a certain channel where they had preaching, and uh unquote, and here was Mr. K. C. Frederick Price And maybe some of you have heard of him and he preaches or did preach out in uh Southern California, Los Angeles area, had a large congregation, had the kind of congregation where the platform was right in the middle and seats all around and everything. Huge crowd there and everything, a large uh Southern California LA area church there. And he is of this health and wealth gospel group And so Mr. Casey Frederick Price was down among the congregation holding his Bible in his hand, and he said, To tell you the truth, I'm ashamed of some of you people. He said, I'm absolutely ashamed of you. And the reason I'm ashamed of you is I've been your pastor, some of you, for fifteen and twenty, and twenty-five and maybe even thirty years. And he said, I've been your pastor I've been taking this book and I've been teaching you and preaching to you and he said and some of you have so little faith and some of you give so little serious attention to what I'm preaching to you that some of you are still driving forgives and Chevrolets. And some of you are still driving Plymouth and Dodge. And some of you are still driving these cheap cars when you know that if you would pay attention to what your pastor has been teaching you, you would be in a BMW or a Mercedes Benz or a Jaguar or something like that. instead of the pathetic cars that you're out here driving. Now friends and neighbors, he wasn't trying to be a comedian. He was in their face. And he said, You're a disgrace to this gospel and you're a disgrace to this preacher, and he was on their case Now I didn't agree with his theology, but I liked his attitude, you know, just getting into his face and getting on him like that. I thought if you're crazy enough to go there, then you deserve that kind of stuff, I suppose. And there he is, he's getting on to him about it Now we know that there's an abundance of that out there, don't we? We understand there's an abundance of that out there, the Kenneth Hagen crowd, the Kenneth Copeland crowd The Benny Hinn crowd, the Jesse Duplantis crowd, out of the guy out of New Orleans, and that is out there. And amazingly, thousands upon thousands of people actually buy into that And feel like themselves that they are fails. Jesus wasn't talking about that. Neither was he talking about the carnal-minded who would use these words just to try to get their own selfish way. In other words, they would pray and say, Jesus, you said, Ask and it shall be given, seek and you shall find, knock, and it shall be open unto you. And you know I want this promotion, and you know we want that bigger house And you know that I want this status, so I want to be elevated here or elevated there. A few years ago is about what, seven, eight, nine years ago The uh book by David uh uh let's see, Bruce Wilkinson or Wilkerson came out on the prayer of Jabez I mean it just swept this country. It's unbelievable. The prayer of Jabez, and he took that Old Testament verse and talked about how that the prayer of Jabez and he prospered And it became a New York Times bestseller, and there were people that were teaching it in corporate offices all over the place. And what were they doing? Why was it so popular? If it's a New York Best Times seller, just mark this down It may be out of step with the Word of God. It could be that even though they use verses out of the Bible, it could be they have misappropriated or misapplied those verses. So the prayer of Jabez became this famous and very popular book, sold millions and millions of copies, and people got a hold of them. Prayer of Jabez. And it was so popular, I preached on it at Southwest Baptist Church. The prayer of Jabez. Only thing is we took a very biblical approach And it wasn't meant to make all the corporate executives in the United States of America a nation that is thumbing its nose at God at every level. It wasn't meant to give people hope for some kind of a prosperity And more money they could stick in their pockets and greater investments that would enrich them in their retirement days. That's not what the prayer of Jabez is about, not even remotely close So, whatever Jesus is saying here, it was not to fuel the health and wealth mentality of our day. Don't forget that this verse is in the setting of the Sermon on the Mount. And the Sermon on the Mount begins like this: Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed is the person who realizes his utter dependence upon God. His own bankrupt spirit, his own inabilities. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are they that mourn. That's the second thing that Jesus said. Blessed are they that mourn. Blessed are the meek. Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness. And so we could go through all the beatitudes, which I won't take time to do because I'd want to stop and preach on every one of them. But if you go through the Beatitudes, you can understand that Jesus' teaching here begins by Here's how the life is blessed. And you show me a person that wants to ask and receive, seek and find, knock and have it open unto them. who has no heart for humility, somebody say amen, has no desire to mourn over sinfulness, has no understanding of what biblical mean A person that's not interested in that Jesus isn't talking to them in Matthew seven. He's talking to those that will lay hold and grasp and come to grips with what it takes to be a disciple, and what it takes to be a disciple is to be poor in spirit And what it takes to be a disciple is to know what it is to mourn over sin. And what it is to take a dis be a disciple, it takes someone who is willing to exercise biblical meekness and hunger and thirst after righteousness and show mercy like he has shown mercy from God and on it goes Now, Jesus did, however, give these words to fuel the passion, the desire of his own people to pray To call upon him, to indeed ask and seek and knock To be like children and understand. You're not going to come to a time, disciples, if you live three lifetimes, you will never come to the time when you outgrow the need to ask of God. And seek of God and knock in asking of God. You'll never pass that level. It's a part of the discipleship life, our utter dependence upon him. Now, down in verse 7, he says, first of all, ask. Ask speaks of humility. Ask. That very term speaks of humility. You see, to ask implies, I don't know. To ask implies I don't have. To ask implies I need. Okay, let me try to make it clear. Let me ask you this. Even before uh GPS and all of that kind of thing, the Garmans and the and the lady and the little deal on the dashboard that talks to you. I remember when we got a garment and I plugged that thing in and this lady started telling me what to do. I said, the last thing I need is another woman in this car telling me what to do. Now I have two telling me what to do And so, anyway, some of you are going to think I'm terrible that way, but uh let's move on, shall we? And so uh before GPS, can you answer this question? Why is it men have such a difficult time stopping to ask for directions when they are manifestly lost? In a car trip. Huh? Why is that so? Now I've heard that question asked many times in my car. And I used to answer my wife, I know shortcuts that you'll never find on a map. And uh, oh, I've gotten us in some of the biggest messes you ever saw. And uh but my wife has also seen parts of some major cities that a lot of travelers never see. And don't want to see. Amen. So I'm gonna admit that I've I've had those issues. But m my wife used to say, I'd say, Well man alive. I thought this I thought I thought we did this she'd say here here she comes. Well don't stop and ask You know, I mean this is the point that really shows she's about ready. She told me one time we finally got to where we were going, sh I said, Sandra, you were getting a little upset. She said, I thought about jumping out of the car. I was that upset And so anyway, wh why why why wouldn't you stop and ask? Why? And my wife and what'd you say? Pride. My wife says, Pride. It's male ego. It is P-R-I-D-E. The reason you don't stop and ask is not because you think you're going to find a way. It's not because you do know a shortcut. You've never been in this stinking town before, let alone knowing any shortcuts. And so why doesn't a man stop and ask A man does not stop an ass because he is too proud to stop an ass. Now we've got to come to grips with that. And there are some men that are going to be even in denial right now, and they're going to say, that's not the reason for me. No, you're too proud to admit that that's the reason. But it has to do with our pride, doesn't it? And so an individual comes to the Lord and they are going to ask, it's sort of like a child comes. And a child well Jesus said if you're going to be understand my reign and my rule in your life, it's going to be necessary that you become like this little child. Remember him saying that in Matthew 18? If you don't remember it, I can go over and preach there. We're already in Matthew But Jesus said it's important if you're going to be my disciple and understand my authority in your life, you're going to have to become like a little child. And did you ever notice that when your children are children, they don't mind coming to you and asking Can I go here? Can I do this? Can I have that? Can I have this? In fact, they don't mind bugging you to death about it. If you're prone to let them get by with that kind of thing. No, they don't mind that at all And do you know what we have to do? We have to come to the place where we realize we are needy people. And it doesn't matter how old I am in the Lord or what office I've held or how many people call me this or that or another thing, I will never come to the place that I don't need to come before my heavenly father and ask him. And I have an invitation right here in the Bible to do just that. My dad was a farmer and I'll never forget the year that uh my I was with my brothers and my brother-in-law, and I was about 12 years old, maybe 13, and my arms were about that big around right there. And we were hauling hay. And uh from the time I was a little kid before he could even reach the panels They would put the truck, with dad's old truck, they'd put it in the lowest gear, we called it grandma or compound, the lowest gear, and they would get it going, and then I would sit there and navigated between the ditches and through the field and they would throw the hay bales on. Now this is before they had these nice hay loaders and certainly before the big round bales and all of that And so I finally said to my brothers one day, I want to buck some bales. I want to put some bales on the truck. My brothers both laughed at me, my brother, you can't do it, you're skinny, you're weak, da-da-da. I can do it, I know I can do it So my brothers, uh especially my brother Ben, said, give him a chance, give him a chance. Ben's eight years older than me. He was my favorite brother And so Ben said, Give the boy a chance. So I get a hold of this veil and it's about eighty-five pounds and I'm wrestling this thing around and I get it off the ground and the you know the bed of the truck is up. I can't get it up there And I'm standing there and Ben says, Let me show you something. And I said, No, I'm going to leave you showing. Now I'm mad and my ego is hurt, you know. And I'm saying, you're not going to show me I could do this. And I kept fighting with it. Of course the longer I went, the weaker I got. And uh the farther I was from getting on the truck. And finally I frustrated myself to the point I just said to Ben, Will you show me? He stood there and grinned at me a little bit. He comes over and he says, get the bell like this. Get the wire, both strands of the wire, pick it up, get your knee under it And then, as you're picking it up, kick it up with your knee. I tried that about three times. They say, you know, I can throw it up there. And I spent all that embarrassment. frustration because I wouldn't let my brother show me until finally I asked him, would you show me how to do this? I'm so frustrated now it's probably ball into as a big squall bag, at least they say I was. And so I was probably squalling about it too. And finally I got to where I could do that. All I had to do was ask my brother for help. He was more than happy to tell me And I wonder how many times we frustrate our lives. Come on. I wonder how many unnecessary trips we've made to the altar because we failed again, because we never have really left it with him, and we never have really trusted him, and we never have really depended upon him. Worse yet, we've never even asked him. You have not because? And Jesus said, Ask, ask, and it shall be given you. And look down. He's he uh ask speaks of humility, and then he says, seek. Seek speaks of uh it speaks of sincerity and earnestness Okay. It's time going. Men are a mess, apparently. Um I said last night, I got chilly all over my tie, and I went back to one of the dear ladies of this church. I think I saw her here in the choir And I'm trying not to look at her right now. But I said I don't listen. I said I'm sixty-seven years old and I haven't learned to lean over yet. She said, No man has. And she had a bad attitude about it Yeah. She's got a red face right now about the color of the shirt that I sent by. Now I may have r overstated that just a little bit, but it was similar to that And men have issues. Okay, men have issues like this. I can be looking for something and look right at it and don't see it. Sandra, where is have you looked? Of course. Yes, dear, I've looked. Yes, of course I've looked. He comes in there, walks right to it, picks it up, and I I I don't know what it is. Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. Sure. Absolutely. You look right in, you can't see it. And my wife says, I'm not going to tell you till you look for it. I've already looked for it, woman. I dare spend I don't know. I bet I spent a good twelve seconds looking for that thing. Now where is it Right. And she comes in and there it is and she finds it. What is the deal? Well, what the deal is oftentimes that I'm looking at this but my mind has already moved on to something else As a matter of fact, if I'd look long enough and she's not home, I'd forget what I was even looking for. And so when we talk about seeking, Jesus said I'm giving you the invitation not just to ask, but to seek. And in order to seek and to receive, now hold on just a minute, Jesus teaches his disciples that you have to have a focus and you have to have Or be paying attention to what it is you are seeking. And when he says seeking, he's talking about sincerity, he is talking about earnestness In other words, our mind has to genuinely be what we are asking for or what we are seeking him for. Now, just to back this up, let me back it up with the Sermon on the Mount We're not going to turn back there and take too long and everything. We're going back into chapter six, verse twenty two, where Jesus is teaching his disciples about not worrying and not fretting and trusting him and the Father. Listen to this. Jesus said the light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body should be full of light. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body should be full of darkness. And if the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness? And you know what he's simply saying there? Jesus is saying, if your eye is single, which means you are able to singly focus, it's not fuzzy. Right now, if I take these glasses off, I don't see you well. Most of me in here look better with my glasses off, but I'm just gonna say I can't see well. I can see there are people out here. I can't focus. I can't read the pages on the Bible. You know why? There's an astigmatism growing over my eyes at this stage of my life And so because of that, when the rays of light come into my eye, they don't come in singly like an arrow. They come and hit the stigmatism and they splatter. That's the way the doctor described it to me. And they splatter, and when they splatter Instead of coming in straight like an arrow, then you lose the focus and the fuzziness and the blurring comes. If that's possible with the physical eye, do you think that's possible with spiritual sight? It is most definitely possible with spiritual sight. And do you know why a lot of people are not receiving from God what they claim to be seeking from God? Because they are not singly focused I said, because the spiritual eye is not clean. Because the spiritual eye is not singly focused. As a matter of fact, he calls it in Matthew chapter 6, the evil eye. There is something that is hindering. There is something that is standing in the way. And what Jesus is saying here, he said, Ask and it shall be given unto you. Humble yourself and show your dependence upon the Father and see Seek and ye shall find. But in order to seek, it talks of sincerity and it talks of earnestness. You must be singly focused on that for which you are seeking. Does that make any sense at all? That's what he's telling us. That's what he's telling us. And so often I'm afraid that folks seeking and asking Or they're seeking, they don't find it, or receive it from God, because it's a side issue compared to the other issues that they're dealing with in life. It's a side issue. It's not primary. See, this follows the teaching of Jesus. Seek you first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things shall be added in the this is this is after that. And he's saying if you're going to seek, then you've got to be singly focused. It speaks of seeking speaks of Sincerity and earnestness. This is what I am focused on. Did you ever see it where somebody lost a child? And the child has gone missing, and they form search parties? What do you think they do? Go to work And just say, well, as soon as I get off work, I'll start go look for my kid. No, they don't do that. They become singly focused on finding the child. Isn't that right Well, do you know God wants us singly focused? Well there are other issues to deal with, but you focus first on His will. You focus first on the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all of these other things are gonna what They'll be added unto you, he said. But seeking has to do with that single focus, that earnestness, that sincerity, giving attention to what it is you're asking or seeking for. And then he says, knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Knock and it shall be opened. So when he says knock, what are we talking about there? Well, we're talking about persistence. We're talking about persistence. I used to confess all my sins, but it's not unusual for me to be home like right now at the kind of schedule I have. I'm home on uh generally on Thursday and I teach uh homiletics on Friday morning. Got about 49 young men, third year men in there that I'm teaching homiletics. Oh man, what a thrill and delight. But I don't have time to talk all about that. And so it's time for me to leave, and I got a phone call, and oh man, I've now I had myself plenty of time. Now I boy, I gotta hurry, and I walk out the door and I get in the car and I start to leave and I realize, oh, I left my briefcase in the house, and I gotta go get it. Now my wife is in the back of her old house. Now we have a doorbell, and if you're in the living room where the bell is, you can hear it. But the bedroom is way back there, and she's back there in the other part of the house, and so I knock on the door. Nah, she is deaf in one ear. She is she's totally deaf in one ear for since she was twenty-six years old, and now she's not hearing very well out of the other ear, and now I'm not hearing very well, and my son went ahead and he said, I'm gonna go ahead and get married, I can't live in this house anymore. And so some of you understand what that's about. And so I'm knocking on the door where we usually enter, so I move around the front door and I knock on the door and still know Sandra. She didn't come and answer the door, so now I'm pounding on the door. What am I saying? I'm losing time. I am sincere. I'm about to beat the door down, woman, because I've got to have my briefcase. And I don't have a key on my keychain that I have for my car. Uh it's on I don't know where my key went to. I can't remember what happened to it. So I knock. Knock has to do with so Is everybody with me here? Now somebody says, is God really that way? Look, this has more to do with how we are than how He is I said, this has a lot more to do with how he is. It's not like God doesn't know. He already told his disciples in Matthew 6, the Heavenly Father knoweth what you have need of before you ask But he does want us to ask and hold on just a second. He does want us to see, and he does want us to be urgent about the matter, and he wants us to knock. That's what he is telling us to do. He is telling us I want you to learn to ask and to seek and to knock. That's where he wants us to live. It has to do with our recognition of our dependence upon him. Fallen people, it's not just men either, are prideful. Want to be self-sufficient. One of the most fundamental lessons you and I can learn in the life as a believer is this. We are not able ourselves. We need him. Hold on just a second. And if he gives us everything that we actually need without us ever asking. Seeking and knocking? What do you think there is about the human nature that would make us turn around and give him the praise? And the glory and the honor that belongs solely to him. So it's not because God's the kind of God that if you stay at it, he'll finally let you have it If you keep a knocking and you keep a seeking, then I don't know, it's like he goes on a trip somewhere and you have to be sure and stay with it to get it. No, that's not the character of God That's not the problem. The problem is our fallen nature, and he is teaching us what is best for us in relation to him, and it is best for us in relation to him to come to him as a child to a father and ask. Yea, seek and even not. See. Now that's what Jesus meant. And then to enlarge upon it, and I'm going to do this quickly, look down in verse number nine. Jesus talks to us about an earthly father. So that we might understand his heavenly Father. Now, watch this. Or what man is there of you whom, if his son asked bred, will he give him a stone? How many fathers in here today? Okay. Yeah, I I w there were six of us kids and my dad was a farmer and there were times when things were thin and and pretty tight. But I do remember this: that we never missed a meal. We had clothes on our back, we had a roof over our head, had a bed to sleep in. We never did without. And even though we were poor till later on. Or how poor we were until later on. You know why? Because my dad was a responsible man. And he made sure that my mom had food to cook, no matter what he had to do, or what kind of work he had to engage in between wheat crops or wheat failures. No matter what he had to do, he's going to provide for his children. He's got a wife, and he's got six kids, and he's a man of integrity and character, and he's going to work and take care of his kids. And we sit down and eat It's unthinkable that I would say to my dad, Dad, in order to do the farm work you've given me to do and all the chores that you've given me to do, I need some bread. My dad tossed on the plate a rock. Here, boy. Be a man. What kind of dad would do that? Dad, where's my cereal? And he sets down a bowl of gravel. And he says, put some milk on this and try it. Boy, it'll make a man out of you. Now, come on. My dad understood they wasn't a scientist or a doctor, but he understood that it took certain kinds of food To nourish the boy. Come on, is everybody with me here? He understood that. So I never asked for food and my dad pulled some kind of a cruel joke upon me He didn't do that. Or upon any of my brothers or sisters. He didn't operate that way. And if we ask for a fish, would he give us a serpent? Now Jesus is showing us something here, and he is saying, Look, if ye, verse 11 being evil, now hold on, was your dad evil, brother Sam? He had the capacity for evil. Was your dad evil, brother Sam? He had the capacity for evil. He was capable of being evil. I'm sure he was more sinful than I realized. I I I honestly I was thirty-five years old before I could come to grips with the fact my dad had faults. I I just I just ignored them or acted like they weren't there or chose not to see them. And literally, I was thirty-five years old before I even could acknowledge my dad even had faults. I had a wonderful relationship with my dad. But I I've learned, I know, he had simple propensities. He was on his way to being a drunk, got saved when he was twenty-eight years of age About to lose his wife and the first my older brother's siblings there, my sister and two brothers, about to lose his family completely, and about to wreck and ruin his life on liquor and booze And my dad, my mother insisted my dad go to an old revival meeting in Cyan Valley out in the desolate part of Western Oklahoma there, and he went to a little country Methodist church when a Methodist still had a message And he heard the gospel of Jesus Christ, and after the second night he went home and got on his knees beside his bed and called upon Jesus to be a Savior. I'm so thankful for that Yes, so do I know that he is capable of evil? Yes. Yeah. Our pastor back home is Brother Jason Gaddis. I stepped aside May 2nd of 2010. I uh my last sermon is Sunday morning, his first sermon is the pastor was Sunday night. And he's got three little boys. They're precious. Tyler, Trevor, Trenton. Three boys. Just stair step. Man, there's something else. And everybody in the church recognizes that Brother Gaddis doesn't just preach about a home, he demonstrates how to raise your children And these boys are all boy but they're respectful and they're learning the right things, and Brother Daddis is a model parent, in my opinion He's a model dad, and I just love his approach to it and how he's raising those boys. It's a wonderful thing to watch, but he's capable of evil. I said the man is capable of evil What kind of a blind individual would I be if I pretended that our pastor, because I love him and care for him and admire his family, what kind of a uh what kind of a naive individual would I be to think that he has no capacity for evil? He does. And the best father in this room has potential to do evil. And we are fallen by nature. And Brother Smith already preached on it We do evil, not because we wake up one day and say, I'm going to go in here and do evil. It's our propensity, it's our bent, it's our nature. That's what we are as sinners. Jesus said to his disciples, if ye then being evil, I would allow that some of them were even parents. If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, oh I see what he's doing there, Brother Sam. He's comparing the earthly father to the heavenly father. No, he's not He's contrasting, not comparing. There's a big difference between a comparison and a contrast. And Jesus said to his disciples, Ask and it shall be given, seek and you shall find. Knock it shall be opened unto you Because he said, if a man seeks, he's gonna see, if he seeks, he's gonna find, if he not, it shall be opened unto him And Jesus said, Let me let me give you a contrast here. Do you know how to give good things to your children? Excuse me, even if you're unable to give something to your child that they need. Even if you're unable, you're going to avoid giving them a stone or a serpent. You're not going to do something that's manifestly evil against them. Because even fallen, sinful, evil men know how to be kind and loving to their children. Is everybody with me here? But here's the contrast: your Heavenly Father How much more will he give you the things you need? How much more? What does it mean, so how much more? Well even He doesn't have any ability to do evil. He doesn't make any mistakes. There's no capacity in God to do us wrong. I I'm just about up to hear hearing people talk about how I'll tell you one thing, I'm mad at God. Well, two two things are very evident. One, you way overestimate yourself, and you way underestimate who God is You don't have a clear vision or understanding of who God and what God is and what He's revealed about Himself, and you sure don't have a clear understanding about yourself. And when we understand who God is and we understand who we are, then we understand this. That we have a heavenly father that cannot lie and he cannot fail, and there is no capacity in him to do you wrong or to do you wrong or to do our children wrong Now it's easy to say amen to in a service like this. It's another thing to sit down with people going through the fiery trials of life and loss and death. and sorrow, but I'm going to tell you no matter what the surrounding circumstances are, the truth of who and what God is is already settled from eternity. He can never be any different than he is. And there's no capacity in God to fail you, your children, your grandchildren, me or my grandchildren, or any of the church members back at Southwest Baptist Church. He is God. And he knows how much more to take care of me than my good, though potentially evil dad knew how to take care of me. See, I have to say my dad was a good dad, but then I have to qualify that because I know here's some faults he had. I know that. But he was a good dad, but I have to qualify. But when I say he's a good God, I don't have to put any qualifications on that. And he knows how to give to his children the things that he needs. Now I'm going to wrap it up with this. Being the kind of God he is and what Jesus teaches us about the Father, do you see any need to be timid? In coming to him, why don't we ask? Why aren't we seeking? This verse, I'm afraid, is more often read than practiced. Do you see any need to be timid? Uh Pastor. Now you were on our campus, you know, and up here towards the front of the campus, there's that men's dorm. Did you see the men's dorm? And then there's a one story deal that we've turned into a men's dorm. Well, they've had it. I mean there are guys still living in there and our guys have a good attitude of I mean, the the young people that God sent. They're wonderful young people, but F but I told 'em, I said I got good news we're gonna get new men's dorms. But the bad news is you'll probably ought to be gone before they're built And that's probably what's going to happen. But you know what I start doing? I just start asking God. God, we're not going to borrow any more money. We we do have a um a mortgage. Uh it's certainly been a manageable mortgage. Uh we build a you know the auditorium we met in that was a four point two million dollar building and we'd set aside and save two million dollars before we ever started on that project So, you know, we have a minimal uh debt there compared to the building we have. And that campus is now worth about seventeen million dollars. You know, they would Estimated at about 17 million dollars right there in Oklahoma City and we owe on the property itself about a million and a half So, you know, it's not like we're swimming in debt, we're not. But we're not going to get there either by the grace of God. So you know what we're doing? We're just asking God, give us the money for the dormitories. Where do you think it's going to come from? You know when I went and said to my dad, Dad, I I really uh oh man, I need a hundred dollars. My dad said, Oh, I can do that. Where are you gonna get it, Dad? You think I care where he got it? Just give me the box, amen. What are you talking about? I don't know how he's gonna get it or where he's got it. I have no idea. I figure that's his business And Jesus said, ask and seek and knock. How do you think I know but Brother David said, come on, be real, be practical. Where do you think that money might come from? I don't know. All I know is he said ask. Now what he wants to do with that, that's known to him. And how he wants to make it available or make it known, that's known to him. But I'm just talking about mere dormitories on a building. What's in your life going on? What is it that you keep fussing about and you're frustrating yourself about and you keep trying to take it in your own hands and throw that veil on the truck by yourself? What is it that you should finally leave it alone and And humble yourself and ask him. And if you believe what Jesus said and what is taught here, why would we be timid? Why would we not come boldly before the throne of grace that we may have turned mercy and find grace to help in our time of need? Why would we be so timid? Now I'm not talking about Oral Roberts stuff, and I'm not talking about the charismatic stuff. I'm not talking about the name it and claim it. I'm just saying here's a legitimate need that has to do with the glory of God and his purpose being fulfilled through our lives. And I'm going to come to God and ask Him to enable us to do His work. To me, that just makes all the sense in the world. It's his work after all. I said it's his work. Maybe it's in your marriage. Now I pick on my wife a lot. I guarantee if she was here, I would still do it. And but I I pick on her a lot. Maybe it's in your marriage. Maybe it's in your marriage. It's one thing to fuss. If I had true, genuine fusses about my wife, I wouldn't be sharing it in this kind of setting. But instead of fussing and talking to your brother or brother-in-law about your wife or about your marriage, have you truly asked him? And sought him. And I think some people don't because they they know if I do that, there's some things I'm going to have to change. And I'd rather fuss than change. Too old to change. Oh, that is one of the most idiotic things I've ever heard said in my life. That is not true. What is it? Is it about something that pertains to the Lord George, some pastor here? And you say, Well I don't know, I mean there's sure there's more work to be done in our town and everything, but I don't I can't see that's ever gonna happen, nothing's ever gonna change Are you going to sit around and bemoan the fact that things are tough and difficult? Or are you sincerely humbling yourself to ask him to do his work? You know one of the greatest things that came as a realization to me as a pastor, Brother Mike, was when I was in Stillwater, Oklahoma, and it's not a military town, but it's a university town and the people come and go very, very transient. And I remember after about three years, I was this ambitious young preach preacher. I could see with the potential there in that town and for that church And every time we'd reach people and start getting them in and disciples and adding to the church, they'd up and graduate and move. I remember why you ambitious whippersnapper, you you can't build a church Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it. And what when I realized, I'm not, he doesn't even He didn't even ask me to build a church. He asked me to be faithful and to win souls and to preach the word. And how that turns into church growth, that's his business, not my business. Every time I get asked in a meeting, you know, Southwest Baptist has a lot of people coming and I have uh guys in a question and answer. They'll say, Brother Davidson, yes. How do you take a church? We're running about 15200. How do you take a church to the next level? You know what I you know what my first answer is? I don't know. I don't know. Oh, I seen church grow to tremendous proportions. But it wasn't because of some kind of strategy I spelled out. You just do what you're supposed to do And he is very capable of doing his work and his word. Why are we timid about asking? Why do we hesitate? What is it you need that will further the cause of Christ? That will further the work of His kingdom? What is it that's keeping you? From really moving on in your Christian life, something hang up in your life, or some relationship, or some bitterness, or some anger that's Harbored in your soul. What is it that's bothering you and keeping you from fully realizing what God wants to do with your life? You say, Well, it's there and nothing will ever happen. That's a schema Humble yourself and ask him. And get focused on being right with him and seek and knock. Because Jesus said it. Now don't claim to believe John 3. 16 if you don't believe this stuff, friend. Jesus said, if you ask, I'll give. If you seek, you'll find. If you knock, it shall be opened up to you. So how about we get down to the business? Of just simply taking him, once again, it's so simple, simply taking him at his word and acting upon his word. The biggest failure I've had in my life is not the failure to learn how to pray or to pray. My biggest failure has been failing to truly, sincerely act upon this truth and ask. And keep asking. And seek and keep seeking. And knock and keep knocking. I got a feeling if I'd have practiced this right and led others to do the same, we might not have any mortgage there. You know what I'm talking about? I can't prove that, but I just have this sense. I've confessed it to God if I stood in the way because I wasn't willing to practice this. The biggest failure. And listen, I'm done. The greatest most evident mark of immaturity It's when a believer senses no need to ask, seek, and knock. And when we don't ask, seek, and knock, we are basically saying I can handle this. And that is a mark of a very, very immature believer. Is everybody with me here? Yeah. Let's stand together, if you would, please. I'm true preaching, but would you listen to Psalm 104? Listen to this. The wicked through pride Of his countenance will not seek after God. God is not in all his thoughts That should never define the attitude or action of his children. Come on. He said the wicked Through the pride of his countenance, will not seek after God. For God is not in all his thoughts. Now that's the wicked God help us if He is our Father and we as our children, that we don't act in such a wicked manner. Ask, seek, knock. Father, we pray your blessings now upon this invitation time. And if some of your children tonight would have the passion fanned and stirred To humble themselves and say, Oh God. Brother Smith preached on the blessed life, and the very first Beatitude says, Blessed are the poor in spirit. And I've acted like I could function and be a legitimate Christian without you and your strength and humbling myself before you, I cannot. God, if there are believers that need to do that tonight And then begin to ask in humility. Seek in sincerity and earnestness. Knock and persistently and urgently seek your face. God, if you would accomplish that in any lives in this service tonight, we'd be so grateful to you. And it could be that there is someone here tonight that has faced the reality that they are not in that relationship with you. It could be there's someone here That they have never followed your word to know what it is to become your child and for you to be their father. And what Jesus said, He continues to say, you must be born again Except a man be born again, he can't enter into the kingdom of God. And so, God, I pray that there are any here tonight that are without Jesus and without salvation. That there would be a humility of heart to come and trust Christ even this very night. Work in the lives of your people for Jesus' sake. Amen.