Chapter one, I just want us to notice in verse number eleven, and I'm going to take one phrase for the title of our message this morning. The Bible says, Acts one eleven Which also said, now these are these angels, these men, we believe their angels appeared to the disciples when Jesus ascended And it and and says this, and which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? Now look at this. This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, Shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. The same Jesus you saw go up into heaven He's going to come back the same way. I want to talk about this same Jesus this morning. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for the Christmas season and what a blessing it is to fellowship together in just a special way. The celebration of the Lord Jesus Christ's entrance into the world as a man. And I pray now you'd bless as we finish out this year that's raced by We're looking to a new year here in just a few days. And I ask you to prepare our hearts that you would challenge us, our faith. I pray and I ask, dear Lord, that you'd help all of us, myself included, to just stop and self-evaluate where we're at spiritually. The quality of our relationship with you, the strength of our faith. Lord, how close we're walking with you. Lord, show us where we have need this morning. Encourage us, Lord. Challenge us. And I pray your will be done. I yield my heart and mind to you. God, I ask that you would guide my thinking and the words I say. Lord, I ask that you would keep me from saying anything that you would not have me to say, and help me say everything you would have me to say. So guide my mind, I pray, as I'm preaching. I yield my body anew. I present it anew to you. I pray you fill me with your spirit, and that you would do that speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There are four profound events in the life of our Lord Jesus Christ, in the human life, his time here on earth, 30. Three and a half years, we believe he walked this planet from his birth till his um ascension, as we read here. Four key events. Now there's a lot of amazing things happened throughout his life Raising the dead, healing the sick. The teachings from the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ through the gospels are some of the most profound teaching that has ever been in the history of the world. And so Jesus Christ, during his time here, did some amazing things, but there's four significant events in the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. One of them was his virgin birth. That is unique in every way. And we make a big deal about that this time of year. In Sunday school, the last couple weeks, we've been trying to study what the Bible teaches about the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the significance that has and uh and what that says about him. So uh the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ is very, very profound. How it came about and the purposes for it The second significant event, oh, by the way, the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, somebody said it was perhaps the greatest intervention of God into man's existence when God became a man. God. Became a man. Again, someone else said the son of God became a man so that men would have the opportunity to become the sons of God. And so the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ is very profound. There's another event in the life of the Lord Jesus Christ that stands out in its significance, and that is the crucifixion. of the Lord Jesus Christ. Born of a virgin, the Son of God, no human father, no sinful nature, pure and sinless in every sense of the word. And yet he died on that old cross for your sins and my sins. We make a big deal about the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is when God, as man, took responsibility for man's sins and in the place of man was judged by God for our sins so that you and I can be forgiven. So that you and I can have eternal life, so that you and I can escape the wrath and judgment of God for all eternity. In a horrific place called hell, Jesus died, was crucified on that cross for us. Would you agree with me? The crucifixion of Jesus Christ is profoundly significant. Without it, there would be no hope. So we have the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. We have the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then we have the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. Without the resurrection of Jesus Christ, we would not have Christianity. It's a lot of different religions in the world, a lot of founders of religions and leaders in religions, but Christianity is the only religion, if you want to call it that is the only religion whose founder rose from the dead. We could go and find the grave of Muhammad. We could find the grave of Confucius. We can find the grave of Joseph Smith and all these various leaders. But I tell you, we go find and you in that grave would be the body of these folks. But we go to the grave of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that tomb is empty. We serve a risen Savior. He is alive. And the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, His resurrection, assures us that His crucifixion was complete. That sin was paid for. The resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. I put this down. The resurrection of Jesus Christ validates his deity, proves he is God. He was God. He is God. It fulfills prophecy. Jesus said over and over, I'll rise again. I'm going to come back. Prophesy. And his resurrection fulfilled his prophecy. And uh his resurrection confirms his death sufficiency. In other words, when Jesus rose out of that tomb It was a loud and clear statement that the judgment of sin was paid for. The debt was paid. There's no more judgment. There's no more rest. The wages of sin is death. When Jesus rose up out of that grave, he says, all right, that wage has been paid. If he'd have remained dead, if he would have remained in that grave, if today We could go and find the uh the tomb and find the the ashes and the dust of his body somehow. Uh if we would do that, then he would still be paying the wages of sin. He would still be in debt. But he conquered death by coming up with life and he says, all right, the wage has been paid in full. Amen? You owe it a debt and you pay that debt off Then you no longer owe money to it. You're free to go. Jesus Christ walked out of that grave. The grave, I think I said this this past year in a message, but I like this thought. The grave is God's receipt that our sin debt has been paid. The empty grave, the empty grave. So the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, profoundly significant. The crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ, judging, being judged for all the sins of mankind, ever uh every sin that ever has been committed Every sin that ever will be committed was laid on the Lord Jesus Christ. He was judged in our place for us. Buried? He rose again. Payments paid. No more debt. No more judgment on sin. It's all been paid for. And then the fourth one I want to mention is his ascension to heaven. Now that is probably one of the most overlooked aspects of Jesus Christ here on earth. After his resurrection, he ascended to heaven Perhaps, as I said, the most overlooked ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ here on earth. And we have that account here in what Pastor Matt read for us a few moments ago. Now the book of Acts is a fascinating book. If you look at your title there above chapter one, most Bibles have the Acts, uh the Acts of the Apostles. How many people That's a title there on the top there, chapter one. The Acts of the Apostles. Now, that's okay, but that's a man-made title. You understand that, right? Man put that title on there. Some of y'all might uh this might bother you, I don't know, but uh I crossed out where it says the Acts of the Apostles I crossed out my Bible the word apostles and I wrote in there the Holy Ghost, the Acts of the Holy Ghost. And what we have in the book of Acts is the inspired record given to us by inspiration by God. of what the Holy Spirit can and would do through believers who are totally yielded to Him Totally submissive to him and what the Holy Spirit can and would do in filling that believer and using them to be a witness in the world. The book of Acts is a fascinating book. Uh I think it's a picture. Now not everything that happens in the book of Acts is to be repeated. I'm convinced that that in Acts chapter 2 with Pentecost, the Spirit came and uh tongues of fire and rushing mighty wind. They spoke in tongues. I'm convinced that was a one-time event not to be repeated over and over and over. I think it was the introduction, the arrival of the Holy Ghost indwelling believers. But there are many, in fact the majority of the uh events recorded in the book of Acts, I believe, are God's desire for his church all through history. God wants his church to have the power of the Holy Ghost upon us. God wants us to be a witness in this whole world regardless of how uh intense the opposition may be, regardless of the level of of persecution we may face. God wants to empower you and I and Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to be a witness to this old world of the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ to save souls and change lives. I read a quote this week. It stirred my heart. It said this: one day in hell is worse than an entire lifetime of being persecuted for my faith in Jesus Christ. Don't ever say living the Christian life isn't worth it. I'm here to tell you it is worth it. One day in hell is worse than being persecuted my entire life for my faith in Jesus Christ. And so the Book of Acts is a powerful book. The Book of Acts gives us a lot of instructions and sets in many ways an example for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. on how we're to function and our purpose here on this earth and and uh uh uh and the power of prayer. You read the book of Acts and those New Testament believers they got a hold of God And they saw God do powerful things. They would preach with boldness. They would preach in the power of the Holy Ghost and souls would be saved. Not by the dozens, not by the hundreds, but by the thousands people would come to Christ. Lives changed, souls saved. What a book. What a book. I love the book of Acts. In our passage here at the beginning of the book, we have we notice two things. First of all, we have the ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ. Again, perhaps the most overlooked event in the life of our Lord Jesus Christ, the ascension to heaven of our Lord Jesus Christ. Then we are given the assurance that He's coming back again. We have his ascension to heaven, and the angels declare and give assurance, the same Jesus is coming back from heaven the same manner you saw him go. And I want us to consider those two thoughts this morning. First of all, the ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ. In Acts here, we have the most detailed account of this And every time I read this, I just try to picture in my mind, take yourself back and stand there. Maybe you have Jesus Christ and the circle of disciples around him. He's got eleven of his disciples gathered around him. Of course, Judas would have committed suicide at this point. And so you have the eleven disciples there. And he's speaking to them, and he's giving them final instructions. And he's saying to them, Listen, you're going to be witnesses for me. The Holy Spirit's going to come upon you. You're going to be witnesses. You stay here in Jerusalem. The power of God's going to fall on you. And when it does, you're going to go out into Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and all the world, you're going to preach the gospel. And as he's giving them these final instructions The Bible says he began, he was taken up out of their midst and zing, gone. Now I say this every time I preach on this or mention this. I would love to have been somebody standing back and watching that take place. How many people can picture that in your mind right now And he's just uh disciples are listening intently. Alright, this is what we're gonna do. This is gonna happen. Are you listening girls? Are you with me girls? CC are you listening? Are you good? Are you okay? Alright, I was worried about you there for a minute But um every time I read this, uh I get stirred up. And I I picture this in my mind. And here, uh, standing there, disciples are looking, and all of a sudden Jesus' feet pick up off the ground And uh and he starts going up, up, and they're watching him. Ooh. And the Bible says there was a cloud there. He was taken out of their midst in this cloud. And And uh it cracks me up. Uh uh a lot of things crack me up. But um they sit there and and they're just And the angel says, hey boys, hey! What are you guys doing? Gazing up into heaven. You know, they're just, I love the standard. Anybody with me on that? Come on, huh? And I don't know. But Acts gives us the most detailed account of this event, unusual event, amazing thing. It's mentioned two other places in Scripture The ascension. And Mark chapter 16 and verse 19, we're just given a statement. He was taken up from them. No details given, no specifics. In Luke chapter 24, verse 49 through 52, they have a little bit more given, but it's basically he's giving them final instructions, and then he's taken up out of their midst. The ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ. Doesn't get a lot of attention preaching. Doesn't get a lot of teaching done on the ascension of Christ. We don't hear much about it, many sermons about it, but it's vitally important. For 40 days after Jesus rose from the dead, for forty days he would appear to his disciples at various times. For 40 days he would interact back and forth with over 500 people Jesus showed himself alive to He would appear to them. He'd talk to them, interact with them. He had a meal at least two occasions with his disciples and uh interacted with them. So we have this 40-day period of time. He comes up out of the grave. Everybody's dumbfounded. Peter and disciples are amazed. He's alive. He's alive. And for 40 days he interacts with them a little bit Off and on at various times, and then he ascends to heaven. Now, that 40-day period, I believe, was significant. I think he was verifying the fact that he really did rise from the dead. He was given unfailing documentation that it wasn't just a rumor he rose from the dead, but these people sold him. They they verified the fact, yes, I know he's alive. I saw him, I interacted with him, over 500 people. Now if you were going to have a court case, we say this often And you were in a situation, maybe you had a wreck or something, it goes to court for whatever reason, and they're calling up witnesses. And maybe you say uh uh uh you know you're trying to make your case And you bring in five or six witnesses that verify that what you're saying is the truth. Would you agree with me? That's a pretty strong case. You got five or six people come in and say, yes, we saw him there at this place, at this time, and this is the case. You've got five or six. What if you had 75 witnesses Lined up. Every one of them says the exact same thing. Yes, he was there at this place at this time. Would you agree with me? Pretty strong case Seventy-five people witnessing to the fact that what you're saying is so. What if you had over five hundred witnesses? Would step up, testify. I saw Jesus alive. I saw Jesus alive. I spoke with him. We interacted. We walked down the road together. We had a meal together I can tell you where it was and when it was. I can give you the date, the time, what we did, what he said. Do you agree with me? Pretty strong case Jesus rose from the dead. I'm here to tell you the resurrection of Jesus Christ is one of the most documented events in all of history, in my estimation. There's historians have written books where they were going to try and disprove the resurrection of Jesus Christ, and as they studied it, their minds were changed, and they ended up trusting Christ and being saved. And those are documented accounts. So Jesus rose from the dead for 40 years. He interacts with people and verifying the fact that he actually is alive. And then we have his ascension to heaven. Now I want you to notice the process of this ascension. He says, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, which is taken up from you. Now, how was he taking up? taken up from them. Well look at verse number nine, the first part. And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld They're looking at him. In other words, the resurrection of Jesus Christ was visible. They saw what happened. It's not a rumor, it's not somebody told them. They saw what happened with their own eyes. It was, look again, verse number nine. While they beheld, he was taken up and a cloud received him out of their sight. This was a physical ascension. I mean, literally, physically, his feet up off the ground, his body goes up into a cloud, and poom, he's gone. Literal, physical. He did not vaporize. How many uh do we have any uh here any um uh um Star Trek fans Anybody here watch how many people here hate Star Trek? And uh how many people have no idea what I'm talking about? Uh Star Trek, the show, y you know, and uh and on there they say, Beam me up, Scotty. Come on now, you know what I'm talking about And then that weird sound, and uh it just vaporized. That is not what happened to Jesus Christ. He wasn't beamed up. He didn't vaporize. He didn't just disappear. He physically, literally, ascended up into the heavens and then to be with his father. That's significant. Now keep that in mind. We're going to come back to that here in a moment. So he ascended visibly, they saw him. It was physical, literal, and it was unexpected These disciples, he had told them repeatedly, I'm going to the Father, I'm going to the Father, I'm going to the Father. I'll rise again, I'm going to the Father Um uh but th but they didn't expect it They're talking to him, and I don't know, they're listening to what he had to say, maybe processing the instructions he's given them, and then boom. All of a sudden this takes place. Completely unexpected. Caught them by surprise. So that's the process. Literal, physical, visible, unexpected. Happens What about the purpose of his ascension? Why did Jesus have to ascend to heaven? Well, the Bible gives us a number of reasons. One of them is to confirm the fact that his earthly ministry was complete. Everything he came to do, he finished. He says, I he said previously to the disciples, he says, I must finish the work that my Father has given me to do. When he ascended to heaven, he was finished. It was complete. Someone said he went from his earthly humiliation, humbling himself to his heavenly exaltation, where he sits at the right hand of God. So his earthly ministry was complete. Second purpose for his ascension was so the Holy Spirit could be sent to indwell believers. Now we could go back to John chapter 16. He spends quite a bit of time, John chapter 14, explaining to the disciples, I am going to have to go away. And when I go away, I will send the Holy Spirit to come back to earth to indwell you. He shall be in you. Alright? And so Jesus ascended to God the Father, and he sent the Holy Spirit to carry on his work that he began here on earth. and building the church and and uh reaching the world with the gospel. So the Holy Spirit came. Jesus ascended so that you can I can have the Holy Spirit dwelling within us. How many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. If that's the case, if that's true, because of the ascension of Christ, along with some other things, you are indwelt right now, this very moment, you are indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. God Almighty, in the person of the Holy Spirit, is dwelling inside your body and my body. I don't know about you, that's mind-boggling. God is in me, in the person of the Holy Spirit. We had last week, we had the two young ladies follow the Lord and Believers Baptism, both those young ladies. testified that they had trusted Christ as their Savior. You know what that means? In their bodies, the Holy Spirit of God is indwelling right now I was out visiting yesterday, knocking on doors. And I came across a fellow, invited me in. We sat down, got talking. I asked him, Do you know for sure if you died right now you go to heaven and not to hell? Do you know your sins are forgiven? And uh he goes, Well, I hope so. And I said, well, we talked a little bit. He says, I used to go to church and I did this and that. I hope I'd go to heaven. I said, yeah, but do you know for sure Are you confident that whenever your day comes, you die, you go to heaven, not to hell, that all your sins are. Are you sure of that? He goes, Well, I hope so. I said, let me take my Bible. I'll show you from the Bible how you can know for sure you're going to heaven. He goes, that'd be fine. I sat down there beside him in his living room Opened my Bible, went through the Romans uh book of Romans and how to be saved. He agreed, he's a sinner, he agreed with that, he knows he's a sinner. Uh Jesus died for his sins, buried, rose again. He believes that's true. Yes, that's true And uh rose again, yes, absolutely. And uh uh uh uh and then the Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved I said, uh I said his name, and I said, listen, since Jesus died on that cross, was willing to die on that cross for you, be buried, rose again. Would you be willing to call on him, trust him as your personal Savior? You know what he said? He goes, I sure would He bowed his head with me and called in the Lord Jesus Christ. And I said, You mean that? He goes, Yeah, I meant that. I mean I said, Tell me, were you serious? He goes, I was serious. I called on the Lord Be my Savior. I said, according to this Bible, my Bible says your sins are forgiven. When you die, you're going to heaven based on your testimony. You know what happened that moment when he called on the Lord? The Holy Spirit of God Almighty. Took up residence in his body, right then and there. Whether he knows it or not, he is indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God That Holy Spirit begins working and changing the way we think and changing our values and our priorities and molding us to become more like Christ as time goes by. That is a result of the ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ. He went to be with the Father and sent the Holy Spirit to indwell believers. Thank God for the indwelling Holy Spirit of God. And Jesus ascended to make that possible. He ascended to make that possible. So he ended his ascension, he ended his earthly ministry, he's finished the work he came to do, he accomplished it. He went to send the Holy Spirit back down to us. He said it was expedient that he goes away so that he can send the Spirit. If he doesn't go away. He can't send the Spirit. Then we're told in Hebrews to be our high priest. Those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we have right now at this very moment at the right hand of God We have a high priest that intercedes for us. He prays for us. Jesus Christ is praying for you right now. He intercedes on our behalf. Sometimes we mess up. Even after we're saved. How many people found that to be true after you got saved? Man, I still got this old sinful nature here, deal. Yeah. Didn't take me long to find out. And uh here's the wonderful thing. Jesus ascended to heaven. And when you and I say something as a Christian We say something we ought not to say, oh God, I'm sorry I shouldn't have said that. We have Jesus Christ Old Satan comes up, he's called the accuser, he goes, you hear what Leatherman said? God, did you hear what that guy, that preacher, you see what he did? I'm down here, God. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And uh Jesus steps up and he says, hold it, hold it, hold it. I paid for that sin. There's the blood on the altar. Here's the scars in my hands and my feet. I already paid for that sin's paid for. You can't judge him. You can't pour your wrath out on him. It's already been paid. Isn't that wonderful? Jesus ascended to heaven to do that for you and I. For you and I. By the way, the Holy Spirit convicts us when we say and do things we shouldn't. Amen or not. Brother, if you've been saved anyway, how many people know what I'm talking about? The conviction of the Holy Spirit. Yeah And we go, oh God, I'm so sorry. And we confess it and we forsake it. Lord, I don't want to cover the sin. I admit it. And Jesus says, I paid for it. Don't send them to hell. I already suffered hell for them. It's all paid for. I'm telling you, the ascension of Jesus Christ is significant. That he would go and be our high priest and intercede for us. He secures our salvation Ah, sometimes not all not much anymore, but there well I used to get criticized a bit by different people in the community because we believe that once a person is saved, their salvation is secure In other words, we can't lose it. I've had people over the years say, you believe one saved, always saved? I said, yes, but let me explain. That is not a license to sin. God never gives someone a license to sin. But once I'm saved Jesus Christ at the right hand of God secures that salvation. He makes that intercession for us. He saves us to the uttermost. He's at the right hand of God. And my security of my salvation, the assurance of my salvation, the fact that I cannot lose my salvation is not based upon my lifestyle or how good I am or that. It's based upon Jesus Christ at the right hand of the Father keeping me saved. We are kept by the power of God, not by our own good deeds. Are you with me? We're not saved by our works, we're not kept saved by our works And so the ascension of Jesus, the purpose of that was to, one, his earthly ministry is done. There's nothing more to be done. The Holy Spirit is sent to indwell us. He becomes our high priest and secures us and intercedes for us. He's our advocate. But there's something else he went to heaven to do. This gets exciting sometimes. That is to prepare you and I a place in heaven. In John chapter 14, he told the disciples I'm going to be crucified. He didn't use that exact term. He said, I'm going to die. And he says, you are going to forsake me. And Peter, of course, says, I'll never forsake you. I'll die before I forsake you. Jesus said, before that cock crows three times, you're going to deny me. And Peter was discouraged, and Peter was, man, I would never do that. Now I'm adding that in there. And then Jesus said this in John chapter 14, verse 1, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. Then he made this phenomenal statement. He says, I go to prepare a place for you. Peter, I'm going to heaven with my father. And I'm going to make a place for you. I mean a place just for you. And by application to all believers. And Jesus Christ is in heaven preparing a place for every single one of us. Isn't that something? I don't think we get to heaven and it's all just dormitories I don't think it's just uh do you ever see these housing projects where every house is identical, all the windows are the same place, doors same place. Everybody know so everything. I think get to heaven, I think uh I think I can show this from scripture that uh every place is personally designed for the individual believer. He's got a place just for you. I think he's got some old uh some log cabin back on the side of a mountain for Vern Schweitzer back up in there. And uh that's what he would I can't see Vern living in a in a row house in a city But uh uh I don't know. But I know this, Jesus ascended heaven to make a place for every one of us If you're here and you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, if you've never accepted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, been born again, I'm telling you, you're missing out on some amazing stuff. God wants you to be saved. He wants to take you to heaven. He wants you to be there with him. He's got a place for you. Jesus' ascension was so he can go and prepare a place for you. We had the funeral for Joanne Shahan on Christmas Eve this past Tuesday. Joanna trusted Christ as Savior. She testified right with me, prayed with me to trust Christ as Savior. You know what? She's in her place right now. But Jesus went to heaven to prepare. She's there. She's seen it. She's in it. Isn't that something? The ascension of Jesus Christ is significant. And the purpose of it, his ministry is complete. The Holy Spirit sent for us. He's there on the right hand of God, interceding for us, securing our salvation on our behalf. And he's and he's preparing a place for all of us. The ascension of our Lord to heaven. And then we come back to our verse 11. And then we're given the assurance of the Lord's return from heaven. Notice again what it says. This angel says, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, the very one you're looking at, that you watched go up, this same Jesus Which is taken up from you into heaven, look at this, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven That angel said, listen, fellas, Jesus Christ is coming back again. Two angels appeared, and they made it very clear. In an unmistakable statement, Jesus Christ is coming back, and he's coming back the same way he left. How did he leave? He left unexpectedly. Brother, those disciples were not expecting when they were gathered around. He's telling them, You're going to be witnesses. He's giving them their final instructions. They did not expect that he was going to be lifted up and taken away from them. They're just, whoa. And I'm telling you, Jesus Christ coming back, it's going to be unexpected. Now he had told them repeatedly this was going to happen, this was going to happen. But when it happened, they didn't expect it. We've been told all through Scripture, Jesus come back in, Jesus come back in. I'll tell you, when that rapture takes place, it will be unexpected. You say, oh any minute now, I'm just waiting, waiting, waiting. I tell you if it really happened it'd be whoa. Yeah, you know what I'm saying? And uh it's i i i uh we we're looking for it, we believe it, but I tell you when it happens we don't we're not gonna be have time to get ready. You say, Well, whenever I had a lady I told this I said this before my wife witnessed to a lady back in Philly years ago we were up visiting And um she went through a plan of salvation. She goes, well, you know, whenever I see that rapture take place, then I'm going to get saved. Kathy said, let me show you what the Bible says. She went to Thessalonians. She said, right here, once that rapture takes place, if you had a chance to be saved before. And that rapture takes place, and you don't get saved, and you don't trust Christ, and that rapture takes place, you will never have opportunity again to be saved. Now that's it, that's the truth. And so what I'm trying to say is this, just like those disciples, man, he was going on, whoa, what happened The coming of Jesus Christ is going to be unexpected. And we need to be watching, we need to be waiting, because we don't know when he's coming back. It could be today, it could be. Won't it be something? Jesus came back 2025. And alive. He might, he might not. But just like he left, unexpected, just like he left, he's coming back. Literal, physically, he's coming back at the end of the uh tribulation period. He's going to come physically back down to earth. Jesus Christ will be physically on earth again when he comes back. And it's going to be visible. At that second advent, every eye shall see him. My pastor was Dr. Lee Robertson for a number of years down in Chattanooga at the Highland Park Baptist Church. He wrote many books, Great Men of God. He preached a sermon one time, and his sermon title was in the form of a question. And this was his question: Are we foolish to look for the second coming of Jesus Christ? Are we foolish to believe that Jesus Christ is coming back again and look for him? And the answer to that question is absolutely not. And he wasn't suggesting we're foolish. He answered the question: no, we are not foolish to look for the coming of Christ. God promised Jesus is coming back again. The Bible proclaims his return all through the Old Testament, all through the New Testament, Jesus coming back again. Paul, the Apostle Paul, in the letters that God used him to record for us references baptism 13 times. If the Bible references baptism 13 times, would you agree with me? Baptism's pretty important. If a person is saved, they ought to be baptized. Thirteen times just Paul says it, not counting Jesus in other passages. Thirteen times. However, over fifty times, he references the return of Jesus Christ. The return of Jesus Christ. The return of Jesus Christ. I'm here to tell you, my friends, Jesus Christ coming back again We are not foolish to look for the return of Christ. We believe the Bible. You cannot take the Bible literally and not believe in the return of Jesus Christ. And by the way, any preacher that does not preach the second coming of Jesus Christ is not preaching all the Bible. Jesus coming back again. And so the Bible proclaims his return. Jesus promised he would return. I go to prepare a place for you, and I will come again and receive you unto myself. Jesus Christ said, promised us he would come again And then we're given the plan of his coming. Just say, I'm coming again. As you study the Bible, we find that he has a plan laid out for his return. And uh we preach on this fairly regular around here. I think most of our folks understand the prophetic timeline of the return of Jesus Christ. And again, we don't have time to reference all of this, and we've done it many times in the past. We'll do it again. But the fact is the Bible tells us that the next event on God's calendar, it may be this week, it may be today. It may be next year, it may be 10 years from now, maybe 100 years from now. I can't imagine that, but it could be The rapture of the church is going to take place. That is the next event on God's calendar We don't know the day, we don't know the hour, we don't know when it's going to be, but that trump of God's going to sound sound The archangel's gonna shout! And boom! In a moment. The Bible term is in the twinkling of an eye. An unmeasurable amount of time. So brief you can't even measure it. We're going to be caught up to be with the Lord in the air. I mean just like that Oh. Um I often wondered, I often wondered what would happen if the rapture took place during a church service? Would there be anybody sitting there? Also in also in the congregation's gone. No, I should have gotten saved. I know I needed to be saved, but I just played and just played and put it off, put it off. I know someday. And poop! That rapture takes place and left behind. The next event on God's calendar is the rapture of all the believers, rapture of the church. Up out of here. That immediately introduces the seven-year tribulation period. Now again, we don't have time to go into detail, but the Bible is pretty detailed on its description. It is seven years of the most horrific, awful period of time this world has ever known or ever will known. Jesus said there never has been a time like it before, and there never will be again. The wrath of God is poured out on this old world for rejecting his son. The nation of Israel is dealt with And seven years of tribulation period. The Bible makes it very clear. The rapture, those that are left behind, seven year tribulation period. And then at the end of that seven years, the Bible tells us in some detail, this battle of the Armageddon. Now we hear about this, we hear talk about this. This is a very real literal battle When the nations of the world, the armies of the world come upon Israel, by the way, can you not see that happen? You're reading the news. The nations of the world come against Israel to obliterate it and wipe them off the earth, and Jesus Christ splits the sky. And he comes literally, physically back to earth. He wipes out the armies of the world, the nation of the world. uh rescues e uh uh uh Israel and Jerusalem. He judges the nations and that point he sets up what we call the millennial reign of Christ, 1,000 years, where Jesus Christ rules from the earth. Literally from Jerusalem, and all the nations of the world are re-established, and he rules as King of kings and Lord of Lords over all the earth. The end of that 1,000 years, we have what we call the great white throne judgment. At that great white throne judgment, there the dead, the unsaved dead, are resurrected. And all the unsaved on the earth are brought before and before the great white throne judgment, and their sentence is declared, unsaved, they're cast the lake of fire for all eternity. Then the new heaven, new earth. I tell you, Jesus Christ is coming back again. And he's got a plan. He's got a purpose. It's all laid out. He knows exactly what he's doing And we need to be prepared. Those angels told the disciples, this same Jesus, you saw him go up into heaven, he's coming back. He's coming back. The same way he left, he's coming back. I want to remind us as we finish out 2024, Jesus Christ coming back again. We're going into a new year. This could be the year of his return. The same Jesus who walked this earth is coming back again. The same Jesus who preached powerful messages and did incredible miracles, he's coming back again. The same Jesus who died for our sins, was buried, rose again, ascended to heaven, he's coming back again. He's coming back again, literally, physically, visibly, and suddenly. I want to challenge us to be ready. Are you living for the Lord? Are you living for God? Your life and heart and mind clean and pure? Wouldn't it be a shame, Jesus, that rapture takes place, and here I'm living in sin? I'm out of the will of God, disobeying him, and I'm caught up into his presence. We need to be prepared for the coming of the Lord. Are you ready? Are you living for Him? Are you winning souls? Let's determine. We're going to try and win as many people to Christ as we can. I want to challenge you. Dedicate your life to Christ. your home, to live for them and serve them. Love your neighbor. You're out of sorts with somebody, you got a bad attitude, or somebody You can't even talk. I had a lady years and years ago. She we mentioned someone. She goes, Well, we are not on speaking terms. And I thought, what a shame if Jesus Christ come back. We have that attitude towards a brother or sister in Christ. I want to challenge us. Love your brother. Love your sister. Forgive them. Even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Husbands, love your wives. Wives, love your husbands. Be kind. Be patient. Encourage and help. Don't condemn and harsh and anger. Jesus Christ coming back again. We don't want to meet him like that. Amen or not? Love our neighbors. Love our family. Love your children. Kids, love and honor your parents. Jesus is coming back again We need to be ready. If you're here and you're not saved, I plead with you, trust Christ as Savior. Your church membership will not save your soul. You'll be left behind. Say, well, I did this and I do that and I'm this and I'm that. No, no, no. It's Jesus saves us, not we ourselves. And if we're not saved and that Jesus comes back, that rapture, we're left behind. I plead with you, if you don't know Christ as Savior, get saved. I mention, and we're glad Michael's here and Crystal and some of the family. But Joanne, we had her funeral on Tuesday. I mentioned it a number of times. After it was over, I was came down and I was kind of standing off on the side and the fan and guests and neighbors came and greeted family as we do. My heart was stirred. It was on Lady, I don't know who she was. I don't know that I've ever met her before. I talked her a little before, and as we were coming up, she came and greeted family, and she came up, and I guess she was a good friend of Joann's And she went up to the casket and she put her hands on Joanne's shoulders, her body. Joanne wasn't there, it was just her body. And she looked at her and she said, Joanne? I'll see you again. I'll see you again. One of these days, I'll see you again. Won't be the same without you, but I'll see you again, Joanne. I'm glad because of Jesus Christ, those that have died in Christ will see him again. I stood there, tears rolling down my cheek, and I told him like, Daddy, I thought, Daddy, I'll see you again. I'll see you again. Jesus Christ is coming back again. And for those of us that know Christ, those loved ones that have gone before, we'll see him again. Ruth, Beller, and I thought of Sandy Schofield and others that have gone. We'll see him again. We'll see him again. I'm glad this same Jesus that left is coming back again, aren't you? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. Help us, Lord, be prepared. For your return. Help us live every day in light of the fact that you're coming back again. Lord, some of us need to dedicate our lives to Christ and just get serious about this. Lord, some, no doubt. We have to make some adjustments in our life. They're not what they ought to be, and we need to deal with it. We need to confess and forsake some things and just get them out. Lord, some of us need to get involved in winning the lost and serving you and have a ministry. God, whatever you whatever we need, please, Holy Spirit, deal with us and help us to take that action and make those adjustments. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, there are some adjustments in my life that need to be made so that I can be ready for the Lord's return. Any like that, preacher, there are some adjustments. God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe there's some say, Preacher, I got someone that's not saved. They're dear to me, and I want them to be saved so bad. I don't want them to be left behind. You'd say, Preacher, pray with me that I'll be a good witness And I'll be faithful and be able to share the gospel and live it for them. Is there any like that, preacher? I know someone. I want to be a good witness. God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe there's some this morning say, Preacher, I'm not saved. I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven You say, preacher, pray for me that I can get that settled and I can know for sure my sins forgiven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled. I need Jesus Christ as my Savior. Any at all? Father in heaven, I ask you bless now our invitation time in Jesus' name, Amen.