If you would take your Bibles, turn to the book of Matthew. Brother James Kent's doing a great job this summer as intern and I'm excited about what's happened with young people at a great rally uh Friday night and uh with the team from West Coast and appreciate them so much. Having said all that, he read the wrong portion of scripture this morning. So uh you seventeen, if you would, and uh I appreciate James so much. He he helps me learn patience and now I'm teasing him. I thank God for him. Matthew chapter 17, I'm going to read verses 14 through 21. He had the right verses, but the wrong chapter. He was in the right pew, but the wrong church. And so We're glad uh we have our Bibles. We are working on our sound system. We revamped the whole thing, so if there's some weird things happening this morning, just bear with us. That's because there are weird people in the sound room. But um But uh alright, we're all squared away up there. Very good. Um Matthew chapter 17, a young girl was in Bible college, or she was in college, and uh she went out on date with a fellow, she got back And her roommate said, how'd the date go? She said, terrible. She goes, why? She said, my, the fellas showed up in a 1932 Studebaker. She goes, Well that's pretty exciting. That's a neat car. She goes, Yeah, but he was the original owner. Matthew 17 verse 14. I think I'm just a little loud on the monitors, fellas And when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a certain man kneeling down to him, saying, Lord have mercy on my son For he is a lunatic, and sore vexed, for oft times he falleth into the fire, and oft into the water. And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring him hither to me. And Jesus rebuked the devil and he departed out of him, and the child was cured from that very hour. Then came the disciples to Jesus apart and said, Why could not we cast him out And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief. For verily I say unto you, if ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed Ye shall say to this mountain, remove hence to yonder place, and it shall remove, and nothing shall be impossible unto you. Howbeit, this time Goeth not out, but by prayer and fasting. That phrase in verse 21 caught my attention. This kind Goeth not out, but by prayer and fasting. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, thank you, Lord, for the fellowship we've had together in the service already. The singing's been a blessing. Lord, uh the fellowship, the recognition of the Fathers, all of that. Lord, we're so grateful for your goodness to us. Now, Lord, as we look into your word, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew, I yield my will anew to you. I pray that you would speak through me to all of our hearts. Challenge fathers, myself and others, fathers included Challenge us to be the men of men of God, men of integrity, men of spiritual men that can provide the leadership in our homes that you require of us. Help all of us as Christians to grow in this hour. Grow in our faith. Grow in our confidence in your word. To grow in our The effectiveness of our influence as we witness to this whole world throughout the week. Please bless now, I pray. Speak our hearts. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I believe I speak for all of us when I say we are convinced that God cannot lie. Amen? God cannot lie. If God says something is so, then we can mark it down it's so Not only can God, not only are we convinced that God cannot lie, we're convinced that even if he could, which he can't, the Bible's clear, but even if he could, God would not lie. He's a good God. Our God would not lie to us. He cannot lie to us. Yet, in verse 19 and 20 of Matthew 17, The Lord makes a statement to his disciples here that, I'll be very honest with you, on the surface is difficult to believe Look with me again at verse number 20. Look at the last part of verse number 20. Nothing shall be impossible unto you. He says, if you have faith, the size of a grain of mustard seed, which we all understand to be a very minuscule seed, he says, if we have a grain of a mustard seed, nothing shall be impossible to us. Now, I don't know about where you're at, but I read that and I think I look at myself and I look at my situation so often, and I think nothing shall be impossible to me That seems difficult to grasp at first. Nothing shall be impossible with me. Now We read our Bibles, we study our Bibles, we understand that all throughout Scripture we find that there is nothing impossible with God. You agree with that There's nothing impossible, God. All throughout Scriptures, for God, all things are possible. There is not a situation you and I can find ourselves in that God is not able to correct that situation There is not a problem that you or I face as believers that God cannot solve that problem. There is not a need that you and I may have as individuals that God cannot meet that need. Our God is the God of the impossible. Now he says to us, if you have faith the size of a mustard seed, with you nothing shall be impossible. What's he say? I think God is saying this. When we get lined up with God, when we get in line with God's will for our lives, we get in touch with God God can do through us things that to man are impossible to be done. When he says nothing shall be impossible to you, he's not saying that we can do the impossible. He is saying that God can and will do the impossible through us. It is God that does it all. Um, this book, the Bible, is a book about an all-powerful God. And we need to approach it that way. When we study our Bible, we are studying of a God that is unlimited in his power. An Almighty God. Now, that's fascinating, and we could spend a month of series on verse number 21. But verse 21 catches my attention. The situation here is a father whose son, very young son, is demon-possessed. Now, this is not a parable. This is not just a mythical tale. This is an actual real father with a very real demon-possessed son. He brings his son to the disciples of the Lord, while the Lord's on the Mount of Transfiguration. They're powerless to deliver this son from the devils that inhabit him. The Lord comes down and rebukes them. They said, Why could we not do this? He says, Because of your unbelief. But then he says in verse 21, how be it this kind? This kind. These types of situations, there are certain circumstances that require something a little more. Though God is all powerful. And easily capable of doing that which is impossible for man, there are some means That you and I may have in our lives that require a greater amount of spiritual involvement, a greater amount of commitment on our part to see God do that which is impossible. This kind. If you have faith the size of a grain of a mustard seed, nothing will be impossible. How be it? In certain circumstances, there is required of you and I, as individual believers, a greater amount of involvement, a deeper commitment. If we are going to see God do that which we need God to do, howbeit this time. There are some circumstances. That require a greater involvement spiritually on the part of the individuals involved, uh, if we're going to see God do some great things. Some circumstances, some situations, some needs where It requires more on our part to be involved, a greater level of commitment on our part. How be it, this kind, he says, goeth for goeth not out, but by prayer and fasting. Now I want us to notice a few things. We're going to build up to this point here and we're going to end with this thought about this time. But I want us to notice first of all this morning that this several things. And I want us to notice first of all That even God's best men must sometimes deal with defeat. Even God's best Have to at times deal with defeat. Look at verse number 16 with me. And I brought him, this is the Father speaking to the Lord Jesus, I brought him to thy disciples, and they, what's the next phrase? They could not cure him. They were defeated by this. Um, this little child, possessed of devil or devils, Defeated the disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 20, verse 1, Jesus says, Because of your unbelief. Now think about who the Lord's talking to. Think about who this is happening to. These are the disciples. These guys are the cream of the crop. The disciples, think about this. They were hand chosen. By the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, to be trained under His direct instructions for three and a half years to be the leaders of the church that he is establishing. These are not just Some carnal Christians that tried to do something. These are the best that there were spiritually speaking at the time. Nevertheless, they were defeated. Now, if you'll study the passages before leading up to this, the disciples had been out on a previous occasion with the power of God upon them They had cast out devils previously. They had solved they had seen God heal the sick through their touch, through their ministry. They had preached the gospel with great power, and many thousands and thousands had believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. These were not some weak, spiritually anemic men These were not some fringe Christians. These were the solid men of God that the Lord Jesus Christ had taken under his direct wing and had taught and prayed with for a long time. And nevertheless, they were defeated by unbelief. Now, the Lord Jesus Christ rebukes them for their unbelief. He rebukes them sharply. But the question I have is this. How did these men who just a few chapters earlier were being used of God in such powerful ways? Which were seeing God do the quote-unquote impossible through them. How did they get to the point? Where they were so defeated. The Bible doesn't tell us, so we have to speculate. I think perhaps one reason they had gotten to that, one cause of this problem, maybe they had gotten self-confident. Maybe they had seen some victories. Maybe we know they had. They had seen some victories. They had seen God do some great things in earlier days. And maybe they had gotten to the point where they were no longer relying on God to do that which was done, but now they had reached a conclusion, maybe subconsciously. that it is me doing this and they get the idea, oh, I can handle this. I want to suggest to you and I as Christians that there is never a point in our Christian life that we get to the point where we can handle it ourselves. We need Christ. If I'm going to be the daddy God intends me to be, I need the power of Jesus Christ upon me Uh if we're going to be the mother, if we're going to be the husband, the wives, if we're going to be the Christians, the church members, if we're going to be the witness, the Sunday school teacher, the bus worker, if we're going to be the choir member. that God intends us to be. We can never allow ourselves to get to the point where we become self-confident and think that we can make it Without prayer, without casting ourselves in the Lord and trusting Him completely, I suggest to you they may have gotten self-confident They had seen God do so many things in the past, through them and with them. That here comes a little child possessed of a devil. Perhaps in their minds they maybe, as I said, even subconsciously thought, oh, this is no problem We can handle this. And they were defeated. And the Lord rebukes them. Why were they defeated in their faith? Maybe they were self-confident. Maybe, and this is kind of along the same lines, maybe they had gotten presumptuous. They just assumed that God's presence and power would always be there. They just assumed that what God had done before, oh, God would do it again. We must never assume anything in the Christian life. We've got to make sure. Every day we get up is a new day with new challenges and new battles, and we need to go to the Lord on a daily basis and not assume because I had victory yesterday, therefore I'll have victory today. I need to go to Christ today just as much as I went to Christ yesterday. By the way, let me throw this out. That is where our personal daily devotions become so important. Where we take some time every day, we get in the Word of God, we humble ourselves before God in prayer and surrender to what His Word says And we ask for God's power and his leadership, his direction in our life, his protection throughout the day, we must never just presume that today is going to be victorious as yesterday was. So maybe they had gotten self-confident, maybe they had gotten a little presumptuous. Here's what another one, and I think this perhaps is most likely, and I believe it's most common perhaps in our churches. Is things had gotten mechanical. They had seen God for some period of time now doing some amazing things Souls were being saved, lives were being changed, and it was just kind of over and over and over And without realizing it, and certainly, I don't believe, doing it deliberately, they had found themselves just going through the motions. And I believe that's a very danger for you and I as Christians, particularly those that have been saved for a period of time. And we just get up and do the same thing over and over and over. Now I am not suggesting that we should change that which God has given us to do. The Christian life I'm tempted to use the word monotonous, and I don't mean that. That's a negative connotation But the Christian life is very much made up of doing the same things over and over and over and over. In fact, in the Bible, and we mention this periodically in messages, in the Bible, the Christian life is described as a walk. The Christian walk. Now, if you'll stop and think about that a little bit, walking is a very monotonous thing to do in some sense. Uh brother Tom has been forcing me against my will to walk three days a week, three and a half miles, three days a week. It is torturous, cruel, and unusual punishment by one of our deacons. And I have bitter hatred in my heart towards him because of it. Do you know what? We get out in the track or there's another little trail we go and uh walk on and um You know what we do? We get out there and we do the same thing over and we put one foot in front of the other, one foot in front of the other, and we do that for a long time. You know what Christian life is? Christian life is getting up, spending time with God, living for God, being a witness uh doing right, going to bed, getting up, spending time with God, being a witness, doing right, giving out gospel tracts, coming to church Sunday morning, coming back Sunday night, coming back Sunday night, coming to church Sunday mor Coming back Sunday night Coming back Wednesday night. And you just do it over and over and over. But here's the danger. We get mechanical. And we just anticipate everything. And we just think and next thing we know, we're just going through emotions. We open our Bible, we read some words, close it, we say a prayer. Five minutes later we can't remember what we read. Am I right or wrong? We don't remember. Did I pray? What? And it becomes mechanical. And I tell you, when we get mechanical, we get powerless. When we get mechanical, we start messing up. And we lose our influence. So what happened here? These were God's best men. These are the men that he hand chose to be the leaders of the church he's establishing. And they were defeated. Now, we speculate as to what caused that defeat. Nevertheless, the Lord dealt with it. I believe the Lord corrected it. And here's what I want to leave you with: this first point. God uses imperfect people. God uses imperfect people. These disciples, if anybody Should have had faith the size of a mustard seed. Looks to me, it would have been these disciples. But he rebukes them. Apparently, their faith was not even the size of a mustard seed. Yet, these are the best men God has. And here's the thing the best that God has to use are men at the very best. That's all we are. Psalms tells us, and I'm so thankful for this, that God remembers that we're but flesh. God remembers that we're but dust. God remembers that we are frail human beings and we have a tendency To wander, and we have a tendency to get mechanical and self-confident and presumptuous, and yet God loves us and He wants us to use us in spite of our own failures. I may be talking to a daddy this morning. And you may look back and say, Man, I have not been what God would like me to be for me to be I haven't been the daddy and I think every one of us as fathers look back would say you know if I could do it over again I'd do it differently. Now you say oh no if I did it over again I'd do it all the same. Well you're a bonehead you didn't learn a thing Amen. Of course we learn through it. If we could, we'd go back and do things differently. But here's what I'm trying to say to you. Though God rebuked the disciples, though he dealt with their failure here and their lack of faith, he did not give up on them. He still used them in the coming chapters in great ways. And I don't know what your past is. And I don't know how maybe you've been defeated. Maybe you've gotten mechanical. Maybe you've made some Stupid decisions, but I'm here to tell you God loves you and he still wants to use you if you'll just let him correct the problem. God's best men, God's best people, sometimes have to deal with defeat. Now that is not an excuse for neglect Amen? I know how people think. I'm one of them. That's not excuse. Well, nobody's perfect. You mark my word. When somebody says that, they're trying to excuse something. Well, I remember years ago, you may remember this on the news, and it's pitiful, it's just horrendous. But a woman down in Texas drowned her children. She had four or five children. Remember that just five, six years ago I was watching the news about that, and it was just, like I said, horrendous. And then her lawyer or somebody representing her made this statement. I about fell off the chair. They said, hey, you know, we all make mistakes sometimes. Nobody's perfect. Give me a break. We all make mistakes, but we don't all drown all our kids. When you hear somebody say, Well, nobody's perfect, generally, generally, they're out making an excuse for something, trying to justify something. Now, thank now the fact of the matter is nobody is perfect, right? We understand that. Even God's best have to deal with defeat on occasion. Now that is not an excuse to be negligent That is not an excuse to that is not a reason to justify my disobedience or my spiritual laziness in any way. But it is a reality of life and I can find encouragement whether a person is a father, a mother, a teenager, a grandparent Regardless of what our past is, regardless of how we may have failed, regardless of how the world, the flesh, or the devil may have defeated us We can get back up on our feet, we can come to Christ, find the answer, the reason for our problem, and get up and go on and be somebody for God. So number one, God's best must occasionally deal with defeat. Number two, our defeats should drive us to the Lord Jesus Christ Our defeats should drive us to the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse number 19. Now, I think here is the key to the disciples' future use. Then came the disciples to Jesus apart and said, Why could not we cast him out? Very, very smart for the disciples to come to the Lord Jesus and say, basically, why were we defeated? Why did this happen? What happened here? They didn't do it in front of everybody. They took Jesus' rebuke. Look at verse 17. Jesus answered said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring them hither to me You can almost sense the frustration in the voice of the Lord Jesus. You can almost sense his impatience with them. And he publicly rebukes them And what do they do? They storm out angry. Oh, I'm never following him no more. That's not what they do. They just quietly take it. That's coming from the Lord Jesus. And when it's all the dust has settled, when everything's taken care of, they come to him apart and they said, Lord, why couldn't we do that? Hey, we're all going to blow it sometime. We're all going to fail to some degree at some point. Now how I handle my failure will very much determine my future success. You know what this book is full? You know what the Bible is full of? Rebukes. Anybody ever find that to be true? I read my Bible, it's like the Lord's correcting me constantly. It's like, man. Um, I said, I feel like the Lord's just coming behind me cleaning up my messes all the time, you know. But when we fail, it doesn't have to be the end I like Proverbs sixteen twenty-four. The just man falleth seven times and riseth up again. Disciples come part, Lord, why we don't want this to happen again. Lord, what what took place here? Why why we've cast out dev devils before? We uh preached the gospel before. We've had the power of God upon us before. Now this one what appears a simple little problem, a little child filled with the devil. We should have We should have easily been able to cancel out. Lord, why couldn't we cure this child? Lord says, because of your unbelief. It drove them to the Lord. When we are defeated by unbelief, When we're defeated by sin, by self, when we give in to the world or the flesh, we must remember there is a reason for our breakdown in our walk with God. There is cause. There is some reason why I failed in this area. There is a cause for my lack of faith in this situation. Something broke down in my walk with God. And we need to find out. We need to find out. How do we find out? How do we do like the disciples did and come to the Lord and get the answer to solve our defeat? to deal with our defeat. Well, I think there's several things implied here. One, if I'm coming to the Lord to to uh uh to find the answers to the cause of why I did this, uh it takes it requires taking responsibility. It requires taking responsibility. Look at verse uh 19 with me again. Came the disciples Jesus apart and said, Why could not what's that next word? We, what are they doing? Taking some personal responsibility for the condition they find themselves in. Well, if you knew if uh uh if you were married to who I was married to Yeah, well look who they're married to. You think you got it bad? Well, if you were raised the way I was raised, listen, you know what God's looking for? God's looking where somebody says, What did I do wrong? Now what what's my responsibility? I accept responsibility for this. Boy, you know, I'm tempted to go to the news for illustrations. But we'd be here for a long time, so we'll not do that Taking responsibility. One of the most heart-wrenching, most public confessions of sin in all of history is Psalms chapter 51. Were David publicly and in the inspired, preserved Word of God for all eternity. has his prayer of confession to God. And you know how it begins? Against thee and thee only have I sinned. David accepted responsibility for his actions. Now listen, God give us some daddies who start taking responsibility for their actions. God give us some mothers. Let me turn that around. God give us some young people, take responsibility for their actions. Some senior citizens, some politicians, some preachers. Why could not we cast them out? So this requires taking responsibility, but I want to suggest though also it requires humility. Now that's not something you hear much about in this day and age. Humility. Humbling ourselves before God and others And for these disciples, after all the experience they had, after all the power they had experienced, and all that they saw God do with and through them. Now for them to publicly be rebuked by the Lord Jesus Christ, to publicly fail in their effort to cast the devil out of this child, they have to humble themselves before Christ, say, God, why have we done that? I tell you what will have more of an impact on this world. I'll tell you what's more impacting on the world. Let me put it that way. Humility will have a far greater impact on this world for Christ than arrogance. Ben walk around like we know it all we're the cats meow where the uh um the dogs bow wow Uh like we're it? You know what? The world knows better than that. We're not that great. We can build ourselves up all we want, but I'll tell you what's gonna impact people. When we humble ourselves before the Lord. I like the way John the Baptist put it. He must increase. But I must what? Decrease. That's what's happening to the disciples here. Maybe their heads were getting a little big. Maybe they're getting a little presumptuous. And God allowed them defeat. And they took responsibility for it. And you know what they were learning? They were learning, it's not all about me, it's all about Christ. In fact, it's not me at all. It's Christ is all in all. So their defeat drove them to the Lord Jesus Christ. None of us have yet discovered the depths of depravity in our own hearts Am I right or wrong? None of us yet. Listen, before we start looking down our long noses on someone else that has failed We better stop and realize we have yet to, we do not know the depths of depravity that lies in our own hearts and what we are capable of. Let's humble ourselves before the Lord. Now, as I was studying this, I wonder, would you agree with me Our society is perverse. Would you agree with me on that? What an ungodly world we live in. And by the way, it's getting more ungodly. As every day goes by. And uh you know we could give illustrations, examples of that. Now my question is this we have good churches across our land. Strong churches, Bible churches, Baptist churches that are strong on the Bible. Why are we so powerless to influence our community for godliness? It seems you watch the news, you read the paper, you look at what's taken place, and it's like we're um we're it's like we're impotent We have no power. Why aren't we influencing the world? Why? I asked myself as a disciple, I said, why could we not cure cast amount? I thought, why Why does the world have such a powerful influence on our young people, on our children? Why can we not cast the world out? Why are marriages in such shambles? Why are you have members who's uh church folks who are so uninvolved and uninterested? And the things of God. Why is that? Has the Word of God lost its power? Has the gospel of Jesus Christ lost the power to save and transform and create new creatures? Have we lost the power of God? Why can we not cast out unbelief? Why can we not cast out worldliness? Defeat, every defeat in our Christian lives, in our Christian service, must never be ignored. Must never be excused or justified. But we must go to Christ and find out the reason. The child cannot be cured of its devil possession. We must go to the Lord and find out the reason why our influence seems to be so minuscule in the wicked world we have. I read of Billy Sunday in years going by. He would come into town, hold revival meetings, and when he left town, bars would shut down. Churches would be growing. He leaved town and the very nature of that society was changed towards godliness. And I look to the Lord and say, God, why can we not cast that out? God, why can we not see the revivals? of the great days going by. Why can we not see souls saved and lives changed to the degree that we have in the history of the church in years going by? Our failures, our defeats, our weaknesses must drive us to Christ. Maybe a daddy says, Why have I not been the daddy I should be? And you can run to the world and look for answers. You can go tune in Oprah Winfrey and you'll be messed up. Or you can go to God. We can go to the Lord and say, Lord, Lord, why why am I having such a hard time as a daddy? God, give me the answers. Show me, Father, what do I need to do? I as a pastor, we as a church, come to the Lord, say, Lord, why why does our influence seem so negligent? So What's the word I want? Um minuscule. Lord, why? Why we we witness and witness, we give it to What? And we go to the Lord. And we ask God to show us. God, why could we not bring our entire country to Christ? Let me ask you a question. Is the gospel, is there enough power in the gospel to turn a country to Christ? Absolutely. Absolutely. So we go to the Lord. Number one, even God's best have to deal with defeat sometimes. Number two, our defeats should drive us to the Lord. Number three, and I end with this quickly. I see our Lord's declaration concerning their defeat. And it goes to verse 20 in the verse and verse 1, and we've touched on it And Jesus said unto them, because of your what? Unbelief. Ah, there's the answer. That's the root of the problem It's interesting, you find no hesitation on the part of the Lord when they ask that question. He's got the answer right there. There's no obscurity about it. The Lord doesn't go into some parable and give something where you gotta disciples have to come later. Lord, we don't know what you meant by that parable. We asked you why couldn't we cast them out and you told this obscure parable and we don't understand what you're saying. None of that. There's no hesitancy on the Lord's part. There's no obscurity on the Lord's part. He gets straight to the point and he says, It's your unbelief. The root problem of all of our defeat is unbelief. The root problem of all our sin Is the fact we simply don't believe that what God says about something is the way he says it is. Unbelief. The problem with worldliness is we simply do not believe what the Bible says about the world. We simply do not believe God's instructions to us to be not conform to this world. Unbelief. Your problem for defeat. The reason I'm not the daddy ought to be, the reason I'm not the husband ought to be, the reason I'm not the child ought to be. The reason I'm not the church member I ought to be is not because of society. It's not because of my education or lack thereof. It's not because of my financial standing The problem is with my heart. I will not take God at His word. And I lean on my own understanding and I make a mess of it every time. Unbelief. Unbelief. The root problem of our sin, our defeat, our worldliness. Is simply we don't believe God. If we had faith, the size of a grain of a mustard seed, if we just believed God. How differently things would be. If we just believed God, how different my home would be If what God says, I believed it, and I took it to be true, and I trusted him and obeyed him and said, God What you're saying to me as a father, as a mother, as a child, as a church member, what you're saying is true. You're right, I'm wrong. I will do what you say How different things would be. How different things would be because of your unbelief. The Lord's severest rebukes. Now he was pretty rough on the Pharisees. Would you agree? You hypocrites, woe unto you, hypocrites! You're gonna burn in hellfire! But you know what? Look at how the Lord dealt with the disciples. I'm telling you, he rebuked them sharply. And every time it was for the same reason. Their unbelief. Oh ye of little faith, how long do I have to be with you? The Lord takes it seriously. The Lord expects us that when he tells us something, he expects us to believe it and accept it. And he's upset when we don't. Because of your unbelief. It's the root of all our problems. Read Hebrews. Because of unbelief, the children of Israel couldn't go in the promised land. Because of unbelief, they had all these problems. You know why people go to hell? And by the way, people do still go to hell. It's still very real. Just exactly as God says it is. You know why people go to hell? Not because they're murderers or drug addicts or drunkards or fornicators. You know why people go to hell? They won't believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Philippian Jailer, not most likely not a very moral man. Just think of his occupation, Roman, grown up He says to Paul, what must I do to be saved? Saved from dying to go to hell. The guy was just seconds away from killing himself. He's facing death. What must I do to be saved? The Lord said, what's the very first word Paul said to him? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Preacher, what do I have to do to Make sure I go to heaven and not to hell when I die. How do I how can I know that my sins are forgiven? Believe. On the Lord Jesus Christ. Accept what God says about Jesus and what he did as true Accept it for yourself. Receive it as your own. Jesus, death, burial, and resurrection. Receive that as your own by faith. Believing that what God said about it is true, it applies to me, I accept it, I rest in it, I trust in it, and God says, you're saved. On a way to heaven. Isn't that good? The Bible says we uh the same way we're saved is how we live our Christian life. We walk by faith. I believe every day I get up. What God says is true. I believe it. I accept it. I'm going to do what he says. Now that brings us to this and the end of the message. Then in verse 21, and brother, this opens up a whole nother door. He says, how be it? This kind cometh forth but by prayer and fasting. Oh This kind. Fact of the matter is, we are in a very real spiritual warfare. Now I would you know we work hard at packing the church out. We want to fill the place up. Amen? We work hard at that. But I'll be honest with you. We don't want crowds just for crowds' sake. There's a very real spiritual warfare going on. There's a real heaven, real hell, real God, real devil. There's real sin, real holiness. And if we're going to have victory in this spiritual warfare, if we're going to ever if we're going to be able to stand before Jesus Christ as believers at the judgment seat of Christ and hear God say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant, if we're ever going to hear that. We've got to take this seriously. And there must be a level, a greater level of spiritual involvement and commitment on our part. If we're going to see God do some great things. This kind, the depth of the spiritual warfare we're in, requires intense faith, intense commitment. And the Lord was telling them, you know, you're not going to see young people's lives changed by just fringe Christianity, by just floating through life by just playing with Christianity. If you're going to see lives change, if you're going to see a community impact, if you're going to see God Do that which is impossible through your life. It's going to require a greater level of commitment. It's going to require a greater level of involvement in your part. Believe God and then shout out to Him and you'll see God do some great things. This kind. Oh, we can go through Oakland, Garrett County. Oh yeah, there's the Baptist folks. Hi y'all And have minimal impact. Or we can see God working and moving and changing lives and drying up drunkards and healing homes and transforming sinful people into godly people, but it's going to require an intensity on our part. Prayer and fasting, commitment to Christ, self getting out of the way, and Christ becoming everything. Does this make any sense? I had a phone call Friday. Guy says, I've been listening to your radio station. I said, where do you live? He says, here. So I've been going Mount Lake Park. So I've been going to a different denomination and I I won't say always I was about an almost an hour on the phone with him. He said, uh been involved in speaking tongues all he said, but I've been listening to your radio station. He said, my wife and I have been studying the Bible. He says, I think what our church that I grew up in is teaching and doing is not scriptural. He said I had some questions, I want to make sure I'm understanding this right. And we spent went through. And he goes, That's the way I see the Bible. And then he made this statement. And I'll end with this. Maybe. No I will and and uh don't misunderstand what I'm saying, but he said The more I listen to the station, the more I understand, he says, it looks to me like the Baptist Church is closer to the Bible than anyone else Ain't that something? That's the testimony I want to have. That we're Bible Christians. We want God's power. We've got to believe Him. We've got to sell out to Him. Amen? Father, bless us, Lord, help us to take this for real. God help us to take our Christian life seriously.