2 Samuel chapter 12. This is the I guess I'd call it the aftermath of David's tragic decision with Bathsheba. If you remember the first few verses there, the first five, six, seven verses, the first seven verses, God finally intervenes. With David. He's been covering up this sin and uh and his murder. Finally, God intervenes, and if you'll remember, we pointed out that David could hide His sin from others, but God knew about his sin. God is, what's the big word we use in the in church for about the God being all-knowing? God is omniscient. So David could hide it from everybody in the world. God's still going to know about it. So God intervenes. He knew about his sin. David cared about his well-being. Didn't want him to continue on like this. It wasn't good And so then God used Nathan to confront David. So we had the intervention of God. Then we noted in verses 1 through 4, Nathan's parable. How many people remember the parable? that Nathan gate. Poor man had one little lamb, was like family to him. The rich man had a whole slew, a whole flock of sheep. A traveler comes by, the rich man takes the poor man's lamb, slaughters it, prepares it, and feeds the traveler with this poor man's lamb when he had all that. How did David react to that? He was furious. In fact, he uh, if you remember, I said two things about David's reaction. One, it was overly harsh. He said, that guy needs to be killed. And that's not the law didn't call for uh capital punishment for stealing a lamb. And number two is hypocritical. David was condemning a man for killing a lamb when he actually killed a man And so David's reaction to Nathan's parable was uh was um harsh and hypocritical. And then of course uh Nathan drops the hammer And he gives the application of his whole parable, the whole point of the parable. He points at David and he says, Thou art the man. Thou art the man. And that is the turning point. That's what changes everything. So let's look here. I want to begin reading in verse number 7, and I'm going to read down through verse number 12, and we're going to look at the Lord's rebuke to David. The Lord's rebuke to David. And Nathan said to David, Thou art the man. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel. Now this is God speaking through Nathan now. Nathan says, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel. I, God, God speaking through Nathan, I appointed thee king over Israel, and I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul. And I gave thee thy master's house and thy master's wives into thy bosom, and gave thee the house of Israel and of Judah. And if that had been too little I would have, moreover, given unto thee such and such things. Wherefore hast thou despised the commandment of the Lord to do evil in his sight? It's a question he asked. Thou hast killed Uriah the Hittite with the sword, and hast taken his wife to be thy wife, and hast slain him with the sword of the children of Ammon. Now therefore, here's the pronouncement. Now therefore, the sword shall never depart from thine house Because thou hast despised me, and hast taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be wi thy wife, thus saith the Lord. Behold, I will raise up evil against thee out of thine own house. And I will take thy wives before thine eyes and give them unto thy neighbor, and he shall lie with thy wives in the sight of the son, of the son. For thou didst it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun The Lord's rebuke for David. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless. Now our study of this force in the scripture. These last chapter, two chapters, have been pretty unpleasant. Nevertheless, we believe, Lord, as you said, that you've recorded this for us, for our examples, for our learning. And so we pray you'd teach us tonight from uh this your rebuke of David way back many years ago. Lord, I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you, I present my body anew as a tool. an instrument for you to speak through and challenge each of us wherever we're at in our spiritual life, whatever issues we may be dealing with. I pray you'd help us and uh uh speak to us and challenge us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We have the Lord's rebuke, and as I mentioned, I was reading through here, I think it's important to understand That this is the Lord speaking through Nathan. This isn't Nathan talking to him. Previously, that previous statement, thou art the man, that was Nathan's message. Now, God had sent him, if you come back to verse 1, the Lord sent Nathan unto David, and Nathan, you know, of course, under God's prompting, no doubt, came up with this parable, and he made the application. Now The Holy Spirit of God is moving on Nathan, and He's speaking through Nathan. Now, I want to make a few statements before we get and look at these verses here. The first statement I want to make is this: Sin is nothing to joke about. Sin is nothing to joke about. In Proverbs chapter 14 and verse 9, David's son from Bathsheba, Solomon, under the inspiration of God, made this statement. He said, um fools make a mock of sin. Solomon said that There's a little bit of irony there. But um fools make a mock of sin. I doubt seriously after this point, I doubt previous to this, but I'm especially certain after this point, David didn't joke around about adultery. I don't think it w I don't think it was funny. Somebody some of his soldiers or somebody comes up, gives a joke about uh adultery. I doubt seriously David thought that was very funny, especially after this event. I don't think joking about killing people or murder or anything like that. I doubt that took place with David. He learned firsthand, firsthand experience, the seriousness of sin. And so Solomon says fools make a mock of sin. And I think we have to be careful, and I know I joke around a lot, and sometimes the Lord has to check me uh just you know just being silly but I think we have to be very, very careful about joking about sin. We need to be careful treating sin lately. The shows we watch on TV, I don't know if you've picked this up or not, but Hollywood loves to glorify sin. I love to white whitewash it and make that which is evil look good and make that which is good look evil. And even on the rare occasions you do find some decent shows, the commercials are glorifying sin anymore So we have to be very, very careful about that. The shows we watch, the books we read, or often will magnify and glorify and glamorize sin that is so devastating. And so sin is nothing to joke about, whether it's just horsing around, or if it's shows we watch, books we read, things like that. We have to be very careful. I put another statement down here. Not only is sin nothing to joke about, but sin has devastating consequences. Sin has devastating consequences. I really don't believe that we fully grasp how bad sin really is. I don't think we grasp that. We're so saturated It dwells within us in our old nature. We are immersed in a society that is so sinful. And I think we are so numb to it and inoculated to it that we fail to realize what it's doing and the seriousness of it. One of the most important things that I think is, especially as Christians, but one of the most important things in life that we need to learn in life is the ability to say no to sin. Just that little two-letter word, the ability to say no. Anybody here ever do something or get involved in something afterward, you say, why didn't I just say no? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Just why didn't I say no? It would save us a lot of grief. Save us a lot of debt. Heartache. I got thinking about this as I was studying what God says here, and God tells David what the consequences are going to be. And man I got thinking, I wonder how many people would still be alive today if they just had the ability or the motive to say no to something, not got involved in it, and maybe they'd still be alive today Thinking about a funeral I did years ago, young lady, 16 years old, locally here, and uh got came to church, got saved, got baptized, was coming pretty faithful. She jumped in a car with the fella Young man, he was drinking. I don't know if she knew it or not or whatever. It's a bad decision. And had a wreck out here and took her life like that. I did the funeral. Act out. Just the ability to say no, to say no. How different things would be in many lives If we just say no, how many people would still be financially stable if they had that if they developed the ability to say no? You know, something would be good to do is stop and just think, you know, I really don't need that. Can I get a witness? You guys are getting quiet on me here now on that one Christmas time. You know you don't have to mortgage the house to convince your family you love them with Christmas gifts. Anyone with me? I know I'm treading on thin ice here tonight I'm telling you, you just give go haywire and you just get, oh, I want them to know how much I love them. And then the next 25 years you're paying debt from one Christmas. So anyway How many would still be alive? How many would still be financially stable? How many would still be in the ministry? They'd just be able to say no, no, no. So sin is nothing to joke about. If we don't get anything else out of what takes place here and what happens to David, let's take away from this The understanding that sin is nothing to joke about and its consequences are devastating. I want to give you something. I encourage you to jot it down. Maybe on the back of your bulletin you have a little place there to jot things down. I think this is something might be worth joting down in the fly leaf of your Bible. And it's called, and I'm sure this is not going to be new for most of us. You've heard this in messages in one way or another, one form or another, but it's called the law of the harvest. And it applies to this situation here. And it applies to sin Very, very clearly. The law of the harvest. There's three laws of harvest. How many people ever heard these before? How many people know where I'm going with this? The law of the harvest. Number one We reap what we sow. We reap what we sow. Now, if you will, you keep your place here, because I want to come back and actually look at these verses, but I want to lay some groundwork first. If you would, come with me to Galatians chapter number six. Galatians chapter number six. We reap what we sow. Now I like to think of myself as a bit of a farmer. All right, let me put uh a bit of a gardener, maybe, will you give me that? I like to, every year I plant basically the same thing. I'll plant about three or four tomato plants. I'll plant about three or four pepper plants. Every now and then I'll plant some green beans. Um and uh that's pretty much the extent uh some sunflowers. I'll plant some sunflowers. That's pretty much the extent of my farming. And um and anyway and the last few years I started putting them in buckets, not even digging the ground up, just putting in a bucket. Anybody? Yeah. It's a whole lot easier But I learned something in my gardening experience, my farming experience, that when I take a tomato seed And I put it down in the ground, I cover it up. Guess what's going to grow out of that seed? A tomato. I never yet have planted a tomato seed and had a cucumber come out of it. It's never happened. Oh, by the way, I do ple plant zucchini. I like zucchini, I'll plant zucchini. You reap what you sow. How many people are glad you came to church and found out if you plant a tomato, you're gonna get tomato. Good stuff right there. Look at Galatians. Chapter number six with me, if you would. And I want you to notice at the uh towards the end there, verse number seven, be not deceived, he says. God is not mocked, here it is, for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also what? Reap. There's a law of the harvest. You reap what you sow. Look at the next verse. And keep David in mind. For he that soweth to his flesh, Shall of the flesh reap what? Corruption. But he that soweth to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life. Everlasting. You sow it to the flesh, or the flesh reap corruption. I plant tomatoes, I get tomatoes. I heard I read about a little boy They had this tree out behind the house. They had a good little spread of land. And I had this tree out there. It was a big old tree. And that was kind of he kind of adopted it for his own tree. And he would go out there and kind of just to get away, and he'd climb up in there, pretend he's a uh, you know, some pirate or something, or he's some great whatever he's uh playing and pretending and using his imagination up in his tree. And it was kind of his. He kind of that was his escape to go and climb this tree. One day he was in and he heard his dad and his mom talk in the other room and his dad said, I'm going to cut that old tree down there. It hasn't had any fruit on it Uh for the last several years it's just taking up space. I'm gonna cut it down. The boy heard that, said, yikes, that's my tree. So he went out to the neighbors who had an apple tree and he got all these bushels of apples from them And he came and he tied apples all over the tree. So the next day, Dad comes home, and lo and behold, this tree has apples all over it. And he walked in, he says uh to his wife, he said, wifey, uh, do you see the tree out there? She goes, yeah. He said, it's a miracle He said fruit showed up overnight. And he said that's not the only miracle. It has apples on it and it's a pear tree You reap what you want. So here's the problem with a lot of us. We're sowing pears, but we want to get what? Apples. We don't want to sow to the flesh, but we want to reap blessings. And it doesn't work that way. It doesn't work that way. So, number one, we reap what we sow. First law of the harvest. Write this one down. Number two, we reap more than what we sow. Again, back to my tomato plants. In each of those buckets, I put uh one seed down in there. Actually, I put them in little ones first, get them started, then I transplant them over. But I put one seed in there, one tomato seed in there. And when it's all said and done, I think this year I had three tomato plants. I think I got about I don't know, I'm guessing maybe a dozen tomatoes off of each of those. One seed produced, I'm guessing, six, half a dozen to a dozen tomatoes off of that one seed And so we always reap more than what we sow. Now think about this. We sow sin. And it brings, uh what did uh what does it say in Hebrews about Moses? There's pleasure in sin for a season, briefly, very briefly. But the consequences are so abundant. Now think about this with David, and we're going to look at it. He sowed a seed of sin One night. And then his scheming afterward. And for how many years? How overwhelming was the consequences from that one sin? That one sin. I thought about Adam and Eve. Now, this is a little hard to swallow, but one man and one woman decided on one occasion to disobey God And all of humanity has been dying and suffering and struggling ever since. One day, probably a 10-minute conversation, 10-minute decision. And it plunged humanity into the cesspool of sin forever. Now you say, preacher, that doesn't seem fair. I had somebody recently talking to me, that's not fair. I said, I don't know if it's fair or not, but that's reality. That's reality. And we're dealing with it. Would you agree with me? Adam and Eve reaped a whole lot more than what they sowed. Whole lot more than what they sowed. So number one, we reap what we sow. Number two, we reap more than what we sow. One act of sin. How many people have had one act of sin and then had a lifetime of regret and sorrow? From one act of sin. Number three, the third law of the harvest. Number one, we reap what we sow. Number two, we reap more than what we sow. And here's the one that throws folks. This is what the Number three, we reap later than what we sow. David's here. This is a good pro uh maybe up to two years later At least nine months, at least a year, there's no doubt. Maybe two years later, chickens coming home to roost. I plant now if you know me, if you if you know me at all, you know that patience is not my greatest virtue. Tom knows. Anyb can any can I get any like witnesses on that? Anyone willing to? Two people admit that. I plant that tomato seed in there and I'm driving Mark nuts. with the building, but I plant that tomato seed in there on a Monday. I'm coming back Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. Where is it? It's dead. Give it more water. Lo and behold, you give it a few days, it comes around. I plant the seed, and it might be a week or so until something starts showing up, and it's A month or so till I start getting any tomatoes on there. Six, eight weeks maybe, till I get tomatoes on there. I want to plant it today and eat a tomato sandwich tomorrow You know what I found out? It doesn't work that way. Now I I I'll I'll be the last person, don't misunderstand, I'm not trying to tell God what to do in any way, shape, or form. I'm dumb, but I ain't that dumb But sometimes I think, you know, if the consequences to our sin were immediate, maybe we wouldn't be so stupid and keep repeating them over and over and over. Go with me to Ecclesiastes. Solomon in Ecclesiastes touches on that very thought I think Solomon struggled, questioned that there a little bit. Ecclesiastes, chapter 8, all the way back, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, chapter 8. And look with me, if you would, at verse eleven. Ecclesiastes chapter eight and verse eleven. Says, look at look at look at how he says it here. Pay attention to what he says. Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily So what's he saying? The punishment or the consequences don't take place immediately upon the action, the evil word, right? You follow what he's saying Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil. I had a young person say to me years ago, you know, you always keep saying if you drink it's bad for you, it's going to ruin your life. Drinking's bad, drinking's bad, drinking's bad. And they said, uh, I've been drinking and ain't nothing bad happened to me Anybody want to guess what my response was? Not yet. Not yet. We always reap later than what you sow. And I think sometimes some people fail to associate the consequences of their sin. With the act of their sin, because there's a time frame in between. Their consequence is removed from the act And they don't associate the two. And so they make this decision. They take this action that violates God's law and is sin against God But the consequences don't bear fruit till maybe weeks or months or sometimes years, maybe a decade or two later. And then the consequences from that act that was showed take place, and they don't associate the two, and you know what they do? They start blaming God for the hard time they're having, and God's not being good to me. God did this to me and God didn't do that to me, when in fact it wasn't God at all. It's the consequence of a decision they made previously And I run into this all the time. Oh, why is all this stuff happening to me? Why does God hate me? God doesn't hate you. God doesn't hate me. He loves us. That's why he warns us against sin. And we disregard it and we despise what God says and we do our own thing. Five years, ten years, twenty years down the road, all of a sudden the weeds come up. Oh yeah, God. Don't raise your fist at God. He did that. He warned us way back there. He said over and over and over, don't do that. Don't do that. And so the consequences, we reap later than what we sow, we reap more than what we sow, and we reap exactly what we sow. We can't expect to sow sin and reap blessings. It's not going to happen. And so that sets the framework for David. Come back here if you would. Now God is confronting David. He sent Nathan. Nathan set the Nathan set the pins up, so to speak. David stepped right up. Nathan rolls that strike down. Thou art the man Boom, David's bowled over. Now God starts talking. And God says, all right, David, here's how it is. Here's how it is. Notice, first of all, the first thing I notice here in verse, last part of verse 7 and verse 8, is God recounts David's blessings. Did you see that? Look at verse 7, the last part. He says, Thou art the man. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel. Now he goes down this checklist. Of blessings that God gave David. Look what he says there. I anointed thee king over Israel. I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul. I gave thee thy master's house and thy master's wives into thy bosom. I gave thee the house of Israel and of Judah. If that wasn't good enough, if that wasn't enough for you, David, I'd have given you more of such and such things. Now here's my question when I saw this. Why do you think God, in his initial statements to David, after this is all being dealt with, God's initial statements is to tell David all these ways he's blessed him. Anybody want to take a shot? Why would God start off this way? Hmm? To humiliate him? I don't believe God was a million. In fact, I was reading some comments on this by other writers. And a couple of them suggested that God was wanting to shame David. I don't believe that's what's taken place. Ah. I don't think David, I don't think God was wanting to shame David. His sin will do that. God doesn't need to do that. I think that I put two reasons. Dale touched on it. I put two reasons why I believe God is emphasizing the goodness, his goodness to David. Number one is to get David to grasp the severity of what he's done. I tell you, if you take if you take a clean white shirt and you put it up beside a stained white shirt, the clean white shirt reveals how dirty the stained shirt is, right? And what God is doing, I believe, is he's trying to get David, David, you need to grasp how serious this is. And God holds up all the good things he's done for him and holds it beside David, David's actions. So that David can see, man, this isn't, this is serious. This is serious. So one reason I think God goes this checklist of blessings. I gave you this and I gave you that and I did this for you and I did that for you. And if you wanted more, I'd have given you more. You know it. Is he trying to get David to see the severity of his sin? But also, I think he's trying to get David to see the source of his sin. What was the root? Of David's sin. What was the root of it? What produced this? Loss? But what was it? There was something behind that. There was a deeper problem. Take your Bible, if you would, go to Romans chapter 1. I think you'll see it here in a minute. And I think this is what God is trying to get David to see. Romans chapter 1, Paul is writing the church at Rome. And the whole chapter 1, he's showing them how man fell into sin, how he got so depraved. And in verse number twenty, it's a good verse, he says, uh the invisible things of him, God, from are clearly seen by the things which are made, even his eternal power and Godhead. Now he begins this, I like to refer to this part, Romans chapter 1, 21 through the end, as a as a very bad neighborhood you go into. Do you ever if you ever lived in a city, there's parts of cities that you try to avoid. They're just yucky. Anyone know what I'm talking about? They're just nasty. They're uncomfortable. I don't like to be around that. That to me is what Romans 1, verse 21, it's mankind in his yuckiness. If that's a word. And look what he says. The problem at the root of all of it is in verse 21. In verse 21. Because that when they knew God They glorified him not as God. Look at those next three words. What's it say? Neither were thankful. I circled that in my Bible But became vain in their imaginations. Then he goes down and he goes through this progress where man di descends into extreme perversion and wickedness. And it all begins with, they weren't thankful. They knew God. They knew who he was. But they weren't thankful. You know what I believe the root of David's problem was was ingratitude. God saying, I have been so good to you. Would you agree with me? The parable brings this out when Nathan said, here's a king, he's got all these herds, and he takes his. No problem was he wasn't grateful for what he had. Wanted more. He wasn't content. He wasn't satisfied. I think we see it with Adam and Eve also. God gave them the entire world. And all the trees and all the fruit of the garden was theirs to enjoy freely, except one. And what did Satan do? Satan approached Eve, and he convinced, and I'm condensing this, put it in my own words, but he convinced Eve that God wasn't treating them good enough. He said, oh, God knows if you eat of the tree of the knowledge, you'll be just like him. God's holding out on you God's not being very good to you. Oh, there's so much more that you could have and experience. And God isn't allowing you to have it. And he convinced them that God was being unkind and unfair and holding out, and they failed to be grateful for all that he had given them, and they wanted the thing he forbidding. I think the root, I think God's showing David the root of your problem, David, is you weren't grateful. I did all this. It wasn't good enough. And we weren't content and that we weren't satisfied God is revealing to David the severity of his sin and the source of his sin. Now notice real quickly, come back here. Notice real quickly what God points out to David. He goes down this checklist, and we'll not dwell on each of these, but I do want to take note of them. First of all, in second part of verse 7, he says, I anointed the king over Israel. I put it this way: God gave him a great position. You were king of Israel. That was a tremendous privilege for him to be king of Israel and all that came with that In the last part of verse 7, notice what he says, I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul. That was protection. He delivered him. David very literally owed God his life. God protected them. God says, I'm the one. David, you're a very savvy soldier. You're a very uh you're quite a combat veteran. You know war, you know battle, there's no doubt about it But David, I'm reminding you, I'm the one that delivered you out of the hand of Saul. Wasn't your skill, wasn't your talent, wasn't your strength. It was me. keeping you safe. It was me delivering you. David owed God his life. How many people here are saving you know it? Say amen. That very fact there, we owe the Lord our lives. For just that one thing, he saved us from hell. He suffered up more than life. I love you, Lord. All to thee I owe. Number one is position. Number two is protection. I put this down in verse number eight, his provisions. I gave thee thy master's house. Thy master is wise into thy bosom. I gave thee the house of Israel and Judah. David, I've given you possessions, I've given you pleasures. There's nothing you could possibly want that you didn't have available. You know what David said? It's not enough. It's not enough. You know what our problem is? Nothing God does for us is enough. Not good enough. Not enough of this. It's not enough of that. We go around and we're discontent. We're always looking for something else. Something else. Something else out there because what God gave me isn't good enough. That was David's attitude And then his possibilities in this last phrase that just kind of is interesting how God says it, I would, moreover, have given unto thee such and such things. Basically, and that's his possibilities, is what I said. So God gave him position, God gave him protection, he gave him provisions, and he made these possibilities. David The sky's the limit. My, and I'm reading into this a little bit, but to me, the implication here is: David, all you had to do was what? Ask. Just ask. Reminds me of James, where he says, ye have not, because ye ask not. God says, I could have met any need you had David, I could have granted such and such things. The possibilities are unlimited. You'd have just looked to me. Just look to me. So God begins by recounting David's blessings, and he wants David to see, he wants David to realize how severe this is. And David, I did all this. Second thing I notice in verse 9, God first of all recounts his blessings. Number two, God clarifies what his sin really was. Now it starts out interesting. He makes an interesting statement here. This was David's sin. Now the root of it was ingratitude, but this is what he did. Verse 9, wherefore hast thou despised the commandment of the Lord to do this evil in his sight? Why hast thou despised, wherefore hast thou despised the commandment of the Lord? I looked up that word despised, and it means this: to regard with contempt. To consider worthless, to scorn it. God says, David, this is where your sin began. You know, I told you very clearly, a king is not to gather to himself many wives. You despise that. You despised it. You just pushed it aside. That statement, that warning, that instruction was worthless in your mind. I told you very clearly, thou shalt not commit adultery. That was despised. You disregarded that. It was worthless in your mind. Said, thou shalt not kill Just disregarded that. You paid no attention to what my words said. You gave no consideration to the instructions and the warnings and the promises I gave you. You despised it all. And that's the root of our sin. That's what our sin is. The root is in gratitude, but that's what our sin is. God gives us all this instructions and all this material, how to operate this owner's manual. We just disregard it. Just disregard it. That's where sin begins. Notice, and I thought this was interesting. Come down to verse 10. Verse 90 says, Wherefore hast thou despised the commandment of the Lord? Come down to verse 10. Now therefore the sword shall never depart from thine house because thou hast despised. What's he say there? Me Verse 9, you've despised the word of God, the commandment of the Lord. Verse 10, you've despised me. You know what I found? When we despise God's word, we're despising God. Don't tell me, and we can't I should put let me put it this way, we can't go around saying how much we love and trust God if we're not living by that book. If I'm not doing what the Bible says, if I'm not following its instructions and heeding its warnings and claiming its promises, don't go, we shouldn't go around telling people how much we love God When we're neglecting our Bible, we're neglecting our God We have no time for the Bible. We have no time for God. God says, you've despised my commandments, my word. David's desires took a higher priority than God's word did. I like what Job says in chapter 23 and verse 12. We won't turn there. Let me just quote it for you. Job, uh question, was Job a good guy or a bad guy? He was a great guy. God says he was just in all his ways. I mean You're going to be hard-pressed to find anybody praised higher by God than Job. And even though he had some struggles and whatnot, he kept his nose clean. And he stayed faithful and did right. He struggled. I'll give you that. But listen to what he says. I think this is the reason that Job was such a righteous man. Is everybody still with me? He says, neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips. I've not left God's word. And then he takes it to another level. And listen to what he says. I have esteemed the words of thy mouth more than my necessary food. Think about that. To esteem something means to value, to treasure. He says, I have esteemed the words of God's mouth more than, he doesn't say more than my food. More than my what? Necessary food. You know what necessary food is? Necessary food is not blueberry cheesecake. And I I have a hard time saying that, but it's true Necessary food is not a blizzard from an Oreo blizzard from Dairy Queen. What is necessary food? It's the minimum amount of food I need to stay alive, necessary to stay alive. You know what Job's saying? He's saying this book is more important to me than eating enough food to keep me alive I don't know if you agree with me. That's saying something right there. I wonder how many of us esteem God's word anywhere close to that level. And maybe that's why Job was so righteous, and we're not. Maybe. Job said if I got stranded on an island and I had a choice between food or the Bible, take in the Bible. I've esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. And God says, this man is righteous in all his ways. And God praised him tremendously. David, God clarifies David's sin by saying, listen, this is your problem. You despised what I told you. You just blew it off. You can pay a bit of attention. And then he goes down this little list. He gives a little list there in verse 9. He says, You've killed Uriah the Hittite with the sword. He's taken his wife to be thy wife. Then he repeats, You've slain him with the sword of the children of Admon. So he reminds David, this is what you did. You despised my word, and this is how you acted. Then the last thing I notice here, oh, by the way, David sinned. He didn't make a mistake. There's a difference. You can put you can mistakenly write uh over you can mistakenly write a check on an account that you thought you had enough money in, but you really didn't, and that's a mistake, right? That's different than deliberately writing false checks and forging checks. There's a world that you follow what I'm saying? God's telling David, David, you didn't just make a stupid mistake. You sick The world a difference between those two. And here's what we do a lot. We try to minimize our sin and say, well, it was just a bad decision. No, it was sin against God And then last of all, my third point is I need to end. God states the consequences of David's sin. And he goes down here, and it's not pretty. And as we study the life of David, we're going to see this in detail, how this plays out. Look with me if you would at verse 10. Therefore, okay, because of this, I was so good to you, David. You despised my word, you killed a man, took his wife. Now, therefore, the sword shall never depart from thine house. One of the consequences was the sword. David is going to have someone rise up against him. A brother is going to kill a brother. It's going to be death in his family. Because thou send us uh raised up evil against thine own house, oh um let me get back to my place here. Now therefore the sword shall never depart from thine house. Though thou hast despised me, hast taken away if your eye of the Hittites be thyway. Thus saith the Lord, verse 11, Behold, I will raise up evil against thee out of thine own house. That's insurrection. Absalom's going to rise up against David, try and kill his own father. I will take thy wives before thine eyes and give them unto thy neighbor. I put this down sorrow. Can you imagine how heart-wrenching it would be for David for him to see another man sleeping with his wife to see it Sorrow. Verse 12: Thou didst it secretly. I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun. That's the shame. That's the shame. Whole world's going to know this. Everybody's going to know, David. You hid it. That which is done in secret is going to be shouted from the mountaintops Can you imagine? Can you imagine the social media when this comes out in Israel? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Say they didn't have social media. Oh yeah, they did. It was called talking to your neighbors and running around. Can you imagine how that spread like wildfire? Imagine the next time David came out for a public assembly and he faces his nation. He faces his leadership and his administration. I don't think his head was held very high. I don't think his back was very straight. I think he was ashamed of what he'd done. You know, if we could get as ashamed about our sin before anybody knows about it as we are when everybody finds out about it, we might be a little more careful. Might be a little more careful. A lot of times, and those in law enforcement will tell you A criminal is very, very sorry when they what get caught. Oh Shame of it all. Um there's a lady and I I read about this past week. Her name is Jill, and apparently it's an accurate story. And she has what's called superior superior autobiographical memory Superior autobiographical memory. In other words, Jill can remember every smallest detail Of her own life. She can't forget it. She can recall it back. The University of California did a study on her for six years And they confirm the fact that Jill can remember every meal she's eaten as far back She remembers every minute of every day of what happened. She can recall it. Superior autobiographical memory. Now, my first, when I read that, I thought that'd be cool. Man, I can remember everything. I don't forget. Anybody here get frustrated because you can't remember what you walked into another room to get? If I could just remember that, it'd be great. And so people say to her, she goes, boy, that must be a blessing. You know what her answer is? It's a curse. Every stupid decision, every opportunity she had to do something and she didn't. In fact, it goes on, you read the article about her, it goes on. And says she a peaceful night's sleep is rare for Jill. Because she remembers everything. I'm glad God forgets. We confess our sins. He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Now we have a hard time forgetting. Now God doesn't forget in that he's not aware of it, but he forgets in that he puts it behind his back. It's no longer a factor. And what you and I need to do is when we mess up, we'll talk about this more later. We need to come confess it, forsake it, turn from it, claim God's forgiveness, get up and go on. And we need to put it behind us. But I thought of David. When I read about Jill, I thought of David for the rest of his life, he has to deal with the memory of what could have been. And all that he lost in that one moment. Isn't that sad? Let's learn from that. Amen. Let's learn from it. Let's take heed. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord, you'd help us. To understand these laws of the harvest. Lord, help us to be careful. Help us to love your word and keed it and live by it. Help us, Lord, to trust you. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I don't know how God would apply this to lives. There's a whole spectrum of applications. Of these truths. But I wonder if some tonight would say, Preacher, you know, God did speak to my heart. And I need to make adjustments. I need to give some attention to some areas that God brought to my mind Holy Spirit, and I need to adjust that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Hands all around. I know as I'm studying it, God's dealing with me. Now maybe on a Wednesday night in an old-fashioned order would be a good place. Say, Lord, come help me make these adjustments Lord, I need you. Direct me. Help me to trust you. And I believe God will help us if we ask Him. The possibilities. If we just come and ask Him. Father in heaven, please bless our invitation tonight, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together