Begin reading in verse number one. I'm going to read down through verse seven this this evening. twelve verse number one. And the Lord sent Nathan unto David, and he came unto him and said unto him, There were two men in one city, one rich and the other poor. The rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds, but the poor man had nothing save one little ew lamb. which he had brought and nourished up, and it grew up together uh it grew up together with him, and with his children. It did eat of his own meat, and drank of his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was unto him as a daughter And there came a traveler unto the rich man, and he spared to take of his own flock, and of his own herd, to dress for the wayfaring man that was come unto him. But took the poor man's lamb and dressed it for the man that was to come to him. And David's anger was greatly kindled against the man, and he said to Nathan, As the Lord liveth, the man that hath done this thing shall surely die. And he shall restore the lamb fourfold because he did this thing and because he had no pity. Now look at Nathan's response here. And Nathan said unto David, Thou art the man. Thou art the man. Let's pray. That's what I've entitled this Message we've been working on a couple weeks now. Thou art the man. Let's pray together. Father, I ask that you would bless our study of your word this evening. Help us to take heed from the warnings you give us in your word. Help us to claim your promises And I pray that tonight's lesson would help us grow in our faith and be diligent in our walk with you, vigilant. And sober in our walk with you. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I yield my will to you, present my body and knew that you could speak through me your word to each of our hearts and lives and apply it As you know we have need. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. We started this a couple week ago weeks ago looking at God's Looking at God intervening in David's attempt to cover his sin. Now we all know the background. Just get us everybody on the same page. David stayed back from the battles He's up on his roof at night. He looks out. He sees a very beautiful woman bathing herself. He takes her for himself. They commit adultery. He tries to cover his sin up. Ends up killing her husband, having her husband killed in battle. And that goes on, the best we can tell, that goes on for about a year, maybe up to two years. There's a little discrepancy there. We don't know exactly how long, but it could have it had to have been at least nine months. Uh uh could have been up to two years time that David is living in sin And the first thing we pointed out, if you remember, we have God's intervention. It's almost like God said, all right, I've had enough. I've given you ample opportunity to address this And take care of this. And God intervenes. Look at verse number one with me. It says, And the Lord sent Nathan unto David. And it's important to understand, David didn't finally, David wasn't our conviction, so I need to get this right. I need to get this. He didn't come to the Lord. The Lord came after him. The Lord came after him. I don't know about you, but I'm glad God doesn't leave us alone, aren't you? I'm glad he steps in. When uh if we're not going to take care of it, then he'll step in and uh he'll do business. And so God sent net sent Nathan to him. We took learned three lessons from that. The first, if you remember, we pointed out God knew about David's sin He had hidden it from some people at least, but he didn't hide it from God. And God is omniscient, all-knowing. The second thing we noticed, that God cared about David's well-being. God knew that living in sin and covering sin was not best for David. Living in sin is never good for anybody. And God loves us too much to let us go on. God loved David too much. So let's let him go on that way. So God intervened. He knew what David's situation was. He cared about David's well-being. Then the other thing we noted is that God uses people to help us spiritually. I thank God for the people God has brought into my life. that have helped me over the years to grow spiritually and were willing to deal with me and help me in areas. And so God uses people. We need one another. I would like to just quickly, and again this doesn't tie in with what we're looking at, but I wanted to look at this last week and I want to at least touch on it. If you would come back to Galatians chapter number six. Galatians chapter number six gives us the formula or how we are to address a brother or sister that is taken in a fault. And it's a tremendous uh instructions here on what to do. If uh how many folks here do you ever have somebody you know them, you loved them, you cared about them, maybe there's somebody that You know, it was important to you, a family member, a friend, a c a church member, a co-worker, somebody, but you knew that they were doing wrong And it concerned you. And you weren't sure how to approach it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And you're afraid you don't want to come in self-righteous, you know, holier than now and and you know, confront them. We don't want to come in as the judge and jury condemning them. But we know they're not doing well. We know they're living in sin or whatever, and it's hurting them. And sometimes others can see what we're doing to ourselves before we see what we're doing to ourselves And God tells us here in Galatians chapter 6 how if somebody is overtaken in a fault, if somebody is in David's shoes, And we need to approach them about that. He tells us exactly how to do it. Galatians chapter 6, look at verse 1. This is a tremendous verse for the body of Christ and for growing Christians. People want to serve and help people. Look what he says here. Brethren, so he's talking to saved people. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault Look at this next statement. Ye which are what? Spiritual. Now, you can be saved and not necessarily be spiritual. Right? You understand that, right? Galatians, Paul writes to the church at Galatians, and he says, I wanted to talk to you as spiritual, but I couldn't. You were carnal. And so a saved person can be what we what the Bible refers to as carnal. They're in the flesh, not living for God. Now, the first thing we notice here, if I'm going to help a brother or a sister uh to deal with they're overtaken in a fault, they're they're messed up and making some bad decisions, whatever the specifics may be, the first thing I need to do before I can approach them, before I can uh try to help them is I need to make sure I'm spiritual and I'm not carnal. Now somebody talked to me a little bit is and I'm spending more time on this than I wanted, but I think it's important. What does it mean to be a spiritual Christian? Somebody help me. Alright, walking in the Spirit, what's another way you could say that? Be filled with the Holy Spirit. In other words I'm living the way God wants me to live. I'm living in the Spirit. I'm trusting the Lord. I'm yielded to Him. Not sinless, of course, but God is in control. And my heart and my mind is right with the Lord as best I can. And so before I ever confront someone, before I ever want to try and help someone or intervene in some way, the first thing I need to do is stop and check myself out And make sure that I'm walking with the Lord and that I've got things right. And so ye which are spiritual, restore, and that's always the That's always the goal of intervening with somebody in sin. Never to make them feel bad, never to run them down, never to uh put them in their place Intervention is always for the purpose of restoration, getting them back in line with the Lord, getting them back walking with God, getting them back in fellowship with the Lord. That is the goal I've seen it more than a few occasions where somebody was doing wrong and another person comes barging in and man they chew them out and rip them up one side, down the other, and leave them there and there a bloody spiritual bloody mess all beat up and walk away. Well I showed them. That is not scriptural restoration. The idea is to get them back in fellowship with the Lord. So number one, I need to understand, I need to make sure I'm in tune with the Lord. Number two, I need to understand what is it exactly I want to accomplish here, what is it that's supposed to take place. And then notice he says here, you which are spiritual, restore such a one. Then he tells us how. In a spirit of what? Meekness, you come very humbly, not holier than now, not better than you, but very meek, humbly and coming to him. And he tells us why. Considering thyself lest thou also be tempted. Now we're going to look at that here in our study tonight a little bit. We get to it. But um doesn't that does that not sound like what Nathan is doing? Nathan is coming. Nathan is a tremendous man of God. He's a prophet of God. We see no faults in him. We see nothing where he's operating in the flesh or out of self-righteousness in any way, shape, or form. He's not trying to destroy David. He's not trying to beat David over the head with anything. He's coming at the instruction of God. He's spiritual. He comes very tactfully, we're going to see that very graciously, really. And um and he is the whole purpose is to restore David. So having said that, let's come back here. And I want us to notice the first thing we noted last week was the intervention of God. The second point I see here, what I want to look at tonight as much as we can is the parable of Nathan. Nathan's parable. And he comes in here, as I said, very graciously. He comes in very tactfully And he gives this parable. What Nathan is doing, he is using one of the most tremendous teaching tools you're going to find in all the Bible, and that is parables. Anybody know? Anybody want to take a shot at what does the word, now you know what a parable is, but what does the word parable mean? Anybody take a guess Parallel. Parallel, very good. It comes from the same word as parallel. I'm telling you, Doc is a smart one, I'll tell you that. It means to put two things beside each other for the purpose of comparison or contrast. To illustrate something. And so what Nathan does here, he takes this parable and he puts this parable up there, and what he's doing, he's putting it beside, so to speak, what David did. And when David comprehends what that parable is all about, then Nathan very pointedly says, hey, this is what's taking place. You follow? So a parable is a powerful teaching tool. It seems to be one of God's favorite methods. In teaching. It's all through the Bible. I did a little research. Now, it varies here because one person might consider this a parable and another might not consider a parable. But there's upwards to 250 parables in the Bible. In Matthew, Mark, and Luke alone, just the first three Gospels, Jesus told over 30 parables as he would go about his teaching. And so parables seem to be God's favorite, one of God's favorite methods of teaching, especially for the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't know about you. I am glad the Bible is not just a dry theological uh uh book with just lists of theological truths. Anybody know what I'm saying? I'm glad it's not that Uh uh uh that would be rough reading. I have some theology books, some four or five volumes, uh theology books, and they just go through very technical, very theological stuff I don't take a day off and go sit in a tree stand and just sit back. I'm going to relax and read a theology book. I don't usually do that. But God, in his wisdom, has given us a book that has phenomenal theology in it, but he presents it to us in a way that is very teachable for us. We see every day. Did you ever notice most of the Old Testament is history, is stories, of pe things people do and don't do? You know what he's doing? He's teaching us phenomenal spiritual truths in a way that we can grasp, we can see it in flesh and blood. And Nathan is doing that as he comes here and he's going to confront David about his hypocrisy and covering his sin, but he uses a parable. A parable is a tale. It may be true. It may be fiction. My own thing with a parable, when the Lord would tell a parable, I just have a hard time thinking That Jesus would make stuff up. You know, well, I just made a story up to illustrate something. Jesus is all-knowing. He has all of humanity to draw from. And I think the parables the Lord tells, and perhaps throughout the Bible, they they may be uh made up, but I just, like I said, I just kind of Squawk at the idea of Jesus making stuff up. I think he took real actual events that took place at some point in time in somebody's life and out of his omniscience he draws that out And he uses them as illustration. So whether this event that Nathan, this parable, this illustration is given, whether this actually happened or not, I can't say But a parable generally is a tale, true or maybe fiction, possibly, but it's about a common subject that illustrates or produces a spiritual or moral lesson Anybody here ever hear of fables? Aesop's fables, and these types of things. Along those lines, the only difference is a parable will be factual In Aesop's fables, you have little animals talking, right? And you have things that aren't factual. In a fable, you have things that aren't factual. A parable is factual. These are things that very could and would and may perhaps do happen. And so a parable is a tale, true or fiction. common subject that people everybody understands and it illustrates a spiritual truth or some moral lesson from that Story, that tale I can learn from it, is very effective. Very effective. So what is it that makes a parable so effective? Let me give you a couple thoughts on that. First of all, I think a parable is effective. I think the Lord used it. First of all, it captures the people's attention. I learned something preaching over the years. Doc will probably say agree with me on this. Learn sometimes, when you're just preaching away, sometimes people's minds begin to wander. No, they never do, huh? Ah, they're and you'll see them and they're like uh thinking about the shopping list and you know and what I gotta do, I gotta pack and I get And people's minds begin to wonder, can I get a witness? Y some of y'all minds wonder, you don't even know what I'm talking about Or they're what thinking, oh, I wish I'd have shot that deer. And uh so their mind begins to wonder, you know what I found out? If you inject a good story Or something in there at a certain point. As soon as you mention something, bing, everybody's tension's right up there. And that's what the Lord Jesus did. And I think that's what Nathan is doing here. When he tells a parable. What is this parable that Nathan's telling? There's a key element in this parable that would have caught David's attention. Anybody think what I'm thinking? Sheep. How did David grow up? What did David do growing up? He was a shepherd. David knew sheep. I want to suggest to you, David loved sheep. You can't read Psalm 23 and not realize David knew sheep and loved sheep. And various times he makes reference to the sheep So when Nathan stuff he he shows up, God sends Nathan by uh uh to see David. Now I don't know what the setting is, we're not told. I'm using my imagination here. Maybe David is in some sort of office or Whatever he's going about, some official business, he's the king of the country. And uh whatever he's dealing with, Nathan comes in, he's highly respected, he's David's seer, he's David's prophet, he comes in And uh I just picture it this way. He walks in, hey Nathan, David, and he starts right into this story. I see no preliminary talk, no uh folksy talk here. He just goes right into this parable And maybe David's working on something and he Nathan starts talking, he's working on something, and then he says a man had a little ew lamb. Well I see that caught David's attention. Sheep. Man, I haven't been with the sheep for years. And a purpose of a parable is often to catch people's attention. Remember when Jesus led that woman at the well to the Lord? Anybody remember that? And she put her pot down and went back into the town. And uh she told all the men, hey, come out and see a man that told me everything I ever did. And the whole town comes out to see Jesus Christ And right at that point, he tells a little mini parable, you might call it. He said, the fields are white already to harvest. Now a lot of Bible scholars believe, and I tend to agree with them, what he was referring to was all those people coming out of the city. They had their white turbans on, and they're coming out. And he was using an illustration of the fields, the crops. Becoming right, wipe and to harvest to illustrate the fact that here's a lot of people that are ready to trust Christ as Savior And so it captures attention. It got David's attention here. David knew sheep. He loved sheep. The second reason you use a parable is it clarifies a truth It opens the window of understanding on a truth, and we're going to see how that happens to David here. Charles Spurgeon said the importance of illustrations Which are often similar to a parable. He said the purpose of illustrations is to open the window of the understanding on the truths of God. And so Jesus would tell a story that the kingdom is like a sower, went forth to sow. He sowed the seed, and some fell upon the uh the pathway, the hard ground, the birds came and took it up Those people there knew exactly what he was talking about. It was an egregarian society. They were farmers. They knew they'd all sown seed. They'd all seen the birds take it And so he used that to illustrate the fact that Satan takes the Word of God and people respond to it differently. So it opens a window of understanding. It opens the mind to a truth that might not be the mind might not be open to. Do you agree with me? If Nathan Award walked in there and said, David, you're living in sin, uh, do you think David might have chopped his head off Might have had a different response from David had he just come barging in there and slinging accusations around But he brings a parable, catches David's attention, and it helps David see what his condition really is by seeing what's happening in another person's life And so one it clarify it captures attention and it clarifies truth. Now, very quickly, I want to notice, and I spurned a lot of time building up to this, but I I want us to notice some three things about this parable. First of all, the symbolism. This gets interesting. The symbolism of this parable. This parable here very accurately portrays David's sin in a very symbolic way. And as we look at it, you're going to see what I mean by that. First of all, I want us to notice the men in this parable. There's two men in this parable. One is what, and the other is what? One's rich, very rich, and the other one is what? Poor. Two men, notice he says there in verse number one: there were two men in one city. The one rich and the other poor. A rich man and a poor man. All right. What's the symbolism there? Who would the rich man be in this parable? Be the King David. He's the rich man. And the poor man would be Uriah. And so you have the symbolism of these two men David and Uriah, this rich man with all these sheep, many sheep, herds. And you have Uriah, the poor man, he's got one. Little one. Then we notice the sheep. Notice it says here, the rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds, and the poor man had nothing save one little ew lamb. Now notice the rich man he has tons of sheep, more than he needs. The poor man has one little ew lamb, and then he goes to a length to describe this poor man's relationship with this new lamp. First of all, he paid for it. He bought it. He did what he needed to do to attain this. He didn't steal it. Nobody gave it to him He did what he needed to do to get it. He cared for it. He says he nourished it and nourished up. He cared for this thing. He invested time and effort into this little U lamp Uh he loved this ew lamb dearly. Look, it said it grew up together with him and his children, it did eat of his meat and drank of his own cup and lay in his bosom. Now personally I wouldn't do that with the no animal, to be honest with you. But uh he loved this lamb, and it lay in his bosom, and it was unto him as a daughter. He loved this thing dearly. Alright, so what's the symbolism of the sheep? Rich man had a whole heap of sheep. What were the sheep? Wives! Would you agree with me? David had more wives than he needed. In fact, after he had his first one, he got more than he needed. But he had a heap of them. He had a bunch. Herds of 'em. He had herds of wives. And um I don't think I ought to put it that way, maybe, but uh He had a lot of wives. The poor man had one ew lamb. What's the symbolism of the ew lamb, Bathsheba? Uriah had one wife, Bathsheba. Now, I don't know about you, but I think this parable, under the inspiration of God, gives us a little insight into Uriah's attitude towards his wife. How he felt about his wife. You know what I get from this? Uriah loved Bathsheba dearly. He cared for her. Now it says he bought her. Now I think to me that means Uriah went about the right way to get this wife. He didn't take her from anybody else. He did the pro followed the proper way to get a wife. He cared for her. He made sure her needs were met. He nourished her. He held her dearly. She was uh uh she was very, very precious to Uriah. I think Bathsheba was greatly loved by Uriah, just by what Nathan says here. So we have these two men Rich man, poor man, David, uh Uriah. You have these two sheep, so to speak. You have these herds, just a ton of them. Then you got this one little ew lamb. Then the next thing I think see in this parable is the traveler. Now this gets uh a little interesting here. I look at this record of the traveler, verse 6. It says, and there came a traveler unto the rich man. And And uh uh so this traveler shows up. Question, is there anything negative said about the traveler? No. A traveler is just a a normal event that takes place. A traveler comes by The custom of the society then was somebody's traveling by, you bring them in, you provide a meal for them, you take care of them, offer a place to stay If you remember Abraham, remember when the two angels of the Lord showed up, he brought them in, he fed them. That was the custom. So for a traveler to come by And to meet the need of that traveler. There's nothing out of order with this. There's nothing ill about this. So the question is, what was the symbolism of the traveler? This is what I come up with. I think the symbolism of the traveler was the natural desire of a man for a woman. This traveler showed up to David. And David had a desire. Let me ask you a question. Is the desire of a man for a woman, is that in and of itself wrong, sinful? No, it's God-given. Read 1 Corinthians chapter 7. Talks about the desire of between physical desires within marriage. The traveler showing up, there's nothing wrong with that There's nothing sinful or condemned about that. Nothing wrong with this desire. In fact, I'll take it another step. There's nothing wrong with this desire being fulfilled There's nothing wrong for this rich man to feed the traveler, to take care of him, provide a meal for him, satisfy the desire of the traveler, the need of the traveler. There's nothing wrong with one, the desire itself or the fulfilling of the desire. What was wrong? How that desire was fulfilled. That's where the problem comes in. And so you have the symbolism of the traveler. The way this traveler was met, needs were met was uh was the problem. Um David, hey, David could have and should have met the needs of this traveler with one of his own sheep. Follow? His own wives. David had a wife. By the way, I put this down, if one spouse is not sufficient, ten spouses aren't going to be sufficient. If David wasn't satisfied with one wife, then he wasn't going to be satisfied with 25 wives. So the symbolism here is the men, rich and poor, David, Uriah, the sheep. Herds of them, David's wives. The one you land, Bathsheba, the traveler, this desire that came to David's heart. So we see the symbolism here. The second thing I notice in this parable is the effect of the parable. He goes on and says that the rich man took the ew lamb, the little ew lamb, Bathsheba, from the poor man and slaughtered it and used it to meet the needs of the traveler. In other words to satisfy his own desires, that he had sufficient means of being satisfied. So notice David's reaction to this. Notice the effect it has, I should say. Look at verse 5. Look at verse 5. And David's what? Anger was kindled, was greatly kindled. God goes to, uh, goes, uses pretty strong language here to communicate to us how angry David got His anger was greatly kindled. Now I looked up all those words. This is the definition. This is the way I picture it. This is a word picture I have in my mind when David realizes what this story is This rich man took the little ew lamb and killed it and fed this traveler. Now he doesn't get it yet. He doesn't realize what the symbolism is here yet. And man, he gets angry. That when it says there, David's anger was greatly kindled. I looked that up, it has this idea. His face turned red and he exploded in anger In fact, one definition of the word his anger, one definition, one of the dictionaries I looked up says, face becomes contorted. Do you ever see somebody get so mad their face changes? I mean, David loses it. He is absolutely furious. You know what I found anger in a person is often a symptom of a deeper hidden sin. A lot of times. It's something there. And David, this is uncharacteristic of David, and he absolutely loses it. when he sees this. I notice two effects this has on David. One, he reacts overly harsh Look what he says. And David's anger was kindled against the man, and he said to Nathan, now you can hear him almost screaming this. As the Lord liveth, the man that hath done this thing shall surely what? Die. I'd say that's a little overly harsh. If we had time, we'd go back to Exodus chapter 22, tells Israel exactly what the punishment was if somebody stole somebody else's sheep Does anybody know what it is? If somebody stole another man's sheep, he was to what? Restore it, not just restore it, but restore it what? Fourfold. In other words, you take one, you give it back, and you give four more along with it. Well, I wish somebody would steal my car. Wouldn't that be great? Steal some guns. Yeah, I might be sorry I said that. David goes over the top. This is this is irrational. You don't kill someone because they took A man's lamb. Now you need to be punished. There needs to be justice, no doubt about it. But that's overly harsh. You know what we see here? We see a hard-hearted man. Zero compassion over the top, extreme, irrational reaction to another man doing wrong. Hmm, that's interesting So David's reaction is overly harsh, but I put it down this way also. His reaction was overly hypocritical. I found that often it's the biggest hypocrites who have the harshest judgment on others. People living in sin themselves are ready to chop the heads off of others. Would you keep your place here and come with me back to Romans chapter 2? Paul addressed this to some of the Jews. In Romans chapter 2 He makes some statements that parallel what David is doing here almost like if he had David in mind. I don't know that he did. But Romans chapter 2, look with me if you would at verse 21. He's going down here talking about the sinfulness of man, and Jews are just as sinful as Gentiles, and vice versa. And he makes this statement in verse 21: Thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself? Now look what he says. Thou preachest a man should not steal. Then he asks, what's the question? Do you steal? He says, Thou sayest a man should not commit adultery. Dost thou commit adultery? Thou that abhorst idols, dost thou commit sacrilege? Thou that makest thy boast of the law through breaking the law, dishonorest thou God. Does that not sound exactly what David's doing? He's living in sin, real, legitimate, genuine sin, and he absolutely hypocritical goes off and condemns this man in this story. So first thing we see is the symbolism. The two men, David and Uriah, the sheep, David's wives, Bathsheba, Uriah's wife, the traveler, David's desire, how he went about doing that was wrong. The effect on David was he exploded in anger and in and total hypocrisy. Now notice The application of the parable and Nathan brings it home in verse number, let me get back here, in verse number seven. And Nathan said to David, we all have heard this statement before. What did he say? Say it with me. Thou art the man. Boom! That is God's knockout punch. David's facade, David's little game David's little attempt to cover his sin and hide what he's done has just been shattered. To me, here's my little boxing parable or out uh reference. The parable was a jab. He was setting David up, getting him in place. And when it was right time, man, God brought the right hook around. Boom, you're the man. You're the man. From this point on, it's over. It's over. Nathan David's sinful feet were knocked out from underneath him. I like what Proverbs. Let me ask you this question. Did Nathan hate David? No. They were tight. They were close. In fact, later on, Nathan will have a role in various decisions that David makes, a key role. Nathan didn't hate David. Was he being unkind to David? No. In fact, at this point in David's life, he was probably the best friend David had Listen to Proverbs 27 and verse number six. Faithful are the wounds of a friend. But the kisses of an enemy are what? Anyone know? Deceitful. Deceitful Can you imagine going to a doctor? And I know a lot of folks have some physical stuff going on. You imagine going to a doctor, and that doctor knows that there's something real bad wrong. That doctor knows that something has to change or your life is in danger. Can you imagine if that doctor would say Oh, you're fine. I don't want to upset them. I don't want him to think bad of me. You're fine. Everything will be alright. How many people agree with me? That doctor doesn't care about that patient. He didn't care one bit about him. That doctor comes in and says, listen, you've got to do something. Something has to change. We need to do surgery. We need to do something. Because it's bad. That doctor cares about the patient. Amen or not? That's Nathan. God sent Nathan. God loved David. Nathan loved David. And he stepped in and did it. Now he did it the right way. Remember Galatians 6, 1? You which are spiritual, restore such a one spirit of meekness. Man, Nathan went textbook. Came in with his story, set David up. And by the way, when David got mad, you know what David was doing? He was condemning himself, and he didn't even know it yet. Nathan, under the leadership of God, very wisely set David up, and David condemned himself, and all Nathan had to say is, You're the man. That's you, David. That's you. And I don't know, in my mind's eye, I see David just wither. That hard heart melts And we're going to look at Psalm 51 here in another week or so, and David absolutely pours it out and gets things right with God. It's a sad, but it's a beautiful picture of restoration. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from this. I thank you, Lord, for loving us enough to intervene. Thank you, Lord, for people who love us enough to talk to us and help us in a kind, gracious way. I pray you'd help us, Lord, to walk with you. Help us to be a testimony, encouragement. And Lord, I pray your will be done in our lives. I don't, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I don't know how anybody might uh Respond to this, how to give an invitation particularly on this, but maybe God's spoken to your heart. And I don't think Catherine's in here, I don't think we have a piano player, but maybe you'd like to come in old-fashioned altar Maybe you'd like to kneel and just say, Lord, have your way in my life. Help me to stay close to you. Help me keep my guard up. Let's stand together if you would, and we'll just quietly pray. Maybe if you want to come, you want to kneel at an altar, we'll just sing. Just as I am without one plea, if you know it, sing it along with me, would you?