Big thank you for supporting us on a regular basis every month. We don't have to wonder if Mountain Lakes are gonna be a part of our ministry or they already are, and with the FBN family And uh we do thank you for all that. And uh the van that we were driving last year, uh if any of you saw it, the children are were ashamed Shame to get in and out of it because we had pieces of uh blinds uh tied to the core the the uh cables in the door and I had a stick on there. You know, it's uh that's the way we do stuff down south. We just go out in the woods and find our our auto parts and uh had a stick tied to the end on it so we could open the doors. And they said, Please don't park up front Daddy, please don't worry about it. Well, we had three hundred and eighty-two thousand miles on that white van, and uh and uh we were on our way to see a priest Preacher, uh preacher Jack Tripp, and uh to take one of the books that Ryan had wrote. And uh we were on our way and it and we got to Denton and it started knocking real bad. I thought, oh no, that there's gonna be rod shooting up through the floorboard here at any moment. Uh we've got to do something so I pulled in an advance auto and got me a a quart of oil. I thought well it's gotta be low on oil 'cause the lifters are clean So I put some oil in there and it sounded like one French fry in a deep fryer. That's what it sounded like. I mean it was thin, but it was not overheating. So I got it home and at the bottom of our driveway it went dead and I turned the key and it would not turn at all And uh so I I thought, well, what can I do? I I'm not gonna call a tow truck just to bring it up my driveway. So I went to my building and I found some Marvel Mystery or I'm doing a commercial for Marvel mystery oil right now. And uh so we poured that in and it cranked right up. It done seize the engine and uh I got to the top of the driveway. The freeze plugs were gone, everything's gone. The the uh head gaskets blown, uh it will not uh do for us anymore. Two days later, God, I believe, had something to do with it. Uh this fella drives up our our driveway in a 2011 Dodge caravan. And uh he said, I want you to look at it, and it was red. I thought, wow, I've never had a red vehicle. Uh that thing must go fast. It it's gonna be wonderful. And uh but I was looking at it and I thought well There is no way. We though a lot of churches had given money towards the van, and I I said, Brother, this is a beautiful van. He said, Yeah, look inside it and it's got a backup camera. I can watch where I'm going with having to hit anything, cats back there or deer or whatever. I can back up. And uh so I I got it uh I was I was looking in it had stow and go. He said, I know it's not what you're looking for You need something bigger, but uh he said, uh this is what I found the other day. I want uh I just wanted you to look at it. I said, Well I appreciate you letting me look at it, but I can't afford something this new and this nice He said, no, brother, he said, the Lord's laid it on my heart to give it to you. And uh I tell you what, I had a shout and fe in the driveway And uh went running around my wife, she comes out the door then and she's gonna hang up some clothes at the clothes line and and I said, Honey, come over here and look at this van and she said, Uh why? And so she's looking at it and everything. She can't understand why I'm showing it to her and I'm so excited about like it's mine or something. And uh uh I said, he's giving it to us. And she said, No. So it's out there and then we had two hailstorms come through a few weeks ago, so we've got to get the dents take things we had insurance. Amen. But uh we're so thankful what God's that we've saw seen him do so many miracles providing all of our needs. And getting five new stations last year, uh in the fall of two 2015 was just unprecedented. It seems like the darker the world gets, the darker the times get, the light just shines brighter and brighter, and people want to hear the truth. So we got one in Los Molinos, California last fall. We got one up in Terryville, Connecticut, right outside of Harford. We can reach over a million. people with that station. Erie, Pennsylvania, Wilson, North Carolina, and another one in Orangeburg, South Carolina that the Roman Catholics used to have And uh they wanted uh a church to have the station and uh it's an AM station, reaches all the way down to Charleston out on the coast. We're working on one right now in Wilmington that'll reach Myrtle Beach, all the way to Myrtle Beach So please pray that that God will work that out. And uh oh oh well. Well I could go on and on, but we need to get in the Word of God and And uh see what he has for us this morning. Psalm three, if you found your places. I'm gonna read just a couple verses there, and then we'll look on. This is what I had intended for Sunday school this morning. This is a Sunday school lesson Uh it's sort of expository, but God laid it on my heart to use it for the 11 o'clock service. So in the first couple of verses there, the Bible says, Lord, how are they increased that trouble me? Many are they that rise up against me. Many there be which say of my soul, there is no help for him in God. Selah. Let's pray. Our precious Heavenly Father, we come to you in Jesus Jesus' name, that name that's above everything. And Father, we realize, as the songwriter said, that all is things that set the Spirit of the Holy One come down. And Lord, we just beg you and we ask you and we plead with you that you just Take over this service. This is your day. This is your church. Your pastors back here, Lord, and this is your flock, Lord. We pray, Father, that you'll just come down in a mighty way and work in hearts this morning. There are some that are no doubt discouraged. There's some wondering what's going to happen tomorrow. There's some that that just needs some encouragement today, Lord. I pray that you'll take your word and just work in their hearts Father, especially if there be one in our midst that's never trusted you as their Lord and Savior, may today be that day. We'll thank you. We'll praise you. Lord, we love you. And I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto me. Lord, we want to magnify the name of Jesus Christ this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. As we look at this scripture this morning, I think about encouragement. When I need encouragement, I go to the Psalms. Many of you have special uh verses that's your life verse and And uh no doubt I have uh my life verse, but I love Psalm three when I need encouragement. Uh whenever things get Discouraging all around us. Whenever it seems like what's going to happen tomorrow, uh what is going to take place in America tomorrow? What can I do? Uh it just seems like what's the use? I give up Uh but we can go to the Psalms and get some encouragement. These were sung to the children of Israel in the temple, whenever they went to the temple uh to worship God, and they were sung uh as the children did this morning And so I look at this, it says the morning hymn. So it's very fitting that we have this psalm in the worship service this morning as our morning hymn It also, I have a footnote under Psalm 3 there. It says, A psalm of David when he fled from Absalom, his son. Can you imagine fleeing from your own child? The one that you s that Sat on your knee, the one that you rocked back and forth, told the stories of God to and read the Bible to them, and and they're sitting on you, and now he's out to take his father's life That's just overwhelming to me how David was able to pin this down. He pinned it down under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit Spirit of God. And he wrote the first word was so important. It says, Lord, he knew where to go to. Many people would have been so discouraged. W how many of us whenever a trial comes our way we try to handle it ourselves? No, we can't do that, can we, brother? We can't do that. But sometimes we do try to handle it ourselves, and it seems like God is the last place we can But he says, Lord, how are they increased that trouble me? Many are they that rise up against me. I think about the words of Paul over in Second Corinthians chapter number four, verses seven through He said, but we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed. We are perplexed, but not in despair. Persecuted, but not forsaken. Cast down but not destroyed, always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our body Uh it seems like Paul, you know, he knew that trials would come our way. Whenever we trust Christ as our Savior, we receive Him and He comes into our heart and life to abide there forever. Uh it doesn't mean that the trials are going to stop. Sometimes, you know, when we get saved, we don't know everything, and he has to put us through some some trials just to make us stronger and to mature us in the Lord And that's what happened to Paul here, and here David says, Lord, how are they increased that trouble me? Many are they that rise up against me. If you remember the story of Absalom, he comes up against his father, and he has charmed the people of Israel. Israel. Every time they come to get judgment or to to hear the wisdom from David, he's sitting at the gate and he says, Well come over here. And he won their hearts And they came to Absalom, so now all of Israel's heart is turned to Absalom. David's got a few mighty men, and he flees from his son. So trouble has come his way. How do they increase that trouble me? Many are they that rise up against me. Many there be which say of my soul There is no help for him in God. I think about John chapter number 14, verse 1 through 4. It says, let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also. And whither I go, you know, and the way you know We've got all kinds of comfort through the Word of God whenever we need it. It seemed like everything was stacked against David I see in verse number two also it says, Many there be which say of my soul, there is no help for him in God. I remember the words of my Savior Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary He said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And it seems like sometimes we can say the same thing. It seems like the trials that we're going through, the burdens that we have are so hard to bear, and we say, Where are you, God? That's the times that we come and we fall on our knees before him and say, Lord, I need your help. I need some strength. I'm one of your children. He said You would never leave me nor forsake me. God loves to hear his scripture quoted to him in time of need. It says, Many there be which say of my soul, there is no help for him in God. And then there's that word Selah. In the hymns as those were sung, uh that word sila means uh meditate on this. Think about what you just sang. Think about it and believe what you just say. But I saw a new uh uh it may not be a new definition of the word selah, but it was another definition of the word selah. It said, just hold on There's something better coming. Just hold on. There's something better coming. You haven't heard the last of this yet. That's just the first couple of phrases in the song. There's something a whole lot better coming. The world and the devil can tell you, you know, there's no help for you in God. Uh you've trusted in him and what he's done for you. You've had trial upon trial, you've had health problems, you've had You had all these things. You're so silly and and and everything for even trusting in God. But then there's that word Selah. I think about First Thessalonians chapter number four and verses thirteen through eighteen. He says, But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that you sorrow not, even as others which have no hope Hey, these people outside the walls here this morning, those that are going up and down the road trying to to receive things for themselves to get gain and to get pleasures in this world, they mourn as those that have no hope. We've got a hope here this morning. Our hope is in Jesus Christ. He said that he would never leave us nor forsake us. But even as others which have No hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first Then we which are alive and remain shall be called up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words There is more encouragement in the Word of God. Just hold on. There's a better day of coming. Amen. So he says, Selah, there in verse number two. Then verse 3 says, But thou, I like those holy conjunctions there. The word but, but thou, O Lord, art a shield for me, my glory and the lifter up of mine head. How many of you have had a child come up to you? Maybe you saw them outside and and their head was down, and maybe they'd had a wreck on their bicycle. Maybe the cat just got run over. I don't know. I can't imagine flying over a cat getting run over. There's something that's happening and it's real and it's traumatic for them And and you go over to them and you you may brush the dirt and and the gravel from their knees if that's what happened. But what you do is you wipe the lay their tears and you lift up their head. That's what God does for his children. In the Word of God. He says, For thou, O Lord, art a shield for me, my glory, and the lifter up of mine head. He lifts us up. He lifts our heads up. How can David be so positive and encouraged whenever his own son is after him to take his life? It's because he knew how to encourage himself in the Lord. He knew how to encourage himself He had that been to that point before, whenever uh the Philistines were fighting against Israel, and David had separated himself from them, and and he w whenever King Saul uh was in reign and And God worked it out where David would not have to fight against his own brethren. And when he came back, the uh the other crowd had come in and taken David's wife and all the men's wives and their children, their families And they were getting ready to stone David. But what did David say? He said, I encouraged myself in the Lord. Encouraged himself in the Lord. So if he was able to encourage himself, maybe we can draw some encouragement uh from his words here this morning But thou, O Lord, art a shield for me my glory and the lifter up of mine head. I was watching this little uh um I think it's called torch I believe it is stories of great m missions, ministries, uh missionaries all around the world and what they did for the Lord. And and they were talking about uh Eric Ly David That Scottish man. He was born over in China. His parents were missionaries to China. And during World War II, as a little child, they sent him back home to Scotland. for training to get his schooling and everything and during that time he was always running. And he had the opportunity, he won all kinds of races for Scotland and he was going to be sent to the Olympics. All of you know the story. He was going to be sent to the Olympics, but he would not run in the race that that he was the best at because it was on the Lord Day. He decided the testimony was more important than entertainment. Or more important than his own country. Remember, we're just pilgrims and strangers passing But when he did run, they talked about they made fun of him the way he ran. head would go up like that and he would run like that. Everybody else is leaning forward, going towards the goal. How could he even see where he was going? He told people, he said, the first part of the race, I do it in my strength. I give God everything that I have, but the second part of the race, I depend on God for it. He looks up to the giver. The Lord is the one that's his shield and his strength, the one that lifts up his head. He lifts up his head Then in verse number four he said he says, I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill. Aren't you thankful that we got a God that hears and answers prayer? I'm learning more and more every day when I started out on the on the mission field getting support and everything and telling people about FBN and giving out the gospel of Jesus Jesus Christ. I wondered how I was going to make it. It's the best thing that's ever happened to me and my family. Uh it's dependent on God for everything. Uh where the next meal will come from. I already know He takes care of that He has had to teach me that over and over uh again. I was in uh over in Thermont, Maryland, right after nine-eleven took place and and I was And uh we had some bills come in and and I didn't make very much and and I I just thought where is it gonna come from? And I went to the door as before the children got there. before the students got to school and I looked out and there was these uh I guess it's Baltimore Orioles, amen. Not the team, but the birds, amen. They were out there and they were pulling worms up, those big old nightcrawlers out there out of the ground, out of the church property. And they were eating bugs. There's birds everywhere eating bugs and worms. And then the Lord brought back to my mind his scripture saying, hey, if I can feed them, I can feed you They don't even work for it. Uh they're there. They know that they're there and I feed 'em every morning. He said, I believe I can take care of you and your family. And he's done that the last two and a half years we've been On the road. He's provided every need that we've had. I'm so thankful for it. I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill We sang that song about the greatness of God, how holy He is. This morning, He is holy. We ought to come before him with reverential fear, knowing that he can do as he well pleases. He is holy, he is just, he is pure, and we're not. Only through Jesus Christ will we have a robe of white. Only through the blood of Jesus Christ cleansing us from our sins are we able to stand before Before him. He is holy. And he heard me out of his holy heel. I think about whenever Jesus gave up the ghost. He said it is finished. And the veil was rent in twain from top to bottom. Man didn't do it. Man couldn't have done it if it had been from bottom to top. Man couldn't have pulled that veil apart and ripped it like that. But God did it from top to bottom saying, Hey, you no longer have to take a pr have a priest send him in to me. He said the high priest died on the cross. It is finished. Everything has been taken care of And he's going to rise from the dead the third day and ascend into heaven and he's going to come back for you. So we can go straight to him Isn't it amazing? Many times we read the stories in the Bible, the miracles that God performed for the children of Israel, and on into the New Testament, the miracles that Jesus did, and we but w somehow we don't think that he could do that for us We say, well that was them, that was them. But he's still the same God. He changes not. He's still the same and on his throne. And I'm so thankful we can go to him as children going to their fathers. Thank God for prayer. Then I see in verse number five he says, I laid me down and slept. I awake, for the Lord sustained me. I don't know about you, but if somebody was hot on my heels to kill me, I don't think I'd get much sleep. That would be tough To be able to lay down and sleep and say, well, you know, everything's gonna be handled. I'll wake up in the morning or I might not wake up in the morning. He says, I laid me down and slept, I awake for the Lord sustained me. And we go back to his son again, thinking, how could he? How could he? How much pressure there had to be in On King David at the time. Psalm 127, verse 2 says, It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows, for so he giveth his beloved sleep. David knew that he would give him sleep. He would look after him. He would take care of him. And Psalm 4. 8, just across the page there, says, I will both lay me down in peace. and sleep, for thou Lord only makest me to dwell in safety. Safety is of the Lord. Safety is of the Lord. Then he makes a bold statement there. I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people that have set themselves against me round about I think it was General Douglas MacArthur who made a quote similar to that one time. He said, the enemy, he went to his men, he said, the enemy's in front of us The enemy's behind us, the enemy's to the left of us, and to the right of us. They can't get away this time. I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people that have set themselves against me round about. David said, let them come on, because I've got God on my side. He's going to look after me. He's going to sustain me. He let me sleep like a baby last night and wake up again this morning. I'm not going to be afraid of them. Then he said, Arise, O Lord, save me, O my God, for thou hast smitten all my enemies upon the cheekbone. Thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly. He said, my trust is in God. He said, You've done it for me before. You remember when King Saul wanted to take David? David's life and he fled. He had opportunity, he could have taken King Saul's life on a few occasions. He could have taken Saul out of there, but he said, I will not touch God's anointing It wasn't that David was wimping out or anything like that. He had the power. He had the men behind him, and God had delivered Saul into his hand, but he would not touch God's anointed And I think even though s Absalom was his son, that he probably had opportunity, he could have took him out before it ever got to that point. And he wouldn't have had to fled, but he knew that, you know, God said, vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, I will repay. David knew where his strength was and who fought his battles. Thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly. Then he says in verse 8, Salvation belongeth unto the Lord. Thy blessing is upon thy people. Selah. Salvation belongeth unto the Lord. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. And there's so many denominations in our country today that saying, you know, there's all different kinds of ways you can get to heaven. You can work your way to heaven. You can uh if you get baptized you'll go to heaven Uh do this or this. Hand out so many uh tracts um and you'll go to heaven. That'll be good enough to get you into heaven. No, that is a result of salvation And and going and giving out the gospels of Jesus Christ to people. Jesus said, I'm the only way. No man, that means nobody, cometh unto the Father but by me. Romans 1. 16 says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. The power. The power is the gospel. It's not the one that's delivering it. The gospel is the power. FBN has never saved one soul. But it's the gospel that's preached over the airwaves. A hundred and eighty-five countries have been reached with the gospel just through that little radio station down there in Newport, North Carolina. Forty stations and then twelve others around the world. In Nepal, the station that went up there, a missionary took it in, and and uh with uh Brother Dave Robinson, he was in the Marines and and he uh ran uh communications. For one of the major generals. And he sent that over there with that missionary. And the tribal chief came in and heard the gospel over that. And he trusted Christ, and then the entire tribe there in Nepal turned to Jesus Christ. The whole village turned to Christ for salvation. So many people over in Baghdad, Iraq, Muslims, have turned to Jesus Christ and the gospel. Through the gospel that's been preached on FBN. I met somebody in High Point, North Carolina. You know, I just stopped in another time we just stopped in a church to introduce ourselves to the pastor and tell them about FBN And there hadn't to be a a young man from the Navy, and he'd been on an aircraft carrier. He had served his time and he was on his way back home And uh he said, You won't believe this. I thought, well yeah I will. Go ahead and tell me anyway though. He said the Marines came on board. They had just left Baghdad and they'd touched down And uh we got into talking and and and uh they asked me if I was a Christian. I said, Yes, but I've I've gotten away from God. He said I I've lived for the world And uh they said, Well you need to listen to this. He said, When we were in Baghdad, Iraq, we heard FBN radio and told him how he could tune in and listen to the radio broadcast, and he said I listened and I don't know if it was Lester Roloff preaching, telling him not to eat at McDonald's or if it was Oliver B. Green. I don't know who it was, but he said I got my life straightened out And just happened to meet him in High Point, North Carolina, on his way through to his home. 185 countries. Tuning in by way of internet, there's only 196 countries in the world. We're 11 countries away from having documented listeners in every country, every nation of the world. Think about Pastor Eberman. If I could ask you to pray for him. He started F B N They're from Grace Baptist Church. I don't know if you heard or not, but he has seven blockages in his heart. He said he he was picking up some potatoes and he realized he'd had a heart attack Twenty years ago he had open heart surgery and they fixed two of his arteries and and uh everything was going good for the last twenty years. I'll tell you a little more about that. He uh the doctor said you've got to have surgery, you've got to get your heart fixed, or you're not going to be around long. And he said, well I've got to go to Haiti And uh I'll I'll take care of the surgery after that. They said the last thing he need to do is get on an airplane. He just sort of chuckled at him like he does and uh got on the airplane and left And he came back and had the surgery. And the the doctor said, Well, you need six weeks recovery time. Well the next week he was on a plane to Russia And uh he he went to Russia and was walking and giving out the gospel, handing out Bible tracts, and uh said at night time his legs would be so swollen he had to They had to just hang down from the bed above him or from the ceiling or whatever. They had to have ropes to ha hang his legs up so his the swelling would go back down And now he's got seven blockages and and they were able to put two stents in, but they said the others they can know nothing about, and they put a pacemaker in a few weeks ago and and said that's all that they can do for him Well, two days after he had the pacemaker, he was back at the church. Not listening to the doctors too good, but but that's Pastor Evern. Please pray for him. It's his desire. He said, I'm ready for God's will to be done, but my desire is to see the Lord Jesus Christ come and rapture his church. He said, I want to be here. I want to see that. He said, but I'll accept God's will either way. Instead of that to say this, what would have happened if Pastor Reburn had not listened to the Lord and known that salvation was of the Lord? He read a Bible track when he was an engineer at TPG and trusted Jesus Christ as his Savior from a Bible track. Spent 13 years driving back and forth from Moorhead City to Washington, D. C. , meeting with the FCC to get one gospel radio station on the air. Lost hundreds of thousands of dollars during that time in the travels and and people making promises and and then the IRS came in and took, but that's another story. Took a lot of the money away But he said, I always held on to Jeremiah 33. 3. Call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. How whenever he saw that verse, and now the gospel is in 185 countries, many of missionaries cannot even set foot in Salvation belongeth unto the Lord. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. If I try to work on people in my own strength, I'm not going to do very much good, but I need that power. The power of the gospel, to give the gospel to somebody, they'll be saved. I want you to pray for me. Coming up next week, the Southeast Old Threshers Reunion starts in Denton, North Carolina. Big steam engine show Forty thousand people from all over the country and uh over the around the world comes to Benton to see me, no No, but I got an opportunity to preach in that little church during the Threshers Reunion this year. Sunday is right in the middle of it, and they're gonna have me preach in this old country church. No padded pews, no air conditioning Just open up and and let her fly. There'll probably be maybe well when I did it before when it was during the Threshers is four to six hundred people, a hundred inside the church and then four or five hundred outside the church. I want to see people get saved. I want there to be a great harvest of souls. That's the desire of my heart. That's why I'm here this morning. That's why I go anywhere Sure, we get to represent the best radio station in the world, but we get to see souls saved I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. Salvation belongeth unto the Lord. Thy blessing is upon thy people. Selah. Psalm 37, 39 says, But the salvation of the righteous is of the Lord. He is their strength in the time of trouble. He is their strength in the time of trouble. Are you troubled this morning? Are you facing a battle in your family today? The only one that I know of that can help you is the Lord Jesus Christ. He's done it for me time and time again. He can do it for you. Is there anyone here this morning that has never put their faith and trust and received the blessing of salvation through Jesus Christ? I sat on a church pew for 26 years of my life, lost, thinking if I was a good person, I would go to heaven. I led people to the Lord using the word of God. God will honor his word when you give them truth. I had a head knowledge. I pastored four United Methodist churches up in Boone, North Carolina. Up in the mountains. And I realized that my there wasn't much to my religion. I knew Jesus. I knew that he died on the cross to save sinners. I knew all those things. But then I started questioning my own denomination. I started seeing things that did not line up with the Word of God that were going on in my denomination. They were actually and I probably shared this with you every time I come here, but I want to share it with you again because it's happening in churches today. They were voting Every year that I went to the conference grounds there, they were voting whether to let sodomites come into the pulpit and preach or not I said that's against the Word of God. I will not give my opinion on it. There's scripture. The Word of God will handle that. They allowed women to preach in the pulpits. The Bible tells us that the woman is not to us up authority over the man. I'm not against women. I married one. I have a bunch of them around me. They tell me how to get to places and and and when I'm not doing right or messing up or whatever I hear it in quadruplate or whoever. But all those things were against the Word of God. And I questioned him and I then I had a Baptist preacher come and preach a revival for me, something that I wasn't supposed to do. And he came up there and he he peeled the bark off of it. Amen. He preached and people were getting saved and we went up into the hills back in the the valleys and everything and brought people in that never darkened the door of a church and people were getting saved. They wanted to be baptized the right way. They wanted to go out in the New River. in November and get baptized. Then the Lord started working in my heart through that because he sat down with the Word of God and explained to me about everlasting life That if I trust Jesus Christ as my Savior, I could not ever go back. I couldn't lose it. That's scripture. These things are written that you may know that you have eternal life. And so I left there. Started going to a Baptist church and a preacher preached on the Crown of Thorns one night in October. And for the first time in my life, I realized I was lost and on my way to a devil's hell. And I called on the Lord to save me, and guess what? He did. Things had not been the same. I've not been everything I ought to be. I'm ashamed of that, but I'm not what I used to be. And I'm a whole lot better off than I than I was. Amen. What I want to share with you too is salvation's not just a a get out of hell free card. That's not the only reason that we get saved, just to avoid going to an awful place called hell where there's fire and and torments forever and ever, but so that we can have an abundant life here on earth and have joy in our hearts as we go through this life and to tell somebody else about Jesus Christ. That's why he don't take us out of here when we trust Christ and just take us on to heaven. He wants us to tell somebody else that we might have fruit that may abound. That's what Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is doing here. That's what FBN's trying to do. Pray that we'll be what we ought to be, that if we end will grow. Pray for our country. We need revival. Well what I want to say, if you're here and you've never trusted Jesus Christ, if you don't have a salvation experience where you came and repented, trusted Jesus Christ to save you from your sins. And just called on him and said, I'm a sinner, I need to be saved. And you need to get saved this morning. Lord will do it. He'll save you. Father, I pray, Lord, that you'll take your word now. Speak to hearts. Help us, Father. Lord, help us to carry on another day for you, no matter how rough the road gets coming up in the near future, Lord. Help us just to love you, obey you, and trust you and serve you. In Jesus' name. Amen. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I've trusted Christ. That's a settled fact But God has spoken to my heart as a Christian this morning about my walk with the Lord. You say there's some decisions I need to make about my Christian testimony. Not my living for the Lord. Maybe there's some hard decisions need to be made. I don't know how God may be dealing with your heart, but He's touched my heart. How many by the uplifted hands say preacher? Yes, God has dealt with my heart. As a Christian, he's dealt with my heart. There's some decisions in my Christian life need to be made. God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. God bless you I wonder how many would say this morning, preacher, this message was for me. I needed that encouragement. Those first several verses. I needed that. I need the Lord to help me, to trust him. To see me through this. Is there anything like that, preacher? I'm going through a valley right now. There's an issue. I need the Lord. Help me through it. God bless you. Many hands around. Maybe there's someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. Say, I don't want to go to hell. Nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell. You say, preacher, I need to be saved. I need this God to help me settle this in my heart about my sins being forgiven. And that when that day comes, I go to heaven, not to hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I really need you to pray for me, pray with me, that God will help me settle that in my heart, that there'll be no doubt there I'm sure my sins have been given on my way to heaven. There's a lot of other areas. Maybe baptism. Maybe you've been saved, you've not been baptized. That's so important. Church attendance, membership, reading our Bibles, praying, witnessing. Let's make this morning a morning of decision, just trusting Christ and letting God have his way in our hearts and lives. Father, bless now the invitation we ask. In Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand