Oh I want to begin reading in verse one and I'm gonna read all the way down through verse four now it's tempted to read the whole chapter But I'm going to read down through verse 14. Now we're not going to look at all of these. In fact, we're not going to get through the first verse tonight. But I want to read that up to that point so we have this whole context together. We see how the whole thing flows And uh then we'll come back and kind of dissect it a little bit. I think uh as we're studying this this portion of David's life and this valley that he finds himself in of his own doing There are so many lessons here for us, so many practical ways to apply what's happening, and so many truths that can help us. And so I want to slow down our study more than what it normally is, and just work our way through here and see what God can teach us through this. Verse 1 of 2 Samuel chapter 12 says this And the Lord sent Nathan unto David. Now I underline that in my Bible. That's a key event, a key happening here. in this whole uh series of events taking place. The Lord sent Nathan unto David. And that changes everything, that that what that one thing there. And he came unto him and said unto him, There were two men in one city, the one rich and the other poor. The rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds, but the poor man had nothing save one little ew lamb, which he had brought up and nourished up, and it grew up together with him and with his children. And it did eat of his own meat and drink of his own cup and lay in his bosom as one was unto him as a daughter. This little ewamb was a pet, a family pet that became part of the family almost. Anybody here ever have a pet? That becomes part of the family, anybody at all? If you have a cat that's part of your family, you have a sick family, I'll tell you that right there. But uh careful there. Anyway was was unto him as a daughter. So this guy, this is a very precious uh animal to them. And there came a traveler unto the rich man, and he spare to take of his own flock and of his own herd, to dress for the wayfaring man that was come unto him. But took the poor man's lamp and dressed it for the man that was uh dressed it for the man that was come to him Now, question, does David know what Nathan's up to at this point? No, he has no idea. That tells us a little bit about David's frame of mind. In the whole situation here. He's not anticipating his situation being confronted. Verse 5, look how David reacts. And David's anger was greatly kindled against the man. And he said to Nathan, As the Lord liveth, the man that hath done this thing shall surely die. And he shall restore the lamb fourfold because he did this thing, and because he had no pity. Now here you go. And Nathan said to David, what'd he say? Thou art the man. You're the man in this story. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I anointed thee king over Israel, I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul. I gave thee thy master's house, thy master's wives, unto thy bosom. I gave thee the house of Israel and of Judah, and if that had been too little, I would have moreover given unto thee such and such things. Wherefore hast thou despised the commandment of the Lord to do evil in his sight? Thou hast killed Uriah the Hittite with the sword. And hast taken his wife to be thy wife, and has slain him with the sword of the children of Ammon. Now, therefore, the sword shall never depart from thy house Because thou hast despised me, and hast taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be thy wife. Thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will raise up evil against thee out of thine own house And I will take away thy wives before thine eyes, and give them unto thy neighbor, and he shall lie with thy wives in the sight of this Son. For thou didst it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun. Now here's David's reaction to that. And David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. David said unto And Nathan said unto David, The Lord also hath put away thy sin. Thou shalt not die. Look at this statement. How be it? Because by this deed thou hast given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme. And the child also that is born unto thee shall surely die. Shall surely die. I'm entitled The Message for Lack of Creativity is Thou Art the Man, that statement down there in verse number seven. Thou art the man. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us now as we study this very unpleasant portion of Scripture and part of David's life. I ask that you would, your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and minds to the lessons that we need from this. And the truths that we need to grasp to enable us to live for you as we should, Lord, and as you desire us to live. I ask, Father, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray that you would speak through me to folks here in the auditorium, folks on the internet. Lord, maybe folks at a later time listen to a recording that you would help us to be very, very careful in our Christian walk. I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Do a little research on David, and I found out that Of course, we've been studying here for quite a while, but I found out that 62 chapters of the Old Testament are dedicated to the biography of David, to his life. 62 chapters. That's a pretty good portion of the Bible is given to this man's life. There are, as far as I can tell, 59 references In the New Testament to David. 59 times in the New Testament, there's a reference to David. And as best as I can tell, that's more than any other person in the Bible apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. David is referenced. 62 chapters, 59 references, all dedicated to this man David. Would you agree with me? He's quite a man. Quite a man in the Bible, quite a character in Scripture. There's more references to King David than there are to John the Baptist. In the Bible. More references to King David than there is to Elijah, the great prophet of Israel. More references to David than there is to of Moses. Or Abraham, King David, a man after God's own heart. There are very few people in the Bible that are spoken of as highly as King David is spoken of. And yet here we find him in a horrific situation. And I know I mentioned this before, but I want to point this out again. The Bible does not sugarcoat the failures of its heroes. The Bible doesn't gloss over. In fact, we have a couple chapters here. and ongoing consequences of what takes place here are dedicated in pretty significant detail The failures of this man who is referenced more in the New Testament, particularly more than any other character in the Bible, has 60 Has uh 62 chapters dedicated to his life, and yet God comes out and says, here's the truth. Um the Bible is brutally honest. Brutally honest. And when you and I read it, sometimes we come across and it'll tell us things, it'll show us things about ourselves. That sometimes we bristle at. Does anybody, can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man, I read something there and God's like screaming at me. That's you. I'm talking about you. The Bible is brutally honest. The Bible doesn't cover us up. The Bible doesn't sugarcoat us. He tells us how much God loves us. He tells us God has a plan for us. And we'd like to emphasize that. We'd like to preach that. But you know, the Bible also points out our horrific sins. Points out our horrific failures. And so the statement, the Bible is brutally honest, not just with the bad guys in Scripture, the Ahabs and the Jezebels. He's brutally honest with the Davids, the Abrahams, and the Moses. I see three observations in verses one through five. Five is what I want to zero in on. Initially I was going to try and cover all five verses tonight, but you know how that goes. So we're going to get at the first half of verse 1 But I want to at least give you my observations I make as I study the first five verses. The first observation is this: in the first half of verse 1, and this is what we're going to look at tonight, was God's intervention. God's intervention. It says, and the Lord sent Nathan unto David. We'll look at that statement here in a bit. In the second half of verse 1, down through verse 4, is this Nathan's parable And he shows up to David and he gives this parable about this fellow and the little lamb and the k and the other fella and the whole parable there. Then in verse number five we get David's reaction So we're going to look at the second two observations here in the future, next week and maybe the week after that. But tonight I want to look at God's intervention in this whole sorid affair. God shows up. Verse 1. Again, I read it twice now already. I'll read it again. And the Lord sent Nathan unto David. Now, how long a period has gone by from when Uriah is murdered out on the battlefield I mean it's planned out. Uriah is murdered from that point to verse number one of chapter 12. How much time has transpired here? What about a year and a half? We know that Bathsheba has given birth to their child. So that has to be at least what? Nine months. I looked at what other people who were smarter than I had to say, and there's been suggested anywhere between a year and perhaps up to two years' time has transpired Since the murder of Uriah to the intervention of God in this whole thing, how many people would say, you know, that's a pretty long time for God not to step in and do something? You know, maybe it was two years. That's a long time for a man of David's caliber to live out of fellowship with God. Now think about what we know of David. For at least nine months, maybe a year and a half, maybe two years, David has been out of fellowship with God. In other words, he hasn't had any prayers answered for two years. Upwards, perhaps two years. We're going to see in a little bit. He hasn't been, if he hasn't been singing, if he has been singing, he hasn't been enjoying singing the hymns of Israel. We're going to find here in a little bit, we're going to find out for two years, David had a hard time sleeping at night That's a long time for anybody to be out of fellowship with God. Don't answer this outwardly, but in our hearts, I want to challenge us to answer this question. How long can I live out of fellowship with God? Can I go a day? Can I go a month? A year? I'll tell you, I've been in the ministry a while. I learned a few little things. I've come across Christians that can live out of fellowship with God for a long time. We get used to it. We get accustomed to it. We're content. In living without God's blessing, in living without God's presence, living without the leadership of God in my life and sensing the presence of God in my life. I thought, man alive, somebody of David's caliber to go this long. Um, how did he handle that? How is this going how was this year and a half, this year, year and a half of no presence of God, no answers of uh of no no special blessing God. No answer prayer. How did he handle that? How did that go for him? You know, we look here and it doesn't say. It just says Uh when the m uh verse 27 of chapter 11, when the morning was past, uh David sent, fetched her to his house, she became his wife, bear him a son, Uriah is dead on the battlefield The thing displeased God. Now we have a period of time goes by, and we're not told anything here about how David re responded, how David was handling that. However Later on, David wrote under the inspiration of God and gives us a little glimpse into what his life was like in this in-between time, in this out-of-fellowship with God time. Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here. We're going to come back and look at some things, Lord willing. But come with me if you would to Psalms chapter 32. Psalms chapter 32 When you get there, if you'll notice above verse number one, the little title that's put there, it says, A Psalm of David. And it starts out, while you're finding Psalm 32, I'll touch on the first couple verses. It starts out pretty positive and his blessing and his rejoicing. Now, knowing the context Think about what he says in verse 1. Blessed is he whose, look at this, transgression is what? Forgiven. Whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, in whose spirit there is no guile. Man, sounds like David is rejoicing in some release. Some relief. Forgive it. My iniquity is not imputed to me. Now look in the verse 3 and 4, he tells us what he was going through. He says, when I kept silence about his sin, and by the way, that word silence there means, I thought this was interesting. I looked up the word silence. It comes from a word that means to plow under. When I kept silent, when I just plowed this under I just covered it up. I didn't discuss it. I didn't acknowledge it. I didn't address it. I just buried it. Is the idea behind that word silence. Of course, it means to not make any sound, but the the word it comes from it has the idea of refusing to address it. When I kept silence, when I plowed this under, when I just buried it When I refuse to address this situation, this sin, look, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. Does that sound happy or sad? That sounds miserable. He's miserable. It's affecting him physically. He says, My bones. Look at verse 4. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. What do you think he's describing there? God's hand, day and night, was heavy upon him. What does that sound like to you? Sounds like conviction to me. Man, God is not letting him sleep. Day and night. He's tossing and turning at night. He wakes up in the middle of the night and he's sick. He th he he he tries to pray maybe and the conviction of God comes upon him. Maybe he sees looks out and sees the ark out there from his palace that he just had built and uh the stock the the materials he's been uh stockpiling to have that thing built and he just feels sick I tell you, I'll tell you, I think the most miserable person in the world is the child of God who is out of the will of God. I think a Christian under the conviction of the Holy Spirit is more miserable than an unsaved person just living their life without God. Miserable. He knows what is right. He knows what who God is. He knows what he should have done. But he plows it under. He keeps silence. And man, God is convicting him. How many of you agree with me? That'd be miserable to go a week like that. How about a month? How about a year? How about maybe two years living this way? He goes on. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. My moisture is turned into the drought of summer. I mean, he is just shriveling up. Miserable, miserable, miserable. Go over to Psalm 51. Again, we get a little glimpse into what was happening in David's heart and life. during this period bet uh uh between Uriah's death and Nathan's confrontation Between the end of chapter 11 and the beginning of chapter 12, we get a little glimpse here. And actually there's a lot we can glean from this. Psalm 51 is David's prayer of confession. After he finally addresses the situation with Bathsheba and with Uriah, he finally breaks, and I'll tell you, we're going to preach on this. But I'll tell you, this is the most thorough, biblical, sincere confession of sin you will ever find. It's a powerful chapter. And I went through and I kind of paid close attention to try and get an idea of what was happening in David's heart and mind Leading up to this breaking point where he finally makes things right and humbles himself and confesses and forsakes his sin Let me show you a few things that I glean from this, trying to figure out his frame of mind leading up to this. The first thing, I notice that his heart is stained. Now, how is David described a man after God's own heart? And now he has a sin-stained heart. I get that from verse 2. Look at verse 2. Wash me Thoroughly from my iniquity. And he uses a similar word, cleanse me from my sin. If you're washing something and cleansing it, it means it's what? It's dirty. David felt dirty. His heart was stained. Come down to verse number seven. He says, purge me with hyssop, and I shall be what? Clean. And then look at the next statement, very similar to what he said in verse 2. Wash me. And I shall be whiter than snow. Look at chap look at verse 10 and first part. Here he says it again. Create in me a what? Clean heart. What was what was happening in David? He felt his heart was stained with sin I've got to be cleansed of this. Second thing I notice here going on, his mind was enslaved. Look at verse 3 again. Verse 3. For I acknowledged my transgression before he buried it. I was silent. I plowed it under. But now he says, I acknowledged it. But look at this next statement And my sin is what? Ever before me, I can't get it off my mind. It just hounds him and hounds him and hounds him. His mind was enslaved to this. It bothered him. He bothered him. Look at verse number nine. His conscience Was stung. This sin stung his conscience. Verse 9, hide thy face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities. He's saying, God, don't look at this. Don't look at me Do you remember when your kids were small and they were guilty of something and you'd have to say, look at me? Anybody know what I'm talking about? David's conscience. Is stung. He says, I don't want, God look at me. I don't want you to look at this. I see in verse number four, I put it this way, I mean, number four, he suffocates, his joy is suffocated. Look at verse 8. It says, uh, make me to hear joy and gladness. He hadn't been hearing that. He wants it back. That the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. He hadn't been rejoicing in a long time. Come down to verse number 12. Restore unto me the what? Joy of thy salvation. He doesn't say restoring to mean salvation. He never lost his salvation. But that joy is gone. That's that walking through the house singing a song that's not there anymore. Sitting in the with God's people together and singing the songs of Israel. He might have lipped it. But brother, there was no song in his heart. He said, God, I want that back. I want that back. His body was sickened, verse 8. The second part. He says, the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. I put hit his attitude was soured. Chapter verse 10 in the last part. create renew a right spirit within me. He says, I've had a bad attitude. Do you ever notice when you're out of fellowship with God, your attitude goes south? You're mad at everything. You're upset with everything. Everybody. Nobody can do right. Da-da-da-da. Not a fellowship guy. He says, I need to get a right attitude back. My attitude stinks His assurance is shaken. Look at verse 11. Cast me not away from thy presence. Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. God's not going to cast him out of his presence. Lord promised he'll never leave us or forsake us. But boy, David wasn't so sure about that. I put down his strength was stolen. Verse 12. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. Uphold me with thy free spirit. It's like that word uphold means that pick up by the shoulders and carry me. His soul winning was stifled. Verse 13. Then, when I'm restored, then will I teach transgressors thy ways. You know it's hard to witness people when you're not right with God. Anybody notice that? Or to get that Bible out and talk to people about Jesus when you know I'm not right with Jesus. And then the other thing I notice here, his praise was shut up, verse 14 and 15. Deliver me from blood guiltiness. There's Uriah. O God, thou God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. Hadn't been happening a long time. O Lord, open thou my lips, and my mouth shall show forth thy praise. The picture I get of that year and a half, one year, year and a half, two years, whatever length of time that was. The picture I get of David is one miserable man. Absolutely miserable. And to go that length of time is a tragic thing. Tragic thing. So here's the question. Why did so much time go by Before God intervened? Why why a year and a half? Why did God wait that long To step in and send Nathan. Why didn't he send Nathan uh the day that they got word that Uriah was killed? Anyone want to take a shot at that? Give David a chance to voluntarily of his own free will come and say, God, I did wrong And if you pay attention in the scriptures, you'll find that God does that on occasion through scriptures where somebody will mess up, somebody will do wrong, and God will just stand back and wait for a while. And give it time before he steps in and intervenes. Can you think of any situations like that? Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve, exactly. It says in the cool of the evening, God showed up. Adam, where art thou? God gave them all day long to come to Him. He gives Him opportunity. Can you think of anyone else? I got one other one I put down. Achan, Josh and Joshua chapter 7. Where they go through that long process of figuring out what tribe it was, and then what family, and then what household, and then what immediate family, and finally they get to it, and that had to take hours at least, maybe days. Giving them a chance, giving them a chance. Our God is slow to anger. Our God is a merciful God. He doesn't want to judge us Did you ever notice in 1 Corinthians 11, when we take the Lord's Supper, a statement in there that before we take part in the Lord's Supper, we should judge ourselves that we be not judged. You know what he's saying? God's saying, listen, deal with it. Come to me. Find forgiveness. So I don't have to step in. And do all this. I'm telling you, it's a whole lot. It's a whole lot. It's less painful for you and I to judge our sin and deal with it, confess it, forsake it, than wait until God has to step in and chase and do something. You follow? So God's giving them time. God's giving them time. And then finally he steps in. All right. Three things here about come back here to 2 Samuel chapter 12. Three things in that little statement I want to point out very quickly. God's intervention. Number one, I see in God's intervention, God knew about David's sin. He perhaps had hid it from a lot of people, and no doubt some people knew about it. We know at least Bathsheba did. There's no doubt others around weren't stupid. But he hid it from a lot of people, no doubt about that. But I tell you, you and I can hide our sin from a lot of people. We can hide it from our parents, we can hide it from our kids, we can hide it from our spouse, we can hide it from the preacher, we can hide it from the congregation. We can hide our sins sometimes for a long time from people. But there's one that we can never hide our sin from, and that's God Himself. God knew about this the whole time. God was fully aware of everything taking place. Whoever he did hide his sin from, he did not hide it from God. Here's a statement. It's a theological term. It's a doctrinal term. But the Bible teaches that God is omniscient. Anybody want to take a shot? What does omniscient mean? All-knowing, omni, all-encompassing, science, knowledge. God is all knowing. His knowledge of everything is all-encompassing. There's nothing God doesn't know. And David knew that. God knew this whole time. God knew this whole time. Hebrews chapter 4. Let me, we're not gonna, I don't think we're gonna get through this tonight. Let me read to you Hebrews chapter 4. I was gonna turn to all of these But time is slipping away. Listen to Hebrews chapter 4, verse 13. Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his God's sight. Listen to this, but all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. Bible's clear. There's nothing hidden from God. Does anybody remember our memory verse from last year, 2020? All of our memory verses had to do with the eyes or seeing or looking. Anybody remember that? And we memorize Proverbs 15. 3. Does anybody remember what Proverbs 15:3 says without looking it up very quickly? Behold, the eyes of the Lord are in every place. Anybody remember? Beholding the evil and the good. You know what that verse is saying? God's omniscient. God is all-knowing. I like Psalm 139. What a great chapter Psalm 139 is, and I'm going to try and quote it. It probably won't be correct, exact. But David, this is David, under the inspiration of God, is running. He says, Behold, thou knowest my downsetting and mine uprising. Thou understandest my thoughts afar off. And he goes on and he elaborates on Adol. No matter where he goes, God knows where he's at. No matter what he does, God knows what he's doing. No matter what he thinks, God knows what he's thinking. Our God is all knowing. I tell you, that would help us a lot in our Christian lives if we would just remember that God knows. God knows. And so God knew what was happening this whole time. And thus He intervened. The second thing I take away from that statement in verse 12 and verse 1 of chapter 12, and the Lord sent Nathan, is this: God cared about David's well-being. That's why he's intervening. God doesn't want David to go on this way. God doesn't want you think the consequences were bad when David made it right, and we're going to see that there are consequences. Even when we're forgiven, there are still consequences. We're going to look at that. But imagine what the consequences would have been had David not made it right. Had it going on for the rest of his life. God cared about him. God loved him. Again, I wish we had time to go to these verses. Well, I want you to go at least one with me. Go over to Proverbs. And chapter number three. We may go to two and have to end with this. Proverbs Chapter 3. Alright, are you finding it? Proverbs chapter 3. And look with me, if you would, at verse 11 and 12. This is the son of Bathsheba writing this under the inspiration of God. My son, he's writing to his son, my son. Despise not the chastening of the Lord. Now, what is the chastening of the Lord? Somebody talk to me now. Y'all are kind of quiet. Somebody talk to me. What's the chastening of the Lord? Correction, discipline. Somebody says it's punishment. I don't view chastening as punishment. I view it more as correction. God intervenes and he does what he needs to do to correct the behavior and correct the direction we're going. That should be with our children. My son, despise not the chastening of the Lord, neither be weary of his correction. Why? Look at verse 12. For whom the Lord what Loveth, he correcteth. Even as a father, the son in whom he delighteth. Look at that last statement in that verse. Even as a father, the son in whom he delighteth. What's it imply? If a father doesn't correct his son, then he doesn't what? Doesn't love him, doesn't delight in him. That's the implication. And he's saying, Solomon is saying, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit to his son, son, the one that God loves, he is the one that he will correct. It's because God loves you, he intervenes. It's because God cares about your well-being that he steps in and corrects and does what needs to be done. Now I do want you to go to Hebrews chapter 12, because this is so vital. Hebrews chapter 12. I get it done as much as I used to, and I've said it often over the years, but Well, I'd get it from people in the community. Mountain Lake, you guys believe once saved, always saved. And I say, yep. We do. I own that. Yeah, we do. And then they'll say this. That means you have your teach that people have a license to sin. Well, if you can get saved and never lose it, then you have a license to sin. Nowhere in the Bible is to teach that we have a license to sin. Nobody ever has a license to sin. And Hebrews chapter 12 teaches that so clearly. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 5. Now, the context, we're going back to David, God is stepping in and confronting David because he loves him. Because he cares about him. He wants his his well-being is in God's concern. Verse 5, Hebrews 12. And ye have forgotten The exhortation which speaketh unto you is unto children. Now notice, he quotes Proverbs 3. My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord. And then he expands on it. Nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. Look at that next word. And scourgeth. That's pretty severe. That's pretty violent. And scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. If you endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? And the answer to that hypothetical question is what? There's no son that God doesn't chasten. If he's his son, he's going to correct him. Look at the next verse But if ye be without chastisement, if you're living in sin and God's not chastening, God's not intervening and confronting it, look what he says: whereof all are partakers Then are ye, and he used a very strong, unpleasant word here, then are ye bastards and not sons In other words, if a person claims to be a child of God, and they're living in sin, and there's no conviction, there's no chastisement, there's no intervention on God's part at all, ever at any point. Then he says, your claim to be a child of God is an illegitimate claim. A bastard would be an illegitimate child. And he says your claim to be a child of God if there's no chastisement, that's an illegitimate claim. You're not a child of God. Notice he doesn't say, if you sin Your claim to a child is uh illegitim. He doesn't say that, he says if you have no chastisement Then he goes on. Look what he says. Furthermore, we have fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the father of spirits and live? For they verily, for a few days, chastened us after our own pleasure. But He, for our profit, God chastens us, He corrects us, He confronts us in our sin for our profit. It's good for us, it's better for us. For him to confront it and correct us, then let us go on. But he for our prophet that we might be partakers of his holiness. Now, no chastisement for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous. David's going to find that out. Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness. Unto them which are exercised thereby. Boy, what a tremendous statement on the fact that God loves his children too much to let them go on in sin. God loved David too much. To let him go on and not face this and deal with it and confess it and forsake it. So I see here, number one, I see God's omniscient. He knew what was going on with David. He wasn't, David wasn't hiding nothing from God. And second of all, I see that God had David's well-being in mind. He was concerned for him. God loves us too much, let's go on. Let me just throw the last one out there. I got a couple minutes. Let me throw the last observation. Come back there. If you would, look at this. Uh I lost my spot. 2 Samuel 12. And notice what it says. Are you back there? All right. And the Lord sent who? Nathan. Unto David. Didn't send an angel. He didn't send a devil. Lord didn't show up in a uh uh um a theophanes, a pre-incarnate appearance of Christ. God didn't come down and the person Jesus Christ didn't confront him He didn't send Michael the archangel to confront him. He didn't send Gabriel the messenger angel to confront him. God sent Nathan. And this is my third thing I observed from this is God uses people to help us be the people we ought to be. God used Nathan. Nathan's name means giver. And you find all every time Nathan's mentioned is primarily connected with David, a little bit with Solomon at the end of his life But it's always he's giving advice, he's giving the word of God to somebody, he's investing himself in the spiritual well-being of others. God is using Nathan, a man, to help David God uses people to help us spiritually. We could take time, I want to do a study on nature. Nathan, he's possibly, I thought this was interesting, it's possible Nathan was a disciple or a student of Samuel the prophet. In fact, a lot of Bible scholars think a lot of Jewish Tradition says that Nathan was a student of Samuel the prophet. There's no book in the Bible named after him. He's not listed in Hebrews Hall of Fame. And yet God used them tremendously to salvage the life and ministry of one of the greatest men in the Bible. He was a great man of integrity. He was a man of humility. Remember when David said, I want to build a temple for the Lord, and Nathan said, Go for it! And then God said, nope, he ain't going for it. Nathan humbled himself, came back, said, Oh, never mind. Forget what I said. God said, don't go for it. Anyone remember that? That takes humility. Sometimes preachers get up and they'll say something just completely wrong and they'll study the Bible and realize, man, I was completely wrong. You know what you should do? You ought to come back and say, hey, I was completely wrong. The Bible's right. I hope I would have that humility to do then. And he was a man of great courage. Now remember the frame of mind David's in. Everybody's still with me? I'm really am ending this time. What was the frame of mind David's in? He's got a bad attitude. He's miserable. He's out of fellowship with God. He's everything but a spiritual man and Nathan's going to walk up to him and say, you're the man. Whoa. I don't know about you, but that takes a little bit of courage That would take a little bit of courage. What a man Nathan was. Thank God for the people God uses to help us stay on track. Thank God for that. Many people like to correct others. Did you ever come across that You ever have a bunch of little kids? There's always one that wants to correct everybody else. Right? Their tattletale and all that. And that's true of Christians. A lot of Christians like to go around correcting others The problem is very few are willing to meet the qualifications that have to be in place to enable me to correct others. Nathan was not arrogant. He was not self-righteous. He wasn't holier than now. He was just a humble man that had some integrity And was willing to do whatever God instructed him to do, regardless of any danger it brought upon himself. And God used him to completely change the train wreck. That David was in and redirect that and be able to salvage them. I wish we had time. Maybe next week we'll look at Galatians chapter 6 and verse 1. If any man be overtaken in a fall, Ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of meekness, lest ye also be tempted. Thank God for people who have the spiritual maturity and the spiritual graces and the fruit of the Spirit that they can come to us and talk to us and say, hey, listen, you need to address this. You need to address this. I think that's what pr part of what preaching's supposed to do, huh? That's what we need the preaching for. So God can use whoever the preacher is, or the Sunday school teacher, or whatever, and help us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for intervening in David's life. Thank you for stepping down when David was at this point unwilling to address his condition. Lord, you forced it. And Lord, we thank you for the times you intervene in our lives. And you step in and you force us to address things that need to be addressed in our lives. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I have no idea how the Holy Spirit of God might be working in your life or any issues the Holy Spirit might have brought up In any one of our hearts and lives and minds, but I know that's what he does. So I want to urge us all to be willing to say, yes, Lord, you're right. I need to address this. I need to adjust this. There needs to be some redirection here when God comes to us. Father in heaven, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.