Luke chapter twelve. Alright, let's get down to business here. Verse twenty, the Bible says, But God said unto him this fellow that Pastor Matt read about here a little bit ago, and we'll talk about this morning. God said unto him, Now listen to the statement the Lord says, thou fool. Would you agree with me? That's a strong statement. When God calls you a fool, we better sit up and pay attention. God said unto him, Thou fool. This night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then whose shall these things, those things be which thou hast provided? So is he that layeth up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. I've been titled my message, that little statement the Lord made is the title of my message, Thou Fool. Thou fool. I do not want to be a fool. I don't want to hear God say, Dennis, you're a fool. I want to be wise. I want God's blessing. And I think we all feel the same. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us in this. Father in heaven, we thank you for the word of God. What it means to us that know you as Savior, how it's impacted our lives, and how it's impacted our nation and our world all these many years. And we ask now, with our Bibles open in front of us, that you would speak to our hearts. Lord, not one of us here, I'm sure, would want to be considered a fool by our Creator and our God. And so help us to learn from this fellow that was one, and that we can take caution, we can make adjustments, and make those decisions that need to be made to avoid this being said of us. Lord, I yield my will to you and I present my body. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I have no wisdom or knowledge in and of myself That can help any of us be what we ought to be, but you do. And so I pray, Lord, that you would speak your word through me to each of our hearts and minds and help us to respond in faith. And to trust you and follow your instructions. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you would notice, up in verse number 16 of our passage, the Bible says, and he, Jesus, spake a parable unto them. Jesus used parables often through the Gospels. He would use them as a tool to communicate spiritual truths And a parable is different than a fable. How many people are familiar with what a fable is? And of course when we think of a fable, you think of you think Aesop's fables. I don't know if they still teach that in school or not. When we were little, we always we had to learn Aesop's fables. And um and uh there was lessons in these fables. There was morals to them. But the difference between a parable and a fable Is a fable uses fantastic situations, unrealistic situations where um animals talk And things like that to communicate a truth. They would often refer to mythological beings to try and get a truth across. Whereas Jesus didn't use fables, Jesus used parables. Now a parable was a very realistic situation uh relating to people and realistic uh circumstances that the folks listening to the parable they could relate to and they would understand. He would tell parables about a sower went forth to sow He talks about the different types of soil that the seed would grow in and how the seed responded, the different quality of uh growth it would get out of the different soils. very realistic circumstances that everybody that was listening to him immediately understood what he was talking about. I'm kind of of the opinion that Parables sometimes they're defined as a made-up story. He's just making this story up. Realistic and relates, but it's made up. I'm not convinced parables were made up I just have a hard time thinking God, thinking of God making stuff up. You know, I'm wondering if maybe I've got a sneaking suspicion that maybe the Lord actually used situations that he and omni his omniscience were as aware of, and then told them as a story, as a parable, to illustrate a specific or certain truth he was trying to get across. And so they related to the people who he was speaking to. They understood. The word parable itself has an interesting definition It simply means this, the place alongside of. That's what the word itself means. In other words, he would take a truth, he would take a uh some lesson he was trying to get across Something about God or about the people themselves or about the gospel, the Word of God. You want to teach them something about that And so he would use a parable, and what he does is you take this story and you place it alongside of that truth, and it helps you understand and grasp what that truth is about. And so Jesus used parables all through the Matthew, Mark, and Luke. In fact, in the book of Matthew, the Gospel of Matthew used 22 parables. In the book of Mark, he told ten parables. In the book of Luke, he told ten parables. Interesting enough, there are zero parables in the Gospel of John. Now I can't explain the reasoning for that, but the point is he used them often. And when he did use parables, when he did tell parables, as he does here and many other places, as we said, he got two responses. Some people would respond very positively to the parable. They heard this story, they understood what he was saying, they grasped the truth that he was communicating to them, and they got a hold of it And it affected their life. They made decisions based upon what they had learned about themselves, about God, about God's will for them in that parable, and they responded However, there were others who responded to the parable, but not in that way. Some would harden their hearts. Sometimes they would perceive that that parable, you're talking about me. You're pointing out something in my life. You're pointing out something that affects me. And rather than accepting that and responding and making whatever adjustments need to be made to that particular truth that was being presented, they would harden their hearts. They would stiffen their neck to use Bible terminology, and they'd walk away in worse shape than they were before the parable. And the difference was what the condition of their heart was. If they had a submissive heart, a willing heart, an open heart to God's will for my life. Then they would respond positively to that parable, that truth that was being presented, if they had a heart that was open to the will of God for their life However, and usually without almost without exception in the Bible, it was Pharisees who, rather than receiving what the Lord said, would stiffen their neck and harden their heart. And they all know they did this physically, but figuratively they raised their fist and say, Not me. I will not submit to God. And they hardened their hearts against them. And so the parables, the parables of the Lord Jesus Christ were very, very effective in communicating very important truths. That we need to be aware of if we're going to be what God intends for us to be. If we're going to be prepared to face God one day. We need to be open to what Jesus Christ has for us, whether it's in a parable or in direct teaching. And the Pharisees refuse that. And by the way, later on he told them, ye will die in your sins. He was saying, you're going to die unforgiven if you don't listen to what God has to say, if you don't receive what God is telling you. You're going to die in your sins. You're going to be lost for all eternity. How many people grieve me? That's pretty serious stuff right there. That's pretty serious stuff. And so when Jesus was telling these parables, he wasn't just telling stories. He wasn't just entertaining a crowd. What he was saying was vitally important to the spiritual well-being of the people who were listening. And depending on the condition of their heart. That is how they responded and ultimately where they ended up in eternity. It depended on how they responded to the Word of God. And so Jesus used parables, as we've been saying here, to address uh spiritual truths and situations. In our parable here in our text He's responding to an issue that came up in verse number 13. If you would look at that there with me. It says, and one of the company said unto him, Master, speaking to the Lord Jesus, Speak to my brother, that he divide the inheritance with me. And he, Jesus, said unto him, this fellow, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you? So there's this situation comes up Jesus is going about his ministry. He's teaching. He's healing people. He's doing what he came to do. Preparing to go to the cross These two guys are in the crowd, and apparently they've been fussing with each other over the inheritance. Obviously, their father, their parents died. Left them some possessions, material possessions, and these guys could not work it out on how to divide up the inheritance and how to be fair about it, and they got fussy So one of them apparently gets the great idea. Well, we'll go to Jesus Christ. I mean, we hear his teaching, his preaching. This guy knows some things. Let's go and let him solve this for us. Now, I don't know about you. I've done a heap of funerals over my years in the ministry, and it is always a very, very sad thing when brothers and sisters can't get along, especially in a time the death of a parent And then they get fussing and fuming over that. And so these guys say, Lord, you come and solve this for us. And Jesus says, I'm not getting involved in that. That's not what I'm about. And he points out to these two brothers what their problem is. Notice he says in verse 15, verse 14, he says, Man, I, and man, who made me a judge or divider over you? That's not what I'm about. And he tells them what their problem is, and he actually solves, he actually addresses the situation in a way they didn't they weren't looking for. He said unto them, these fellows fussing, take heed and beware. Tell you, when God tells you to better watch out, you better watch out. Take heed and beware of what? Covetousness. A man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesses. These guys, their problem wasn't in the possessions, the inheritance that was left to them. That's not what the issue was. The issue was the condition of their hearts. These guys had a problem with covetousness, and I'm going to throw this in there because he addresses it. What we refer to as materialism, the love of stuff. Wanting more things. And he says, that's your problem. That's your problem. If covetousness was not an issue in your relationship, you wouldn't be having this discussion. It wouldn't be a problem. The problem isn't the inheritance. The problem isn't the wording of the will that was left. Problem is the condition of your heart. The condition of your heart. What is covetousness? I mean that's the Point here, this is what the whole parable is addressing. What is covetousness? Is covetousness simply desiring something I do not have? No. There's a lot of things we can desire to have that wouldn't be covetous. Question is it wrong for a young couple gets married? And they want to buy a house and have a house to raise their family in. Would that be covetousness to want to buy a house? No. That's a good thing. Studying the Bible, I think the Bible strongly encourages owning personal property and possessions and doing that type of thing. There's nothing covetous about simply wanting a vehicle so I can operate and function. There's nothing even wrong, covetous, about wanting a nicer house. Maybe work my way up and get something a little bigger, more room for the kids. They don't have seven kids in one bed. You know, get a little bigger place There's nothing in the world wrong with any of that. That's not covetousness. You say, well, what is covetousness? This is my definition. Having studied it for years, this is the definition I come up with. An intense desire for something I have no legitimate claim to. Do you get that? An intense desire for something I have no legitimate claim to. Covetousness is a very, very serious sin. The tenth commandment of the Ten Commandments, the tenth one, Exodus 20, 17, the tenth commandment, thou shalt not covet, but it doesn't end there, thy neighbor's house. Thy neighbor's wife, his maid servant, and then he goes on and lists the number of things. Question, is it wrong for a man or a woman to want a house? To strongly desire a house? Is it wrong for me to strongly desire my neighbor's house? Ah. I have no legitimate claim to that. Now Pete's gonna sell it Buy it. But I have no legitimate claim to something that is his. I want it for myself, his wife, his servants, his staff, whatever. That's where the problem comes in. I have no legitimate claim to that. And again, it's a very covetousness was a very, very serious sin. And I wish if uh we had time, this would be a great study, but in Romans chapter seven and verse seven, Paul says That the one command that convinced him that he was a sinner was the tenth command, thou shalt not covet. That's what he says in Romans 7. 7. That's the one that convinced me I'm a sinner. Now, do you remember the Apostle Paul before he was saved? He uh his he he he was a Pharisee of Pharisees He was self-righteous to the core. If you'd have asked the Apostle Paul before he before that Damascus road where he trusted Christ as his Personal Savior. If you'd have asked him, Paul, are you a sinner? He'd have said, No, I'm a Jew. I'm a Pharisee of the Pharisees, born of the tribe of Benjamin. I'm not a sinner like those other publicans. But brother, he came across that verse, thou shalt not covet. Boy, something struck a nerve down inside his heart. He says that is what convinced him that he was a sinner before a holy God. Covetousness, God takes it very seriously. And these two fellows, Jesus says, that's your problem. You've got a serious condition in your heart that is hurting you. Their love of stuff and their desire for themselves was more important to them than their relationship one with another. And I'll say to you, there is nothing in the world more important than a relationship with those God brings into our life. That house is not worth it. That inheritance And so these guys had a problem with covetousness. It was the one command that convinced Saul of his own sinfulness. Uh it was a ten commandment. By the way, the fact that God put the thou shalt not covet uh thou shalt not covet the fact that he put that as the last of the ten commandments I'm convinced that was on in that order deliberately by God. It's not just arbitrary That was put last because in my mind I'm convinced that that is a summary of everything that was addressed before. Honor thy father and mother, thou shalt not steal. Can anybody see where somebody's covetous they would steal something? Thou shalt not murder. Huh? Coveting, thou shalt not bear false witness. You go down through there. I think the tenth command is a summary of the previous ones. going before. So it's a very, very serious. According to Jesus Christ, covetousness begins in the heart. Keep your place here in Luke, if you would, and just turn very quickly with me back to Mark. If you're in Luke, go towards your left. The book before Luke is Mark. The gospel and turn there to Mark chapter number seven. Mark chapter seven There was a little issue going on. They're eating here and uh Oh, where is it at? He says, um anyway, he comes down. He says, listen, the problem isn't outward, the problem is inward. Look at verse 21 of Mark chapter 7. For from within Out of the heart of men proceed. Now, this is not a pretty list. We'll put a little disclaimer on here. You know, the following list may not be pleasant. For from within, out of the heart of men, out of your heart and my heart, proceed evil thoughts. Adulteries, fornications, fornication is any sexual sin outside of marriage, any of any stripe. Murders, thefts, here it is. What's that next word? Covetousness. It's from our heart. Then he goes on, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, which is basically unbridled lust and desire, no control, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness. All these evil things come from within and defile the man. It's not an environment. It's not the circumstance. It wasn't this inheritance that produced The covetousness going on inside these two guy brothers fussing. It wasn't the inheritance that produced it. It was from their own sinful heart. That's where it came from. And that's where the problem lies in our lives and our relationship with God. It's not, well, if I lived in a better environment, then we went No, no, no. The environment has nothing to do with it Oh, if my circumstances were different. Now, circumstances can make doing right and wrong easier or harder, but that's not the source of the problem. The source of the problem is where? In our heart Jesus is pointing this out, and he's coming back here to Luke 12. That's what he's saying to these guys. Listen, your problem isn't with the wording of the will and how it's laid out and who gets what, that's not the issue. You guys are missing the point. That's the symptoms. The problem is your heart, your spiritual condition. is what's producing the problem. So according to Jesus, covetousness begins in the heart, not in our environment or our situations. Covetousness, and we won't take time to turn to all these, but Proverbs chapter 14, verse 30 tells us that covetousness, dissatisfaction, desire for more, destroys our health and peace of mind. I wonder how many people this past week spent sleepless nights worrying about stuff that's none of their business. All worked up about wanting something that they have no legitimate claim to. I'm telling you, when we let covetousness take over our heart, it will ruin our peace of mind every time. I've got to have that. In fact, Proverbs suggest it ruins our health. It's rottenness in our bones. It's tough. So it begins in our heart. It can destroy our health and peace of mind. Ecclesiastes chapter 5 and verse 10 tells us it leads to discontentment and further sin. That's what I was saying. I think that 10th command is a summary of the previous ones. It's what produces murder and dishonesty, covetousness. And here's the one that brings us back to our text again. It can blind a person to their need of salvation. And they end up in hell. That's what happened to this guy. He got so caught up in the stuff he wanted. He never gave thought to his standing with God and his spiritual well-being or his eternal destiny. Never thought about it. He died in his sins. And Jesus said, Thou fool, this night your soul's required of thee. What good is all this you've invested in? Nothing. The guy ended up in hell. In hell. Here Jesus declares in this parable a man to be a fool. Because his covetousness blinded him to his need of salvation. Now I said in the beginning, I don't want to be called a fool. I don't want to be a fool. Especially in the eyes of God. I don't want to be a fool. I looked up the word fool. That's what I do. I look words up. When I study and I find their meanings, I the best I can try and find what that English word means and the word it comes from and how it's used. Helps me understand what the Lord's saying, what the Bible's teaching. I did that on this word fool. And it means simply means this, pretty much what you would think, to be senseless. To be without reason. I like, this is one definition I can grasp, I can understand. It means to be stupid. All right, now I know what he's talking about. To be senseless, not have any reasoning about you, to be stupid. One other definition was one who acts without thinking. A fool just does something and doesn't think it through. What are the consequences of this? Uh what was you know what led up to this? How's this gonna turn out? How's this gonna affect me? How's this gonna affect others in my family? What uh I don't don't think this through One of the definitions of wisdom, being wise, is being able to think through and realize if I do this, then that over there is going to happen. And a fool is one that doesn't even think about what the consequences of this are going to be. Doesn't even think about What the effects is this going to have on my life and my destiny and those around me, people I care about. And God said that this guy was a fool. He didn't think through what he was investing his life in. He didn't think through his priorities. He didn't think through about where he was heading and where he's going to end up at. He's a fool. He's a fool. I don't want to be a fool. I don't want anybody in the sound of my life, life and my sound of my voice to be foolish in their life. And the Lord gave us this passage. He gave us this here so that we can learn from this fool and avoid making the same mistake. Now what was it about him that was so foolish? Well, I got looking at it. It wasn't because of his prosperity, and as you If you paid attention when Pastor Matt was reading down through here, this guy was incredibly prosperous. And prosperity in and of itself, there's nothing wrong with being prosperous. In fact, God, I think, to an extent, wants to prosperous in situations. There's nothing wrong with being prosperous. There's nothing foolish About being wise with our finances and foolish about using our resources that God has entrusted to us in a good way. It's not foolish. Abraham was the father of the faithful, a man of tremendous faith, and yet he was incredibly prosperous. David, Solomon. So God isn't saying to this guy, Yao fool! Because he was prosperous, he handled his finances in a good way. That wasn't foolish. However, you can be a very prosperous fool. You can be a very poor fool. I've met people who were in poverty and were pretty wise people as far as priorities and things are concerned. And I've met people who are very wealthy who are wise in their priorities. And I've met just the opposite, very foolish. So his prosperity was not an issue on whether he was a fool or not, being prosperous. There are rich fools and there are poor fools I think in studying this and this parable the Lord told, I see here a fellow that has a tremendous work ethic. I don't believe this guy was a lazy farmer at all. By the way, I've found that most lazy farmers are pretty poor farmers. So he's not considered a fool because he had a good work ethic. He obviously had a good work ethic. Listen, we ought to have good work ethics. You say, well, work is the curse of the fall. No, God gave Adam and Eve work to do before sin ever entered the picture. They were to keep the garden. I don't know how you are, but if I I get a day off every now and then, if I just lay around the shack and drink iced tea and do nothing At the end of the day, I'm a miserable creep. My wife says, why don't you find something to do? But if I have a day and I work hard and I put effort in and work hard at the end of the day, I feel pretty good. I'm tired, wore out. But I feel a whole lot better just laying around doing nothing. Can I get away? Anybody? Y'all looking at me. We had a fellow years ago came trusted Christ. Now he was saved out of a welfare mentality. How many people know what I mean by the welfare mentality? I don't have to do nothing, just everything's given to me. And that's pretty much the way his life was up to that point. And he got shaved and baptized. He was grown, he was studying his Bible. And um he told me, he says, preacher, pray for me. I need to get a job. And I didn't say it this way, but I thought, yeah. And so he said, I'm going to start praying and get a job. And what he did was, bless his heart, he laid around the house, drank iced tea, and prayed God would give him a job He said he called me up, says, preacher I ain't getting no job. I've been praying. I said, well what are you doing? He goes, I'm just watching Beverly Hill Billy's What? I said get out there and fill out applications and And I said, if nothing else, get you a broom. I got one, I'll lend it to you. And just go down to one of these stores and sweep their parking lot and keep doing it. They'll eventually hire you for something. And you know God got a hold of him and he got convicted about his laziness and he went up and got uh that that uh truck that auto uh truck um It's a diesel mechanic. He went to a school for one year to become a diesel mechanic. The guy became a tremendous diesel mechanic, moved out west, worked in a bus ministry out there. I've lost touch with him But he was working doing good. Listen, what I'm trying to say is this. There's nothing foolish about having a good work ethic. In fact, if a person's lazy, they're foolish. So God doesn't say to this fellow, Well, you're a fool, because he was prosperous, that wasn't the issue. He didn't say you're a fool because he had a good work. That wasn't the issue. But he was a fool, first of all, number one, because he was focused on himself. If you would, look here with me at verse number 17. Verse 16 spake a parable, the ground of a certain man brought forth plentifully. That tells me he worked it, doesn't just happen. And look at this. And he thought within himself. Now notice the wording here. Pay close attention. Saying What shall I do? Because I have no room where to bestow my fruits, and he said, This will I do, and I will pull down my barns and build greater, and there will I stow all my fruit and my goods, and I will say to my soul, where's his focus at? It's on himself. This guy's self-absorbed. Thirteen times in about four verses, he refers to himself. I, me, mine. The most important person in this guy's world was himself. He's like the one fellow said that Edith was bordered on a north, south, east, and west by herself. I heard a scientist came out and they made a discovery. They found the center of the universe. And people were shocked to find out it wasn't then. That's this guy. This whole world revolved around him. This whole world was about himself. He was so full of himself he had no room for others. In fact, he was so full of himself, he had no room for his creator. He was so focused on himself he could not see God working in his life. So full of himself he didn't see Is standing with his God. It was all about me, here and now. What I get now for me was his whole world. And Jesus said, You're a fool. If your world and my world consists of me and me alone And God is excluded from it, I am heading on a runaway train to disaster and eternal doom. I have got to get my eyes off myself and see my standing before my God that has created me and that I will one day stand before and give an account of. And this guy failed to do that, and Jesus says, you are a fool. The whole world is you. You never consider the God that made you. You never consider the God that made all of this possible. Just pushed him out. Didn't even exist. It was just you. What a fool. What a fool. One of the worst things we can do to ourselves is to become absorbed with ourselves. One of the worst things we can do to ourselves is to become self-centered. And everything revolves around me. It's me. Jesus said, You're a fool. You're a fool. Take your Bible. We're in Luke 12. Come over if you would to chapter 18, just a few pages away. We have two fellas that I think illustrate this guy's problem One in a positive way, one in a negative way. Luke 18 and verse 9. And I referenced this in a message recently. I find myself often coming to this event here recorded because it so illustrates our problem. Verse 9 says, and he, Jesus, spake this parable. Here's another parable, unto certain which trusted in themselves, and they were righteous. And because of that, they despised others. Nobody is as good, as important as me. So he's illustrating this. Two men went up into the temple to pray. That's good. One a Pharisee, the other a publican. Now, a publican was the lowlife. They were scoundrels. The Pharisee, verse 11, stood and prayed thus with himself. Oh, he's all proud. He's probably standing in a mirror. God I thank thee that I am not as other men are, and extortioners. That's what the publican was. Unjust, adulterers, even as this publican. I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all that I possess. Where was this guy's eyes at? Himself. He was fascinated by how great he was. I mean, he he had what I refer to as ingrown eyeballs. It's all me. Ah, I, I, I, meme, I. Then the Lord introduces us to this other fellow, this publican. And the publican, verse 13, standing afar off, would not so much as lift up his eyes to heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Now look what the Lord says. I tell you, this man, the publican, went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. The Lord said to this farmer, very prosperous, hard worker, no doubt, said, You're a fool. Your whole world revolves around you. What you get, what you have, what you're going to do with it, it's me, me, my, mine, me. You're a fool. You've completely overlooked the fact that you have a God that's created you. And has blessed you and given you so much, and you're going to answer to him someday. You missed it all. Because you're absorbed with yourself. You're a fool. Another reason this fellow was a fool is he was infatuated with things. First he was focused on himself. But he is infatuated with things. Come back to 12 there. Look at verse 19. And I will say unto my soul, soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take thine ease, eat and drink, and be merry. It's party time. Got everything. What does it mean to be infatuated with something? Somebody talk to me a little bit. What's in love with it? Uh uh obsessed with it Uh uh teenage girl, young teenage girl sees that guy across the room in school and he's got curly hair. And I d I don't know uh listen, I'm not trying I'm not against curly hair, brother Zach. But um I I'm better at anybody that has hair, to be honest with you, but um But these guys nowadays, you know, they shave the sides and then the top is all this three feet of pearls. Anybody know what I'm talking about? All right, I mind my own business, all right. But she sees him and oh he's got that hair. He's got blue eyes. He's got I I don't know what is guys have long eyelashes, you know And she's, oh, what a dream. And she becomes infatuated with him. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And it's all she can think about, it's all she can talk about is uh uh Albert. Oh, Albert. And it's all she can think about. This guy here became infatuated with stuff. All he could think about was the next party. We're going to eat, we're going to drink, we're going to be merry. All you can think about was all the pleasure and all the stuff he had. God said, you're a fool. There is more to life than stuff. Can I get an amen? There's more to life than just the next pleasurable experience I can have. We live in a society that is infatuated with pleasure, that is infatuated with stuff. We don't even have room in our garages for our cars because we love stock so much. The UPS guy stopped by the lady's house and checked to see if she was alright. There was no deliveries that day Something was wrong. We have a he had a love affair with stuff. His material possessions overshadowed his spiritual well-being. Buildings were more important to him than anything the Bible had to say. His stuff was more important to him. The quality and quantity of his stuff was more important to him than the condition of his soul. And the guy was dead spiritually. And the guy was on a highway to hell. But he had a lot of stuff. And he was having a big time. And God said, You're a fool. You're a fool. I'm telling you, there is not one thing this world can produce that is worth going to hell for. There is not one pleasure that this body can experience that is worth going to hell for. And when we become obsessed and infatuated, With our things, our cars and our toys and our houses and our clothes. And all we care about is the next good time we have. And that preacher preaches so long and it's so boring. And we're dying in our souls, and we're doomed for hell. And we're fools. We're fools. Now fool, you're obfatuated with stuff. You're so focused on yourself. It's possible to be secure financially and be lost spiritually. In Mark chapter 8, the Lord says, listen to this, this is a powerful statement. What should it profit a man? If he gains the whole world, but he loses his own soul. For what shall we give in exchange for your soul? The most important thing you and I have in our life is our soul, our spiritual condition, and where we spend eternity. God said he's a fool. And last of all, I am with this. First, he was focused on himself. Second, he was infatuated with things. And thirdly, I am with this. He forgot about eternity. He forgot about eternity. Look with me at verse number 20 But God said unto him, Thou fool, look at this: this night thy soul shall be required of thee. I think the guy was a young fellow, to be honest with you, because notice in verse 19 he says, I have much goods laid up for many years. He wasn't at the end of his life. As far as he was concerned, I've got many years ahead of me. I've got a long life ahead of me. But he was foolish. Because that night he died. That night he went out into eternity unprepared. Lost. As you and I sit here, listen, I believe this Bible is literally true. I believe every word that book says, and as you and I are sitting here in a kind of warm auditorium, This old fool is burning in a devil's hell. And has been for 2,000 years and will be for all eternity. What kind of deal did he come up with? And he had barns and houses and full stuff. He's going to eat and drink and be merry. And he traded that off. For eternity in hell. Was his prosperity his problem? No. Hard work? No. That's good. If you've got barns and they're full, you've got food. Praise the Lord for it, be thankful for it, but don't forget eternity Boast not, Jesus, the Bible says this, boast not thyself of tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Do you know how many funerals I've done of people all ages who sat in these pews one Sunday, the next Sunday I'd done their funeral, they were out in eternity. I've got a 30-30 rifle, Winchester, Model 94, one of my favorite guns. Bought it when it was 18 years old. Bought it off of a widow. She sold it for nothing. Her husband that deer season got up, overslept a little bit in the morning Got up, pulled his boots on there in the back of the pickup truck, got his gun gear on, made his way up to his trace stands. It's dusk. He's getting in a little late. He's making his way up Another guy over here, an idiot, sees movement, puts the gun up, boom, shoots him dead. Young man, family, wife, and family, put his boots on in the morning. That afternoon, the Undertaker pulled his boots off I mean we could just give illustration after illustration after illustration, car wrecks, heart attacks, all ages. I had a sixteen-year-old cousin, went to bed perfectly healthy, went to bed night, next morning came in stiff as a board His um intestines had ruptured. They didn't know anything was wrong during the night, died in his sleep. 16 years old. What I'm trying to say is this if you and I are going to live our lives for here and now in the temporal things of this world and the pleasures we can get and the things we possess and we don't think about the fact that one of these days Unknown to us, it's gonna end, and I'm gonna stand before a holy God. We're fools. I don't care what you think of me. I'm telling the truth this morning. That's gospel truth. And we better be prepared. You say, well, I don't believe in God. Hey, you can believe or don't believe whatever you want doesn't change reality. A friend of mine, Denny Swartley, was my best friend all through drug years, teenage, just messed up. You've heard my testimony. I got saved at the age of 19. God changed my life. Because my daddy's witness. My daddy's a tremendous Christian. I got burdened for my best friend, Danny. I started witnessing to him and almost immediately we drifted. We had nothing in common anymore. I mean Rock and he managed a rock and roll band that played all up and down the New Jersey coast and all the bars, nightclubs. I mean big into it. Healing drugs. Got arrested. Thrown in prison. One day I was in Bible college. I thought I uh he was so heavy on my heart uh uh at Easter, I went home for Easter break. And I found him. I looked him up, he had a big condominium, walked out Now this is back 1981, too, somewhere around there. He had a Dotson 280ZXYZQRP22. I don't know. Had all kinds of numbers behind it. And I walked in and man, this is sports car, it's nice. Walked in this apartment. His condominium, yeah, this he had this huge, I'm telling, an aquarium bigger than those screens. I mean this monstrous aquarium middle, all these exotic fish. You show me a stereo now this is back in the day. Stereo systems, they weren't little things you stuck in your ears and carry in your pocket. They were filled the whole wall up I mean thousands and thousands and thousands of dollars of serial equipment. I said, Danny, has anyone ever shown you how you can know for sure that when you die you go to heaven, not to hell? He said, oh, I'm good, I'm good. I said, seriously, Danny, it's for real. It's important. I had a little Gideon's Bible, you know, those little New Testaments. I said, Danny, just let me show you. He said, I'm good. It's cool. Everything's cool, man. He put his hand out. He says, it's good seeing you again. Take care, man. I got the hint. It's time to leave. I said, Danny, before I go, can I leave my Bible with you? He goes, alright, whatever. Threw it down on the the table there, end table. I said, Danny, I'm praying for you. You need to be saved. You need to be saved. Because I'm cool, man. I'm cool. That next fall, I stayed down through the summer in Chattanooga, and that next fall I got a letter from my dad. My dad would rate me every week. He sent a letter to me every week. And it was a little strip of newspaper clipping, one column wide, at the top in big bold letters, Dennis Wilson Swirtley. It was a few it was a obituary. Twenty-seven years old he died. Went out into eternity. I hope he got saved. He never let me even tell him how. But he did have a Bible. A foolish. Be so blessed of God. And then never give a thought To whether I'm saved or lost, whether I'm going to heaven or hell. The Bible says we can know for sure that we're going to heaven and not to hell by trusting Christ as Savior. Let's pray together. Father in heaven. We thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you, Lord, that you don't mince words with us. You tell us how it is. And God, I ask you'd help us to respond, not with a stiff hard neck to this parable, with a humble heart. And willing and open to receive what you have for us. I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. I've trusted Christ as my personal Savior. Biblically, I have it settled. You'd say, preacher, as a Christian I need to get my eyes off myself, my s my walk with God I need to get that where it needs to be. It needs to be a higher priority in my life. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. I trust in Christ. But my walk with God isn't what it ought to be. Things of this world and temporal things have overshadowed my walk with God. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. Let's make a decision this morning. We're going to get that straightened out. And start seeking first that kingdom of God. Get that in place. So some here this morning say, Preacher, I know someone that's not saved. I'm not trying to be judgmental, but I know they've never trusted Christ and they need the Lord. You say, preacher, I'm a heart's burden for them, and I want my life to be a good testimony. I want to be a good witness That they would come to Christ and be saved. And you say, preacher, I'm burdened for them. Pray with me. Is there any like that, preacher? I know someone. Again, not judgmental, but I know. Preacher, I want to be a good witness. I'd like to see them saved. God bless you. I'll pray with you. I wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher, I'm not saved. Maybe you never thought about it. Maybe it's never really gripped your heart and mind, but now it does. You say, preacher, pray for me. I'd like to know for sure that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. I want the Lord to help me get that settled in my heart and life. Is there anything like that by the office at hand? And preacher, I'm just asking you to pray with me that God will help me get that settled. Any at all, any at all like that, preacher, pray for me. I'm not saved. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know I have a home in heaven. Any at all? Any at all? About it. Is God speaking to your heart? About it. Father, I pray you'd bless. Holy Spirit, have your way in our lives. Don't leave us alone. Until things are what they ought to be in our lives, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together hidden