I've done the the elk, that was the first time. This is uh second time I've done this and last time I did I didn't do it like that, but uh this turned out better So every every night it's it's you know it's a surprise to me too. Take your Bible, turn me to the book of James, chapter one. James chapter one James chapter 1, we're going to be reading verse 13. Starting there, we'll just read a few verses of scripture. as we get started tonight. I trust you've come uh prepared for the service tonight, that uh you've prayed about the the meeting, prayed for me, prayed for the chalk drawing, prayed that uh people would hear the word and and uh be uh convicted and and uh moved by the word of god and I trust that you've uh done all that and uh if you have you prepare The Word of God says, Let no man say when he's tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot tempt with evil. And then when lust hath conceived it bringeth forth sin, and when And sin when it's finished bringeth forth death. Let's pray. Our Father, as we uh uh bow before you tonight, we ask you once again, Lord, to to use us uh to bring your word and uh convict us of sin and and speak to our hearts. Lord that I pray that you bless the chalk drawing. We show it in a little bit and pray that uh uh perhaps someone here tonight to be affected by the message and the message and the the drawing and and trust you as our personal savior. I ask you to to work in our midst tonight, convict us of our sin And those things which are displeasing to thee. Point him out that we might uh might be able to uh we might look at him and realize that uh those are the very things that uh cause the nails to be driven into the hands of our precious savior and the spear in his side and and uh may we reject it knowing that that was what caused him to go to the cross was our So I ask you to bless now tonight in this meeting, Christ's name, amen. And amen. I was reading in the a something that came out of the Gospel Herald. I'm not really familiar with that particular print, but uh I what it had to say in this paragraph uh I thought I would just share with you. Sin is not just a theological term It's the evil the world brought home to our door. Sin is the lust of the world that brings men to ruin. Sin is the the lowered standard that threatens our youth. Sin is the greed for power and money that fills the economic world with corruption. Sin is the impatience with discipline that breaks up our home Sin crouches at the door of democracy to weaken it. Sin is as real as the flu or cancer, the corrupting influence which poisons the very air We face the sickness of soul which sin has created. Oh wow, well that covers a lot of territory there. Yeah, it's good. Tells a story, doesn't it? About sin. You know, it we don't hear a whole lot about sin today. Uh you turn uh Some preachers on on TV they don't even preach it's uh on sin. Matter of fact, uh one of them that's very popular today and no point in mentioning names everybody probably knows who it was was interviewed by someone and and uh they asked him about uh what he preached on and That type of thing. He said, I don't I don't preach anything negative. And he said, Well, how about hell? No, I don't preach on hell. Don't preach on sin. Don't preach on I I don't know what he preaches You know, I I realize there's a whole lot more to preach on just bad negative things. I understand that. But I also know that uh God put it here in the book I noticed the Bible starts out with, in the beginning God, that's good. But it wasn't very long until sin came into the pattern And then you all through the Bible, everywhere you go, all through the Bible, you get to the very last book in the Bible, and uh sin is finally put away and it finally ends up with the the invitation, you know, to come and partake of the world. water of life freely. And that's for the for those who have been have trusted Christ as their Savior. But all in between that, the invo the the final invitation to come to God and and the very beginning where God created it all and it was good, in between that is a big S I N. It's all there. There's always the the the the ramifications of sin, always the problems that uh come from it. But sin is always it's in there from the beginning. I don't know how you'd preach this book and preach the whole council of God without getting involved in the preaching of sin And so I thought uh tonight I'm going to preach a positive message I'm going to positively preach on sin. I guess that's I guess that's the way to way I'm going to have to do it tonight. But uh I want us to look at just You know, I like that I I may have used uh this illustration before here, but I cannot help when I think about the the subject we're talking about. Uh I believe it was R. G. Lee. I heard him down in a preacher's meeting in Mississippi years ago. And uh They uh he was eighty-some years old at that time, and I was just a young buck, I was probably uh fifty or sixty, I don't remember exactly, but I remember uh uh uh they helped him up on the platform Uh he had a cane he walked with or a walker, I don't remember, but I I remember them had two big old husky guys got him by the arms, you know, and helped him him up on the platform and placed him behind the pulpit and he put one hand on one side and one hand on the other and those two guys walked away and boy he preached a sermon that night. preached it on sin. And he told about uh a young couple that had uh that had just that uh for years had wanted a little baby and they finally finally got blessed them with this this a beautiful little baby girl. And they just brought it home and had it home for about a week and this night they they decide to, you know They were gonna sleep in the other room and the baby finally was sleeping all night or at least uh into the wee hours where they could get some sleep and so uh they put the baby in the crib and a little bit stuffy that night and cracked the window a little bit so that uh some airflow would come in. That night, uh late in the evening, probably perhaps or uh early in the morning I should say, one, two o'clock, why It sh kind of chilled down a little bit and and all at once, uh, through the window uh snuck an old rattlesnake. Uh he popped his head in the window and he felt the warm the warm breeze inside and so he just slid on into the room. Sensing something alive in the room there, they have uh extraordinary senses of movement and and uh even their tongue has a the ability to to taste and to to actually sort of smell, but it sensed that there was uh there was something warm over in the crib. And so it uh over to the crib, went up to the leg of the crib, you know, and slithered into the bott uh into the foot of the bed and as it uh lay there why the little baby shifted a little bit and it coiled Pretty soon it slided up and and set on his chest and whenever whenever the snakes uh uh got on the on the baby's chest where the baby began to to squirm. It was uncomfortable with the the weight and and as soon as the baby stirred the first time the snake struck and uh put its venom that been in the the veins the little one. It moved again and began to started to to whimper and when it did why it struck again and again. And finally there was quietness in that uh crib. And then the morning came. Mom and Dad were surprised the baby had slept all night long and hadn't uh uh hadn't woke up at all. So they got a good night's sleep out of it They walked into the room expecting to see that little baby in there, perhaps uh waving its arms and kicking its feet, you know, and goo-gooing and gogging like it had done the day before. Well when they walked in they saw a a mass of of black and blue where the poison had just uh destroyed the tissue and then sitting on the baby's chest was a rattlesnake all coiled and ready to strike again. And the the point that he made in the illustration, and I think it's such a good one, is that the hatred That that mom and dad had for that that that that rattlesnake that had taken the love of their life away, taken that which was most precious to them. The hatred they had for that snake is the hatred that you and I, as born-again believers, need to have. about sin. There needs to be a hatred for sin and it's in today we seem to embrace sin. It's one of the things that that as a as a Christian, I was I was saved back in 62 So there's been a a a period of time there uh that I've seen a lot of things happen. In nineteen sixty two, why uh and and you know and I understand, I'm not going back and saying, well, I wish we'd uh I'm not saying that. There's a lot of bad things back there too and a lot of good things here. And so it's not that at all. But there is a memory of some things that that We would have just, I mean, we would have just uh uh totally flipped out. If if somebody from that day would come today fresh, Couldn't happen to someone that's already been here like me. I've been here for so long that things don't surprise me. The garbage on TV and you flip it on and there it is and two guys hugging each other, you know, I just say good night, flip that off, you know. But somebody that came from back in those days or a hundred years from from uh hundred years ago would come and and observe what we we go through in one day, they'd be s totally shell-shocked. of what they see and what they hear and what they experience in our society today. We have become so s so uh insensitive to sin That we can sit down right beside it and it doesn't bother us at all. Well that old serpent of sin can be right in in our living room sitting right there beside us and uh uh ready to strike and it doesn't even bother us. We turn on the TV and listen and watch stuff that that uh should should uh bring a blush to the face of even a man that's been in the Army or Navy. And believe me, there's stuff in there that you know would uh would make you blush. What I'm saying is that that it just seems like that that our sensitivity to sin is thus is such that that I'm sure God He must must shake His head. Have we come to the point where we don't listen to the Holy Spirit? Have we come so become so insensitive to his speaking to our heart where he cannot even convict us of our sin? That we can just go through this life with all the garbage around us and and uh uh and and and have it on us and around us and and not even not even uh not even shake it off, but just go on through it just like it wasn't anything? Is that the is that is that what you're seeing out there as I am There's three things we need to know about sin. And it's nothing new. This isn't nothing new under the sun, the Bible says, but I can guarantee you, this is nothing new that you've never heard before But the first thing is this. Man by nature will be drawn to sin. His very nature, man's very nature, that fallen nature, that damaged nature, that that old man, as the scripture says. Is naturally drawn to sin. Remember the verse there in James? It says, every man sins when he is drawn away of his own lust, his own lust? Wow. By nature. Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin is of death passed, but all men for in that all have sinned death and and sin was passed on from from our Adam right down the line to where we are today So we have this old nature that is prone to sin. Listen, it's not just prone to sin, but it is literally drawn to sin. It's drawn to sin There's something about, there's something about sin that has a an enticement to it in itself There's something about sin to the old man. Now, the Christian, yeah, he has the Spirit of God living within, and so he has some resistance to that. But uh uh not so with the unsaved. Do you remember what it was like when you before you had trusted Christ And how things didn't bother you and a dirty joke and a and a chuckle about some off-color thing didn't bother you at all. You in fact, whenever the joke started to be told, you sort of Got your ear up. You're drawn to that. It seemed like, you know, listen, can we be honest with ourselves? I started smoking I guess. I I probably smoked my first cigarette when I was maybe I'm trying to think back now. I I was probably nine or ten years old out of first cigarette And I remember that experience. It was a bad experience. Now why would I go back to that and take up smoking and smoke until I was until I got saved back in 62? uh 28 or 29 years. Why would I do that knowing what it was like when I first took that first puff? Do you remember the first puff? The one that you took, not the one you took and blew out, the one you took and went like that. Do you remember that one? Anybody in their right mind, that first puff tells you there's something wrong with smoking. And yet we're drawn to that thing. Now some of you may you had more you had more self-discipline than I didn't, so you never got hooked on the smoking part, but I did. And I smoked uh you know off and on, time I was ten years old, you know, picked up butts off the cigarette, off the f uh the uh the ground, you know, walked down the street, oh there's a nice one, man. You know I didn't care who had smoked it before, it didn't make any difference. I just simply, you know, uh cleaned it off, stuck it in my pocket, you know, and when I got to our secret place, you know, it was a uh a secret place. It was a place where we had it was a it was a like an under underground garage. It was actually I lived in West Virginia at that time and The garages were built on mountains, the side of a mountain. So the garage actually went back in the mountain, some you see. And so when you walked in there it was dark. Most of them were made out of rock. They built put rock walls around You know then put a roof over it and that's where you put your car. But in those rocks, there was centipedes Thousand-legged spiders. Nasty things. Scary things. And that's where I would go. Oh, that's good. Do you understand what I'm saying? It just seems like we're we're drawn to that stuff. Listen, anybody in their right mind knows a beer don't taste good. I drank it. Why did I do that? I'm just naturally drawn to something if somebody said that's wrong. We just, that's our whole being, our whole makeup of man is drawn to sin. And the tragedy is that once you get involved with sin, then there's the drawing power of sin itself. There's something about sin that has power over an individual. It's an addiction that you have. That's why sin becomes an addiction. You can call them alcoholics if you like, but how about just drunks? But it's an addiction. Drugs the same thing. I mean, you take any sin, every sin, has an addictive power to it So you dabble with the little thing and you find out that what you're dabbling with has become greater than yourself and you have no self-control over it. Man by nature will be drawn to sin Do you ever notice an you ever pick up an apple and you get ready to take a bite of it and there's a hole there? Do you ever notice it you never bite into that hole, do you? You're just afraid that maybe, you know. You might come up with half of a worm. They found out something that that an apple that's had a worm in it, the the uh the worm was already in the apple Isn't that right, brother? The the egg is laid in the blossom. And as the fruit develops, it develops around the egg and it hatches inside and it feeds on the egg, feeds on the inside of the apple until it works its way out. Boy, is that a picture of sin or not? Isn't that the natural part of man? Isn't that the way it is? It's sin in us that works its way out. And then we see the evidence of that because we see the sin in our life. But it's already in there. And that's what I'm getting at. Man by nature is already a sinner. I believe it tells us there in the In Psalms, behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. I'm just saying that Three things that send uh well this old nature, this old selfish nature that we have uh makes it easy to be first decadent and that's that's self-indulgent or it's a decay that continues to to uh decay to your morals, it continues to go down. Without a new heart, you continue to spiral down. down down into immort immorality. It's easy to be deceived. Because of this old nature. It's amazing to me that people still can look at the thing of abortion and say that there's something good about that. But that's the old nature talking. The born-again believer is not going to say that same thing because they know that life begins at inception. But uh the unsaved why they don't have any problem with it. It's just uh it's just a piece of tissue and it's easily all you have to do is just get rid of it and hey, your responsibility is all gone. You Isn't it strange how we make we make evil good and good evil? Isn't it funny how the Yeah, I'm getting into politics. We don't want to do that, do we? I'm not going to anyway Not only is it easy to uh to uh uh get self-indulgent and easy to be deceived, and there's so many ways to be deceived and Of course we know that the Satan is the father of lies and he's able to transform himself into an angel of light. He has ministers, you know, that are that uh make themselves ministers of righteousness. It's all deception. That's Satan's business. But the reason he can deceive because of our old nature. The old nature The man who's never been saved that still is relying upon his own intellect and his own abilities and his own emotions and himself, he can easily be fooled. One of these days the Antichrist is going to come onto the scene and the Antichrist is going to make a whole bunch of lies up and about different things. And the Bible just says that people are just going to believe him. They're just going to accept it And go right on. And the final thing was is uh uh it's easy to be dependent or addicted. And we've already covered that. So I'm not going to get into it anymore, but we understand that that these are just things that that's easy for that uh that uh uh man who's never been born again by the Spirit of God Isaiah chapter 5 verse 18 says this. Woe unto them that draw iniquity. Now listen to this verse because you have to really listen to it. And get it in your mind. Isaiah 5. 18, if you want to read it with me. Woe unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity and sin, as it were, with a carpet ro uh cart rope. That's really strange. But you have to kind of be if you picture it in your mind what it's talking about. And and uh I don't have all the the insight to this, and this is not going to be a job gigantic spiritual revelation. But here's what I see in this verse. Picture the ox attached to a heavy cart with a rope. And watch him as he strains against the carp that's full and the rope is tight And the Bible says, Woe to them that strain and pull. Let me interject my thoughts in this verse now. And I'm not trying to change the word of God. I'm just trying to interpret it in a way that that I can understand it. And maybe you will But it says, woe to them that I'm saying this, woe to them that strain and pull with a fervent desire to have their cart of sin, only to find that when they have it It's vanity and vexation of spirit, only emptiness and unfulfillment, and it leaves a bitter aftertaste of disgust in oneself So you got all that out of that verse? Well, I got it all anyway. But I believe that that there's there's an element uh that of what I was talking about in that verse. Listen to it one more time. Woe unto them. that draw iniquity with cords of vanity. Vanity is an emptiness. And sin as it as it were a a cart rope And so looking at the various, that's that's what I come up with. In other words, people, the unsaved man, when he when he becomes uh uh enticed with particular sin. Perhaps it's immorality. Let's just use pornography. That's something that's just growing by leaps and bounds. And there's so many websites that that uh it's uh I'll tell you, if you parents don't have have close control over over your uh PC at home, uh God help you. God help you. And don't listen, if you're one of those parents that says, oh, my kid would never do anything like that, then you better I shh didn't I I hope you're not that naive. But it's like it's like the sinner, you know, and he has his eyes focused upon the garbage of the PC there, uh or TV, whatever it is, and he And he man he just wants it so bad. And so just like the ox is straining at that rope, pulling that cart along, he's pulling this rope as hard as he can. And he wants to get to that cart of garbage so that he can get himself all totally in encompassed in it and and just enjoy it. But after he gets it, he realizes that it's there's only sin, just sin for pleasure. for a season. There's any pleasure in sin for a season. And it's never satisfying. It's there for a moment and then it's gone. The next thing you know, you have to have a bigger fix That's what addiction does to you. Proverbs chapter 5, verse 22 says this, his own iniquities shall take the wicked himself. And he should be holding with the cords of his sin. Wow. Romans 7. 23 says, but I see this is the Apostle Paul now. And the Apostle Paul's a saved man. He's the apostle. He uh wrote all those uh New Testament books to the churches and so forth. And this is what the Apostle Paul said. He says, But I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind. And bringing me into captivity into the law of sin which is in my members You have the Holy Spirit living within the believer and the old nature, the constant battle and warfare going on, one trying to overcome the other, and the Apostle Paul, even the Apostle Paul had I I hate to say had problems with it, but I'm saying he had the conflict within his bosom just like you and I do today. It all comes from this old nature. This old nature that is drawn to sin. John eight twenty-four says this. But for the unbeliever The one without Christ, John 8. 24, I said therefore unto you that you shall die in your sin, for if you believe that I am, believe not that I am He, you shall die. In your sin. Second thing that you need to know about sin is that man by nature will die in his sin. The old nature. If you're a person who's never been born again, you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. Understand, you will die in your sin. And if you die in your sin, then you die destined for the lake of fire. Because you'll die unpardoned, you'll die unsaved. Unforgiven. John 3. 18 says this. He that believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already because he hath not believed on the name of the only begotten Son of God. Did you catch that second part of that verse? But he that believeth not, that's the unsaved man. Is condemned already? Condemned already? What do I have to do to get lost, Brother Williams? Nothing. Already lost. What you need to do is to get saved. Ephesians chapter two and verse one. And you have he quickened. Notice who were dead in trespassing and sin. Where in times past you walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air The spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom also you all had our conversation in times past in the lust of our uh of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. But God, it was rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. Amen. Amen. Can you say amen to that? I mean, isn't that worth something? Hallelujah, or glory to God, or something Let me read that verse. You didn't understand that last verse, or you dozed off while I was reading the others, maybe. How about let me read it again? But God, who is rich in mercy. For his great love, wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace are you saved. Amen. All right. Third thing we need to know. Man can be delivered from the penalty and power of his sin. That was really profound, wasn't it? Now it wouldn't have been something if I'd told you all about sin and your condemnation, your going to hell, and didn't give you the last point. But I want you to know, Romans 8. 2 says this, for the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death. In Psalm 129, verse 4, listen to this one. The Lord is righteous, and he hath cut asunder the cords of the wicked Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 22. The preacher preached on that just recently. He says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Wow. Aren't you glad you have a Savior like that? There lived a smith, blacksmith. who boasted that he could break any chains except those forged by himself. He committed some act which displeased the noble whom he served and was condemned to the dungeon On the way to the dungeon, he boasted that he'd soon be free, as he was sure he could break the chains put upon him. When he was chained, he immediately began to look for the flaws in the links which would set him free. But he found his own mark on each link and knew he was hopelessly bound. by his own handiwork and could not escape because of his own chain. So many sins start so small so innocently and we are certain we can break These self-forged chains at will, but they grow stronger until we cannot break them. And it is we ourselves that have forged the chain. Psalm 129, 4 again. The Lord is righteous. He hath cut asunder the cords of the wheel. Wicked. And in John chapter 8, there's two verses in verse 32 and 36, it says this, and you know them. And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free. And if the Son therefore shall set you free, you shall be free indeed. In Romans chapter 6, we know this verse, for sin shall not have dominion over you. Today you may be here that you've you've been struggling with this thing of sin. If you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, you're at the mercy of what Satan has for you. You have little or no resistance. You resist one day and and you think you won a battle and only to have it back in your face the next day and you fall flat on your face and your back pulling that sin to you to try to indulge yourself. I want you to know that you can break the cords of sin Through Jesus Christ. Can't do them yourself. You've forged the chain. You can't break that chain. But I'll tell you one thing: the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth us from all sin. Amen.