You think I'm kidding? I'm down there writing and scraping and I thought I had another half hour. Well, we'll go with what we got. Amen. Amen. Well, good to see everybody. How many glad to be here tonight? Amen. Anyone find out where we're at on this thing? Huh? I'm surprised somebody hadn't made a phone call to one of the Bowmanites. But they're probably under strict orders to shut up. You know what I mean? I'm gonna tell you something, you can't trust them. Well you can't. I think he's up to some skullduggery. Some low down scheming, conniving, tricks. Don't trust them. Don't trust them. They're they're probably getting cracks by the hundred and spreading them throughout the woods. I'm gonna hit it out tracks today. Oh, that's not good. Come on now. I got my hand up. Come on. I'm not even a member here. Come on. See, you've already lapsed into the sin of complacency He's already got you deceived, hasn't he? Come on now. Help me out. So uh Amen. Well, let's keep on handing them out. Amen? Well, if you had your Bibles, good to see everybody here tonight. If you have your Bibles, turn over to Romans chapter 9. Romans chapter 9. Only in Oakland, Maryland, do they have a forecast of snow in April? Amen. This is one crazy place, isn't it? Romans chapter nine I want to talk to you tonight about what I believe is one of the single most important things in the Christian life. Romans chapter 9. Look at verse 1. If you don't, if you have never underlined this passage, were gotten a hold of what God's Word will say, it'll change your life. It really will. There's not a time that that I don't read this the passage I'm going to read you. Not a time I don't read it. When I I'm just not stunned and amazed literally stunned and amazed at what's being said here. Romans chapter 9, look at verse 1 and understand what Paul is saying here I say the truth in Christ. I lie not. Now, do you know what Paul's doing here? He's emphasizing this. To make you understand this is his heart. He says this, I'm telling you the truth. I'm not lying. This is Paul. What's he saying here now? My conscience, three things, my conscience, also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost, that I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart Look at verse 3. Amazing. Verse 3. For I for could I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ. For my brethren, my kinsmen, according to the flesh. Isn't that something? Now I'll tell you exactly what that means in a minute if you don't know what it means. Here's what I want to preach you on tonight: three great days we must all face. Three great days we must all face. No exceptions. If you're saved, These are absolutely. You are going to have to face these three great days. Let's pray. Father, bless the time that we have here this evening. Lord, we thank you for what you've already accomplished this week. We thank you for soft and tender hearts. And I pray that would never, ever, ever get old to us. Lord, even right now, maybe more than the entire day yesterday, tonight, especially tonight, soften our hearts Help us not to put up a facade, a wall. Help us not to allow pride to maybe seep into our life. Especially tonight, help us not to make excuses But help us to open up our hearts to the Holy Spirit of God and realize the urgency and the importance of the subject that we're about to deal with. Give us a good service, for which in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let me say it again. To me, I've got favorite passages Favorite passage in the New Testament, Hebrews chapter 11, Psalm 139 in the Old Testament. But to me, if you were to ask me for the most amazing passage in the entire Bible, it's right here. It is the most amazing verse or passage in the entire Bible. Here's what Paul was saying. Think about this. Paul was willing to go to hell forever. To see his brethren and his kinsmen get saved. Isn't that an amazing statement? Huh? Let me put it this way. Now, Brother Lesnar, we're we're we're friends, right? That's a real vote of confidence, isn't it? Just kind of Suppose, listen, suppose I was unsaved. Suppose I was unsaved. Would you, knowing how horrible hell was Would you be willing to go to hell forever to see me get saved? No, wait a minute, you're laughing. I wouldn't either. I wouldn't either. That's what makes this statement so amazing. That Paul said, I am willing, and he meant it, to go to hell forever if I could see my people get saved. Now, I'm gonna say I don't think anybody here would make that statement. But here's the problem. As I travel today from church to church to church, I don't see anywhere near That burden or that kind of a broken heart in our churches for the souls of men and women and young people anymore They tell us this, and I think I think this figure is probably too low now. But they tell us this: that 95%, is that a lot? 95% of all Christians go through their entire life and never win one soul to the Lord. That ought to make you sick if you're saved. You see, wait a minute. You see, we read statistics, and if we're not careful, all they are is numbers. Am I not right? But make it real. Suppose, listen, suppose we counted out, here's how it works. Suppose we counted out 20 people right here Do you know what that means? That nineteen out of twenty people go through their life And never went a soul to the Lord. That's hard to believe, huh? You say, preacher, how bad is it today? The Borner Research Group, they do studies. They said this that seventy-five percent of adults that claim to be saved Could not even begin to define the Great Commission. I'll be honest with you, I'd be afraid to ask a lot of people in our churches today. I'm afraid I might get a blank look. Christianity Today, how many ever heard of that? It's probably the number one evangelical magazine in America. Christianity today just released a study. Get this, they said this. That only, and they have a huge following Only 1% of its readers said that they had witnessed to somebody recently. You know what that means? 99% of the readers were cold when it came to their concern about the fate of the lost. In 1920, back when your preacher was a young teenager, I'd get them back. The church gave ten percent of every dollar to missions. 2010, the church was only giving 2% Of every dollar to missions. You know why? We've lost our burden for the lost. I I'm running listen folks I'm running into people. I'm listen I listen I'm not I'm trying to help you I'm not trying to I'm not trying to be mean everybody got that I'm trying to help you tonight. But more and more and more, I'm running into people. I mean, they have been in churches 5, 10, 15, 20 years. And they still have not reached what we might call the biblical maturity to be able to lead somebody to the world. I I'd almost be afraid, I'd almost be afraid, I'd never do it, but I'd almost be afraid To get into a church and go person to person and say, hey, show me how you lead a person to the Lord. I think we'd be stunned. I was in a church in New Jersey. I won't name it. Gave the invitation on a Sunday morning. Seven people walking down happy. Seven people walking out. But you know what? Preacher couldn't that preacher could not find one person in that church that could lead a soul of the Lord. I saw this. The preacher literally was going from purpose. He'd go up and he'd and they go. And he'd go to somebody and finally, finally the preacher and his wife. Had to get that group, take them out, and then I had the handle. Listen, that should never happen. But it is more and more. Hey, let me go a step further I'm getting into church. This will take care of you the rest of the week. I'm getting into more and more churches. We give the invitation. Come on. That is the most important time of the service. Do you know why? Listen to me. That's the time. If you're saved, that's the time you ought to be praying. Oh God, deal with them. Anybody here unsaved? Oh God, reach it. Do you know what we're doing? Here's what I'm seeing. You reach the invitation. People are putting on their coats. Zipping up their Bibles. Out the back door. We're more concerned about feeding our belly than reaching the lost, praying for their souls. What's happening? Let me tell you what I believe is happening. In America, we now spend well north. Think about this. Of $500 billion on sports. We spend well over $125 billion on hunting and fishing. And I'm not listening, I like hunting and fishing. Get this, we spend 700, at last report, 706 billion dollars on entertainment. We spend forty-six billion dollars on our cats and our dogs. But don't get me wrong, I like dogs. I do. Preacher, what about cats? Don't ask. Hey, let me tell you, listen, get this. I'm talking uh I'm talking us, fundamental independent Baptists, get this. We now us, we now spend more money on dog food and cat food than we spend on missions. Does that tell you something about where our hearts are tonight? Now I say that to say this, and I hope you get this tonight. If you're here tonight and you're saved, in every one of our lives, there are going to come, no exception, you can't avoid it, there are going to come three great days. That everybody in here tonight has to face. First great day is what I call a day of reaping. You say, preacher, what's that? Let me ask you something. You're saved. Do you believe that someday you have a judgment seat? Do you know what that is? For you and me, it's a day of reaping. Jesus, our Savior. Why? Think about this. Why did He come down here to this earth To die on the cross for our sins. Am I not right? Wait a minute, let me put it a different way. To seek and to save Those who are not. Hey, listen. That tonight is the heartbeat of our Savior If that is the heartbeat of our Savior, and you believe that you have a judgment seat, what is one of the primary things you're going to be judged on someday? Whether or not you're a soul winner, whether or not you have a heart to get people saved. Hey, listen, do you really believe the Bible is God's word? Be careful now, I'm setting you up. Do you really believe there's a heaven and a hell? Boy, we went from amen to nothing there. Come on. Come on. I got you guns show. We're just getting hey, I just got you guns. Come on. Do you really believe there's a heaven and a hell? Do you believe that people that die without Christ are going to go to hell forever? Now, we say amen, but let me tell you something. Listen, you're here tonight and you're saved. You have absolutely no right to amen me or yes me if you don't win souls. Why do we amen? Boy, I believe, I believe, but but yet we don't do it. Proverbs chapter 14, verse 25. I'm not being mean. Hey, I'm just trying to help you tonight. A true witness delivereth souls. But a deceitful witness speaketh lies. You see, listen to me, if you're a true witness, what are you going to do? You're going to warn people about their fate. A deceitful witness, what is that? Listen, it's not necessarily you verbally just it's just you saying nothing. And by you saying nothing, you are implying to people that you say you love that there's nothing wrong with them. That everything someday is going to be okay. Can I ask you something that I just answered in your heart? When is the last time, if you're saved, if you're a Christian, when is the last time you witness to somebody? When is the last time you tried to get somebody out to church? Hey, I'll make it even easier. This is your track month. Amen. Have you given out some cracks this month? That's probably the easiest. Am I alright? That's easy. When's the last time you've done that? You know what I often wonder? I often wonder how many people would be saved if everybody did as much soul winning as you did. You ever think about that? I often wonder if uh think about it this way would you even be saved? If everybody did as much soul winning as what you did. If you were lost and everybody did as much soul winning as you did, would you even be saved tonight? What I find so strange is that there seems to be so few people today that have a broken heart for souls. It almost seems like we're more excited about sports, hobbies, golfing, fishing, hunting, things than souls. And when those things become the God of our life, people are going to go to hell. Gandhi. How many ever remember Gandhi? The great Hindu leader. Gandhi one time said this: I would have become a Christian, but for Christians. That's a pretty heavy statement. John Dillinger, how many remember John Dillinger? Bank robber, murder. But you know what few people don't realize? John Dillinger went to a fundamental Baptist church as a kid. The preacher said this: I don't want that Dillinger boy in my class. He's smelly and he's dirty. Building your left and never went back. What's the point? I could give you a lot of stuff like this. Here's the point We are our own worst enemy. And I often wonder what could be accomplished. I often wonder the souls that could be saved if we just had a little bit of a burden, a little bit of a broken heart. Listen to me. Can I re We don't like to think, but listen to me, can I just remind, someday, someday, there is going to be a day of reaping for every one of us. And we can sit here tonight, we can make excuses, we can try and soothe our conscience, but here's what God says: Romans chapter 5, verse 11. For we must all, what's that word all mean? Everybody that's saved, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ That everyone may receive the things done in his body according to that he had done, whether it be good or bad. But now wait a minute. Let me go the next step. Then you go over to Romans chapter 14 and verse 12. The Bible over there says this. So then every one of us shall. . What's the next word? Anybody remember the next word? Gift. Think about that. So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God. What's that mean? Here's what it means. Someday, see, we we have this idea that someday we're going to line up, we're going to walk past Jesus going to slap us under, and oh, that's it. That's not how the judgment seat works. God says this, so then every one of us shall give account. That word give, what's it mean? Who does the talking? You do. Can you imagine that great day? You are going to have to do the explaining. Someday you're going to step up in front of Jesus. Jesus is going to ask you the questions. You, with your own lips, are going to have to do the explaining. No more excuses, no more pride, and I think with a great amount of shame and embarrassment, can you imagine what that great day is going to be like? Why didn't you do this? Why did you do this? Why did you allow these areas to become the God of your life Why did you allow all these people to die and go to hell without a flesh? And with your own lips, you're going to have to explain to Jesus why you've allowed that. What's your whole life going to boil down to? Think about it, right? What's your whole life? If your life ended tonight. What does it boil down to? Gold, silver, precious stones? Or wood, hay, and stubble? All of us here tonight that are saved, we have a reaping someday And much of what we reap is going to depend on the type of soul winner that we are. I think the devil so often is good at giving us the right excuse at the right time as to why we can't be a right that means he's great, am I not? He does it to me. Listen to me. Let me jump in. Come on. Quit worrying about making mistakes. Amen? Quit worrying about not knowing jump in. The water is fine. You'll make mistakes. Yeah, you'll make mistakes But I'm going to tell you something else. You win souls and God will bless you. A few years ago I preached my testimony. A few years ago. The night I got saved, I never held a Bible in my hand, all my life, never held a Bible in my hand. The only book of the Bible I knew existed was the book of Genesis. That's real Bible knowledge, isn't it? And uh after I got saved, after I got saved, one of the deacons, I still keep it here, one of the deacons gave me this orange slip of paper. It has on it the Romans road so that I could review what I did when I got home. But I'm going to tell you something. When I hey I I got saved on a Monday night. On my way home, you know what I thought about? It was just natural. You know what I thought about? What about my family? What about my friends? Man, if I don't tell them nobody else is, and they're gonna die and go to hell. Hey, doesn't that just make sense? That's not abnormal. That's normal for a Christian to think that. I got saved on a Monday night. You know, and really, I'm the only one that, you know, sometimes I don't like giving illustrations like that, but. I'm the only one that knows about myself, so that's why I do it. But I got saved in the Monday night that next Sunday, I had 32 of my family friend that next Sunday morning. Why? Because it just seemed to me as a cruise that was the natural thing to do. Did I make all did I make mistakes? Huh? But God blessed. You see, folks, someday our excuses aren't gonna hold water. My dead My dad was a game warden in Pennsylvania 32 years, 31 years, 31 years. My dad one night They were chasing some jacklighters. They were shooting deer, chasing them down the side of the mountain. The jeep they were in rolled over, crushed his hips. And for the rest of his life, he was confined to a wheelchair. He's an outdoor guy. You know what my dad started to do? In the wheelchair. He bought a computer. He hated computers. But he bought a computer. And uh every week on the he started typing letters to the editor. Had the whole town mad at him. Tell people they're going to hell and they need to get saved. And I mean, I'm I'm not kidding. I mean, I heard about it. I mean, you should I I I've seen the letters to the editor in response. I mean, people hated him. And he was nice, like me. There was one guy in that, I mean, there was one guy in that time. I mean he literally hated my dad's guy. They went back and forth. I mean I mean you I've read I mean just nasty I mean towards my dad just nasty but then finally after a few years there got to be a they never met they never met but there got to be a grudging respect About what they believed. And the the letters to the editor and the email, private email, they got a little bit nicer. My dad died. I'm preaching a meeting in Del Berrick, Great Hole, you ever hear Great Hill Baptist Church, Carlisle, Pennsylvania? I'm preaching it, that's where my mother goes to church. This guy that so hated my dad saw the advertisement in the paper. And he thought to himself, I wonder if that's Bill's boy. And so he thought that he would come out to church that night. And I just let him know that even though he completely disagreed with my dad, he just wanted to let me know that I respected him. He came out that night and he got preached to. When I gave the invitation, first one down the aisle, just weeping like a baby, and he got saved. Now, wait, what's listen My dad's dead. He's in a wheelchair, but yet he's still winning souls. Let me ask it again. What's your excuse going to be someday? You see, if we really understand how important this is, we'll realize also there are no excuses. God is going to hold you accountable someday for being a soul winner. Jonathan Edwards used to say this many pray with their lips, for which their hearts have no desire. Oh God, save my husband, save my wife, save my kids, save my grandbabies. But we let them die and go to hell because we have no desire to warn them. That's what he's saying. First of all, everybody in here, if you're saved, you have a great day of reaping. Secondly, there's a second great day all of us have. The second thing is, we're going to have a great day of regret. Say, preacher, what do you mean by that? You ever been to a funeral? You know what you I don't know about you. You know what I notice when I go to funerals? All the flowers. And uh People sobbing and people crying. I'm talking Christian funerals, but just flowers everywhere. And what they're trying to do is show that person how much they loved him. And how much they're gonna miss them. So how do you know that? Because I see it written on there. I love you, mother. We're gonna miss you. Am I right? Come on! Can I remind you of something? There's an old saying. Dead roses smell no roses. Dead noses smell no roses. You say, what's that mean? The time to tell somebody you love them and you care about them and warn them is while they're alive. Because after they're dead, it's too late. Then you can buy all the flowers you want. How you can you can buy the biggest hook, but listen, it's too late You say, preacher, why are you saying it? Because we've got to understand something. We've got to remember this, folks. We all know this. There's two judgments. First judgment is the judgment seat of Christ. Amen? The second judgment is what we call the great white throne judgment. What's that? That is where all the unsaved someday are going to appear to hear the final words of condemnation that are going to send them to hell forever. And I think on that great day, the awful realization is going to hit every one of us. Me too, that because of our laziness, our complacency, our uncaring attitude, our selfishness We help to send hundreds and hundreds of people to hell. The Bible says that someday God's going to wipe away all the tears. Do you believe that? Revelation 7, Revelation 21 talks about it. You know what I think? I think someday we're going to need an Almighty God to wipe away those tears. Because someday, like I said, the awful realization is going to hit us that we help to send those people that we say we love to that horrible hell. Revelation, stay with me on Revelation chapter 15, verse 20. Here's what it says. And whosoever was not free saved. Why is this applied? I'll tell you in a minute. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Now, with that in mind, listen, all the unsaved, those who never trusted Christ as their savior, they're going to hell forever. Amen? But what does this day have to do, this great day have to do with you? Let me show you. If you had your Bibles, turn over to Matthew chapter 25. And I'll tell you why it's, I believe it's going to be a day of great, great regret for every single one of us. Matthew chapter 25. Look at verse 40, look at verse 41, just for the sake of time here. Look at verse 41. Notice what it says. Are you all over there? Then, notice this, then, take a look at this. Shall he say unto them on the what? Come on. Participation. I want you to see this. On the left hand, depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire. Prepare for the devil and his angels. Down to verse 46. And these shall go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into life eternal. Now, I say that to say this. Make this real. This is actually going to happen someday. But now watch. Now watch. If you go back now to Matthew chapter 25, this ought to scare you to death. Matthew chapter 25, look at verse 31. This is where we start getting into us. Verse 31. When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him. Then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory, and before him shall be gathered all nations. Now watch this, and he shall separate them one from the other as a shepherd divideth his sheep From the goats. Now listen to me. In the Bible, sheep are what? Shaved people. Goats are what? The unsaved. They're the lost. They're going to hell. Now look at verse 33. Verse 33. And he shall set the sheep on his Right, there's the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. Now, so get a picture of it. Make it use your imagination. On his right hand, who's going to be there? The sheep saved. Who is that? That's you. That's you on his left hand. Ghosts, law, those going to hell. But then in verse 34, he begins a conversation to everybody. Then shall the king say unto them on his what? Right hand. That's us on his right hand. Great day here. Come, ye blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundations of the world. Down to verse 41. Then he shall say also unto them on the left hand. Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepare for the devil and his angels. Now, let me let listen, let me just say this. I don't propose to stand up here in front of you tonight and completely understand how this great day is going to work. But you know what I wonder, and you know what I really worry about? On that great day, think about this, on that great day at the great white throne judgment. When God pronounces his judgment, the Bible very clearly says that on his right hand, who's going to be there? You are on his left. Who's gonna be there? The lost. You know what scares me? As if we have maybe mothers, fathers, husbands, wives, brothers, sisters Children, grandbabies, friends, neighbors, relatives, and out of that great crowd, they maybe see us. Can you imagine that They have just heard the words of condemnation. They're going to hell for. We're watching this thing. And they turn and they look at us. And maybe with their knees shaking and tears coming down their cheeks, they say, Why? Why didn't you warn me? Why didn't you tell me about this? Hey, why didn't you? Why did you give up on me? Why didn't you keep after me? Let me ask you something. What are you gonna say? I'm sorry. I was just too busy. I was afraid of what you might say. I was so caught up in things of the world that I didn't make this important. Folks, these people are going to hell. But can you imagine the shame and the sorrow and the regret that we're gonna feel? Because we didn't care. Because we were too busy doing something else. But can I remind you of this? Listen to me. It's not too late. You're here tonight, you're still alive. You know what that means? You can still do something about it. First of all, first great day is going to be a day of reaping at the judgment seat of Christ. Secondly, second great day is going to be a day of regret For a lot, all of us, I think, at the great white throne judgment. But then here's the third great day. It could be, it could be. A day, a great day of reunion in heaven. Do you believe there's a place called heaven? It's a uh it's a place really that words can't define. It's a place that has laughter forever. Think about that. It has laughter forever without ever again a tear. I could say that again. Think about that. It's a place that has life, but never again death. You're never going to have to worry about dying. Isn't that an amazing place? It's a place that has singing, joy, happiness, but never again mourning. Sadness, tears. It's a place that has contentment without crying. You will have absolute peace and joy, and you'll be content for forever. It's a place that has pleasure without ever again worry or pain. It's a wonderful, perfect place that nobody here tonight can ever imagine. Do you know why I bring this up? Because one of my most precious memories, mine, one of my most precious memories that I hold on to and I cherish. Are the years when we have had our big family reunions? Anybody ever have those? Huh? Man, I'll tell you know, maybe I'm different. But even as a little kid, when I knew the family reunion would come, I mean I got so i sometimes I couldn't even sleep at night I'm serious. Because I knew on that day, even as a little kid, I was going to see everybody that I loved. Grandparents, my family was going to be there. Aunts, uncle, all my cousins, man, we were like brothers. Gonna see my cousins and and that we're gonna spend time and and sit around and talk, just have a great time Do you know what I want someday? I want to have a great family reunion in heaven. Do you? But now wait a minute. If it's gonna happen, I've got to make it happen. Without listening, without the invitation, there will be no family reunion. Do you understand that? Without the invitation from who? You. Hey, listen, nothing wrong with putting them on the prayer list. But you've got to understand something. If you don't reach them, nobody else is. And they're gonna die, and they're gonna go to hell. How important is this? And we're done, but look at this. How important is this to God? Revelation chapter 22, verse 17. This is how important this is to God. Revelation chapter twenty two, verse seventeen. And the spirit and the bride say, Come, and let him that hear say come And let him that is a thirst come, and whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely. Now get this. In Revelation chapter 22, verse 17. God is getting ready to pin the very last words in the Word of God. And it's almost as if he gets right to the, he's almost done finishing it. And he stops and he says, one more thing, one more time. Let him that is a thirst come. Let him partake of the water of life. Freely. You know what we call this? We call this the last imitation in the Bible. Because this is the attitude, this is the heart attitude. That God expects us to have because He has this kind of a hard attitude also. Folks, listen. Are we so hard? Are we so uncaring tonight? That we really don't care about people going to hell forever? If we're sitting here tonight and we say, well, I really don't care, listen, maybe we ought to check our own salvation. We need to get serious about this. I'm talking about real people, real souls, and where they spend forever. Think about this, it depends on you. And I'll say it again, I can't imagine anything worse than someday standing in front of Jesus, realizing for the first time the magnitude of what he's done for us, and then trying to explain to him. While we've allowed, or we didn't care about people going to hell. James chapter 4 and verse 14 Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. Does not life go by fast? Come on. You know what that tells me? You don't have much time to get get into this. From high school to the grave, it goes by like that. I go by my old high school. I just took my mother out to lunch the other day, went by my old sky, and I thought, man, I I looked at this was uh last week. Last week. I looked at my high school and I said, man, where has time gone? It just seems like yesterday I was 18. Now here I am, 39. It didn't fly, did it? Huh? Life goes by fast. Now get this, get this You are going to die someday. And you know what's so sad? I think that in many, many, many, many cases. The greatest soul-winning event of the vast majority of Christians here tonight and around our churches is going to be your funeral. You say, what do you mean by that? The day you die, the preacher gets up at your funeral and gives the gospel to those that you should have already given the gospel to. Shouldn't be, folks. Can I give you some great advice and we're done? Would you like some great advice? You're gonna get it anyway. Live your life in such a way that the preacher doesn't have to tell lies at your funeral. It's awful. Listen to me, it's awful. I've done it. I've not lied. In fact, I've got myself in trouble. But I'm going to tell you something, one of the hardest things for a preacher to do is to get up at a Christian's funeral. A Christian who has wasted his life. And try and make something out of that funeral. Folks, don't do it. Three great days all of us have to face. A day of reaping. You've got a judgment seat. You're gonna have to talk to Jesus. A day of great regret. The great white throne judgment. Oh, you're saved, you're going to heaven. But you know what I don't want? I don't want somebody that I know and I love look at me and say, Bill, why? Why didn't you care enough about my soul? To tell me about Jesus. I'm not going to have an answer. But do you know what you can have? You can have a great day of reunion. In heaven, if you're willing to step out and tell others about Jesus, amen? And I hope that'll be the case. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Every head bowed and every eye closed. Every head bowed, every eye closed, nobody looking around. Here's what I want you to do. I uh something a little bit different tonight, a little bit different. Here's what I want you to do. Would you do me this favor right now? Would you turn on your imagination We call that your little picture box in your mind. You say, Preacher, what do you want me to look at? Here's what I want you to look at. Would you be willing to look at the face right now? Just do it right now. Look at the face. Of somebody that you love and you care for, but you know they're not saved. Would you do that? Can you see their face? Look at their face You say, well, preacher, I'm looking at three or four. Hey, fine, the more the better. Can I ask you something? How would you feel? If the service is over tonight, you got up, you went home, and when you got home, your phone was ringing, and you found out tonight. That the person's face that you were looking at, that the Holy Spirit brought to your heart, you found out that during the service they died. And now you know you're going to have to answer for them at the judgment seat of Christ. There's a chance they may look at you and say, Why didn't you care enough? And you'll never again have a reunion with them. I'm wondering tonight. Here's my question. It's a two-part question. Question number one. And you don't have to raise your hand till the end of the second question. First of all, I'm wondering how many tonight would say, preacher, you know what, you're right You're right. You know, if if Paul was willing to give his soul, I at least ought to be able to give my life. If I can't give my soul, I want to give my life. I'm wondering tonight how many might say, Preacher, you know what? Man, I'm looking at somebody right now. I'm thinking of somebody right now. I'd give anything in the world to see him get saved. Preacher, number one, would you pray for me that somehow, some way, God would allow me to talk to this person About Jesus Christ. We're number two. Get this, we're number two. At the very least, at the very least. Brother Barron's the person that I'm thinking, I'd love to see him get saved. Preacher, would you pray for me that somehow God would give me the open door to invite him out to church? And get them under the shine of the gospel. Preacher, would you pray for me tonight about one of these two things? I'm thinking about somebody. I give anything in the world to see them get saved. Would you pray for me that God might use me to reach you? Would you slip your hand up tonight? Just slip it up all over the thank you. Just many, many hands. Thank you. Many hands. Let me just say something here. Sometimes people say, well, Brother Barron, man, I'm a fundamental independent Baptist. I have no one save France. So I'm going to tell you something. I feel sorry for you. Because what you're saying is you're more separated than Jesus. That's what you're saying. Because even Jesus was a friend of sinners. Everybody, listen to me, everybody in here, if you're saved, everybody in here ought to have unsaved friends. Not that they influence you, but you're trying to influence them. There's something wrong, there's something wrong with somebody that says they're saved and they don't care about people going to hell. It will be, I'm gonna tell you something, it will be a a terrible day for people like that someday. It really will be. Father, I pray right now that you break our hearts Lord, I have no doubt in my mind that the vast majority of people here tonight were burdened about people. I have no doubt about that. Right now, right here tonight, there's probably some dear, sweet folks that are thinking about grandparents. Maybe they're parents. Maybe there's somebody here tonight, I don't know, but maybe there's somebody here tonight and they're thinking about their their dad or their mother Maybe there's others here tonight that are thinking about their brother and their sister and the good times they've had as they were being raised. Maybe there's others here tonight their hearts broken for a son or a daughter. Well, there's some others here tonight. They have some grandbabies that need to get saved, and they they give anything in the world to see those precious grandbabies get saved. And then there's others here tonight. They have other relatives, friends, neighbors, co-workers. God, tonight, tonight, right here tonight, break our hearts, burden us. And I pray we walk out here tonight, we wouldn't forget it. We wouldn't be making excuses. But we would purpose in our hearts. They may get mad. But Lord, help us not to stop. Help us not keep at it until they get saved. Lord, I pray as a result of decisions made tonight. I pray that we would see many of these dear folks get saved. Which in Jesus' name we pray. With heads bowed, eyes closed, let's stand to our feet.