Verse number twenty-five, he said, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And then verse twenty-nine, he willing to justify himself. The Lord is illustrating, as I said, to this biblical lawyer, that to keep the law of God, you must keep it flawlessly, perfectly. And the lawyer, rather than casting himself on the mercy of God for failing to live up to that law, he tries to justify himself. Let me point this out. Nobody has ever in the history of the world lived up to the law of God apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There's none righteous, no not one. So none of us here can expect to stand before God when we die and stand before God and say, God, I've been good enough to get to heaven. I've kept the law. I've done what is required of me. Therefore, I have earned heaven. Nobody can ever say that. The only thing we can do is, like the publican in the temple, smite our breasts and say, God be merciful to me, a sinner. It's the only way to heaven. And so the Lord is pointing this out to this um uh lawyer and and uh he's giving this powerful uh parable here, this illustration, but there's a tremendous lesson here on compassion. Last week we saw principles for personal evangelism. We noted what took place here and how we can be effective in sharing the gospel with others, how we can effectively bring other people to Lord Jesus Christ and see them saved. Today I want to look, as I said, three realities from this. Number one, I want to get right into it. Number one, I want us to notice the reality of afflictions. The reality of afflictions. Look at verse number 30 with me if you would. And Jesus answering said, a certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho. And he what? He fell among thieves, and they which stripped him of his raiment and wounded him and departed, leaving him half dead I'm telling you, there is a reality of afflictions in life. I put it this way, there is inevitability of injustice. When this poor man got up in the morning, he was uh uh uh uh got up in Jerusalem and he's heading down to Jericho, he had no idea He had no idea when he got up that morning and put his shoes on and prepared himself for the day and prepared himself for this journey that he was going to end up nearly dead by the end of that day. There was no way to anticipate that. There was no way to expect that this was going to happen. And the fact is, uh afflictions do come to life often when we least expect it He had no idea when he woke that morning that he'd be near death that evening. Um I believe it was on July 4th when Krista was killed. Is that correct? Was it July 4th? What four years ago Four years ago, July 4th, Kathy's niece, she was in college in Virginia. She was home in West Virginia for a few days and she was heading back to school. She was living down there. I believe she was working or involved down there. July 4th, she got up that morning, just another July 4th, an exciting holiday. She's heading back to school. On the way down, we don't know exactly what happened, but either she had a seizure or some uh her heart failed in some way. We don't know exactly what happened. But we can tell from the the wreck that her car for whatever reason veered off the interstate across the median and head on to a tractor trailer coming the other way And if she was not dead because of the seizure or whatever happened, she was killed instantly when the tractor trailer hit her. Now this was a good, godly girl. She loved the Lord with all her heart. She was very precious to all of us, 26 years old. She had no idea that morning when she got up that that evening she would be with the Lord in heaven. Now, thank God she knew the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Thank God she had assurance that when that would happen, her life would be and would be ended, she would go to heaven and be with the Lord. But my point I'm trying to make is this. None of us can avoid trials. None of us can avoid difficulties I thought about this week as I was preparing the message, and I thought about the little babies that would be up here and starting out in life, and there's nothing so cute and innocent as vulnerable as a little baby But we all know, if any of us have been around for any length of time, we all know that these little children, as they grow through life, they're going to face some tough times. Their hearts are going to be broken. There's going to be disappointments. There's going to be heartaches. There's going to be difficulties. There's going to be trials. There's Don't it be afflictions Afflictions are a part of life. And so this fellow is a good man. We have no record that he was a drunkard. We have no record that he was dishonest. We have no record that he was doing anything. that would prompt these people to treat him this way. He was simply a man minding his business, doing his thing on his journey And thieves fall upon him and they rob him and strip him and kill him. I did a little research. I've never been to Israel. I've never been to the Middle East there But I did a little research with some different atlases and whatnot, and best I can tell the distance from Jerusalem to Jericho, and uh it's kind of a downward uh drop in elevation, but the distance is about fifteen to eighteen miles, best I can figure. He's walking, of course, and I don't know, everybody walks at a different pace. And again, according to my calculations, I would guess to go fifteen to eighteen miles walking, he's probably in pretty good health if he's making this journey, uh, would be anywhere, I would guess, from five to seven hour journey It's a relatively short journey, particularly in those days. It's a very common journey. This was people traveled this way all the time, but yet he nearly lost his life. One thing is certain in life. We are never secure from trials. It is a real reality. Job chapter 5 and verse 7, Job, of course we know the story of Job, he made this statement, and Job certainly bore this out. Man is born unto trouble as the sparks fly upward. I look out at the congregation here this morning and for the most part it's a pretty good looking crowd. Few exceptions, but um But I know this. I'm looking at a crowd that scattered throughout the crowd, there's some real heartaches. I'm looking at a crowd, there's some real hurts. I don't know this for a fact, but I've been around long enough and been in this bomb in this long enough. I'd venture to say I I'm talking to some people this morning that cried themselves to sleep last night. I'm talking to some people, I would imagine that this morning there's a real genuine fear in your heart about what tomorrow and the future might hold. Heartache and trial and afflictions and difficulties are a part of life. Nobody escapes them. God's greatest men, God's greatest women throughout history, men of great faith, men of great integrity, gr men of great uh pure hearts and minds faced Unbelievable difficulties. And so this is not a strange story that a man would leave Jerusalem and go to Jericho and that he would have thieves fall upon him Is part of life. I put down this: some afflictions are the result of other people's actions. This man was doing nothing wrong. This man was minding his own business. I don't believe there's no indication here. This fellow was out looking for trouble. He simply had to get from point A to point B. Apparently he had some people or some business or some issues down in Jericho. He needed to get there. And he was simply doing his things. He's simply going along his journey, as the Bible says. Yet there was a band of people. Who were very ungodly. There was a band of people who had no integrity. There were a band of people who had no morals. And these thieves fell upon him. You know how they saw this man? They saw him as someone to exploit. Someone they could use to their benefit. Someone they could take, and we can get something out of this guy. And the fact of the matter is, we live in a world, and we live in a very, very sinful world. We live in a world that has uh we live in a world of mankind that has very sinful hearts. There's a lot of heartache that is the result of the wicked actions of other people There are people who are hurt, in many cases, are killed, lose their lives, not because of anything they've done, not because of any wickedness on their part, not because of any lack of integrity on their part, but because of others Who have wicked, ungodly, selfish hearts. And have no problem hurting other people. Have no problem killing other people. Have no problem taking from other people. We live in a very, very sinful heart, a world. And mankind has very sinful hearts. I want to suggest to you there are more men killed by men than are killed by beasts. People have killed more people than any other cause in the world. Romans chapter 3, if you would, take your Bibles. Now keep your place here in Luke. I want to notice Why don't you notice what the Lord says in Romans chapter 3? And the Lord is addressing in the book of Romans, God is addressing the same subject that the Lord Jesus was addressing to this biblical lawyer. And the Bible says in Romans chapter 3 and verse number 10. Now if you're in Luke, you go to Luke, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans. And verse number 10 of chapter 3 it says this, as it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No, not one. Now look at how he describes mankind. Their throat is an open sepulcher. What's a sepulchre? It's a grave. It's like you put dead bodies in and then you never covered it up. Just rotting, putrid flesh. That's what their throat is like. I'm telling you, some things that come out of the mouths of people, words that language that comes out of the mouth of people is absolutely putrid. Can I get a witness? Listen to me. I uh you know I I I've done my I have my share of failure But we are living in a day and age. We live in a world today where there is absolutely nothing sacred. I enjoy fishing. I like to get out. I like to get away. And the last several times I try to get up in the evening or once a week or whatever, I try to get out, I get down to a lake where I like to get away and just kinda be quiet in there And I'm telling you, every single time I've gotten down there, there's been somebody else there on the lake or by the water, and the language is absolutely filthy. Filthy. And where does that language come from? It comes from a filthy heart Listen, can I just say this? God's people, the language of God's people should be pure. The language of God's people should be clean. Should be right. Their mouth is an open sepulcher. Then look what it says. Their mouth uh is an open sepulchre. With their tongues have they used deceit. The poison of S is under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursings and bitterness. Now this is verse 15, is where I was wanting to get to. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their ways. The way of peace and the way of peace have they not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now that is painting with a broad brush the picture of humanity. Violent. Some afflictions in life are the result of other people's actions. Unjust men. If sin was purged from the hearts of man, the world would be a much safer place. The world would be a much happier place. Here you have a fellow is minding his own business. He's going down to Jerus Jericho from Jerusalem, and these ungodly men, I don't know what their thinking was, I don't know all that was involved. But I do know that some of our suffering, some of our hurt, some of the heartache in the world, a lot of it is the result of unkindness, injustice, wickedness of other people. Can I suggest to you that liquor has brought tremendous affliction and heartache to mankind? I think there's probably very few things in this world that have hurt people and destroyed homes and destroyed lives like liquor has. It is an ungodly evil. That is listen, there is not one home that has been made happier because liquor is introduced to that home. There's not one marriage that's been made stronger because drinking has been introduced to that family. Not one child has grown up to become a godly pure, uh, holy person because they drank liquor as a teenager. Liquor is a scourge on humanity that has destroyed lives. Amen or not? We were visiting down in Chattanooga, and we're going door to door through a neighborhood just talking to people about the Lord, inviting them out to church, trying to share Christ with them, share the gospel. And I went up to a house and uh it was all run down and and uh on the porch there was empty beer cans and bottles laying everywhere and there was a screen door there and the top Top part of the screen door was knocked out. There was part of the screen on the bottom part kind of rattied up and the door was open and inside it was just a mess. And I knocked on the door and nobody answered, and I knocked again harder, and I said, hello, anybody home? And nobody answered. So I left a little bit of literature on the door, and I went down the steps, and it was kind of wasn't row houses, but they were houses right up against each other, and I went over the next one, and I was about to knock on the door just 30 yards away from the other house there was about to knock on the door and I heard this awful sound coming from the house I just left. I mean just a horrendous sound. I glanced over, and while I was walking away, apparently a fella had come to the door. And he was leaning over the front porch. He had kicked the beer cans aside, and he was leaning over the front porch, and he was just vomiting. And just horrendous. And uh looked over and I was taken aback, and then I saw some At that screen door, just about to his nose was a little boy. And he was looking out that screen door with his dad uh with his nose hanging over the top that where it's knocked out, and he's looking out and he's just crying. And crying and crying. And I tell you what, I walked away from that and I thought, God put in my heart a holy hatred for liquor. I'm telling you there is nothing good about Budweiser. There's nothing good about Miller and Coors and all that. I'm telling you, it is destroying people's lives. There are people who have gone to early graves, good people, godly people, sober people, who were killed because of liquor and a man driving under the influence of liquor If it was up to me, it would be outlawed, illegal, period. I don't know that liquor was involved with these thieves attacking this man, but I'll tell you this, I wouldn't be surprised. It goes hand in hand. I had a fellow when I was first got saved, I worked in a office supply store. It's kind of like a Christian bookstore office supply store combination. I worked in the office supply part just before I went off to Bible College. And the fellow that was there that worked behind the counter was a EMT with the uh um ambulance there, and we're just outside of Philly, so they were busy And he told me one time we got talking and he was a professed Christian and we got talking one time and he says, you know, I would say at least 95% of the things that we get called out to, liquor is an issue at some point in that whole scenario. Say, preacher, what do you got against liquor? I'll tell you what I got against it. It's destroying people's lives. It's of the devil. It has no place in the heart and life of a Christian. Now I want to say this. If you're here this morning and you've drunk liquor at some point in the past, I want to challenge you to determine I will never put liquor to my lips again as long as I live. Wouldn't that be a good decision? Listen, if you're here this morning, particularly young people, and you've never tasted liquor, I want to challenge you to make the decision. I will never let that stuff Enter my lips ever in my life. That'd be a good decision. You know what? That may be a decision that may save your life. That may be a decision that may save some other person's life. I have never, 35 years in the ministry, I have never met anybody that was better off because they drank liquor. It's of the devil. Some affliction, some heartaches in life are the result of other the actions of other people, ungodly actions. They drink liquor and whatnot. Adultery. Adultery has never improved a person's life. It is ungodly, it is a violation of the holy commands of God. And I think of how many children have been hurt, whose lives have been derailed. Because of adultery. You say, preacher, you ought not to talk about those types of things. I tell you what, somebody better start preaching against this stuff because it's killing our country. Killing our churches. Thou shalt not commit adultery. It hurts. It destroys innocent people. It ruins children's lives. It ruins homes. It brings heartache. It brings disgrace. On the name of Christ. God give us a generation of Christians who will rise up and say, I will be pure, I will do right. It's a lot of people hurting because of the actions of other people. Getting involved in liquor, in adultery, lies and dishonesty. Listen, God's people ought to be honest. You say, oh, politicians ought to be honest. I agree with that. But the citizens ought to be honest too. We don't have to vote those liars into office. Huh? We ought to be honest. We ought to be true. A person lies, they hurt the person they're lying to. Well, I just, if I told them the truth, it would hurt them. No, no, no. Lying hurts them. Lying hurts them. And so, afflictions are a part of life. And some of those afflictions are the result of other people involving themselves in sinful actions, violating God's laws. violating God's principles and that brings hurt onto others. That brings pain onto others. Selfishness. I thought about as I was preparing this and the Lord was, I trust the Lord was leading and directing in this message. I thought about Joseph. Question, Joseph, was he a good guy or what? He was tremendous. Joseph had a flawless testimony. But there's an ungodly brothers. So selfish, so jealous, could not recognize God's hand, they were going to kill their own brother. And because of the ungodly actions of his brothers, Joseph ended up in a prison in Egypt. Nevertheless, Joseph conducted himself appropriately. He maintained his integrity. He did what was right. He was honest. He trusted God, obeyed God, he worked hard, even in an unjust situation. But his owner, his master's wife, got her eyes on him And a woman who lacked integrity, a woman with an impure, ungodly heart, set her eyes on this young man. And she determined she was going to have him. Joseph, of course, you know the story. He says, no, I cannot do this wickedness and sin against God. So she lies about and she has them thrown in prison. Joseph suffered because of the wickedness of another. I thought about Uriah. David, a good, godly man, I tell you, my heart goes out to Uriah. For every time I read that, David committed adultery with Uriah's wife. And rather than coming clean and being honest and saying, hey, I messed up really bad and coming to Ryan and saying, listen, you would yeah, you I understand if you want to kill me, I did wrong I'm sorry. I'll do whatever I can. By the way, the Proverbs tells us that you can never repay that which adultery takes away. You can never put it back. You can steal from someone and replace what you stole, but you commit adultery. You can never put that back the way it's supposed to be But rather than owning up to his failure, rather than owning up to his sin and taking the consequences like a man David killed Uriah. An innocent, loyal soldier, faithful to his king, faithful to his God, faithful to his family. The ungodly actions of David killed Uriah. My heart goes out What I'm trying to say is this. This fella on the road down to Jericho, he did nothing wrong He was a good he by all accounts he was a good man just minding his own business doing his thing and there were some ungodly thieves who came upon him and had no problem beating him up had no problem taking his, had no problem stripping and naked, having no had no problem leaving them there half dead and just going on their way We live in a very sinful world. Now I preached on some sins that bring tremendous heartache. I do want to stop and say this though. If any of those sins that the Bible deals with that I preached about just a moment ago, if any of those sins are true in your life, I've got some good news from you. Jesus Christ can cleanse us from all unrighteousness And he can take that past and maybe that I've gotten involved in, there's things I've been involved in. God can take that and turn that around. I go back to David. If David would have just confessed his sin and made things right, that whole thing could have turned out differently. So there is forgiveness with God, and there is a opportunity to to find a uh new life and new hope there, but nevertheless, sin brings uh pione. So some affliction is a result of the wickedness of others. I put this down. Some affliction will bring we bring upon ourselves. Sometimes we make sinful decisions. You know what I found out? A sinful decision brings devastating consequences. We bring a lot of stuff on ourselves. We bring a lot of heartache on ourselves. Foolish decisions can cause a lot of pain in our own heart and life. You know what would be good for us to learn how to do again? It's a very simple thing. Learn how to say no. Huh? Just say no. Let's practice. One, two, three, no. I wonder how many people would not be in a hospital bed tonight if they'd have learned to say no No, I'm not doing that. No, I'm not going there. No, that's not right. No, I'm not getting involved in that. No, I don't want to be a part of that. But we make foolish decisions, we make sinful decisions, and it has devastating consequences. Some afflictions are the result of the wickedness of others, some afflictions we bring upon ourselves. But let me put a third one down. Some afflictions are by the providence of God. In John chapter 9, the disciples came across a fellow that was born blind And the disciples immediately came to the conclusion, somebody did something wrong here. Why would this guy be blind? And they asked the Lord, who sinned, his parents, or this guy that he's born blind? And the Lord makes a powerful statement and a very important truth to understand. He says this blindness is not a result of any particular individual sin. He said, this blindness is God allowed him to be born blind, so that God's power and glory could be seen in that situation. And sometimes God allows you and I to go through trial. Sometimes God allows you and I to be mugged, so to speak. So that he can show himself strong, so that when we are weak, so that we go through that valley of the shadow of death, we go through those tears Those times of tears, God can come down and say, listen, I'm not only good when everything's going right, but I'm good when things are going wrong. You can trust me not just when the bills are paid, but you can trust me even when the debts are high. You can trust me and you can rejoice and have the joy and blessings of God, not only when your body is physically fit and very, very healthy. But you can trust me and enjoy my presence, enjoy peace in your heart and the joy of the Lord, even when your body fails And sometimes God lets his people go through afflictions. God lets his people fall upon thieves, so to speak. Not because of any actions of any individual, but simply because God has a plan and a purpose and something he wants to show us. Fanny Crosby, my favorite, without a doubt, my favorite author of hymns In my mind, the greatest hymns in our hymn book, God had Fanny Crosby record them. Tremendous. Fanny Crosby as a small child was misdiagnosed by a doctor. I believe it was up in New York. And the doctor put the wrong ointment on her eyes, and she lost her eyesight. If he'd have just been a little more careful, perhaps, if he just paid a little closer attention, she would not have lost her eyesight. But she did. And you read the writings of Fanny Crosby and you read her biography, and you'll find not one time in her entire life, even as a small child, was there one hint of bitterness. She recognized God's hand. She wrote this later in her life, I believe it was a late teenager. She wrote this little uh little poem. He goes, She wrote this, oh what a happy soul am I, although I cannot see. I am resolved that in this world contented I will be. How many blessings I enjoy that other people don't To weep and sigh because I'm blind, I cannot, and I won't. What a testimony In fact, in other places, she said that no doubt she would not have been able to write the tremendous hymns that she wrote had she been born with sight. She had not known what it was to have God's presence and God to use her in her weakness in such a great way. If she had born been born, had her sight. Affliction is inevitable. I wish we could take these little babies. I wish we could take these two little twins. Wish we could take the little b little baby girls and little baby boys. I wish we could put them in some kind of bubble and their hearts would never be broken. And their dreams would never be shattered, and they'd never be lied about or to, and they'd never be hurt in any way, shape, or form, that they could grow their whole life without any afflictions, but that's not possible. They're going to face heartache. They're going to face injustice. Now we try to shelter them from that as much and as long as we possibly can, but I'll tell you what we do need to do. We need to teach these little children to trust God. We need to teach these little children to look to the Lord and Foolish decisions and bring hurt on them. They might be able to deal with the injustices that come from without that we have no control over. They would learn to trust God through all this. These little children need the Lord. Because they're going to face affliction in life. You and I need to trust God. If we've messed up and we've done things that we ought not to have done I'm telling you, we can come to the Lord Jesus Christ, and if we've never been saved, He can save us and forgive us all our sin and give us a new life. If we messed up after we're saved, we can come back and He can forgive and cleanse We can re-establish a testimony. But afflictions are reality of life. So as I look at this story that the Lord Jesus gave, this parable, the Good Samaritan, the first thing I notice is the reality of afflictions. I mean, this guy got hit hard. Didn't do anything wrong, he didn't anticipate it. Got up in the morning, just another day, and boom That's much of what life is. Another reality I see here very quickly, and I'm going to have to end with these, but next I see not just the reality of afflictions, but I see the reality of apathy Look at verse 31. And by chance there came down certain priests that way, and when he saw him, he passed by the other side. Likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him and passed by on the other side. Two out of three people just walked right on by. They both saw him. They were not ignorant of his conditions. They just were indifferent. It's not they didn't know that this guy had needs, they just didn't care. They just didn't care The thieves saw this guy as a as uh someone to exploit. These two fellows, the priest and the Levite, they saw this poor guy as an inconvenience. That's going to mess up my schedule I'm not getting out of the way. Now I think this is interesting that the Lord used uh used a priest and a Levite in this parable. A priest and a Levite, two men in the ministry, two men that had given their lives To serve God, given their lives, to stand as a representative of the Lord, to help people, to bring people in touch with the Lord. They would offer the sacrifice. People that had uh called of God. To help people know the Lord. And they walk right on by. They walk right on by. The priest's responsibility was to offer sacrifices. His whole purpose for being was to bring people to Christ through the sacrifices, bring people to the Lord. The Levite was an assistant to the priest. They help put things in place and uh and prepare the sacrifices and all of that. And by the way, they're coming from Jerusalem. If a priest and a Levite are leaving Jerusalem, they're going down to Jericho They most likely just finished up their services at the temple. They're just leaving church. I'm sure they had reasons. Well, I'm under a schedule. Good night. I've been for a month. I've been serving God in the temple. I need to get back to my family. This guy, I haven't seen my wife in a month. Our kids are back there. I don't know. The thieves might still be around here, and who's going to fill my position at the temple if I get involved in this? I'm sure they had every reason in the world why they couldn't help this guy. He was an inconvenience. I thought about that as a pastor. I'm in the ministry I thought about these fellows, and you know, I get the impression that they viewed their ministry as a job They had punched in, che. They did their service, che punched out, and I'm done. Listen to me. Serving God is not a job, it is a life. I believe I can say this, speak this honestly from my heart. I have viewed my role as pastor of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and I believe my wife would verify this. She better. But um I really honestly believe I've never viewed this ministry as a job. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has been my life. But these two fellas, it wasn't their life. Serving God and serving people was nothing more than something I do to get a paycheck. It's just something I fill my time, and this is my occupation. God have mercy on that type of ministry And I'm telling you, we got churches all across the land that the pastors in that church, all it is, is a job, and we wonder why our churches are in the condition they're in. We wonder why so many people are dying without Christ and dying in sin. Thank God for Sunday school teachers that it's not just a 45-minute duty I do, but it is my heart and soul. Thank God for bus workers who view that not as just something I do to serve God, but it is my heart. I want to see these people reach with the gospel. I want to see these people saved. And if it means inconveniencing myself, if it means investing myself, it's my life. I tell you, when I just got finished studying these two guys, I'm mad at them. This was an inconvenience. When those in the ministry have little love for the Lord and others, those that they serve have little concern for others. John O'Rice used to preach to preachers all across this country, huge crowds and great Sword of the Lord conferences, and he was kind of a soft-spoken man And I've never had the opportunity to hear him in person, but I've listened to thousands of his sermons recorded. I've heard many times on recordings, I've heard other people testify this, he would get the There'd be several thousand preachers out there, and he would say this to the preachers. He'd lean over and he'd say, Some of you preachers need to go home and resign your church and get an honest job I think he was right. I think he was right. Priests and Levites should have resigned their positions and got honest jobs. They didn't care about people. They were unconcerned. The fact of the matter is, I hate to say this, and I've been awfully negative on the message up to this point, but the fact of the matter is, I'm I think most people in the world Are pretty much unconcerned. Most people in the world just walk on by. Two out of three in this story, Solomon as an incoming. And last of all, so there's two realities. Both are pretty negative. The first one is there's injustice in life, and we can't avoid that. It is. The second one is there's the reality of apathy. People just don't care. As long as I got money in my wallet, as long as I'm doing fine, as long as my world is relatively peaceful, I'm not going to get involved. But there's a third reality, and this stirs my heart. And that is the reality of authenticity. And I read it at the beginning of the message, verse 33 and 34, where there was one guy who really did care There was one guy that really was concerned. He was for real. His compassion was not a job. It was not a show. He really did care. Thank God for some people who are real. Thank God for some Christians who really do care whether people are saved or not. Thank God for Sunday school teachers and bus workers and those in the ministry. Thank God that there are some people who are real, genuine Christians. And want to help people and want to be a blessing and are willing to invest themselves in the hearts and lives of others. Thank God there's one an unlikely fellow. He saw this man. The first crowd, the thieves, saw him as someone to exploit. Hey, we can get something out of him. The second crowd saw him as an inconvenience. I don't have time for that. But this third fellow saw him as an obligation. I've got to do something. I've got to do something. He overcame natural animosities. The Jews and Samaritans despised each other. In fact, I want to suggest to you that the victim The fellow that got beat up, the Jew, probably would not have helped the Samaritan had the tables been turned. But that wasn't his concern, whether he would pay me back, whether I'd get something out of this. He goes, this guy has a need. God, give us the love of God. We need the Lord to put the love of God in our hearts that we love people and we invest in people, not because they're going to do something back for me, but simply because God loves them. When we love the Lord, animosities are put aside. I'm not helping him. Do you know what he did to me? You know what he would do if the tables were? Doesn't matter if I love God, I'm gonna put that all aside. He overlooked his inability to repay. He distrusted God. When we love the Lord, we don't look for compensation We don't love others to get something from them. I put this down. We don't love others because so we get something from them. We love others because God has already given us something. He was oblivious to his past history. He doesn't question him. Well, what were you like? Did you do something to deserve this? What was your past? You guys got something going on? He didn't he didn't question his past I want to suggest to you, God isn't so much concerned about where you're coming from. What God's concerned is where you're going. You say, Preacher, if you knew my past, and you knew how badly I messed up, you're preaching on some sin. Preacher, if you knew how bad I messed up Uh God would never forgive me. There's no future for me. There's nothing in my that I have to offer for God. I'm telling you what, God can take care of your past. You just give him your future. Samaritan didn't come and question this poor guy. Well, what kind of person were you? No, no, no. He's somebody that had a need. A life without compassion is an empty life. Look in people's eyes when you go out in the world. There's a sadness there. There's an emptiness there. You know why? Because we live in a world that is starving for love. And what they need is the love of God. And you and I, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we have the love of God shed abroad in our hearts. And we invest ourselves and give ourselves to others. I got looking at the Samaritan, I see no external motivation on his part to care for this fellow. Nobody's beaten him over the Head, you better take care of him. You better take care of him. Nobody's twisting his arm. If you don't take care of him, you're not a good person. You're not a good Christian. No, no, no. It was internal motivation. His compassion for this guy came from a compassionate heart. I wonder how many of us need to kneel at an altar and say, God, give me a compassionate heart. Give me a concern for others. So, the reality of injustice. You're gonna live in the world, you're gonna have to deal with it. There's inflections, afflictions, there's hurt, there's heartache. People do things that hurt. It's reality. The reality of apathy, fact is a lot of people don't care. If we're honest, a lot of times we haven't cared like we should. But thank God for the reality of authenticity. Some people are real. Never waste an opportunity to invest yourself in the well-being of others. When I was in school, there was a fellow, we worked in the inner city projects there of the city down south And we'd run buses through there and we'd bring in the kids and it was pretty crazy. One thing we did on Saturdays we would always visit, we never went in after dark, we always went in during daylight hours. And one of the things one of the folks had told me when I first showed up, they said, Well, here's a good idea. Carry a Bible with you when you're out visiting because if you don't, you're all dressed nice. They think you're the narcs or they think you're the police or undercover. So I found the biggest an old Lester Roloff King about gigantic Bible. And that was my bus visitation Bible. And I'd go out there, I'd carry that Bible and say, oh, there's that preacher. I want to know way way before they saw me that I was a preacher coming up there. And we go through there and visiting and talking to people about the Lord and bringing the kids into Sunday school. And so many times where we were down, I don't know if Kathy remembers this fella, there was a fella, he would always ride a bike, he was probably late 60s, early 70s. And he'd be on a bicycle, and he had little um saddlebags on the back of the bike, and uh he'd ride around down there, and I saw him a few times. And uh he'd stop and all these kids would gather around and he'd hand out stuff. And he'd go over to people standing over here. I mean rough, bad people. And he'd start handing out and I started paying attention after a while That old guy was a member of the church I was at, Highland Park. I got paid attention. He had those saddlebags full of gospel tracts. And he would ride down around in those projects, and he gave out gospel tracts to those people by the thousands. For years. He didn't blow any horns. He never had his name in the bulletin. Six 10,000 members in the church, 6,000 seat auditorium, never got his name in the bulletin, never recognized from the pulpit. Never published in any way. But I found out later they finally did recognize him in a s in a little service. But uh He had given out, they estimated he had given out over a million gospel tracts himself in his lifetime. He was a man. Nobody made him. He wasn't being paid to do it. But he was concerned for the well-being of others. And he gave himself no attention, no blights, no horns blow, just going out Giving of himself to others, giving of himself to others, giving of himself to others. Did you ever hear of, any of you musicians, I'm going to end with this, did you ever hear of sympathetic rena Uh sympathetic resonance. Sympathetic resonance. Anyone ever hear that? Now this is, I'm not a musician, but this is what I understand it is. If you have two pianos in a room And you take one piano and you strike a note on that piano, the other piano piano will respond, will respond that note without anybody striking it. Am I right, Sandy? Am I saying it right? Good, thank you. Just say yes. Okay, thank you. There it is, the whole message just went down the tubes right there. But this is the idea. You strike a note on this piano, whatever it's called. You strike a note on this piano And the other piano responds with the same note without anybody striking it. Can I suggest to you, if one or two people in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church will get a heart for God and for others It will strike a note in other hearts. And other people get a heart for God. And other people get a heart for God. Here we are 2,000 years later, and this one Samaritan takes care of a Jew, and you and I are being stirred in our hearts. To care about others. See what I'm saying? How about let's be that person? Let's be the person. You're here this morning. And you don't know for sure that when you die, your sins are beginning, you go to heaven. I'm telling you, God loves you. And he can and will forgive all your sin and save you from hell, give you a new life, and you can know you're going to heaven by trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. We want to show you from the Bible how to trust Jesus as your personal Savior. And if you know Jesus Christ the Savior, let's hit an old-fashioned order and say, God, give me a heart for others. God help me to care. This is a little repetitious from last week, but God give me a heart for others. Help me to care. Father, bless now, I pray. Lord, I trust you could use something said, some truth from your word to stir us and bless. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I know I've accepted Jesus as my Savior. But I need God to give me a heart of concern, a heart of compassion, that I would be willing to invest myself In the well-being of others and see others come to Christ, see others grow in the Lord. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, that's my heart. God bless you. I tell you what, just one or two of us getting stirred up about this could touch so many other hearts and lives and see more and more people. It might just turn this country around. Every soul one to Christ is a step in the direction of turning things around. So some here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell, and God doesn't want you to go to hell. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I need to know in my heart that God has forgiven me and that I go to heaven, not to hell when I die. I'm concerned about that. Would you slip your hand up? Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me I'd like to know for sure in my heart that when I die I go to heaven and not to hell. How about it? Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. I need Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. How about it? Any at all? Father, I ask now you bless our invitation. Speak our hearts, help us to trust you in Jesus' name. Let's stand together