All right. Hey, it's so good to see you folks and uh we love it up here in the mountains and we love you folks. We just uh kinda it kinda just sort of Kind of blend right in and feel right at home. And I thank the Lord for it and for this church. And uh I tell you Just excuse me, just one minute. Just I was afraid everybody left. I'm not listening to you. All right. See that done that look better? Yeah. Yeah. You need to have a little rocks in your head. I mean the stream. Alright, now we can go. I want you to take your Bible and turn to me to the book of uh Hebrews, and then we'll go back into the Old Testament. I just want to read a verse of scripture here and we'll get started. We're in Hebrews chapter 11, and uh I think most of us are aware of what uh chapter 11 deals with. But uh I want us to read verse six of Hebrews chapter eleven The Word of God says in Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 6, but without faith It is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Now, our Father, as we as we bow before you, Lord, with humble hearts, realizing that we're nothing and you're everything. We owe it all to you. All that we are, all that will ever be, we owe it to you. I pray, Lord, for the services tonight. You know my heart, you know the the message that uh is on my heart And uh you know who needs the message the most, and I pray that you'd you'd minister to that individual. But Lord, I I just pray that uh Pray that you'd uh bless our time around your word. Thank you uh for the privilege of preaching and and uh Trust Lord that everything will be for your honor and glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well. Faith. The duty of faith is uh believe God Regardless of the circumstances or the consequences. Believe God, regardless of the circumstances or the consequences. We need faith today. You and I, you know, we're just just mortals. There's all these things around us that uh uh tend to trap us and and if they could destroy us. Those of us who are of the faith, uh who's trusted Christ and Uh we know what those battles are, some of them anyway. We've you know, depending on our life, you know, if if you li if you live a life uh uh uh for the for the world or for the flesh or for the devil, then you're not fighting many battles. I mean you're just you know you're just going along with the You know, you're drifting along with the current just like a lot of Christians are in a lot of churches today. It's sad, but that's that's the way it is. I hope that's not uh any of you in in here today. I I trust that that uh you've come to be stirred up by the Word of God and that uh God will do something here in this service tonight. Maybe there's one here that's never been born again. That that person uh you just you need to understand that uh there's only there's only two places to go. It's the either heaven or hell. And that's all there is There's no purgatory, there's no in-between. It's just you either go to heaven when you die or you go to hell when you die. I mean uh split hairs about it, but that's that's what it boils down to But I want to talk to you about faith tonight, because I believe we we need faith in this day and age. And uh one of the one of the stories that I like to to preach on is back in the Old Testament. So if you'll turn with me back to 2 Samuel. We'll talk a little bit about faith, faith, faith. If you read the the twenty-third chapter of the the book of 2 Samuel You'll find there a a list of men that uh David is naming here. These are his his last words. That's that's how uh uh Dr. Schofield put it in uh the beginning of the heading of of chapter twenty three. It says the last words of David. And so the last words of David, he talks about uh thirty uh seven I think it is of his mighty men. He names them all down through there. I'm not even going to attempt to do that. Uh there'd be so much uh laughing going on by mispronunciation that you uh wouldn't get anything out of the message. But I'll just say this. He names over these men for a reason. This is like uh God's honor guard. This is like uh the ones who get the Congressional Medal of Honor. This is the these guys here are the ones that have stood out in his in his ministry and his you know, as he has led the the kingdom of Israel. He Uh these are the men that that stepped out and and you know uh did stuff worthy of being mentioned in his last words. So I want us to talk about three of those guys. And we start reading in verse 8 of 2 Samuel. Chapter 23. These be the names of the mighty men whom David had. The Tacmenite that sat in the seat chief among the captains. The same was Adino, the Azanite, and he lifted up his spear against eight hundred whom he slew at one time Now I b I believe the Bible. And when it says eight hundred at one time, I believe he did. It doesn't mean that he when he p one shot, you know, and eight hundred fell. That's not what it's it's just in his battle and the fighting that he was doing there, uh he slew eight hundred men. You know, that's just over my head. I don't know how that could possibly happen, except that that the that the uh the business of faith is believing God regardless See, I set you up for that, didn't I? Regardless of the circumstances or the consequences. So he lifted up his spear against 800 whom he slew at one time And then there's another guy in verse 9. And after him was Eliezer, the son of Dodo the Hoite, one of the three mighty men with David. When they defied the Philistines that were there gathered together to battle and the men of Israel were gone away. It's no wonder he's a fighter. Yeah, the father named Dodo Verse 10. He he arose and he spoke the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand craved to the sword, and the Lord brought a great victory that day. And the people returned after him only to spoil. There's another great man. You know our our teenagers today, our young people, uh they're looking for heroes today. And the Bible has a you know there the the amazing thing about the Bible is it gives you the heroes, but it also tells them of their downfall, the things that brought them low so that they so that they can learn by it If all you hear is a good of somebody and you don't find out how they got that good, why you don't learn anything. And then it goes on down to our last fellow here, verse eleven. And after him was Shamah, the son of Erja, I'm sorry, the Herite. And the Philistines were gathered together into a troop where there was a piece of ground full of lentils, and the people fled from the Philistines. But he stood in the midst of the ground and defended it and slew the Philistines, and the Lord brought a great victory. And there's the three men we want to talk about tonight. I want us to talk about, first of all, a courageous faith that we see in the dino. I want to talk about the a committed faith that we see in Eliezer, and then a contending faith that we see in in Shama. Because that's what we need today. We need all three of 'em. And that's what you're gonna have to be to survive in in Amer in in America, in this world today. It's a courageous, contending, committed faith. So let's start at the very beginning, verse eight. These be the names of the mighty men whom David had, the Tachmenite that sat in the seat, chief among the captains And the same was Adino, the Eznite, and he lifted up his spear against eight hundred whom he slew at one time. I look at that verse and I say, Wow, here's a guy who's against the odds. I mean eight hundred and he slew at one time. He's against the odds. And you and I today are are in the same same boat You see, we have three enemies. We already mentioned them, the world, the flesh, and the devil, and every one of those is stronger than any of us. We have the world that's out there and and uh we know what you know what's involved in the world, all the garbage that's out there and all just with a push of a button, you can be in Sodom and Gomorrah, just like that. No no problem at all. You turn on your television and and you can run through the dials and uh if there's anything fit to watch, uh it's usually a kid's program and and even then It has the sodomite uh theme running all through the thing. So you see it it's just a uh a a constant battle that you and I are going to wage as long as we're in this world, you gotta realize that we're up against it. But God does not leave us alone in this battle. He's promised never to leave us nor forsake us, and so we can count on him at least being there when we need him We can count on him uh helping whenever uh when we need the help and we call upon him, we can count on him at least helping us out. But at the same time, I want you to know it's a battle. It's an uphill battle Because this world is is stronger than we are. The world system that's out there, this world of sin that's in darkness, this world of sin that that is uh permeated with evil and wickedness. It's It's everywhere. You can't go to a state, can't go to a country. I guess you couldn't go to a a world uh because uh uh sin is everywhere In Matthew chapter sixteen it it uh mentions uh uh I was trying to think of the uh well I guess we can find out by by going there and looking at it, okay? So Matthew chapter 16 and verse 26. Here it is. It says, What is a man profited if he gained the whole world, losing his own soul? What shall a man give in exchange for his soul? Think about that How much are you willing to g to give for your soul? Well, obviously, uh when you know that uh hell's the the end result, why uh you're not gonna You're not going to trade your soul. But the wor what I'm getting at is that that uh this world, that's that's what they offer I'm looking at John chapter three and verse nineteen. Where it says this, and this is the condemnation that light has come into the world. And men love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. So what do we what do we do in this world of sin? I mean how do we battle that? Well the Bible says this is the victory that overcometh the world. What is it, Lord? Tell us about that. Stephen or faith. Faith, a courageous faith. It takes faith to just believe God is going to work it out. And that's you that's where it boils down many times is just God's going to work it out. He he's got a whole you know, if I didn't believe that God had a plan for everything If I didn't believe in Romans 8. 28, where all things work together for good to them that love the Lord and are the called according to his purpose, if I didn't believe that, it would be hard to g you know to uh Get around in this world. But I know that in spite of all the garbage that that's out there, of all the sin that's out there, of all the wickedness and everything that's the perverseness that's out there, I know that that God is in control. God's in control. He puts up the king that he wants to put up and the president. He puts them up. We may not like what he does sometimes, but he has a plan. We need to accept that and understand and believe it. The second thing that we're fight fighting against of course is the flesh. Well, we all know about that, don't we? We got the little sandwich that's so easy beset us. We have our own little problems here here and there. And besides all the problems that we ha we have There's all those people that's out there that have their problems and they dump them on us. So we fight our own battles, but many times we're fighting somebody else's battle too. But God has a plan for that too. There's no temptation taking you, but such is a common demand. But God is faithful. Well it's not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able to resist, but will it temptation make a way to escape you might be able to bear it? He's got it all covered. And of course there's there's the devil. Well you know I've heard preachers uh talk about kicking the devil in the seat of the pants and all that stuff and that's just a bunch of show. But the Bible does tell us and has an answer for us. He says, submit yourself therefore to God, we're talking about in James 4. 8. He says, submit yourself therefore unto God. Resist the devil and he'll flee from you. That's a great verse. It doesn't mean that we have to uh stomp him on the toe and we don't have you none of that you don't have It's the matter of resistance. That's the the mental attitude that we have against evil, against the devil, against the world and the flesh, all of them. So the Dino, yep, he slew eight hundred at one time, but uh uh Thank God we have a we have an answer for the the fact that we are overwhelmed by uh by the world flesh and the devil. Then we have the second guy there. It says in verse nine, it says, and after him was uh Eliezer the the son of Doh Dodo the Ahoite, one of the three mighty men with David when he When he defied the Philistines that were there gathered together to battle, and the men of Israel were going away, and he arose. And he smote the Philistines until his hand was weary. His hand claved to the sword, and the Lord brought a great victory that day, and the people returned after him only to spoil. So we have a courageous faith that a dino showed us, and then now we have a committed faith. I see I see uh Eliezer as the Philistines come and there's nobody there. So he stands up, the Bible says there in verse 10, he said he arose, and he spoke to Philistines Till his he was well, you know, when you're when you're alone and you're fighting a battle, Bible says he had the a a sword in his hand. And the Bible says that the sword uh clave to his hand. Now I don't know about you, Nan and I do a lot of driving. And I've noticed in these latter years particularly that uh when we drive for a any you know for a long ways without stopping, uh I noticed that my my hands, you know Let's go get a cup of coffee. You know, you're st you're still it's like your hands are already gripping that, you know, you just can't hardly let loose of it. His hand clay to the sword. That speaks of a commitment. He's going to fight, he's going to fight, and he's going to fight. His hands clay to the sword The sword's the word of God. We need to hold on to the to the sword. And when it we need to when we fight, uh it it needs to become a an integral part of our body, just like it talked about there. It that sword that came such a it had had such a grip on it just It's like it just became an extension of his arm and he just fought and fought and fought. You know, we're the same way. We need to take the Word of God, hide it in our heart, memorize it, and then give it out. Eliezer was a man that was committed. He was committed to uh To fight the enemy. You and I today need to have a committed faith. We need to be committed, number one, to the Word of God. That's true. Number two, we need to be committed to the work of God. The work of God is is right here in this building and outside of this building the community that we win. We talked about that last night. But we need to be committed to that work. I think one of the saddest things for an evangelist is that wouldn't particularly like like we do here. Uh many of the churches that that I go to I go every every year. I did in years years past. And uh You kinda get used to people. You get used to knowing where they sit and you know when you look out over the alternative and the pastor's the same way, I know. He d he knows where uh he can shut his eyes like that and and just point to every one of you because he knows where you sit. That's that's where you sit. And one of the saddest things that I found is is uh year after year going back to the same churches looking in certain places and not seeing someone that had been there the year before. Or the year before that. Maybe they've been there for ten years and then all at once you don't see them and you You say, well, Pastor, what happened to so and so? He used to sit right there in that third row. And uh Pastor he got angry about something and just uh hasn't been back since, you know That's tragic when when you see that happen. We need we need people, you know, you need to work through problems. No no one is perfect. This pastor is not perfect. Now he's he's really close. Really close, but he's not perfect. But he he could he could make a mistake every once in a while. I mean something could happen. You know you know what most m mistakes are Most mistakes are a uh how can I say it? It's where uh I'll give you an example. In our church we was having a funeral. And he was a very popular guy in our church. And uh and uh There was a young men sitting beside me and we were we were gonna be pall bearers. I I believe that's I believe that's what we were doing. Yeah, I think so. And we're on the front row And uh I could tell he was he was tort really tore up. He'd known this gentleman for a long time. And uh And I just I just punched him and I said, uh, well, suck it up. And I was I wasn't meaning it nasty I just meant just ease off a little bit, you know, relax. You know, you'll get through this thing. That was my way to just a poor choice of words. Okay, I understand. Sug it up, you know. You know, he he took that he took it serious. I didn't I didn't mean it the way that it sounded to him. But uh I I didn't know how he I didn't realize it it affected him that way. And for about a year, uh he was mad at me for a year. And uh, you know, he he he uh we'd pass one another and he would just nod, but he'd never speak, never sh you know he it just really got to him. And one day he came up to me and he said, uh, Brother Donnie said, I want to talk to you I said, sure, let's go. We went into the office and sat down. He said, I said, what's the problem? I thought he wanted advice. Because I didn't realize he had a problem. And he said, you remember so-and-so and so-and-so, and he said, you said to me, suck it up. And he said, that really hurt me. Phew. Man, it it I it it broke it broke me up. I couldn't believe it. And I'd hurt him like that and I didn't mean to. You know a lot of problems in churches are just some little thing like that. Somebody said something, they didn't mean it. They didn't mean to be nasty or uh or maybe they were just kidding with you, yeah, I don't know. You could be a thousand different But usually, you know, the Bible tells us what to do when we have a problem with people. We go to them and we talk to them face to face, eyeball to eyeball, tongue to tongue, get it out in the open where you can see it. And usually it can be taken care of right there, no problem. Such a shame. We let these little things get under our skin and And the next thing you know, while we go out that door and somebody knocks on your door about a week or two two weeks later when you haven't been to church and you fly off the handle at them like and they where did that come from You see what I'm talking about? Well, we need to be committed to the Word of God, to the work of God. And there was another one in there, but I forgot what it was. I shouldn't have forgot it. The will of God. We need, you know You have a you have God has a will for your life just like he had one for mine God called me into the ministry, and that's what I am. I'm an evangelist because God called me there. Not because it's fun, not because I'm you know I want to be up in front of people, because I don't. But We need to realize that uh uh God has a will for you. He has a perfect will that you need to try to find. You need to be committed to that will. You need to be committed to the book. You need to be committed to the to the to the work of God But you need to find out what it is that God wants you to do and then do it. Be committed to it. Be in your seat Sunday after Sunday and Wednesday after Wednesday and Thursday after Thursday And whenever there's a meeting in space to revive me with Don Williams, you need to be there every night. Every night. Yeah. I have to be. Okay. If I have to be, everybody has to be. All right. There's a uh fellow down in Pensacola, Florida. Preacher. And he he does street preaching. And uh he was looking for a bunch of people to preach to. And he Looked around, there wasn't anybody out on the street. And so he just uh took his Bible, he threw it down on the ground there, took his hat, threw it over the top of that Bible. And he stepped back and he looked around to what anybody out there. He said, It's alive! Somebody popped their head out the door and said, what's that? He said, it's alive. He said, well, what is it? He said, I don't know, but it's alive. It's under that hat. It's alive. And uh he kind of walked around a few times, you know, and every every once in a while he let out of worship and said, it's alive, I know it's just it's alive. And uh people started gathering to see what it was that was alive And pretty soon he had a cr crowd of, you know, like twenty or thirty people, something like that. And they're all looking and what is that thing And once in a while a teenager started to reach down and say, Toby's alive. And he'd jump back, you know, and they just made a big he made a big thing out. Finally he stuck up there and he says He reached out real slow for effect. Grabbed that hat off, picked his Bible up, shoved it in the air, and he said It's alive. The Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even the divining asunder of soul and spirit to the joints of Mary and is the discernment of the thoughts of the intents of the heart. It's alive! And he preached a message. We need to be committed to the Word of God. The book that we have is God sent to us God wanted to make sure that you and I had a perfect book that had his perfect word. And it's preserved forever. We have a copy of it in our hand. An old King James Bible. Isn't that amazing? We need to be committed to what that says in that book. So Shaman was a fellow that had a committed faith. Sword claved to his hand. But I noticed that at the very end, it says that uh, and the Lord wrought a great victory that day. I like that. God's always in control. And then then the final the final thing is Shammah there. The son of Aja the Herite. And the Philistines were gathered together into a troop, whereas a piece of ground full of lindels, and the people fled from the Philistines I like old Shaman, but he stood. I like people that stand for something, don't you? There's some people that you know they they won't stand for anything, they'll fall for anything. They won't stand for anything. And then it says He stood in the midst of the ground and he defended it. And he slew the Philistines and the Lord brought a great victory that day. I I look at the back in the book of of uh of Jude. And in that little book there, it's only one one little chapter. And but it says this. In the second chapter. It says, Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you And exhort you that you should earnestly contend for the faith. You see, God wants us not just to be courageous Not just committed, but he wants us to be willing to contend. I don't know how you feel about it, but whenever I read the word contend, there's something that runs through my mind. It's a fight zone. The contending heavyweight champion of the world, yeah. You always hear that at the at those boxing matches Contending. It has to do with fighting with uh opposition, you know, and you're fighting with standing up and fighting uh against the devil, fighting against this world system, fighting against the flesh, just fighting. We we're we're in a war today. We don't want to talk about it. We were watching the news this afternoon and They were talking about how the the the people that took those videos of the the abortion clinics, you know, uh how that uh they have been sued by uh uh Planned Parenthood, I think it was for a couple million dollars for taking those videos. And all they did was take the the videos and showed that you know what kind of garbage was going on in those Planned Parenthood places Taking little babies' bodies and cutting them up in little pieces and selling them. Just a terrible one You know we need to stand for uh you know against stuff like that. Whenever we have the opportunity of y you know, I I'm I'm not trying to get political, but We need to we need to make sure that that our vote counts when it when we when we vote Vote biblical principles. Don't just vote, you I'm a Republican, I'm going to vote Republican, or I'm a Democrat, I'm going to vote vote a Democrat. Vote principles If you do that, you always come down on God's side. Biblical principles So there you have three three types of faith that we need to have today, and I I hope maybe God has stirred you uh to a greater commitment to him. Because that's what we need today. We're gonna I think we're gonna go into some hard days here coming. I know we're right now it seems like everything is you know uh uh the economy, everything seems to be going so good, but I think we need to understand this could just be the law before the storm. And we don't know what's what's going to take place. But I know this God has a plan. These three mighty men were were something special to David. You could tell that if you read on down the rest of that chapter, and I'm not going to read it up, but I am gonna I'm gonna tell you the story and then we'll close. David had was, of course, running from the Philistines, or he was at least uh fighting with the Philistines. And uh he was a fairly old guy by this time, I think probably in his sixties. But he uh he was standing on the on a mountaintop overlooking the city of Bethlehem. And uh the Philistines had taken over that city. They uh had what they say garrisoned the city And uh David and his army and his three mighty men were standing and looking down on this city. And uh As he was standing there looking, uh his three mighty men back here, uh Dino and Eliezer and Shaman and ever they're probably just here talking about the the war, maybe, or maybe they're talking about going home or Talking about the wife, maybe talking about soup beans or something. Yeah, we don't know what they're talking about, but they're over here together talking to one another. And while David's looking at this city, you know, this this is a city of Beth, this is his city, Bethlehem, this is his city. And he can remember all the time to the young shepherd boy. It oh it gets so unmercifully hot. And uh he would uh come in out of the desert, go in there at the just inside the gate there was a well. It was cold water in that well. And he got to thinking about that and he he he I think he was just like I do sometimes, just uh kind of talking out loud to nobody, but just talking. He said, Oh that one might, oh that one might give me a drink out of the well just inside the gate of Bethlehem. And when he said that, these three guys, their ears perked up because that's their king O the one, will you give me a drink out of the well just inside the gate of Bethlehem These three guys get together and they talk it over and they decide, Shaman says, I've got a goat skin in my hip pocket here. Let's go down and get him a drink They didn't nobody ask them to do it. They decided to do it themselves. So they sneak out around David and they go down to uh down to the floor of the uh where they could look right across the the gate there where the two Philistines were guarding the the entrance into the city. And uh they're hiding in the rocks. And oh Adino's got his spear and and Eliezer, he's got the sword and you know, they're they're ready to go. And he said, uh, guys ready? Shaman says, Go for it. Charge! And boy, they shot across there, killing both those guards immediately with one shot. inside they go and Shammah takes the the goat skin, throw it down in the well, you know, and and all these guys I mean by the time the Philistines are running all over the place fighting, cutting, biting, kicking, karate chopping, doing all those things that they do And finally he said, I've got the water, let's go. And I see him as they ch back up through the rocks David is standing up here going. Did you see that? There was three nuts ran across there and he killed those guards at the gate. And they went inside and was fighting all those Philistines in there. They must have been there was nuts. Who was those three to uh Was that you guys? And I see those three guys stand here going. Shammah, give him the water. And so Shammah goes over to the Lord. He said, Lord, we heard you. When you said just, oh, man, I'd like to have a drink out of the well just inside the gate of Bethlehem. We heard you say that. And we just wanted you to have Your heart's desire, your will. And so he takes the the goatskin and hands it to David. And somehow or another I just see a kind of a tear trickle down his cheek. As David thinks about these three men, what they had just done. And he articulates it in the Bible there. He says, these men have gone at jeopardy of their own life. Jeopardy of their own life. To give me a drink of water. And David says, I can't drink it. It's too precious. You see, God's will is something that's precious. It's something that that when we perform God's will, it pleases Him. David looked at the water and he said, Lord, this is just too precious for me because they went in jeopardy of their own lives. And he took that goatskin and turned the water into the sand, let it be soaked up by the ground. We have a responsibility. To find out and serve a living God. His will. His will is important. Without faith, it's impossible to please God, the Bible says. So what we need to do is simply just like these three guys, we need to be willing to to take on the odds. Yeah, many times we're going to go up against the odds in this world. But he says we can have victory. This is the victory that overcometh the world. What is it? Faith. Right. And we need that we need that commitment too. Commitment to the work of God and the the work of God and the will of God. Those are three things that that need to be in our mind constantly. We want to serve God. And then, of course, Shamma there. The contending faith. We need to be willing to fight the battles. It's easy to be a Christian just to go home and sit and and not do anything. That's an easy way out. But to be in church every s every service, be on there on Wednesday night, the visitation program, all that stuff, that's work. And yet that that's what God calls us to do. That's what the book says. So we need to be obedient. No matter what. We just need to do it. Father in heaven, we thank you for this uh this uh message and uh I pray Lord uh that you'd bless the invitation now in Jesus' name. Amen. In we'll do this chalk drawing.