Proverbs chapter twenty-nine. We're going to read uh three different verses starting with verse six and verse eight and verse twenty-five. Six, eight, and twenty-five of Proverbs chapter twenty-nine. Verse 6 says, In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare, but the righteous doth sing and rejoice. Verse 8, scornful men bring a city into a snare, but wise men turn away wrath. Jump over to verse 25. The fear of man bringeth a snare, but whoso putth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. I preached from these verses about a year or so ago to the teenagers on a Wednesday night A little bit of a different thought here, but uh basically I just want to share some thoughts with you here from Proverbs 29. I've tit I've just titled this uh Three Things That Will Trap a Christian or Three Things That Will Snare Heavenly Father, Lord, thank you for this day that you've given us. I ask now that you would uh bless the service. Lord, I want you to be the preacher tonight, Lord. I just want to yield myself completely to you. Lord, and I ask that you would uh uh speak through me, Lord, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Um when we think about snares, we usually think of something that is kind of like a of a trap. uh for for animals or you know we'll try to say catch a a coyote or we'll try to catch a a squirrel or whatever the case may be a bird. But we'll try to uh to snare it. Now usually what it is is it's um some sort of uh rope or cord or something like that uh with a noose in it or Or there's various different ways to make a snare. But by definition, a snare is a trap for catching birds or animals, typically one having a noose uh of wire or cord Usually these snares, you s um if you set one for an animal, you put some sort of bait down in the snare and you camouflage it uh somehow. And then the unsuspecting critter is walking along and um ooh look a goody I think they'll go get it and then he's uh caught in a snare Um a snare is a a trap that can be very, very dangerous to this animal because he doesn't always see it. It's camouflaged and or um he's just not aware, but um No animal ever goes and gets caught into a snare on purpose. That's for sure. No uh groundhog wa wakes up thinking, you know what, I'm gonna go get in a snare. No raccoon thinks, uh, I'm gonna go get snared today. What do you even snare? I've never set one. Do you snare birds and I don't think you snare like crocodiles, but I guess you could. Yeah, why not? But anyway, the snare is not something that you want to get entangled in. There's three things here that really stick out to me. There are snares And the thing about most snares is it's a noose and it gets tighter and tighter. And most of the time we'll end up killing whatever's in it. So we normally think of these things when we think of a snare. It's not only animals though that can be caught in a snare. Like I said here, we're going to see three things that we can get caught into. And as a Christian, we are not immune to being caught in snares. A lot of times we think, um, oh, just because we're a Christian, everything will go well. Well, no, we need to be on guard because we're Christians. We need to look out for snares. We need to look out for traps that the devil wants to set for us. Um I don't know about you, but I don't like the feeling of being trapped. I don't like the feeling of being stuck. In a snare. Um there was a job I did for a man one time and I had to fix some plumbing underneath of his trailer in a crawl space. And I I'm I'm large as it is. And I I I that that space might not have I think it was smaller than I was and I was trying to fit up underneath. I did not like that feeling I felt like I was trapped. I'm a little claustrophobic. And what made it even worse is I'm working I'm I'm laying on my back, like working on the pipes like up up like this, and I roll over to get something, roll back over, and there's a snake sitting right here on my chest. Man, I got out of that thing so fast that who knows how many things coming out. But I don't like that feeling of being trapped. I don't like that feeling of being stuck Yeah, I imagine that might be how uh some critter might feel if he gets caught in a snare and that he's trapped and then that thing keeps getting tighter and tighter. I think it was Xander that told me this. He said, um, people who are claustrophobic, uh, this really bothers them. Every time you paint a room, the room gets smaller. That's a scary feeling. But anyway, we don't like being trapped, feeling confined. Um whether it's uh the circumstance we're trapped in, that maybe not necessarily a physical thing, but we're is stuck in a in a in a situation that we don't have any control over and we feel confined, we feel trapped, we feel frustrated, we don't like that feeling. Now we need to understand this also. The devil hates us. He hates our guts. And he wants to destroy us. The devil wants to destroy us. And he'll set any snare he can. He'll bait it and make it smell good, make it look good. He'll camouflage that snare. He'll camouflage that trap. And he's he wants to destroy us. And we need to be on the lookout for uh these these things. So um Let's go ahead and look at the first one here. Verse 6. In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare. The first snare I see, or the first trap I see, is that of sin, the sin trap or the sin snare. In the transgression of an evil man, there is a snare. The bait of sin can look very, very enticing. It can look very, very appealing, pleasing. It looks looks like fun, smells like fun, but once we take the bait, the snare goes off. And we're caught in this trap. We're caught in this snare. And there's a lot of people that have fallen for the um for traps, and um, it just completely ruins their life. And I thought about this. Lying is a is a great example of this. And again, any any sin it will snare you. But lying, we can kind of see it and illustrate it pretty good. You might have a a little kid and he tells a lie. He does something wrong and tells a lie. He got hooked in the snare, so then he has to tell another lie. So the snare gets a little tighter. Then he has to tell another lie to cover up that one. And before you know it, he is suffocated in his lies, in that trap. In that snare. He's suffocated and lying will snare you. Sin will. Being sneaky will be a snare. You know, you know what happens a lot of times. And we think we can be sneaky and get away with something, um, but then we get caught. We get caught I was thinking about it. You know what everybody that gets caught sneaking or sneaking out? You know what everybody that gets caught sneaking out has in common? They were sneaking out. You know what happens and we're likely to get caught. And that snare can uh bring uh bring down on us pretty hard. And we could go on listing all kinds of different illustrations. The bottom line is similar trap you. It looks fun, it looks exciting, it looks enticing, looks good, smells good, but don't take that bait Don't take that bait. It's a snare that you don't want around your neck. The second one we see verse 8: Scornful men bring a city into a snare. Scornful men bring a city a city into a snare. Scornful men bring a snare. And the second one I put just this, the company you keep. The company you keep can be a snare to you. Company you keep can be a uh a trap that you set for yourself, really. You can. There's a lot of friendships that could be made that will be a snare to you. There's uh uh romantic relationships that you can get in that will be a snare to you people we associate with, and so on. Lead us into a snare, lead us into a trap. Second Corinthians six fourteen, be not unequally yoked with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? The answer is none. What communion hath light with darkness? The answer is none. We don't belong together. Uh saved and unsaved don't belong together. Um righteousness but doesn't belong with right what w just like Satan and belial don't fellowship. Light and darkness don't fellowship. We don't belong together. Not in a dating relationship, not in a friendship, not in a business partnership. I mean, uh if we if we go and set out on a business partnership with someone who's lost, it very well could cause trouble later on down the road and be a snare to our business. We start dating someone, I'm married, but for sake of example, someone else starts dating someone, and they're not saved. They're not like-minded, they're not equally yoked. What's going to happen is that's going to cause a major snare later on in your life. And you'll feel trapped. And I could we could go on and on with this company you keep will will snare you and it'll be a trap. Proverbs 13:20: He that walketh with wise men shall be wise, but the companion of fools shall be destroyed. This snare can destroy you. This trap can absolutely destroy you. Be careful of the company you keep. Now there's some circumstances we have no control over who we're around. I know that. But what company do you keep intentionally? Who do you um spend most of your time with and things like that? Um let the Lord convict you as he sees fit there. Verse uh twenty-five. Let's look at this third one here. Verse 25. The fear of man bringeth a snare. But whoso puteth his trust in the Lord shall be saved. The fear of man bringeth a snare. Now this one is probably, this is just my opinion. I don't have a verse for this, but in my opinion, this is probably one of the most cleverly disguised snares. This is the one that's baited probably the best. And again, that's just my opinion, but there is a lot of people that have fallen victim to this trap. And that is the fear of man. The fear of man, or the we could call it the fear center, the fear trap, whatever you want to call it. But when someone is more scared about what someone else thinks than what God thinks, they're in for trouble. When someone is more interested in pleasing man than pleasing God, they're in trouble. They've taken the bait and the noose is tightening at that point. When we're more and I see this a lot with young people, but so many times they are so consumed with popularity and being liked. That that is their whole focus in life is how many friends they can get, how much popularity they can get, what status they can get. The fear of man comes before the fear of God, and it's so sad, it's so tragic, because I just want to warn him and say that's a trap, watch out. It's a snare that'll destroy you, watch out. The fear of man bringeth a snare. Proverbs 31 talks of about the virtuous woman Flip over there, Proverbs 31, verse 30. We'll look at this in just a minute. But people are so consumed about popularity being liked and the fear of man, the respect of man comes before the respect of God The things they'll do to get the respect of man, they'll put way more effort into that than to have the fear of God And I think this verse is interesting. People will try to make themselves look better. They'll change their own personalities. They'll change their physical features. They'll do so many different things To make themselves look better, to make themselves be more popular. This just blows my mind. Look at this. Verse 30. Favor is deceitful. That's popularity. That's popularity. That's being liked. Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain. Physical attractiveness. Vain. Empty. Meaningless. This is what people are looking for: favor and attractiveness. They want to be popular, they want to look good, they want people to like them. Favor is deceitful, beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Popularity is deceitful, it will lead you down a path you don't even want to go. And the things that people do to get popular, they later on regret it. But this is what's so interesting. Look at verse 30, Proverbs 31. Favor is deceitful, beauty is vain. But a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. What is it that people want? They want to be like, they want to have a reputation, they want to be praised. So they'll do everything they can to get praise from man when if they would have feared the Lord, that's how they get the praise. Does this click This is this clicked to me. And I was like, wow, this is interesting. And again, I I think so much about young people when I think about this, but they do so much To be like, to be popular, to have a reputation, to have more friends, to have a bigger following, to have more likes, whatever the case may be But if we just fear God, they will be praised. If I fear God, you fear God. And this talks about the virtuous woman, I understand, but we can all draw applications from this. We look at these traps in Proverbs, we see the trap of sin. Oh, we know sin will trap us, yes. Oh, we know that the wrong company they can lead us down the wrong road, we'll be trapped, yes. But in my opinion, maybe it's because I work with young people, I don't know, but in my opinion, one of the most well-disguised and easiest traps to fall into is that of the fear of man. If you're a chap. I'm just so worried. But if I if I if I uh if I you know if I pray at school, then other people might see me and then you know Or, you know, I don't want to let anyone know, you know, I don't want to invite them to church because then I don't know that I go to church. Again, I'm thinking about young people, but we can all draw application from this. It's just it's it's something enticing, it's something that it looks good about being liked. And we want to be liked. Can I s I j uh let me just tell you, if if nobody likes me but God, that's okay. I want God to like me. I want God to be happy with me. If someone else is happy with me, great. I like people. I want people to like me. But I would much much rather God like me. So uh watch out for that trap, the third one there, fear of man. So maybe we were in one of these traps. Maybe in a couple of them at the same time. Got one foot stuck in one trap, one in the other. I don't know Maybe you're in one of these snares. Or maybe you're on your way to one. You can see, you know what, I'm being tempted with something. I see something coming up. Well, um there were three traps, but there's also three remedies here. Uh go back to verse six. Let me flip back here myself. Verse six, we saw the sin trap. In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare But the righteous thus sing and rejoice. The opposite of being sinful is being righteous. The opposite of sinning is doing right. So, you know how you keep from getting stuck in that sin snare? You do right. Rather than doing wrong, you do right. And this sounds so simple. But it can be challenging, especially when that bait smells and looks good. But just remember that's a trap. Watch out for it. Then there's a second one, verse 8. Scornful men bringeth a city into a snare, but wise men turn away wrath. Rather than being friends or being companions. Of someone that's going to bring you in a snare, turn away. That might mean breaking some relationships. That might mean not worrying so much about popularity. That might mean maybe we ought to rethink this business decision before I make it. But it's better off than getting snared. It's better than getting trapped. Maybe there's just some people we need to part ways with. I don't know. Then there's the third one, verse twenty-five. It says, the fear of man bringeth the snare, but whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. You know how you keep from getting caught in the trap of the fear of man? Fear God. Fear God. If we have a higher fear of God than we do that of men, then God is who we will try to please. If we have a higher fear of man than we do of God, the man is who we try to please. Whoever we have the higher respect and fear of is who we will try to please. So we need to have a fear of God. Fear of we need to fear the Lord. Maybe we need to remember how holy he is. Remember we ne we need to remember how righteous he is. Maybe we need to remember how high he is and how holy he is. The people we're trying to please. They're not holy like God's holy. They're not righteous like God's righteousness. They're not just like God's just. Yeah, we have the righteousness of Christ. Don't misquote me there. But how much more holy is God than those people we're trying to please? And I kind of parked it on that third trap, I understand. But the thing is, is this Beauty is deceitful, favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain. But fear the Lord. Get out of that track. So with all this in mind, maybe like I said, maybe you're in a trap, maybe you're seeing yourself headed towards one. Can I say this? The bait looks good, it smells good, but watch out. Don't don't fall for these things. And the Holy Spirit is bringing to your mind things that are are you're being tempted with. He's bringing to your mind traps that you're headed towards Now just for a minute, I want to talk about this. Probably one of the biggest traps, biggest lies of the devil, biggest snares. That you can get caught in is that of not trusting Christ as your Savior. Let me say this, you're already stuck. If you're lost and you do not know Christ as your Savior, you're already stuck. He that believeth is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. You're already lost. You're already on your way to hell if you have not trusted Christ as your Savior. You've alre you you're in the trap. You're in the snare. Good news is Jesus can cut that cord. He can cut that snare off of you. And one of the greatest lies you can give to is that of to put it off till tomorrow, that to wait till you're ready. The cord's tightening around your neck. The snare's getting tighter. Why would you why would you put salvation off? I just don't understand So then if you're already saved, let me just challenge you. Don't fall victims to these three traps. A very, very short uh message tonight, I understand, but I think it's very important. Because a snare is a deadly thing. We see animals caught in snares, birds caught in snares, and it kills them. I don't I don't want my life destroyed by some snare that I just wasn't watching out for. Said at the beginning snares are very, very uh hard to spot. They're camouflaged. Maybe we just need to uh be a little more vigilant, maybe we just need to have our eyes open a little bit more, be a little more aware, understanding uh our adversary as a roaring lion is walking about seeking who may devour. So if you're in one of these traps or on your way to it, just remember these these three things will they they will track you, they'll ruin you. Sin, uh the company you keep. in the fear of man. So watch out for those traps. Heavenly Father, thank you for the stay you've given us, Lord. I just ask now that you would be with the remainder of the service and it's in Jesus' name tonight.