Hebrews chapter eleven in your Bibles tonight, the book of Hebrews, and chapter number eleven. How many of you ate something tonight that you wouldn't normally have on your uh your regular menu? How many of you ate something tonight and you hope you never have to eat it again? Yeah. Ha ha you guys are qualified for missionary work. You know how missionaries approach it. They go to the field and Eat a bowl of soup and they look down inside that soup and there's a there's a a bug kind of swimming around. Oh they just push it aside they can't eat it Then after a couple of months on the field they look in their soup and there's a bug kinda swimming around and they reach in, they take the bug out, and they eat the soup. A couple more months into this thing called missionary work, they look in their soup and see that bug kinda swimming around and they just take their spoon and just kind of push it down inside of it and just just eat it. A couple more months into missionary work, they run around trying to find little bugs to put in their suits. I don't know. So you might you might be qualified. Thank you so much for a wonderful missions conference. And uh things don't just happen. To make a meeting like this as successful as it is, and so I know a number of people have participated, and you are to be commended for your part. Many of you have been faithful to every meeting And we thank the Lord for that. Then of course, uh, as we said on uh Friday evening, God uses people and people give. And so $87,000, God is going to give to you what He would not give to you, so that He can send it through you for the purpose of helping to reach the world. Isn't that exciting? I mean who would have ever thought? Wow, an extra $87,000? And the truth is we're not finished yet, because some of you are going to make commitments tonight And uh God's going to use you over the next fifty-two weeks and just thank you so much for so many kindnesses to me, taking care of all of my needs and being a blessing. And I just appreciate the opportunity to be a part of this great meeting I think you ought to pray about being a missionary. I think you ought to pray about being a missionary. Seriously. But you know, sometimes we get this attitude, well, I'll go if God calls me, and yet in the New Testament, we see people looking at it just the opposite. They would say something like this Well, I'll stay if I have to, but I really think God wants me to go. That was the New Testament pattern. You should be a missionary because of the condition of the lost. All men need Christ. You should be a missionary because of the calculations of logic. Think about it. Doesn't it pay to serve the Lord? You should be a missionary because of the command of the Lord, go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. You should be a missionary because of the call of love. The love of Christ constrains us You should be a missionary because of the coming of the Lord. His redemption draweth nigh. Your part in God's program, faith, promise, missions giving. Everybody can do something. Can we say that one more time? Everybody can do something. Everybody. Everybody doing something. And everybody doing something more than they've ever done before. Do you realize that there are a lot of churches today that are sidetracked? I mean honestly, think about it. God has given the local church only one thing to do. That's reach the world Five times before he ascended after the resurrection resurrection specifically, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and the book of Acts, five different Times, five different locations. He commissioned the church to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. And then he ascended. And he's going to be expecting that we are accountable for what he's told us to do in reaching the world. You know, a lot of churches are sidetracked. Think about it, when you get infighting and you get you get bickering about non-essential things, you know, I can tell you the church that's involved in that, they're not reaching the world. And you get you get off doctrinally and you get off in on all these different areas and then you know you y you get this you get this pet doctrine that you want to talk about all the time or well our church is just this kind of church and this is just what's what we emphasize. And you know, isn't it unfortunate? I don't know how many independent Baptist churches there are across America, something like, I don't know, sixteen, eighteen thousand. Can you imagine what we could do if everybody was in touch with with the Great Commission? than reaching the world for Christ. But the truth is we get sidetracked. The truth is we we stop letting the Lord Direct the church. And when that happens, uh we're we're on the verge of really just uh uh kind of getting off track and just, if you please, just sitting in the ditch a little bit. Sort of like that uh police officer came on the scene of this accident, this car was flipped over in the ditch and there were there were four people in the car. A man was driving, his wife was in the front seat, two kids were in the back, and they were all unconscious. He's looking in the car and he's trying to figure out what exactly happened because no other cars were involved in the in this accident. And and he looks in the car and there's this monkey jumping around from the back to the front, from the back to the front, just kind of jumping around inside the car If you can imagine this, this police officer starts carrying this conversation with this monkey to try to figure out what's going on. And he looks at the monkey and he looks at the man behind the wheel of the car and he says, What was he doing? And the Mikey says also he was drinking. He pointed to the wife in the front seat and said, What was she doing? He said Said, oh, she was nagging her husband. And what were these kids doing in the back seat? He said, oh, they were fighting. He said, woo Then he said, What were you doing? The monkey said, That's terrible, isn't it? Forgive me. Forgive me. You know that's happening in a lot of churches. It's i you know, we laugh about it, but it's a little yeah and I hope there's not some drinking going on, but unfortunately there isn't That's happening in a lot of churches now. There's a lot of nagging going on. I don't know why the pastor had this. I don't know why you I don't know what's just a lot of fighting And the people who are supposed to be directing the thing aren't. What are we doing? Nothing. So I want to commend you because what you're doing is the right thing. And stay on track. Do you know that the best days of this church, I don't know. what you think about the days that you're enjoying now and and and and the days that have gone by. The truth of the matter is the best days of this church they haven't even happened yet. And you get to be a part of that. In fact you get to make it happen. Isn't that wonderful And that's what the Bible says in Hebrews chapter eleven. Because we walk by faith. I want us to think tonight as we conclude this conference on this subject, through God's eyes, as we live by faith. Through God's eyes as we live by faith. This great passage says in verse 1: Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. For by it the elders obtained a good report. Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. By faith, Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and by it he being dead yet speaketh. By faith, Enoch was translated that he should not see death. And was not found because God had translated him. For before his translation he had this testimony that he pleased God. But without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Through God's eyes As we live by faith. Do you realize tonight that faith is the pillar and ground of the Christian life? Think about it. Without it you cannot be saved. There's not a person here tonight who knows Jesus that did not come to Jesus the faith way. For by grace are you saved through faith. Hey, without it you cannot be saved. The Bible says in verse 6, without it you can't please God. Impossible. Try it. It doesn't matter what you do, if you do it outside of the boundaries of faith, it does not please the Father. Think about this. With it, the scripture says you can see the invisible. With it, the Bible says you can move mountains. You got any mountains in your life? With it you can move mountains. The Bible says with it you can face the future with unwavering confidence. Hebrews chapter 11 is the great faith chapter. And we find men and women that saw through God's eyes, they didn't look at the circumstances. They didn't look at the opposition. They didn't look at their adversities. They didn't look at the fact that they were a disadvantaged people. They looked to God on high and believed that God was able to do exceeding abundantly above all that they were even asking or thinking. You know what? God wants to take you now from this final meeting of your missions conference. And the truth is it's not ending. Are you listening? It's just beginning. And God wants you to move forward with great faith in what God is able to do. I don't know if you've ever said about a particular thing that you experienced or something that you saw, man, this is out of this world. Wow, this is unbelievable. The truth of the matter is every Christian here tonight is out of this world. We're out of this world. We're not of this world. We're out of this world. In fact, in Hebrews chapter eleven, it uses the word pilgrim. We are a non-resident. We are a stranger. We're just a traveler. The Bible calls us sojourners. And we need to be reminded of that even during this introduction tonight, because if we get too glued to this world, if we put our roots down too deeply If we start investing too much in the real estate of this world, we'll forget that we're just pitching tents and just kind of moving along. Home is somewhere else beyond the blue. We live by faith. So we can walk with God. I want us to think about this subject tonight through God's eyes as we live by faith And I want us to think first of all about a definition of faith. It's important for us to understand this. A definition of faith And oftentimes when I look at the definition of something, I want to look at the opposite of it. In other words, first of all, what faith is not. What faith is not. Now, let me say this: faith is not natural optimism. Faith is not natural optimism. Have you ever met somebody who's just optimistic? Don't they drive you crazy? I mean seriously now. I mean in this church we have optimistic people and pessimistic people, you know? Optimistic people and pessimistic people You know, you heard about that pessimist that went skydiving, he jumped out of the plane, he pulled the cord on his parachute, the chute didn't open. A few seconds later he counted, he pulled the emergency cord, the emergency chute didn't open. He said, Yeah, and I bet the ambulance won't be down there either, you know Pessimistic people. And then there are optimistic people. You heard about that fellow was washing windows, he was up at the fortieth store and he slipped off and he started to fall One of his buddies was watching windows at the twentieth story and he saw it falling out and he said, Hey, how's it going? He said, Hey, so far so good. You know I mean there's just some people that are naturally optimistic. I mean it doesn't matter what happens, they're saying, oh, that's okay. Praise God. Now, I think that I think that's a great personality trait. But the truth is that doesn't that doesn't mean that you have faith. Just means you have a positive outlook on things. In fact, the pessimistic person might have more faith than you do Faith is not a natural optimism. Faith is not the fancy use of imagination. The secular world today is is emphasizing what emphasizing what they call visualizing. I mean if you name it you can claim it. If you see it it's gonna happen. And you can go to lectures by successful businessmen and speakers and and they'll they'll tell you how to have victory in these parts of your life just by how you use your mind. But wait a second, that doesn't constitute what the Bible says faith is. Well, what is faith? What is faith? Let me tell you tonight, in simplistic terms, to have faith is to believe. To have faith is to believe. If you have faith tonight, then you are a believer. To have faith means to believe, it's to be persuaded of the reality of something, to regard something as true. Now, contrary to the saying, seeing is not believing. Seeing is not believing. It takes no faith to believe in something that you already see. Let me ask you this question. If you died tonight, are you sure you go to heaven? How many of you know you're going to go to heaven? How many of you all right that just lifted your hand? How many of you have already been to heaven and and and seen it Seeing is not believing. To have faith is to believe, to be persuaded of the reality of something, to regard something as true. Faith is persuaded of that. which we have not even seen yet. Faith is convinced of the certainty of that which has not even occurred yet That's what it means to have faith. Secondly, not only a definition, but a description of faith. We turn to the Bible in verse number one, where the Word of God says, now faith is the substance of things hoped for. The evidence of things not seen, the description of faith. You'll note in verse number one that the Bible teaches us that faith deals with the future. Notice this phrase: things hoped for. The future, things hoped for. Not only does the Bible say it deals with the future, but verse 1 says it deals with the invisible. Notice this phrase: things not seen. So we're talking tonight about things that we're hoping for. And we're talking tonight about things that we have not yet seen. And in this description of faith, you'll notice the Bible says faith is the substance. That word substance, two words, sub and stance, that which stands beneath or supports a superstructure, literally the foundation. Now we think about this building, and I you know you got a beautiful building and you're using it and so on. But the truth of the matter is, the most important part of this building is that which we don't see It's the substance, it's the foundation. The word is also translated confidence. Faith functions as a foundation upon which my life in which your life is confidently constructed. We know we can build walls, we know we can put a roof on. We know we can put people in this building. Why? Because we're confident that we've got the right foundation How in the world can we march out over the next fifty-two weeks and think about giving extra and above all that we're already doing? Hey, we can only do that because we believe, because faith is the substance, the confidence of things hoped for. But not only does it say substance, it also says in verse 1 that faith is the evidence of things not seen. The word evidence means proof. The lawyer says, present the evidence. In other words, present the proof. The Bible says that faith is our proof. How do you know you're going to heaven when you die? I have faith in the Bible. I have faith in Christ. That's my proof. That's by evidence. Literally means conviction. In other words, things that are not seen are invisible realities. That's a wonderful thing. The truth is, you know, you've got on this this uh screen behind me eighty-seven thousand two hundred and seventy-four dollars, and and think about this, that hasn't come in yet. But the proof that it is going to come in is the promise of God. As we step out and believe Him and trust Him, the Bible says, so let Him give And then it says God is able to make all grace abound. Hebrews chapter 11 is a great chapter. We don't have time to go through all of it, but it illustrates how God's people face the future. Faith proves the reality of the unseen. Faith justifies our conviction about the future. And by the way, I don't know if you've ever thought about this. God's promises are all by nature future. All of them are about the future. And I'm amazed how many people get so stressed out. In fact, most of you lifted your hand and said, If I died uh tonight, I'd go to heaven. Yes, I have that proof. Yes, I have that foundation. Yes, I have that confidence. And the fact is, there are some people here who have a faith in the fact that they're going to heaven forever, but you're not sure God can take care of you in July. You're struggling with whether or not you're gonna make it through maybe the month of June. And yet the Bible says faith, that promise, that's our confidence, that is what's going to see us through Thirdly, I want us to think about the dynamic of faith. The dynamic of faith. Please keep your place marked in Hebrews 11. I'd like for you to find Romans chapter 10. The dynamic of faith. Have you ever asked yourself the question? Why is it that some people hear the same message preached and yet they come to different conclusions? Why is it that some say, Well, let's go ahead and let's move forward? And others say, I don't think we can do that What's the difference? The difference is found here in Romans chapter 10 and verse number 17. Romans 10 and verse 17. Notice the Bible says, so then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Alright? Faith is the substance of things hoped for. Faith is the evidence, the proof, the conviction of things not seen. But wait a second, how does it become real in my life? So then faith cometh by hearing And hearing by the Word of God. In the New Testament, there are a couple of Greek words that we translate into the English language the word word. One of those is the Greek word Lagos. It's the word that speaks about God's overall communication to us. And of course, God's overall communication is seen in the Lord Jesus. For the Bible says in John 1. 1, in the beginning was the Word, the Lagos, and the Word was with God, and the Word, the Lagos, was God. It says in verse number fourteen, in the Word, the Logos, was made flesh and dwelt among us. We know God because He has communicated to the whole world through His Son, Jesus Christ. But wait a second, that's not the Greek word that's used here in Romans chapter ten and verse seventeen. So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God The Greek word in Romans chapter 10 and verse 17 is not logos, but it's the Greek word rhema. Réhama. And Rhema does not talk about the overall communication of God, but Rhema talks about the specific communication of God Ramah talks about, if you please, the individual statements of God. For example, when Mary asked Gabriel for more explanation, when God informed her that she had conceived in her womb. And she was going to bring forth the Lord Jesus Christ. She said, How can this thing be? I need some more information. The angel assured her that no Rhema In other words, no word, no statement that God made is impossible for God to fulfill. Do you get the story? Do you get the picture? Paul in Romans chapter ten and verse seventeen says, our faith is fed, our faith is strengthened, we gain faith as we expose ourselves. to the individual statements of God. And as we take those from His Word, we apply them to our heart, we make it personal. We grow in faith. And people who don't do that never catch on to living the Christian life. Ever. And the pastor will preach the same message and they'll leave saying, Man, well, let's get out of here. Because they've never grasped the dynamic of faith. Hey, listen, God's word for us now in the present is preparing us for the future. And as we open the Bible and as we read, as brother said, for his daily devotions, and he took that verse and he claimed it and he made it personal and it fueled his faith, and now he's closer to God. The only way, the only way that we can please God and live through His eyes this life of faith is by taking his word and allowing his word to work in our lives. I'm telling you tonight it's for every businessman in this church. It's for every student in this church. It's for every secretary in this church. It's for every housewife in this church. It's for every farmer in this church. Through every mechanic in this church, through every husband in this church, if if if we don't take the Bible and make it real for our lives, then we will be weak in faith. We cannot please God. We'll have no desire to even make a greater commitment. Because we're not real sure God will take us through even what we're doing right now The definition of faith, the description of faith, the dynamic of faith. I want you to notice fourthly the demonstrations of faith The demonstrations of faith, back to our text in Hebrews chapter 11. There are 14 different men mentioned in Hebrews chapter 11. There are two specific women named in Hebrews chapter 11. There are other unnamed heroes. And all of them Is spanning thousands of years with different circumstances, and yet one common thread weaves itself through all of their lives and all of the events around their life And that threat is this. They all believe God's word. They all believe God's word. Remember? What does it mean to have faith? It means to believe. They all believed God. They listened. They heard. God's word became real to them. And they stepped out and they believed God. They had faith. In God's promises. Listen, when we stop longing for that which hasn't come yet, when we stop looking for that which we don't see yet, we stop living the Christian life Don't be satisfied with what God has done for you in the past. Trust God for more. Trust God for more. I read Hebrews chapter 11. I'm not sure I'd want to go back and be Noah, would you? I'm not sure I'd want to go back and be Abraham and Sarah, would you? I don't really think I'd like to be Joseph. Whoa, would you? I don't think that I'd like to be Moses I'm just not real sure that I'd like to place myself under that. Yet the truth of the matter is, all of these individuals Towered above all the things that were come their way to stop them, and they did not allow those things to be stumbling plots. They use all of them for stepping stones, and you can mark it down when you step out and say, I'm gonna please God, and I'm gonna believe God, and I'm gonna trust God, and I'm gonna do more, there's gonna be some things that come along the way. in the next few weeks to try to get you discouraged. The demonstrations of faith We could preach a series on the demonstrations of faith. We don't have time for that. Let me mention just four to you tonight as we conclude. Let me say, number one, only by faith will we be able to come to God the acceptable way. Only by faith will we be able to come to God the acceptable way. We live in a warped world where men want to approach God on their own terms. We don't approach God on our terms. We approach God on his terms. And only by faith can we come to God the acceptable way. Look at what it says in verse 4. By faith, able. offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and by it he being dead Yet speaketh. He offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice. He obtained witness that he was righteous Oh listen, you'll note even all the way back in the Garden of Eden, all the way back in the Garden of Eden, the way that men came to God was by faith. By faith, Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice, and through his presentation to God, doing it the acceptable way, with a heart of faith and the sacrifice, the blood. All of that was used to make him, the Bible says, righteous. It'd be an absolute shame. It'd be an eternal nightmare For somebody to come through the doors and sit in the services of this good church and never really know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. May God help us to know that we've come to God the acceptable way. By faith. Let me say secondly tonight, only by faith will we be able to please God. Only by faith will we be able to please God. The scripture in verse 5 tells us about Enoch. It says he was translated that he should not see death And he was not found because God had translated him. For before this translation, he had this testimony that he pleased God. But without faith it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Only by faith will we be able to please God. I love Faith Promise Sunday. I love Faith Promise Missions Conference because I know this It's helping me, and it's helping my people grow in their trust and their reliance upon God. And I know this: God is pleased. God is pleased. And without it, you can't please God. Well, the truth of the matter is we're to believe the Lord. I get real convicted about it, don't you? See, we're believers. We're not unbelievers. Believers are supposed to believe, but we don't. We really don't. And yet the Bible says only by faith will we be able to please God. Number three tonight, think about it. Only by faith Will we be able to obey God on the basis of nothing more than a promise? Only by faith Will we be able to obey God on the basis of nothing more than a promise? One of the most convicting verses. Brother said that to him, one of the most convicting or the most convicting song in the hymn book was the song that that that we sang tonight. I'm going to show you one of the most convicting verses in the Bible to me. Verse number eight. Hebrews 11, verse number eight. By faith, Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place. Which he should after receive for an inheritance. Obeyed. And he went out, not knowing whether he went Unbelievable, unbelievable Abraham went out, the Bible says. In fact, you might want to circle as I did that little word couched in the middle of verse 8, because it's the strength of all of it, obeyed. Obeyed. And he went out not knowing where he was going. You get this? I stand here tonight and I preach the Bible. We've got in our hands the written word of God, which has, for our generation, we look back, stood the test of time. I'm talking about people like Abel and Enoch and Abraham, people that we've heard about and people we studied. And Brother Richie can go to Mongolia and he can he can look back on a little bit of history there and Christianity and he can think about people that went to neighboring China and he can Read about how God used uh Jonathan Goldforth or or maybe Hudson Taylor and he can say, Boy, if he did it for Hudson Taylor, he can do it for me. If he did it for Goldworth, he can do it for me And there's a reference point. I'm just getting you to see that Abraham had zero reference point. Zero. Nobody else. And he obeyed on the basis of nothing more than a promise. Abraham, if you go afterwards, I I'll give you an inheritance. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. We are going to be held accountable for so much. Because we have so much and we do so little. We do so little. Only by faith. Will we be able to obey God on the basis of nothing more than a promise? Let me say fourthly and finally tonight, only by faith will we be able to have confidence in the future. Only by faith will we be able to have confidence in the future. Are you nervous about the future? If you watch the news, you'll get real nervous. If you read the newspapers, if you listen to the Economist, they'll think everything's about to cave in all around us. I want you to understand something. We've read the last chapter, and so we know the end of the story. Only by faith will we be able to have confidence concerning the future. Let's fast forward to verse twenty of chapter eleven. Verse 20. By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau. Notice this phrase, concerning things to come. And Isaac blessed his boys. It wasn't about what was in their life then, it was about what was going to come. Things to come. Verse 21. By faith Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph and worshiped, leaning upon the top of his staff. By faith, Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel and gave commandment concerning his bones. Only by faith will we be able to face the future with confidence. Joseph was dying. He was so in tune with God. What a man of character. And he recognized that God brought him to Egypt for the purpose of allowing God's children to come. To have that seed multiply, to have God's blessing upon their life, and Joseph, even as he was dying, knew that God was going to lead his children out of Egypt. The future. It was going to happen way down the road, but it was going to happen. And he knew that. So his last words to his boys. Now guys You're going to be out of here someday. Remember when you leave, take my bones with you. Take my bones with you when you leave Egypt. I'm just simply saying tonight Our whole outlook needs to change as God's children. We're not supposed to be focusing on now. We're supposed to be focusing on then. We are gonna leave so much behind. Only by faith can we have confidence in our future. I could say so much more tonight. But the Bible says, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. Who, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame. And is sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Every Christian at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is a pilgrim. This is not your final destination. God has allowed you in your life to kind of weave through this church. And someday, at God's appointed time, you'll be absent from the body and present with the Lord. There is not one person who makes a great faith promise commitment who will stand at the judgment seat of Christ with regret for doing that. Not One, not one. Through God's eyes, as we live by faith. I don't know if you made a commitment by faith or if you made a commitment by fact. I hate to say this, Brother Leatherman, but I've got good people in my church. And we've been Good night. We've been doing faith promise missions since 1989. So we we're 20 years plus now into Faith Promise Missions. And we got people been given $20, $20, $20 $20, $20, $20, $20, $20, forever. It's just what they do. Just $20 for missions. Don't get me wrong, I'm thankful that they do it. But they're missing out on so many blessings. So many blessings. I don't know if you made a commitment by faith or if you made a commitment by fact I just encourage you tonight to look through God's eyes as we live by faith. It's never as much as God can do, because God can do anything. It's always as much as we will allow God to do. And God is only limited by our unbelief or by our disobedience. Please, please believe God. And please obey God. Let's pray together, shall we? Our Heavenly Father. We would be remiss if we did not stand here tonight with thankful hearts for all that you've done for us over these last few days. What a wonderful blessing together in a local church around the theme and purpose. of God's calling in our lives. And Lord, we've already had a great day, and we thank you for it. But this day can be greater. Because there's some people here who've yet to make a commitment. There's some people here who made a commitment by fact and really didn't make it by faith. Or there's some young people here who should surrender their hearts and lives to God. Lord, I pray tonight that you'd give us the courage and the conviction of Joseph. God give us the courage and conviction of Abraham. Give us the courage and conviction of Enoch The courage and conviction of Abel, oh dear Lord, help us to have the dynamic of the statements of God's word real in our life All over this room tonight, would you help men and women do what they'll be glad they've done when someday they stand before the judgment seat of Christ? Would you help them to do that? Our heads are bowed and our eyes are closed.