Okay, let me ask you to turn your Bibles tonight to uh Second Corinthians chapter eight. Second Corinthians chapter eight. We uh don't you just hate multi-talented people? people. Huh? I was just sitting there thinking as as he was doing his part in the singing, you know, it's uh uh God probably didn't give me a But I just hate people like that, I'll tell you that We uh we certainly appreciate uh the folks that have prepared and served us the food uh last night and today at noon and this evening and Just uh it's always a joy to come to Mountain Lake and especially just those times of fellowship before and after the service. It seemed like you do you folks just Eat all the time. We uh met with the what do you call the crowd we met with at noon today? Super seniors like Ed and some of the others just And uh had a good time at uh lunch today and just uh appreciate that time. I heard about this older fella. You know, you you don't realize how folks pick on older people so you get I didn't say something to defend you, did I? What? Old. Okay, I'm sorry. I didn't I wouldn't talk about about bald head people, I was talking about older people. But I heard about this fella that uh older fella that uh woke up in the middle of the night and and there were three men outside robbing him, stealing stuff from his shed. And uh he picked up the phone, called the police and he said, Hey I've got some fellows robbing me. They're stealing some my stuff. And they said, uh are they in uh are they in your house? And he said, No, no, they're in my shed. He said, well he said, uh we're busy right now. As soon as we get somebody free, we'll send them And they hung up. Well he waited about thirty seconds and he called him back and he said, Hey, I'm the fellow that called about the men robbing my ship And they said, Oh, listen, we're busy. Uh we'll be there as soon as we can get somebody free. He said, Oh, don't worry about it. He said, I shot 'em. He said they said You shot 'em. You can't do that. And man, about thirty seconds later, here came three cruisers screaming in there and and they jumped out, and of course the three men were out there so they got them. And one of them went up to the house and said, hey, he said, I thought you said you shot those men. He said, I thought you said you were busy. So you don't fool with the older people, right? So uh but we we certainly appreciate the folks that have been serving us. Um 2 Corinthians chapter 8, of course, is the portion of Scripture that zeros in on faith, promise, giving. Now faith promise, and I'm convinced, in order to fully understand and to fully appreciate And to be ready to get involved as God wants you to be involved in faith promise, you need to realize that it's not just a giving concept, it's a living concept. The Bible teaches us that the Christian life is a faith-promise life. And it's simply this way, when God's ready to do something in your life or mine, then He speaks to us about it. He puts it on our hearts. You and I are not going to have a spiritual thought apart from God putting it there. We're not going to have a desire to commit to anything in a spiritual way unless God puts the desire there to do it And so uh he speaks real hard about it. And once God reveals to us what he wants to do in our life, whether it's salvation or whatever it is in the Christian life, then He has given us a free will to choose to agree or disagree with him. And he his desire is that we by faith put our trust and confidence in him. And uh agree with him. And uh that's our that's our faith, that's our response. When we do that, then we make the commitment he wants us to make. That's the Christian life Giving is just one part of the faith, promise, life. And of course, that's a big part when it comes to missions. That's the way you do your missions, and that's a good way to do missions, because it it gives uh God an opportunity to speak to us and and to uh do what he desires in and through us personally. and collectively as a church. And you're praying about what God wants you to do this coming Sunday. Now what I would like to do and And I've been thinking about this. And what I would like to do over the next few services, I would like us to take some principles from 2 Corinthians chapter 8, where faith-promised giving is taught in detail. And a number of different principles are given there that that help us to understand what it's all about and how we ought to respond and how we ought to be actively involved. But I want us to take some of those principles and uh I'll do it in uh just as many services as we can uh do it in the next few services and look at them in detail. In other words, we'll look at just one principle and then maybe look at an Old Testament place where that principle is given to us by example Now tomorrow night I want to I want to deal with this principle. And uh you've heard me mention it, but uh I want us to go to an Old Testament place where we see it exemplified. And that is this that sometimes God gives us something that's not for us. It's for someone else. And I'll tell you, when you recognize that and become sensitive to that, then God is able to open up a new avenue. Of spiritual involvement, of service, of servants attitude and spirit in us. When we realize that that a lot or some that he puts in our possession is not for us, but it's for someone else, and we are to be sensitive to his direction as he opens up our awareness of where it should go. And missions is a big part of that. And I want you to look at uh an Old Testament section tomorrow night That's very exciting. Now, I had not planned to go in this direction tonight, but I just feel that this is what God would have us do this evening. So I want us to look beginning in chapter 8 At this matter of grace. Grace is a major part of faith promise giving Uh we are to give to faith promised by the grace of God. And it's very evident because it is just mentioned uh so much in in chapters eight and nine uh where we're taught uh faith promise giving. Now the setting is that the church at Corinth had made a commitment to give a faith promise offering to the needy saints at Jerusalem. We see that recorded in 1 Corinthians chapter 16. And now Paul, as he writes this letter to the church at Corinth, he uses this section of the letter to encourage them to do what they promised to do. He tells them, you were willing to make a promise, you were willing to make a commitment, now give what you promised to give. And he mentioned a number of reasons. He said, uh first of all, you need to gather that offering because I'm sending Titus and some others to receive it, and you don't want to be embarrassed when they come Secondly, he said there are other churches watching you. Other people are watching you. And you want to be the example that God wants you to be. And so he deals with them about their responsibility to give. Now as he begins to instruct them about doing what they promised to do, he uses the churches of Macedonia as an example. We remember the Macedonian call, right, in Acts chapter 16 Paul heard the call and went over to Macedonia and churches were started in Philippi and Thessalonica and Berea. He's talking about those churches in the beginning. Now notice notice what he says in verse 1 Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. And so he mentions right away that that as the churches of Macedonia uh gave to this offering that he had shared with all the churches about giving As they had made their commitment and as they had given, he he points out the fact that they learn to do that and they experience the grace of God in doing it That little word with there has the thought of to make known or to understand. And so he's saying to the church of Corinth, I want you to realize what happened in Macedonia And he's preparing them for their instructions, the instructions he's given them to give. So he says, I want you to realize what happened over in Macedonia How they learn to give by the grace of God and experience that grace. And then he says in verse 2. How that in a great trial of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality And so he says, I want you to realize that they learned to give, even though they were in the midst of much difficulty. And they didn't have much. Now I'm going to tell you, when I don't have much and I'm having a difficult time and all kinds of problems, that's not a time I want you to talk to me about giving Right? That's what I'm interested in getting, not giving. And that's our nature. And uh I think that's why he brought this out Because he wanted them to realize that they experienced God's grace in the midst of difficult times. He says how that in a great trial of affliction, uh in a great trial of affliction, now a trial is something that reveals truth, it brings out truth That's what a trial is for. And he's saying they were in a time when when God uh was bringing the truth of their relationship out, a trial of affliction That word affliction there has the thought of pressure. They were in a pressure time. God put them in a pressure time. And it revealed their desire to do what God wanted them to do. And that's what grace does. When uh grace delivers to us what God wants to do in our lives. That I I thought about that pressure time I thought about when uh I uh when I was in uh uh s school, grade school, really late grade school years, uh down in uh Grundy, Virginia. My grandmother grandfather lived out in the country on a small farm and And many times I'd just get the urge to go out there and be out in the country and run around barefooted and and whatever I wanted to do and I'd just catch the bus and go out there instead of going home My parents would know where I'd gone. A little bit different day then. And uh boy, I can remember uh how uh Sunday was chicken day. You remember that You ate chicken on Sunday, that's about the only Sunday only day you had meat, but uh uh all the other times it was pendulum beans, cornbread, and that stuff. But uh I remember my grandfather he'd go out on Saturday and pick the chicken we were going to eat on Sunday. And he'd just grab that thing. You remember he'd just get hold of the neck? You remember those? Some of you remember that. He'd just boom, boom, boom, pshh. That head just pop off. That chicken would flop all over the yard and bleed and then uh and those chickens were tough man out of that yard. Huh? But my grandmother used to have that pressure cooker. And boy, she'd stick that chicken in that pressure cooker and just turn that thing on and it'd be in there for hours. And when she finished, it would just fall off the bone. You remember that? Many of you ladies use that pressure cooker. Well, that's that's sort of what he's talking about here. Uh hey, when we get under pressure, if we respond to the grace of God It will cause us to become tender to the things of God. And so he's just bringing out the fact that they experience the grace of God. And he goes on, he says to the war, for to their power I bear record, yea, and beyond their power they were willing of themselves, praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift. That word gift is the same word as grace in this section of scripture. And take upon us the fellowship of the ministering to the saints. And this they did, not as we hoped, but first gave their own selves to the Lord And to us by the will of God. Now right there, he finishes talking about the churches of Macedonia, and he begins to talk directly to the church of Caroth about their responsibility. In verse 6 he says, insomuch that we desired Titus, that as he had begun, so he would also finish in you. What? The same grace also. Now what grace is he talking about? He's talking about grace giving. Giving by the grace of God. Giving because God speaks to you about it. Because God informs you. Because God's involved in it. Verse 7, therefore ye abound in everything, in faith and utterance and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see that ye abound in what? This grace also. And he just continues right on through chapter 8, into chapter 9, and indicates the fact that this giving of faith promise is a work of God's grace. Now what does that mean? Well what does grace mean? God's unmerited favor, right? God doing something we don't deserve, God doing something that we would not do apart from God? Do you ever consider giving in that way? You ever consider giving something that we would not do apart from God? That God's involved in in our lives Well, we we realize when we see it as a a work of grace, we realize that it is a giving that's different than all other giving. Because most of our giving, if not all of it, is just by uh you know it's spontaneous You don't pray about tithing. That's already settled. You just do it because the go uh bible commands us to do it. You don't uh most times when you pull your wallet out and give money or pay for something, uh, you know, how often do you really Pray about it? How often do you really seek God's direction about it? Maybe sometimes, if it's a big item or something like that, you might pray about it, but not most of the time But God comes in this section of Scripture and He says, now listen, you need to understand this giving is different than any other giving. It's a work of my grace. In other words, I want to do something in you. That's not a spontaneous thing. It's something that we talk about. That you and I discuss. That I'm able to put upon your heart. It's different than any other giving. And that's what God wants to do this week. See, something that's different than all other giving. Now let me take you to a section of Scripture that I think really shows us what we ought to do. Let me ask you to turn to Jeremiah Chapter 33. Now you're familiar with this, but here's a verse that that really informs us of what I I believe is so important in this area of God's grace becoming active in our lives. And that is that we are willing to talk to God and listen to God. Pastor Lederman said last night Uh pray about what God would have you do. And that's what grace is is all about. Praying about what God wants and listening for him to answer prayer. Now we're familiar with it. Jeremiah 33. 3, call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Now we believe that, don't we? We believe that and we use that and we memorize that and and we quote that call unto me We know that God wants us to call on him. We know there are instructions for us to pray and to call upon God. Call unto me. And then the promise, I will answer thee. Call unto me, I will answer thee, and show thee great and mighty things. And that's what we want to see That's what you want for your Christian life, right? That's what you want for your family. You've got things right now that are on your heart that you pray about that you would love to see God do a great and mighty Thing. And this conference is one of those. What are those great mighty things? Things that we have to stand back And no, we really had nothing to do with God, did it? See, that's the exciting thing about grace. Just having to stand back and no one being able to take the credit Just having to say only God could do that. And God has done some marvelous things in this church over the years. And that would be a great thing to see this week. God do a great and mighty thing. But I want us to think about those last four words. Call unto me, and I will answer thee, and show thee great and mighty things, which thou knowest not. Now that seems to indicate that God has some great and mighty things planned for us that we have no idea about. Huh? And he's saying to us, if if you're going to experience these, if I'm going to be able to do these things in your life that I want to do, these things you know nothing about. Then we're going to have to have this relationship. You calling on me. Me being able to answer you We're going to have to have this relationship in order for me to do these things and to reveal these things. Now that's what we want. We want the great and mighty things that God has planned. Amen. We don't want to miss them. Wouldn't it be sad for God to have some things planned to use us to do in our lives that And we just missed him for some reason. Why in the world, knowing this verse and knowing what he's saying and believing it, saying we believe it, Would we ever miss what he has planned for us? I'll tell you why I what I believe the reason would be. Because we don't place the same value on them that God does. Now we have things in our lives that we hold great value on, but sometimes it's not the great and mighty things God wants to do. Right? Now we don't want to say it too loud, we don't want God to hear it, but but our lives prove it. Our prayer life proves it. That we really do not hold the same value on it that God does. Years ago, one of our daughters got married And uh we have two daughters and one of them was getting married and and she wanted uh these uh imitation pearls for the girls in the wedding party. And uh we have a jeweler in our church, and so she went to the jeweler and she asked him, said, Would you bring me uh some strings of imitation pearls, all that looked the same. Same color, same everything. And uh he said, sure, sure I'll get them. So he did. He got them, brought 'em. All the girls wore those imitation pearls And he said uh he brought my wife a string of pearls. He said they're all going to be wearing these pearls. Said I want you to wear these. Said you can wear them and then wedding's over, you can get them back to me, but but I want you to have these And so my wife took 'em and and uh we went through the wedding and you know how it is, just chaos and when it's over, you know, things just set aside and so my wife uh the the pearls got misplaced some way. And so she went to the jeweler, saw him in the service the next Sunday, and she said, hey, said, those pearls you brought me, said said uh I misplaced them or they got misplaced and so I'll try to find them and get them back to you. He said that would be good because the ones I brought to you cost five thousand dollars Huh? Nah, that changed things. Man, we were under beds, in dressers, behind dressers, in trash cans, in dumpsters I mean our attitudes changed about the thing. Why? Because the value changed. Now if you and I place the value on the great and mighty things that God has planned for us that He places, our lives would be different. That's right. Amen. Our lives would be different. And if you and I, think about this. If you and I place the same value on the souls of men. And the importance of getting a preacher to a place where there's no gospel preacher. If we place the same value on that, God did. And he would be able to do some great mighty things and prove himself Now let me give you just three thoughts to stir your thinking about this. Why should we place this value? Why should it be that important to us? Because God is the only one who knows what he wants to do in us. God has some things that he has planned to do in us. He's trying to make us someone that enjoys him, that has a relationship with him. that uh that uh is satisfying and fulfilling. He's trying to put in us a message for the people that he brings us in contact with For the people that He has for us to meet, for the places He has for us to go. He's trying to put in us a message that our lives will preach so when we witness and when When we share Christ, uh that uh people will listen because of what He's done in us. And He's the only one that knows what we need We're from different backgrounds and we have different personalities, different dispositions, different abilities, and so we need different things to happen in order to make us What he wants us to be and put in us, what he wants to put in us. Hey, let me ask you tonight, what does God need to do in you? You may know a few things, but you have no idea all that God needs to do in you To make you what he needs you to be. But he wants to speak to us. He wants us to let him do some things that will make us and produce in us. What he wants to be. I I was preaching in Grand Cayman years ago. We had a missionary that had to leave Grand Cayman because his wife had some medical problems and And it was sort of a a uh uh a quick thing and and so uh we had another family that uh we talked to and and they agreed that they would go down and and replace this missionary And when the missionary, when this replacement missionary went down, he asked me if I would come and preach a conference for him and it was on uh it was at uh Calvary Baptist there and Grand Cayman. And they had maybe seventy people in the congregation and I went down and and we had a missions conference and just uh boy God got in that thing and it just uh was uh just a revival type situation. And uh the year before they had given sixteen thousand six hundred dollars to missions. And uh so they had uh they had a missions program and had grown in it But God got in that thing and the commitments that came in for that conference were over $52,000. I mean it was just an amazing thing. And the missionary, you know, they don't have missionaries coming by Cayman Islands every day. And so he was he was telling me, You've got to send me some names and send me some presentations and And so we we've got to take on some missionaries. But he and I were talking after the conference was over. He was all excited about what God had done And he was just talking about different people. He said, Did you notice that one lady that was sitting in uh the back each evening, uh each service, had two sharp looking teenagers, a boy and a girl with her And of course I noticed everybody. There wasn't that many people there. And so I said, Yeah, I saw. He said, Let me tell you about it. He said, Years ago, uh, when her children were really small, her husband just walked off and left her one time one time day. I mean just walked off. Left her high and dry with those kids. And she had not worked out. She didn't and she didn't have a job. She she took care of those children at home and And he said, boy, it was a devastating time. And she had to just start getting odd jobs just to just to exist and just to feed the kids and and she just raped and scraped and stayed faithful to the Lord But over the years she just got different jobs and finally said she got a job in a in a real estate office. And in that real estate office she uh just did odd jobs around, but she started watching, started learning And eventually she took the test and uh got her license, and he said, now she's a a successful realtor on the island. He said, I tell you that to tell you this. He said her faith promise for this conference was $1,000 a month. Now I say that to say this. When when her husband left her, uh God wasn't in him leaving her, but God knew he was leaving her. And God was doing something in her. God had a plan for her. And she, in most cases, people like that would get bitter. Angry, blamed God, but she stayed faithful. And boy, God did something in her that uh brought her to a place that she could be used in a marvelous way Years ago in our church, I uh we we always had our conferences in January, and uh our I'm uh we'd have it the last week of January And we just use all the month of January to uh uh uh to sort of prepare for the conference. We'd do different things. I might have a few missionaries in, I might preach on faith promise or preach on missions, but we'd do something just to get the people thinking and uh the hearts prepared for the missions conference. And one year Uh we uh I was preaching and you know we were just trying to get ready and I was trying to get the people stirred up to think about missions and I just made a statement. I said, Yeah, you know, it wouldn't it be great if we just take on 25 new missionaries this year Now I really didn't mean it. I was just talking. But some people got excited about it. I mean they got excited, they started coming to me and said, boy, that'd be great. Why don't we do that And as many of them got excited, we had to set a goal, and we set a goal of taking on 25 new missionaries. And uh we had our conference, faith promise went well And uh uh about a month later I was sitting in my office one day and I got thinking about that. If we're going to take on 25 new missionaries, we've got to average two a month. You know what? I have to start calling missionaries. Now that'll cost a missionary to have a heart attack. Call and say, hey, we've got to take some missionaries on. I need you to come. And uh but I had to start calling we and we took it on and at the end of that year, the only year that I can ever remember it happening in our church, we had taken on twenty-five new missionaries Hey, we have no idea what God is doing in us. But He knows. And if we're going to experience what He wants us to experience, Then we're going to have to have this relationship call unto me, and I will answer thee, and I will show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. Hey, many of us sit here tonight knowing the mess we would probably be if it had not been for God. Intervening, saving us, changing us. Amen? Let me give you a second thought. Not only is he the only one that knows what he wants to do in us, he's the only one that knows what he wants to do for us. God has some things he wants to do for us. Hey, we're his children. He loves us. Man, you know the things that you would like to do for your children, your grandchildren? Huh? I mean They're different than anyone else and you have some things that you would really like to do and you would like to be them to do this and be this and And let you be what you want to be to them. Think about what God, hey, none of us love our children as much as God loves us. God wants to do some things for us. And He has some things planned. You have no idea, but I'll tell you what they are. They're great mighty things. Great and mighty things that he wants to do for us. He wants to do some things for us that you and I have to give him the credit for. Some things that we stand back in amazement and say, man, I'm only enjoying this because God is doing it for me. For me. God's letting me have the privilege of being involved in this. Great and mighty things. Years ago I was uh I had a call from a a uh pastor in uh uh Westfield, Massachusetts. And I I didn't even know where Westfield was. I'd never met the pastor and he called and and uh asked me if I would come for a conference. It was way out in the future, so Uh I had the date and we scheduled it and and uh we started getting closer to that time so I had to I got it out and tried to find out where Westfield was, see where I had to fly into and I realized it was right there uh in Massachusetts uh then uh fly into the Harford uh airport, uh Springfield Hartford Airport and So uh it was a different little bit different. He had the conference Sunday through Wednesday. And so I flew up on a Saturday and he picked me up at the airport. I Went to a motel and Sunday morning we started the conference. There was one missionary family in the conference, Dan Canavan. And the Canavans and their triplets were just really small at that time And uh the they were the only family there and so the Cannabans were there as missionaries. I was there as a as the speaker and we started on Sunday morning. Sunday night Brother Canavan came to me and he said, Brother Creedy said, would you pray with me about something? He said, my 80-year-old grandmother lives in Westfield. He said she's Catholic. He says she's never been to Baptist Church. As a matter of fact, for the past fifteen years she's been secretary for the priest at the Catholic Church here in Westfield. He said, Would you pray that she would come to church this week? He said, I'm inviting her. I'm trying to get her to come. And so I started praying. Others started praying. Tuesday night he c or Monday night he came. Man, he was all excited. He said, I think she's going to come Tuesday night, here came Grandma Canavan, 80 years old. Never been to Baptist Church. We're in a missions conference. We're talking about faith promise giving and missionaries going over to preach the gospel and and she comes and it was a small auditorium, just sort of a L-shaped thing, the platforms here and had a row of fuse this way and a row of fuse this way And uh they sat on the back row on this side and I preached and finished the message, started the invitation. Of course everybody was interested in what Grandma Canavan was going to think and I looked back there and Brother Canavan was Take it a step, he started over toward her, probably gonna see if he could witness to her, and when he did, she just came right out of the pew and came forward The preacher went down and met her and he said Ms. Cannaban said would you like to be safe? She said, I think that's what I need. And uh so he got a lady and they went over here in the corner. She started talking to her. We finished the invitation, people had left, and we're standing down here in the middle, uh the can of brother Canavan, his wife. And the preacher and myself and and uh brother Canavan said, you know, he said uh strange things that said about a year and a half ago, he said, uh I became very burdened for my grandmother And said we started praying for. Said every day we've prayed for. I share the triplets and they pray for and we pray at meals sometimes two or three times a day. We pray for Grandma Canaban And he was sharing this story. About that time she bowed her head, she received Christ the Savior. She came back over here, and when she walked up to us, here's what she said. She said, you know, in August and mentioned a year, about a year and a half before, she said, there was a time when I became very concerned about my condition and my need. And said, I have been burdened about that for a year and a half. And boy, you stood there and you had to say, only God. Could do this. And the thing I thought about was this. He let me be a part of. Huh? That preacher, I didn't know that preacher. I didn't know that church. He called me. I don't know where he got my name. Can of bands invited, we were all brought together for what? For God to do a great and mighty thing and let us be a part of it. Hey, God has some things planned for us He's the only one that knows. And boy, uh but we've got to have that relationship. Call unto me and I will answer thee. And show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Wouldn't it be sad for God to have those things planned and us miss them? Huh? Let me give you a third thought. Not only is he the only one that knows what he wants to do in us and for us, but he's the only one that knows what he wants to do with us. Now we might know some things that he's placed on our heart, but only God knows what he wants to do with us. I mean, God wants to use us. And if we don't watch, we'll get an attitude about ourselves. We'll put up a barrier. That will cause us to miss the great and mighty things God has planned to do with us. Hey, God wants to use you. God wants to use you in a way that will amaze you because he wants you to see some things that he can do. If we'll just let him. Amen? Years ago, June and I were home on a Sunday. We went to our church, Independent Baptist, there in Clinton on Sunday morning. And Sunday afternoon I told her, I said, why don't we get ready and drive up to Bel Air. Bel Air, Maryland's about an hour and fifteen minutes from us. It's between Baltimore and and uh on well on the northeast side of Baltimore. And there was a church there that supported us and I said, why don't we just ride up? We haven't been there for a while, just drop in And so we did, we got ready, left early, went up, had no idea, but when we got there, they were in a missions conference. And so we walked in and just sat down, the pastor saw me and and asked me to come up and lead in prayer at the beginning of the service. And he said, why don't you just tell us some things about the Caribbean, what's going on? And I shared some things about the Caribbean, led in prayer, sat down Missionary showed slides, preacher preached just like we have here. And and uh when the service was over, June and I started uh out of the auditorium and this young man caught us He said, Brother Creed, he said, I know you don't remember me, but he said, my name is Patrick Hillman. He said, uh I was at Bethlehem Baptist Church when you were there. Now, I was at Bethlehem Baptist Church in Fairfax, Virginia from June 1971 to June 1972 as an assistant pastor. And he said, when you were there, you visited our home one night in Vienna, Virginia, and the night you visited our home, my stepfather got saved, my mother got right with the Lord And my parents and all eight of our children began attending Bethlehem Baptist Church. He said, My mom has been looking for you. wondering where in the world you went, hasn't didn't know where you were, and he said, I would you contact her? And I said, sure. He he gave us her her name and address and so we went home and wrote her and and we got a letter back And boy when we got the letter back she was just talking about things that had taken place and and she said uh and talking about all the kids and then she made this statement. She said, the night you visited our home, said it was like throwing a stone in the pond He said the ripple started and God has touched all eight of our children and now 26 grandchildren. And she talked about a daughter that married to a pastor in Florida. She talked about Patrick. Patrick is a missionary to this day in the Middle East. In different countries. And talk about this one in this church and that one in that church. And boy, when I read that and saw that, I thought to myself, I'm glad I went on that visit that night. We have no idea how God wants to use us, what he wants to do with us. But we can know this. He has some great and mighty things he wants to do with us. Wouldn't it be sad to miss it? Huh? And that's what this week's about. This week's about letting God get at it. Just letting God get at it And realizing that it's a grace thing. This is a thing of listening to Him, talking to Him, finding out what He wants us to do, what He wants us to give. And just letting him have his way. And then as a result of that, seeing him do the great and mighty things that he has planned Let me encourage you. Make up your mind you're not going to miss it. Amen? Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. How many folks tonight would just say, Preacher, would you remember me as I pray? Would you bring me before God? I don't want to miss what he has for me. Would you slip your hand up all over the building? God bless you. Father, bless tonight as we take this time to respond to your word. Help us to think about the importance of this week and listening to you. God, make this a time that That we're so aware of you that we make the commitments, make the decisions that put us in the place that we can experience the great and mighty things that you have. God, you've used this congregation in such a wonderful way. I pray that you would use them in a greater way than ever before. As a result of this week and decisions made. I pray for each one that has raised their hands, as you've spoken to hearts. Bless tonight as we do business with you L'estan suite.