1 Peter chapter 1. And I want to read verse 13 down through verse 16. 1 Peter chapter 1. Uh 13 down through verse 16. You have it there? Uh notice The Bible says, 1 Peter 1 verse 13. Wherefore, important word, that's significant to note. We'll talk about that here in a moment. Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts and your ignorance, but as he which hath called you is holy So be ye holy in all manner of conversation. We'll say more about it later, but that word conversation means your entire lifestyle. So be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, be ye holy, for I am holy. I want to zear in tonight on verse 13 and just that first phrase. I'm not going to, we'll pre- this will become a little mini-series, this passage. But I want to zero on that first phrase there, wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind. Gird up the loins of your mind. I've entitled the message: Tighten Up Your Thinking. Heighten up your thinking. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to bless. Father, I thank you for a good day. And my heart was stirred, a little emotional, Lord, as we consider these men and women that uh get put their lives on the line and tonight as we reminisce some that have gone on, uh some were killed in battle, Thor, we're just grateful for our country and the men and women who serve it I pray now as we focus back into your word, I pray you'd help us to be open to the truth that's presented here. I pray, Lord, that you would be able to speak through me to each of our hearts. It would not be me talking. Lord, I do this every time, and I mean it with all my heart every time. Lord, I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body to you. I yield my will and my mind to you, that you would control and speak through me And that we would have victory this week, and that we would uh maybe make a difference in somebody's life this coming week because of what we present tonight. And so we ask, Lord, that you would bless and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I mentioned in reading the scripture that word wherefore there is significant And that word wherefore there indicates that there's a transition taking place in Peter's letter to these believers who are being persecuted intensely, and I make a big deal about that every time we open our Bibles here, is that, and that's very important to understand He's writing to believers who have lost their homes. Some have lost family members, have been martyred because of their faith in Christ, not because they're drunkards or thieves Not because of any crimes they've committed, but simply because they've trusted Jesus Christ, their lives have been transformed, and they're seeking to live and serve the Lord with all their heart And they suffered intense persecution for that. They're driven out of their homes and communities. And now they're scattered throughout Asia Minor there in different areas he mentions early in the book. And so he's writing to them, and now there's a transition in his in the content of what he's communicating to these believers scattered around in this letter. The first section, verses 1 through 12, and we spent a good bit of time on that, he is, you could summarize what he's saying to him. He's trying to encourage them Um, if you remember, we went early on, verse 1 and 2, he reminded them and he uh and he pointed out to them that they were pilgrims and strangers. And what he was saying to them was basically this, as we pointed out earlier, what he was saying to them was, hey, listen, you're going through it, you're suffering uh horrendous injustice, heartache beyond imagination. But I want you to understand and remember, it's not always going to be this way. We're just passing through. How many folks like that song, This World Is Not My Home? I'm just a passing through. That's a great truth. That's a great truth. And so he's trying to encourage them early on to say, listen folks Um you're just a pilgrim. You're just passing through, a stranger in this land. This isn't our home. Our home is with the Lord and we'll be there. And of course these folks have been there many, many hundreds of years now. And so the early part he's trying to encourage them. He goes on and he reminds them that they have a home in heaven. That's where their home is. I like that phrase there, early verse 4, whatever it is. He says, we have reserved uh reserved in heaven for you, reserved seats in heaven So we're on our way, we're traveling through here, we're strangers and pilgrims, you're suffering persecution, people are mistreating you, they're lying to you, they're hurting you, they're trying to kill you, they're taking your possessions from you. Throwing you in prison. But listen, you've got a place in heaven. It's reserved. You're secure. He assured them of the security of their salvation. Now, I don't know about you. I'm glad I'm saved. And I always like it, folks give testimony. I like the first of all say it. Thank the Lord for saving my soul. And every time I hear that, I say, Amen to that But I tell you, there's another truth in the scripture that stirs my heart just about, if not as much as my salvation, that is this. I can't lose my salvation. Phew. What a relief that is. Amen. Oh, man, you can sleep at night. And he's reminding them I say, hey, you're secure. You're kept by the power of God. It's okay. And then he uh uh highlights the fact that in the midst of all their trials, their difficulties, their heartaches, that they're have joy. In spite of everything that's happening, they have this inexplicable joy that is unspeakable, full of glory. I just, I don't, I don't, you know, you just wonder, what is that joy, have I ever experienced a joy in my life that would be described as unspeakable and full of glory. Have you or I ever experienced anything like that? That's what they were. Not on full bellies. And paid-off homes and healthy bodies and large bank accounts. That's not the circumstances. They're rejoicing with joy unspeakable. It's in prisons. It's in the streets. Scarred, beat up, bleeding, weeping over loved ones whose lives have been taken because of their fate. And so he's encouraging them, he's encouraging them, he's encouraging them. And Christians need encouragement, particularly in times like that. But now it says, wherefore? Because of all these things, all this is true. The word wherefore has this idea, because of what has just been stated, these truths that have been given to you. These following statements need to be true. And so I put it this way: he's transitioning from encouragement to exhortation. Now he's exhorting them. Somebody help me. What is it? Well, I'm I'm going to get to that here in a bit. He's exhorting them. He's a the the word uh well let me do it right now. I don't know what I'm doing. It was like the preacher one time was preaching on Adam and Eve, and he had his notes, and he and he's going through and uh he said about how there weren't to eat of the apple and um the serpent came and said uh has God said you should and Eve and them go back and forth and then uh um uh then Adam and she eats the apple and he's preaching this And Adam comes up and he said, um, and Adam said to Eve, and he forgot what the next statement was And his notes got all mixed up. And uh he was trying to figure out where he was. And then um uh he said when he was taught in college was if you get lost, just don't admit you made a mistake. Don't draw attention to the fact you made a mistake Just restate what you said before and then pick up and go on. So he shuffled around. And Adam said to Eve, and Adam said to Eve, where is that leaf at? the leaf of paper. You don't pay much, you don't get much. But um Exhortation. He's encouraging them, encouraging them, encouraging them. Now he's transitioning over to a section of this letter where he's exhorting them. He's bringing exhortation. Now here's what I was getting at. What does it mean? What does exhortation mean? Now we have class discussion time. Somebody, somebody help me out. What does it mean if I'm exhorting somebody? I'm giving exhortation. What does that mean? Uh uh building them up was part of it. Aha. Strongly urging someone to uh take a certain action or uh uh uh uh behave a certain way. Anybody else have something to contribute? Exhortation. I didn't have time to study, so I don't know. I'm trying to figure out uh To motivate somebody to a course of action. The word exhortation, and if you were paid a pension there when we read it, you see that there's a change here Before he's giving them encouraging facts and truths about their situation or stand with God. Now he's challenging them, he's exhorting them. It means to this, to urge another to a certain action to give caution to somebody or advice to somebody how they should conduct themselves And there's a sense of urgency when you're exhorting someone, there is a sense of urgency to that. Say, hey, listen, you need to do this. That's exhortation. You need to understand this. You need to respond to what's been said in this way Wherefore, there's a transition. Because of your security, because of the promises God has given to you, the assurance you have there. Therefore, wherefore, because of that, I'm urging you I'm exhorting you, I'm counseling you, advising you very earnestly to conduct yourselves in a very specific way. Verse thirteen through sixteen, what we read, he's calling these believers To uh he's calling them in the midst of their heartache, in the midst of their trials. Hey, don't uh main he's saying maintain your hope. Don't give up your hope. Don't give up that joy. Don't give it up. Maintain that. But not only are they, that's what the first section was. Maintain your hope. Listen uh you're strangers, you you're reserved in heaven. You're not you can't lose your salvation. You have the supernatural joy of the Lord. Maintain that hope But now he's saying, don't just maintain your hope, but here's what I'm getting at, maintain your holiness. Maintain your holiness. He says, be he says, did you catch that there? Verse 15, but as which as he which hath called you, it's what we talked about the first 12 verses here. As he which hath called you is holy. This God that's reserved your place in heaven, this God that's keeping your salvation, he's holy But as he which hath called you is holy, so what? What's it say? Be ye holy. Be ye holy. He's calling them. He's saying, listen, you are called of God in the midst of this horrendous persecution, in the midst of this heartache, you maintain your holiness. He's saying, listen, we have hope in a hopeless world. We are, as believers, regardless of how this world treats us, as bad as this world may treat us as unjust and as violent as this world may treat us, we must never ever give up living a holy life. We are to live righteous in an unrighteous world. We are to live holy in an unholy world. And by the way, this is an unholy world. I don't know how any Christian with any any ounce of spirituality does not see that this world is an unholy world This world is an unrighteous world. So I got two thoughts I want to give to you real quick from that little phrase. He says, wherefore, he talks about holiness, but look what he how he starts that whole subject up with. Wherefore Gird up the loins of your what? Mind. Here's my first point. I encourage you to jot this down. I think this is important. There's a reason he starts out with that statement. Holy living begins with holy thinking. Holy living begins with holy thinking. You could reword that any number of ways. Godly living begins with godly thinking. Gird up the loins of your mind. He begins the section of exhortation, addressing the mind. How we think. I'm convinced our mind is probably, I'm convinced it is, the key instrument in living the Christian life This is it is in the mind where battles, spiritual battles, are won and lost. How I think. How I think, my attitude, my perspective. How I analyze my situation, the processes that take place in the mind. That is where the battles in the Christian life are won and lost. It is not, listen, somebody is not a poor Christian because they live in difficult circumstances. A person is a poor Christian because they haven't girded up the loins of their mind. Their thinking is messed up. Godly living begins with godly thinking. The mind is perhaps the most powerful aspect of our being. You and I are what we are to very much to the degree of how we think. How we think. It's where the spiritual battles are won and lost in our mind. I want us to go real quickly, and I hope you'll go with me on these. I want to look at a number of verses that address this subject. Come back to Psalms chapter 19. Psalm chapter 19. I'm just being honest with you right now. I quote this verse that we're going to look at perhaps as much, maybe more, than just about any other verse in the Bible. I work on our memory verses, I get them down, I work very hard, but a verse that comes to my mind as a prayer, that I quote as a prayer over and over and over again. Like I said, probably more than any other verse is Psalms 19 and verse number 14. I want to urge you To at very minimal highlight this verse one way or another in your Bible and that would be minimal. Commit it to memory. Get it in your heart and mind. David understood the role that our mind plays in our spiritual well-being Psalms 19, verse number 14, look what it says. Let the words of my mouth, alright, that's good, and the what Meditation of my heart. Now you understand the word heart is used interchangeably in the Bible with heart and mind. The meditations of my heart, the thinking that takes place in my heart and mind. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart, look at this next statement, be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. David makes a profound statement here, and Peter is tying right in with that, and he's saying, the meditations of my heart, the thoughts of my mind. are where it all begins and ends. That is the factor in my behavior. A couple statements about that here. I think David is saying this. This is a prayer to God. He's wanting God to help him. He's wanting God that the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart would be acceptable in your sight. That's my desire You know what that indicates to me that David is admitting? That keeping our thoughts right is very difficult. Can I get a witness? Keeping my thoughts right are very difficult. Anybody here, here, maybe in the midst of a service, you're doing something, and out of nowhere comes some wicked, ungodly thought. Anybody? Am I the only one? Anybody? And it's like, man, alive. What in the world? And uh you wake up at night or whatever, and these thoughts come to mind that are not Christian, that are not biblical. And David, in this statement, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable. I think he's indicating to us that that's difficult. Any anybody here ever have a uh have a hard time controlling your mouth? Man, did you ever say this? Why did I say that? Are you gonna witness? Yeah Spiritual victories are won or lost in the mind The decisions I make, the how I think, the way I think. And that's hard to control. That's hard to rein in. That's hard to keep control of. And I think there's something else he implies here, is this. God, and this is encouraging, God can transform the way we think God can change the way we think. He's saying, Lord, let the words of my mouth, meditation of my heart, be acceptable. Oh Lord, my strength and my redeemer. I'm looking to you help me. And God can change the way we think. When we get saved, major change takes place in the thinking of a person. But even as we grow, as we develop, God changes us. Come over to Proverbs chapter 23. I love uh somehow we uh we end up in Proverbs so often. Proverbs twenty-three I want to read verse 6, 7, and 8, but I want you to pay attention to verse 7. I want to read verse 6, 7, and 8. Keep it in the Context there, the statement together, but verse 7 is what I want us to notice. Proverbs 23, verse 6, eat thou not the bread of him that hath an evil eye. Neither desire his daini needs. Now look at this statement. I have this underlined with a red ink in my Bible. For as he what thinketh in his heart, what's the last three words? So is he. He goes on and says, Eat and drink, saith he to thee, but his heart's not with thee. The morsel which thou hast eaten thou shalt vomit up and lose thy sweet words. As he thinketh in his heart, so is he. Did you ever wonder? Did you ever ask yourself this? What kind of person I wonder what kind of person I really am? Sometimes we mi we get a misconception of ourselves. Wonder what kind of person I really am. According to this verse, I can find out what kind of person I am by what kind of thoughts I have. As he thinketh in his heart. What is it? What did it say? So is he. That's what I really am. How many people? That's discouraging. That's what I am? Yeah. Yeah. Come over, if you would, to Romans chapter 12. I love this passage. Over in the New Testament. Again, I have these, verse 1 and 2. I have underlined in red ink. I have them bracketed in my Bible. I tried to commit them to memory. Romans 12, are you there? Look what it says. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Sounds a bit what Peter's telling these believers, be ye holy, even as your Father in heaven is holy. Then look what he says in verse 2, and be not conformed to this world. But be ye what? Transform how by the renewing of your mind By the renewing of your mind. You know how we grow as a Christian? You know we how we change from a defeated Christian to a victorious Christian? How we go from being so depressed and discouraged and negative about all the stuff that's coming down to getting where we have joy unspeakable. You know how we get there? By the renewing of our mind. Changing the way we think. Altering that. Bringing that under control. Philippians, real quick, turn over to Philippians with me if you would Two verses here in Philippians, then we'll get back to our text, and I'll get to our next statement and our last one. Philippians chapter 2 and verse 5. Again, I have this verse underscored highlighted in my Bible. Philippians 2 verse 5 Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. The word mind there means this type of thinking. Let this mind be in you, this thinking, this uh you could say attitude. Let this mind be in you. And he says, which was also in Christ Jesus. If the word mind there means the way you're thinking, What is he telling us to do here? Let this mind be in you, this type of thinking, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. What's he telling us to do? To do what? Think like Jesus thinks. Adapt Jesus' attitude. Have the perspective on situations and issues and people and circumstances. That Jesus had. Let this mind be in you. Well, in the context here, he goes on and talks about humility. But he's telling us basically to think the way Jesus thinks. Flip over to chapter 4 and verse 8. Here's a classic. And this leads us back to our text, Philippians chapter 4 and verse number 8. Finally, brethren! Philippians 4. 8. Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest. Whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely. What sort of things are of good report? If there be any virtue, if there be any praise? What's the next word? Think on these things. Think. That word think there is interesting. It means to calculate over and over. It has the idea of just to keep going over this list. Just keep this list going over. What sort of things are true? What certain things are honest? What sort of things are just. To calculate them up. Messed up thinking is because there's messed up thinking. Messed up living is because there's messed up thinking. Some people's some Christians' lives are messed up. You know why? Because their thinking's messed up Spiritually mature living is a result of spiritually mature what? Thinking. Contented living contented living is a result of what Talk to me. And in thinking. Thinking. If I'm not content in my thinking, I'm not going to be content in my living. He's not here. I don't I don't mean to put him on the spot, but James Kent is one of the most contented people I've ever met in my life. Now Carol, that's he's her he's her son. She knows the side of him, probably that I don't But uh I'm telling you, uh that guy just never got rattled. I think it's because he thought that way. He's just content. He's the only guy I know that went to Bible college with nothing, came back, the school owed him. He's just content. He didn't need the everything that came along. You know why? It's because he thought that way. Thinks that way. Godly living is a result of godly what? Thinking. Grateful. Thanksgiving. Everybody's 30 days of gratefulness. I I want to submit 365 days of gratefulness. Let's try that. You know why somebody's grateful? Some people do you ever meet people they're just grateful for everything? Oh, this is the best day I've ever lived. Every day is the best day. This is the best meal I've ever eaten. You know why? Because they think that way. They've got a grateful mindset Somebody put it this way, your outlook determines your outcome. We act in accordance with our thinking. We need to understand that. We respond to things because we think certain ways. We behave ourselves certain ways because we think that way. Holy living begins with holy thinking. You say you're beating this. I know Because we need it. We've got to get that figured out. It's my thinking. Satan knows that I'm telling you, these movies, this music that is bombarding our society is demonic to its very core. And you, I don't care what the genera is, you can, well, this kind of music, this style of music. No, no, no. Everything this world's producing is designed to affect the way you and I think. The movies that cut oh it's the No, they're designed by the world, they're designed by the devil to change the way we think. We were talking to somebody before And they said every little thing comes up, oh this is sixteen billion years old, oh this is uh fifty thousand million years old, this is you know what they're trying to do? Change the way we what? Can I put it this way, they're trying to get us to believe a lie A lie. Satan knows that. The world knows that thinking. Let me give you my last one here real quick Holy, all right, our first point is this. Our first thought is this, holy living begins with holy thinking. That's why he begins this section here where he's going to exhort them to behave a certain way. He begins with girding up the loins of your mind Because he knows that holy living begins with holy thinking. They're not going to be able to do verse 15 until they get verse 13. So they understand verse 13. So holy living begins with holy thinking. Number two, holy thinking requires controlled thinking. I am not just going to naturally have holy thoughts. I've got to reign that thing in. That's where he makes this statement. Gird up. The loins of your mind. Gird them up. The word gird up means pull together, to bind together. The word gird is where the where we get our English word girdle. Find up. Poor ladies wore those things. It's also we get the idea of a belt. It's a form of belt. Pull that thing in, pull that thing together, hold that thing tight, gird up. Uh it was used back in the day, and many of you have been around Bible preaching teaching much. probably heard this, but it was used back in the day when they would often have long flowing robes and uh their garments were very loose around themselves, which by the way isn't bad for modesty. Can I just say something? I don't care what you say, I'm gonna say it. Dressing, you can cover uh this is this applies primarily to ladies, but it's true for men. You can cover your every inch of the skin on your body, but those clothes can be so tight, it's like you're It it's just as immodest. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I know the fellas know what I'm talking about Anyway, they wore this loose flowing garments, and what they would do, if they had some physical activity, if they had to accomplish something, they would gird up those loose garments. And they would pull them up around and pull them tight against, and sometimes they'd tie them in a knot or wrap them around and pull it tight up so that way they could run or work or climb, do whatever they were doing It was the idea of pulling the loose robe together tight together. In other words, I put this down where it says gird up, I put this down. Get control of it. Get control. It's not just loose flying around. Can you imagine a guy running down? He's got this loose garment and he's stepping on the ends and it's tangling up between his legs. He can't get anywhere. He pulls that thing up tight. He gets control of it So he can function, so he can go forward. So gird up, and then he says, gird up the loins of your mind. And I thought, what in the world? The loins of my mind? The loin is the section from, according to the research I've done, a loin is considered from your lowest rib to your hip. That section there would be your loin. It's the most unprotected part of your body. There's no bones protecting it. There's no big heavy muscles around, except for me, there's some, but for most people. No, it's not big heavy muscles around it, trust me. Uh it's the least protected part of the body It is the part of the body that makes forward motion possible. It's where my legs are attached to my torso And that's what makes forward motion possible. That has to be able, this section here cannot be impeded, cannot be hindered by these loose learned things. It's got to be tightened up so I can make forward motion. I think he's saying, gird up the loins of your mind. With this idea in mind, it is our mind that determines how we progress in our Christian life. My thinking must be gird up, it must be controlled, it must be tightened up if I'm going to be able to go forward in my spiritual growth and my spiritual maturity. Gird up the loins of your mind. And again, the mind is our thinking, our thoughts. So, in other words, the title of my message, Tighten Up Your Thinking. In other words, don't allow my thoughts to run loose. Now this I don't know if anybody'd be honest with this or not. But I think sometimes we sit around, we get daydreaming. We just let our lot thoughts loose, we don't control it, and what happens? They deteriorate And it become very unhealthy spiritually. We just have our loose thoughts. Dr. Lee Robertson used to say this. I heard him say this so many times. Particularly in the preacher boys class, he would say this, you can only have one thought at a time, make it a good one. You know what he was saying? Gird up Gird up your mind. Get control of what you're thinking. Control your thoughts. Don't let them just run wild. I thought, you can only have one thought in a mind, and I tried so hard to have two thoughts at one time. And all I got was cross-eyed. And He was saying control. Gird them up. Tighten them up. Don't allow your thoughts to run loose. One more verse, I promise. 2 Corinthians chapter 10, verse 5. Paul understood this beautifully 2 Corinthians 10 verse 5. Verse 4, I'll start reading while you till you get there. Verse 4 he says, the weapons of our warfare are c are not are not carnal, not physical. We don't want physical But mighty through the through God to the pulling down of strongholds. So he says, we're in a spiritual warfare. It's not the physical things I have. It's not my possessions. It's not my physical abilities I have that's going to determine whether I have victory in my Christian life or not or whether I'm defeated. It's nothing physical. It's nothing carnal. Then look at verse 5. He says, casting down what? Imaginations. Where do they take place? In the mind. And every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, bringing, look at this, bringing into captivity. Every what? Thought to the obedience of Christ. You know what he's saying? Gird up your mind. Tighten up your thinking. Get control of that thing. Don't let it just be loose. Because the weapons of our warfare, our victory in our spiritual lives, our victory over the world, our victory over the devil, if I'm going to be the Christian God wants me to be, and I'm going to be holy and pure and good and an unholy, impure Bad world. I have got to get control of what takes place up here. I've got to control that. I've got to gird that up. That phrase there, uh, bringing into captivity made me think about um Uh uh we used to you when the boys were small after church on Sunday nights, this may disappoint some of you, I don't know. But we would go home after church on Sunday night And we would watch till about midnight, Sam and I particularly, we would watch Cops. Anybody here Hops, anybody ever watched that? Anybody know? Bad boy, bad boy, what you gonna do? I mean we just watch that. It was the stupidest thing in the world. They'd re they'd arrest these people and they'd say, well, I don't know how those drugs got in my purse. I think the wind blew it in there or something. And we'd laugh and we'd watch that thing. And a lot of times they would come up to a criminal, you know, they're coming up, and my hats are off the policeman, man. They've pulled somebody over and they'd come up very cautiously a lot of times at night and they're coming up to confront or interact with the driver. They got reason to suspect. A lot of times they'll have their hand on their gun as they're walking up just to be sure and they'll be very careful. And they'll talk a little bit. And the ones on the show, of course, it always escalated because that's what the show's about. And so one thing led to another. Next thing you know, they're busting the window open. And what they're doing is they're pulling that bad guy out from behind the wheel of the car. They've got to get him out from behind the wheel of that car because he can take off a lot of people who could get hurt. They're getting control. They're taking control to get him out from behind the wheel. And I think what he's saying to us here is we have got to get control of our mind. Do not let our mind run itself. I've got to bring that thing under control. Am I making any sense at all here? And I cannot just allow any, I cannot just allow any thought that comes into my mind to take over. I've got to bring it into captivity. I've got to bust that window, grab that thought, get it out of the driver's seat of my mind, and handcuff it and tase it. Right. So holy living starts with holy thinking And holy thinking is dependent upon controlled thinking. In the midst of persecution, we've got to control what how we think. A lot of people get bitter. Somebody does injustice. Somebody does it, boy, they get bitter. In the midst of heartache, I gotta control my thinking. In the midst of injustice, don't allow And that's what he's telling these folks. Don't allow the injustices and the heartaches and the persecution. Don't let that corrupt your thinking. Gird up the loins. Don't let it. Now here's a question. I'll end with this. How do I, how do I, what's a good way to control my thinking? I need the Lord's help, right? I need the Lord's help. That's what David said. The words of my mouth, meditation will heart be accepted. But let me give you just a little practical thing If I get up in the morning and I open up the eternal, powerful, life-changing Word of God, And I feed my mind on God's word for a little bit. I'm telling you, that will help. I told Mark right while we were shaking hands, I said, Mark, these songs we sing throughout the month, shaking hands, we sing it over and over and over. You know what I found happening to me? I wake up in the morning singing that song. I woke up this week several times, woke up singing, rejoice, give thanks, and sing I had to get control there for a second. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us. I hope this was helpful. I know you challenged me in studying this. Help us control our thinking, not let that take over us. Holy Spirit of God, fill us, I pray. Renew our minds. I pray the words of our mouth, meditation of our heart be acceptable in your sight. Because we want to live holy in an unholy world. We want to be godly in an ungodly world. We would be able to rejoice with joy unspeakable in the midst of injustice. We need you to help us keep our thoughts right. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I need God to help me in my thinking? I see that battle. That's where it is. I know it is. I know it is. Any like that, uplifted hand, God bless you. My hand's raised. It is ongoing. Maybe there's a specific aspect of our thinking that God touched on tonight. And you just want to need to come to the old altar and say, Lord Let this meditation of my heart be acceptable. Change this. Transform it, Lord. Help me. Maybe some need to see side. I'm not reading that Bible like I should. I'm not meditating on it day and night like I should. Maybe we need to start doing that so our thinking can be transformed. Maybe before we take Lord's Supper, things on our heart and mind need to be dealt with before the Lord Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation. As she plays, how about it? We finish out