As Christians, as Americans, and something that we spend In one way or the other. And that's time. Time. Because we're living in such a time as this And every one of us, God wants us to do certain things. So we need to every now and again Every Sunday, morning, Sunday evening, now don't miss tonight. Oh my, don't miss tonight. Because I'm going to be preaching a message called a Aaron and Her Ministry, and I'm going to be showing you photographs of some of the people on Capitol Hill. that are not downtrodden with the fact that our country is in dire straits, but they are glad to be in the fight. I'm going to show you some former naval SEAL members. In fact, one was the commander of SEAL Team 6 that took out Osama bin Laden. And I'm going to show you some atomic submariners that are now in office, and some former Rangers and some tremendous, godly people that are doing the job for us. And the pastors that have come and responded and held up their hands like Aaron and Hur held up the hands of Moses. I'll go into that. So don't miss tonight It's going to be a wonderful time. I think it's really going to encourage you to the nth degree as to what is going on in our nation. Saber the Harding, are you worried? No. I am not worried. No? No. I think worry is next to atheism. Because worry is something that Christians should never do, because God's still on the throne. Now we should be concerned. And uh yes, sometimes grieved, but not worried, because I've read the end of the book, haven't you? And we win. Amen. So take your Bibles and go with me to Revelation, the book of Revelation. In chapter 10. Revelation in chapter 10. Time that we have. I'm going to entitle this message, Time Well Spent. Because it is something that we spend. And we spend it every single moment of every single day. We live, you get this now, within the parameters of time. Amen. Now, history is very, very short. A lot of times people think, wow, 6,000 years of recorded history That's where we are as a human race. But you think about this. Six thousand years can be represented by sixty people Living back to back a hundred years each. I met a man uh yesterday, Brother Miller, 99 years old, gonna turn a hundred in March. He's one of your members So 60 people living 100 years back to back could take up basically just part of this one section and they could represent all of recorded history. I like to point out when people come to Washington, D. C. , and I take them to the Lincoln Memorial that was dedicated in 1922. And to point out the fact that Lincoln's son was there when they commemorated when they initiated his memorial. Robert Todd Lincoln, that was born in the 1860s, was there. That's something. Old man, yes. But that shows you how short time really is. But there's coming a day that God says right here in Revelation chapter 10 and verse 6 that would be very interesting. It says, and let's look at it together, Revelation chapter 10 and verse 6, and swear by him that liveth forever and ever. Who created heaven and the things that therein are, and the earth and the things that therein are. and the sea and the things which there are therein. And look at this, that there should be time no more. So anyone that has ever accepted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior has accepted that gift of eternal life. I'm not talking about people that believe that God is. Hell's filled with people that believe that God is. Heaven is filled with people that accepted the gift of God, which is eternal life. Big difference between the two. Amen. So please make sure, before you walk out of here today, that you just don't believe that God is, but you've accepted that gift of eternal life which Jesus Christ died on the cross and shed his perfect blood for our tainted blood. Amen. And uh because that's the only thing that's a you say, well I believe in God. I think that's enough Even the devils believe and tremble. So belief isn't enough. It's acting upon our belief biblically that Settles our eternal destination. And I don't know about you. Look, I'm thankful that God allows us to live for such a time as this, but I'm also looking forward to eternity Amen. Now I don't know about you, but I think you can look at me and understand I like to eat. Okay? And I'm looking forward to the marriage supper of the Lamb I remember when some one person said, How long are we going to be eating the Merrick Supper of the Lamp? I said, I don't know, we're going to be in eternity So who knows? I mean how long we're gonna eat, it's not gonna matter. And uh hey, it's gonna all be calorie free. Isn't that great, amen? See, there's gonna be uh any any need up there? No, because there's gonna be no more deaths, but I'll guarantee you you won't miss it because the food is gonna be out of this world, literally. Come on, work with me here, okay? That one went I just say went over everybody. But what I'm saying is, look, time, our time The most precious possession that we hold is our eternal life, is the gift of God. But the most precious commodity That we have is our time. If you give your time to someone, if someone gives their time to you, that's precious. Because it is never Going to be able to be replenished. That time spent will be gone. Time is free, and yet it's priceless. We can't own it But we can use it. And we can't keep it, but we can spend it. And please, what I'm saying today, may we not Waste it on regrets, worries, grudges, wrath, or bitterness. Amen? So I I just want to have a word of prayer, a special word of prayer for this service today, Heavenly Father. We come before you now. And we live in a very busy, busy culture where our time Is being sought after by many smaller voices. Those things that literally are trying to gain our attention Many times lesser things. Oh God, help us to understand through this message throughout all of our history. of mankind and in our country specifically, what time has been invested in And Father, help us, Lord. If there's one person here today that doesn't know you as Savior, help them, Father, to take this opportunity and this time to accept that gift of eternal life that they might walk from death into life and Lord from time and to the eternal bliss that heaven is, that hasn't even entered into the imagination of man, how wonderful it's going to be. This is a tremendous world that we live in, and we have unbelievable creature comforts here in America, but nothing compares to what we will receive and be able to enjoy for all of eternity when we get to heaven, if We accept you as Savior. So, Lord, I thank you for allowing me to understand to the fact that you revealed to me through your Holy Spirit years and years ago that gift of eternal life Lord, please search through the hearts and minds that are present here today. And if one person doesn't know you May they take the courage and the time to change their eternal destination today. Father, we ask for a hedge protection around this assembly. Mind off the wicked and the evil one. Help the cares and burdens, aches and pains of life just to move to the back and help us to focus on eternal truths as I step back, articulate my speech, clarify and direct my thoughts, but Father, most of all, indwell me with thy blessed and holy ghost Lord, I surrender everything that I am to you, and Father, that His presence, the presence of your blessed and Holy Spirit. might be here, and we might have our minds and hearts open unto him. And we'll be very careful to give you all the praise and glory for what you're about to do. Change us, Lord, move us, inspire us, and war, Father, we pray that you would help us to Realize what time you've given us and how critical it is And we'll give you thanks for everything. And in the name and by the authority that's in the name of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. It's been said that in our lifetime, as an average American, we'll spend six months sitting at stoplights. I don't like that. I don't like stoplights. Are there any police officers here? Okay. Sometimes I just purposely act upon that I won't say anymore, okay? But you think about six months stop at stoplights, eight months wasted opening junk mail. Throw that stuff away. Don't even bother opening it. I just shred it and whatever. Think about this. One year One year looking for misplaced objects. Honey, have you seen my wallet? Where are my keys at? Oh, where did I put that thing? You know, I I remember one time I uh I lost my wallet for four months. Oh, that's that was not good. But I found it again. Amen? After I canceled all my credit cards and got a new license, all the rest of it. But I mean I have no idea how many hours I spent just looking for that wallet, but hey, you misplaced things. Five years, five years waiting in lines. American Maryland Motor Vehicles. One of the worst perpetrators upon our time that there is. Amen. But you think about that. Waiting in line. Six years eating. I kind of like that though. Amen. Six years eating. Uh But I, you know, when you look at that, all those minutes add up, don't they? I wonder what the number would be if we added up all the time that we have spent with God. So far in our life. I mean, literally just spent with God, getting apart from the world and all these lesser voices And uh what would it be? A year? A month? I think some nominal Christians would have to say, well, weeks. But uh There's a lot of God's people that say, I'm just too busy to develop a relationship with God. Oh you need to understand what you're saying there. We were all familiar with Hebrews 11, aren't we? Hebrews 11, the great hall of faith. You know, you think about all the people and all the amazing things that they accomplished, miraculous things through faith. And oh by the way Faith, as I told the men yesterday, out of all the armament of God, faith is the most important thing that you can put on. Helm of salvation, sword of the spirit. Breastplate of righteous lawyers go to bat with truth. Feet shall the preparation of the gospel of peace. But above all, God says, above all, the shield of faith. That ye may quench all the fiery darts of the wicked one. Amen. But by faith, all of these people In Romans chapter 11, they did some amazing things. By faith, Abel offered a more excellent sacrifice. By faith, Enoch was translated. that he should not be that he should not see death and he was not found. Without faith it's impossible to please him. By faith Noah being warned of uh of God of the things not a scene as yet moved with fear, prepared the ark. Imagine that. Imagine what CNN or MSLSD All right? Yeah, I you you heard me right. Okay. Would have reported if they saw a man building a boat when it had never rained and there was no body of water to float it in Okay? Now you build a boat around here, everyone knows what you're doing. You're gonna get out on the lake, okay? But back in those days, there hadn't it there hadn't ever been any rain There wasn't any big bodies of water anywhere. It was just little tiny points. And here he is building this huge, huge ship. A football field's long. Can you imagine what they were said by Safe Abraham when he was called to go out into a place which he should After received her inheritance, he obeyed and went out. Look at this now, listen, not knowing whither he went. Think about that. Abraham, I want you to go out where? Out there. Where? Out there. Can you imagine the GPS telling you something like that today? Okay? Where where are we going? Okay, how how do I do just out there. But where? Out there. That's what God said Talking about a global positioning system, uh I mean, you know, Abram had but he was looking for a city Which hath foundations, whose builder and maker was God. He did that by faith. By faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau. By faith, Jacob, when he was dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph. By faith, Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel and gave commandment concerning his bones that they took those bones of Joseph out. By faith, Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. All of these people by man's standards will were illogical. They did something impossible And yet miraculous. This type of behavior was not even limited to the people of the Bible. Hear me now. The reason why we are a great nation. The reason why we have so much. The reason why it's taken so long For the devil, through his followers, the people on the left wing that say socialism is a good thing, it brings everyone down to the same level. Yeah, poverty level The reason why it's taken so long to drag our country down is because the men that founded this nation were men of faith. Men So logical as to put themselves and their families and their fortunes in last place And put other people in first place. Get this now. With a slim to nothing chance of winning. Slim to nothing. See, we look back in history now, we we really have a hard time appreciating what those men did. Because we look at them and venerate them. But those most of those men were not venerated by most of our populace. As I said yesterday, merits repetition, I want to tell you as well, hey, not even a third of our country were on the side of the Patriots. Over two-thirds were monarchists. Looked at these men that we venerate today, George Washington, James Madison, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Patrick Henry, as traitors. Traitors. John Hancock, when he signed the declaration, nice and loud, large, excuse me, the king said, hang him first Find them, hang them. Period. End of story. They all had challenges, didn't they? Now we have challenges in our time as well. They are challenges to spend time with God. We have the same challenges today, but you think about this These men, by man's standards, did something so illogical, so illogical as the British were attacking Boston instead of getting on their horses and fleeing off in three different directions, they went to prayer And I'm being challenged right now for the future by by the future, right over there. Amen. It's Ivy, right? Is that Ivy? Is that her name? Ivy? Hey Ivy Hey Ivy. Hey Ivy girl. Yeah, she just wants to make noise, okay? She says, I want to challenge Brother Harding. But I'm doing what I'm doing today for Ivy, amen But these men, hey, they didn't run off and try to escape from the British. They went through their knees. They prayed for three hours. Through Psalm thirty-five, asking God to do the miraculous. Illogical I mean if someone was attacking down by the Oatmar Hotel, amen, people would be s they'd be scattering If there was a major attack going on, people would be running. Our founders didn't run. They went to their knees. I want to submit to you something today. That all of these people in history, biblical or American history, They used their time wisely and appointed a time to spend with God. May I submit to you today? The greatest thing that these people did is not what we read in Hebrews 11. No, no, no. That is the results of the decision that they made. With their time. They made a decision to spend time with God They gained strength and faith by spending time with God. They developed an intimate walk with God, investing Time with him. The greatest decision that they or we can make is to spend time with God The accomplishments of their lives was simply an outflow of their walk with God and obedience to God and their faith in God and the great People of history were ready for their journey in faith because they were walking lockstep with God. He was directing the way. The big issue today The big problem with American Christianity today is we're so busy that we don't have time to spend with God. Because we've never made a decision to spend more time with God. Oh I uh Brother Hardy, I got to I've got to do this and I've got to do this and I've got to do this and and this and and I've got a big list, to-do list. I'll guarantee you, the people that are remembered in history Had those same lists. But they said we're putting that off. I remember a man, he was so busy. He said, I am so busy, I've decided to spend more time with God. That's just completely logical. He said, yes, but it's something that is eternal. Because the more time I spend with God, the straighter my path is going to be made. And the more I will accomplish. And not just accomplish. But accomplish it through and by God's grace. I don't know about you. I I love God directing my steps. Steps of a good man. or ordered by the Lord. Hey, when I get up in the morning, I want God to direct my steps. When we go into Capitol Hill and walk around to those senators and in uh House Representatives' offices, I say, Lord, I I want you to direct my steps. Because I want to see some divine appointments. See, we're all going to spend our time. But American Christianity, too many times, they're spending their time on the temporal. And not the eternal. You hear me? And look, we're all susceptible to this Now I don't know about you. I I want to see God move. I want to see God move upon our nation. I want to see a a great revival. And the only way that's going to happen If you get right down to the nitty-gritty is how much time we're going to spend in the Bible, and how much time we're going to spend in prayer, and how much time we're going to allocate that appointed time, you see. In spending time with God, anyone can display a spirit of attitude, character, which is well pleasing to God. This type of life prepares us for the task at hand. Why were these great people great? Was it their intelligence? Wait a minute, Peter was a fisherman. And yet he spoke and 3,000 people got saved. Paul, he was an intellect. God used him as well to write much of the Bible. But it doesn't make any difference. Our intelligent quotient, our talents It makes all the difference in the time that we spend with God coming apart And walking with God. It's amazing. It's amazing to me. I don't know about you, but I think it would be to you as well to realize that God wants to spend time with us. You get that, right? He created Adam and Eve to have fellowship with them. You think about that, right? He created them To have fellowship with him. Can you almost hear God and the hurt in his voice when he's looking in the garden and he's saying, Adam? Where are though? Adam? And he's hiding. Now, he's still calling for us today. By our names. And I don't know about you. I want to allocate some time for him. I want to allocate some time for him in the morning, the afternoon. And the evening. First thing in the morning I want to do, I want to be thinking about God. Last thing at night before I go to bed, I want to be thinking about God. That's why we have the country that we have. Because our founding fathers were just that way. They were men that purposely made a decision to spend time with God. Because those founders, those fifty-six men, and and I I love to say this, you know in history how many times? 56 multi-billionaires comparatively speaking? They were Signed a document that was going to put everything in jeopardy, their great wealth, their life, the lives of their family. A lot of them had little ones at home like like Ivy. But they signed a document called the Declaration. They declared to the world They're not going to want a man anymore as king. Their king from that point on was going to be King Jesus and their sovereign was going to be Jehovah. But they did that, you see Because preachers preached into them the fact you need to spend time with God. You need to stay in your Bible. You need to stay in a in prayer. You need to have a prayer closet. You need to have a prayer list. You know, there's some Christians who don't even have a prayer list. Brother Lutherman, that just that shocks me. Do you want to have a prayer list? If you don't have a prayer list, you go home and start one today. And and say, who do I pray for? Well, you pray for family, for friends, for you pray for your pastor Pray for your church, pray for your city, pray for your nation. You you pray for issues, you pray for this next election coming up because this next election is going to be do or die time The most critical election in our nation's history. And here's the big, you know, the big issue, the big problem that we need to be praying about is that a lot of Christians are disheartened thinking that their vote doesn't count And if that happens, we're gonna get something even worse than Sleepy Joe. At least Sleepy Joe doesn't know what he's doing. Get someone in there that knows what they're doing and are working consciously for the demise of our country? Now he's being, I know I'm looking for the strings when I see him on television, because he's he's a puppet. You know You see Mike like this all the time. And and I don't know if you ever heard or seen this. I've seen it, where he's about to walk off the platform and someone runs over and grabs him just as he's about to step out into space. Okay Say you're making fun? No, I'm just saying how sad it is. It's elder abuse. The people that have propped him up to include his wife should be ashamed of themselves. Well hey, we need to be praying about these things. How many of you with me today? Say amen. I'm amazed, aren't you, that God wants to spend time. It says in the book of James, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy. Now lust is a bad connotation in the world that we live today, but it's just a strong desire. And God says in the book of James, the Holy Spirit of God living with He's lusting. He is desiring you to spend time with him. And we're thinking about everything and anything else but God. You know why? Because we're busy people I'm not preaching at you today. I'm preaching with you today. You understand? We're all susceptible to this. So we've got to make some conscious decisions that we're going to spend more time with God. The main reason the people of the Bible and our founding era were ready to sacrifice and personified the sacrifice that defines us is because they knew they were not living. And their own time. What am I gonna do with m with my time? It's not your time. It's God's time. You're bought with a price if you know him. Job 7 verse 1, is there not an appointed time to man upon the earth? Are not his days also like the days of a hireling? Hebrews 9, 27, and it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment is appointed. Psalm 31 and verse 15, my times are in thy hand. Deliver me from the hand of mine enemies and from them that persecute me. And the time of life is in God's hands. To lengthen or shorten. Wait a minute, I thought it was appointed. 1 Kings 3:14. And if thou walk in my ways, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as thy father David did, I will lengthen thy days I don't know about you. I want God to lengthen my days. Don't you? Yeah. Hey, it's not our time. So what do we do? Well, what do we do? We first of all we need to bless the Lord at all times. As it says in 34. Bless the Lord. When good things come, when bad things come, bless the Lord. Hey, you know I love this. The people of the founding air, they were constantly blessing God. Constantly with their life. with their struggle, with their sacrifice. So, yes, teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom It says in Daniel 221, He changeth the times and the seasons, he removeth kings and setteth up kings, giveth wisdom. He giveth wisdom to the wise and knowledge to them that know understanding So teach us, Lord. Our time is in God's hands. The way of man is not in himself. nor in our friends' hands, nor in our enemies' hands, but in God's hands. And what time does the Lord desire us to To spend and how he wants us to spend? Well, for such a time as this, for this present time, and and uh knowing our time is short, I I love the fact that God allows us to redeem the time. How can we redeem the time By investing in others. We went to the hotel the other day and there was a veteran, Al Friend, he had a c veteran's cap on. He was smoking a cigar and drinking, I don't know what, something in a can, the thing. But I walked over and I started talking to him and gave him one of our gave him one of our tracks. My wife was inside the hotel room and and I explained what our track what our track talks about, the foundation of our nation, and talked about Hey, I'm I I appreciate our veterans, what they did for us. I talk about our veterans all over the United States and and I said this is a tract that's been given to every senator And every congressman on Capitol Hill, over thirty thousand of these have been uh sent out and given out by hand. And it talks about the foundation of our nation, of our capital, and of our eternal soul, which is Jesus Christ Talk to him about some Medal of Honor recipients that I've known. And then I gave him this, you know what he said? He said, uh, I'm gonna read this very carefully I said, I believe you will, thank you. You know what that was? That was time well spent. Say, Bill Harding, does it get Arduous going all over the United States and traveling and bringing people a and I asked uh I had one person say, You travel on the weekends, then you come back in And and when you land, you're picking up pastors. Doesn't that get tiring? I said, well, it might get a little tiring physically, but it's just wonderful. It's like spiritual oxygen They say, don't you get, I don't, you know why? Because I know this is time well spent. It's time well spent with you. I'm glad to be here. And I'll go to any church, any pastor that asks me. I'll speak to the same way to 5,500 or 50. Amen. Why? Because I know when God allows me to speak about Him and how He has given us this country, it's time well spent. What are we spending our time on every day? And I know there are some things you have to do. I get that. There's some things you have to take care of. Okay? And I understand your livelihood But your livelihood is how you make a living. Your life is God and sharing his good news and the truth. And as I love to say, truth has a name, and his name is Jesus Christ. So wherever we go, amen, we are just taking our time and investing it. In a good way. Someone said, well, Hardy, are you ever going to retire? Yes Well, when? My retirement plan is out of this world. Amen. So you're gonna get some rest? I'll rest when I get to heaven. Amen? Because why? God's giving me this time. I know it's short, but hey, I know I can redeem the walk in wisdom. Toward them that are without redeeming the time. You know why? Because you're known and read of all men. Our founders. They walked in a certain way. And people watched them. People watched Washington. They watched Jefferson. They watched them walking in wisdom I don't know if you've ever seen it, but the painting of our founding fathers on their knees, with a preacher over them praying through Psalm 35. Three hours, you get that, right? They were used to this. This wasn't nothing. And John Adams writes Abigail, and he and he said this: even the Quakers. We're moved to tears. Now why would he say that? Because the Quakers were very stoic. Never showed any emotion. Never, you know, happy or sad, just you know, that was part of the but the Quakers, he said, were moved to tears because God's spirit was so palpable. You could almost cut it with a knife. Hey, what I'm saying is, you get real serious about prayer? You get real serious about your Bible reading? That's what our founders did. Spending time with God. And when you get to heaven, there are going to be people coming up to you from behind and saying, thank you. Because I watched you in this situation. And you were such a testimony to me And you didn't even know that I was watching you. You know those guys at work that make fun of you? I've been there before When I worked for the Diplomatic Security Service in the State Department in Washington D. C. , I had people actually make fun of me, knowing I was a Christian. But there was one night after hours, and I was in my office, and oh, by the way, being a Christian and following God, he exalted me He promoted me into second command over 325 men. And I was just laughing with my wife the other day. As much as I respect our military. I never had the honor of serving in the military. It just t you know, I was at the end of the Vietnam War and And uh we were just about out, and uh and then I got into the ministry, and so I've been in God's army, but I was the only one out of three hundred and twenty-five men that had not been in the military And yet I was second in command. Every once in a while guys would say, so uh it was paramilitary rank structure. Major Harding, what branch of the military were you in? I said I never had the privilege to serve. I've worked for and with military people all my life. I love our veterans, appreciate them. My dad was World War II veteran. And then they would say So uh you uh probably have a master's degree in counterterrorism, right? I said, no, my degrees are are in the Bible and theology and One of them went as far as to say, What are you doing here? I said, I'm working here. And you're working for me. So why don't you get back to work, okay? And they kind of smirk and but I had all of their loyalty because they saw How God allowed me to walk in wisdom. And one night after five o'clock I had the man that you can still see in the documentaries stepping out of Marine One during Reagan's tenure and saluting in full dress marine uniform and as President Reagan walked back, he worked for me, walked into my office, and I said, What's going on, Vince? He said, I need to ask you a question. I said, well sit down. Say after hours. He said, what is it that you have that I don't have? You have something I don't have. Now I was about to leave, go home. But hey, when you can spend time for God, that's eternal. So I said, sit down. He said, I've seen you in the middle of a bomb threat. And people are running all over the place. You're standing there. Calm and you're directing everyone, there are standard operating procedures. He said, I've seen you under tremendous pressure. When P when When uh when there is s adversity going on in the State Department and you just stand there calmly, I need to know what you have I said, well, it isn't what it's who. But why? He said, my wife was just diagnosed with cervical cancer. I said, well, sit down. I took the Bible and showed him. That the difference and what I had was the Lord Jesus Christ. And I said, that's the difference. And Vince got saved. Right there in my office in the State Department. And then I went over about a few days later and sat at his kitchen table and led his wife to the Lord. She got saved. Just a young couple just got married. And then I prayed, Lord, these are now two young people. They were just married. They want children, they want to live a life. Lord, you're the great physician. Please touch this woman's body and heal her from this cervical cancer. And I told them, There is no such thing as miracle workers, but there is a miracle God who is a great physician. I said, so I'm going to pray in his name. So I prayed and we said goodbye. About a week later, Vince walks into my office a few feet off the ground and he says, Hey, uh My wife went to the doctors and they said they must have made a mistake It was just probably scar tissue. She has no cervical cancer. I said they didn't make a mistake. It was God that showed up and gave you a miracle. Don't ever forget that You know what that's called? That's called time well spent. They have been married now for years, have children. People are watching you. You can redeem the time by walking in wisdom before them. Hey, when I read our founding fathers I can see them. I walk where they walked. I walked into the offices where they would sit. I've walked down the same streets and I envision in my mind these men, these great men Leading a rag tag group of men against the greatest military in the world. And I could almost see them in my mind's eye, walking in wisdom Washington saying, I wouldn't wish my position on my worst enemy. But if I was to give up, all would be lost and go to his knees. And then walk by a private hut and look in and see. He's writing to his grandmother. He said, it just seems hopeless. But then I look at General Washington walking by And I realize he's walking with God. And with God, nothing is ever hopeless. So I'm staying, grandmother, and I'm going to continue to fight because I know the battles that I fight with General Washington are going to settle the souls of millions of people to come and being able to hear the truth or not hear the truth. Man, if that doesn't get you going, I don't know what could And we are up to that same thing today. Redeeming the time because the days are evil In due time, and hope for eternal life, which God that cannot lie promised before the world began in due time manifested his word through the preaching which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God our Savior. I want to tell you this, if you don't know the Lord as your Savior Don't ever say, well, my mom or dad said I got saved when I was four or five. If you can't remember, you need to get saved. Don't take it. And I know we honor our fathers and our mothers, but you need to know that you accepted the Lord as Savior. In the last times, God says. 2 Timothy 3. 1, this know also that in the last times perilous times shall come. And so we just continue to go forward. And what we need to realize is, hey, That in the dispensation of the fullness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, which are on earth, even in him. Wow. Laying up In store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they might lay hold Of eternal life. Wow. I know that everyone here probably has some savings. I know you've invested in your families, which is good. But I wonder What have you invested in God? In your day. Don't tell me what you've done. Tell me what you haven't done. How much time have you or have you not spent with God? Much time in prayer How much time in Bible reading? How much time giving of yourself, giving tracks, your resources to the Lord? You know one thing, I grew up under a preacher that, I mean, he was always wanting us to give. He said you need to give till it hurts. And I followed his direction. You know what? I've never been hurt giving to the Lord Ever. Because God will be a debtor to no man. The more I've given to God, the more he's given to me. on every level, financial, time invested, ministry, everything. And you know what? I is you know what God says? We need to be hilarious in our giving. It's another time to give, yeah. Because normally it's another time to give, ooh. Man. God blesses. And how I learned years ago, even to tithe, that 90% goes a lot further than 100%. And that's just financial. And when I invest my time in people, you know what I get? I get the blessings of the Lord. And I haven't even begun to reap. What I've sown for the Lord. None of us have until we get to heaven. The greatest thing in heaven, the greatest joy in heaven, are gonna be those people that we bring with us What is your joy? Crown of rejoicing, or not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ, for ye are our glory and joy. So those people that we bring with us are the people that are going to be giving us the joy through eternity. Invest yourself in God today. In prayer, in Bible. Every time I sit down to eat, and we'll eat today. How many are planning on eating today? Anyone? Okay. Think about those men. That ate nothing but heart attack, flour, and water. Talking to a 17 to 13-year-old. And they just glazed over When I said flour and water. And then tonight we're gonna have something different. We're gonna have water and flour. And we're gonna put a little salt in there, maybe a little pepper. Those men ate that for months. Literally starving, so that we could go out and feast sumptuously today. They were in rags. So that we could dress in nice clothing today. They march through the snow With their feet cracking because didn't have enough shoe leather so that we could get into our automobiles today and drive I'll guarantee you this. What they did was time well spent. Because they spent it on a nation unlike any other nation in the history of mankind aside from the nation of Israel. May I ask you today, How much time are you spending with God? If you're like me, I would say, you know what? I need to spend more. time with God in Bible, more time in God in prayer. I need to spend and put myself, you might say, investing more in the lives of people tomorrow than I did today. Would you agree with me that you need to spend more time with God in Bible and prayer and investing and giving tracts? Then why don't we do something about it today? Because here's the thing. You know, it's all American Sunday. America began from prayer, Bible reading, witnessing, preaching. And investing time in others. If we want to see our country continue, peace and prosperity, which is a byproduct of liberty, it begins At an old-fashioned altar where people humble themselves and pray and seek God's face and turn from their wicked ways that He will hear, forgive, and heal their land. By time. Say we don't know when they go to the altar. It might be time to come. I don't normally do this or that. It might be time to change. Well, I don't normally give tracks out or win. It might be time to start Time well spent. Redeeming the time. Because our days, our time is short. Our time is in God's hands. Don't you want to see the blessings of God? Why don't we spend a little time together as believers in Christ at an old-fashioned altar? I'm not going to ask the piano to play. I'm going to go and I'm going to ask God to help me spend more time with Him. Would you join me at this altar and do something and put your time investing in a little while at an altar where God meets his best believers and blesses them. Would you stand right now and come and join me? Don't hesitate. Let's come.