And uh I want to begin reading verse eleven and twelve. Ecclesiastes nine, verse eleven and twelve This is Solomon. He's giving a sermon, I believe, if you study this, uh I believe he's giving a sermon in Jerusalem. And this whole book is his sermon. I bel that's the way I'm taking it, I understand it. And uh he is throughout the sermon, the first part particular, he's explaining what his thinking process was that drew him away from God. And he gives us tremendous insight into how a person who is so close to God has such power and wisdom of God yet they can fall so far away. And he gives us insight into the thinking process that produced that. And so the first six chapters are fascinating. as he reveals that in this sermon. Then the second half where we're at now, he's giving some advice from under the sun and and things he's noticed and observations he's made from under the sun. And we'll touch on that a little bit. But this is what he says here now. He says, I returned and saw under the sun that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong. Neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill. Look at this. But time and chance happened to them all. For man also knoweth not his time, as the fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in a snare. So are the sons of men snared in an evil time when it falleth suddenly upon them. I took a little statement he makes there at the end of verse number 11. I used it for my title, Time and Chance. Let's pray and ask the Lord to challenge us tonight in our faith. Father We come to this book of Ecclesiastes again, and I trust with hungry hearts we want you to teach us. We're living our lives here under the sun in this old world, fallen world. And we need your wisdom, Father. We need your direction. We need your help. As Laura said, we need you to come to us again and again. And see us through and guide us and lead us. Lord, I have nothing in and of myself of any eternal or spiritual value, so, Lord, I yield my will and present my body anew and ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. You would speak your word through me again as we pray every time. Help us, Lord, this coming week to be a testimony of that which is above the sun. True and living God and the plan and purpose you have for our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We're finding out, if you haven't already. And maybe those that are just joining us were finding out that the book of Ecclesiastes can seem to be a very confusing puzzle. If you come to it just without any background or insight into what he's talking about. How many folks here, and I'm sure I've asked this throughout the series, but how many folks here ever read back some time in the past, you read through the book of Ecclesiastes? And you read and said, that doesn't sound right. Anybody ever think you read something there, it doesn't mesh. It doesn't match with what other parts of the Bible say. And uh if we do not understand the premise of the book of Ecclesiastes, that's going to be true. It won't make sense. And it won't line up with other areas of Scripture. But when we understand the premise of the book and what Solomon is saying, Then it begins to make sense. And the premise of the book is stated, as we pointed out so many times, there in those two three letter word three words, there in verse number 11, under the sun. And we see that over and over and over and over through the book of Ecclesiastes. Under the sun, under the sun, under the sun. This past year I've heard so many of our church folk talk about some event or somebody said something or uh somebody gave advice and they'll say, oh, that's under the sun Anybody say that, you know, in the last year or so? Oh, that's under the sun. And that tells me we're getting the thinking. We understand. What Solomon was talking about. I want to give a brief review, and there's a reason I'm doing this. I think you'll see it here in a minute, but if you would come back to chapter number one, Ecclesiastes And here's something you might be interested in doing, but I took uh I took a red pen and a yellow highlighter. And I went through the entire book of Ecclesiastes and I underlined in red and highlighted in yellow that phrase under the sun. And it just stands out when you read through, you see it there, and it keeps that in front of you And then I took a blue highlighter and I went through and I underscored where it says Vanity of Vanity. Always Look with me if you would at chapter one and verse number two, Solomon is laying the premise of the book. This is what I'm talking about He says, Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher, that's Solomon. Vanity of vanity is always vanity. What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh? Say it with me. Under the sun. If you would look at verse number 14. He says, I've seen all the works that are done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit. Chapter uh two and verse number one. He says, Uh I said in my heart, Go now, I will prove thee with mirth. Therefore enjoy thy uh enjoy pleasure, and behold, this also is what? Vanity. Come down to verse 11. He says, the last part of verse 11, he says, Behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and there was no prophet under the sun. Look at verse number 15, same chapter. He says, uh, the last part, and he says, Then I said in my heart that this also is vanity. Look with me at verse number 19, the last part. He says, I have showed myself wise under the sun. This also was vanity. Verse number 21, the last part, this also is vanity and a great evil. Verse number 23, the last part, this also is vanity. 26, the last phrase, this also is vanity and vexation of spirit. And I've got them written down here and we could go on and on and on. Chapter 3 and verse number 19, he says, For all is vanity. Chapter 4, four times in chapter 4, once in chapter 5, twice in chapter 6, once in chapter 7, once in chapter 8, once in chapter 12 He says, it's vanity and vexation of spirit And this is the premise of the book. And I'm saying this again for a reason. The premise of the book is this: Solomon's life without God. He has pushed God from his life. He's pushed the Word of God from His life. The Word of God is not going to be a part of my thinking. The Word of God is not going to be a part of my decision making. The Word of God is not going to be a Part of the values and priorities of my life God is pushed out. He will not be a factor in any of these areas of my life. I am living my life under the sun. And his conclusion was this: that type of life is empty and miserable. Vanity and vexation of spirit. Solomon decides he's going to live for himself He is going to be his God. He is going to call the shots. He's going to decide what's right and wrong. He's going to decide what his priorities are. And he says, I ended up empty and miserable. Empty and miserable. You know, we can go ahead and push God out of our lives if we want. We can go ahead and push the Bible aside and say, you know, I'm not interested in that. My mind's made up. I know what I'm going to do. I know what I'm going to be. I'm going to be the God of my life. I'm going to call the shots of my life. I'm going to det Determine what my life is. You can go ahead and do that if you want I guarantee you one thing, you're going to end up empty and frustrated. Empty and frustrated. God has created us. It is designed into our very nature. To need him. To need him. We have a hole in our soul that only God can fill. And Solomon's trying desperately. Now, I said all that and reviewed all that because come to chapter 9 again, and verse number 11, at the beginning of the verse, he makes a statement. He says, I returned. And Saul under the sun. And I think what Solomon is telling us here, I'm getting back to my premise. I'm getting back to That which this whole thing is all about. And he's been touching on it, and uh, if you go up earlier, what we've already preached in chapter 9, he repeats that phrase, under the sun, under the sun, under the sun, under the sun. And we found out that he has made the observation in the previous verses, verses 4 through 10. He's made this observation, under the sun, death wins. Alright, everybody with me here? Everybody with me? He makes important he makes it important. Conclusion. He comes to an important conclusion. He says, without God in the picture, without the word of God in the picture, that not being a factor, when it's all said and done, death wins. We're all going to die. We can't escape it, death wins. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. How many people here you'd say, I know a little bit about the Bible, I have a little grasp of what the Bible teaches. I'd say that's probably most of us would say, I know some How many people used to from the Word of God that in the end death does not win? In the end, death is simply a door to eternal life. And Jesus, through death, conquered him that had the power of death, that is the devil. Death is the last enemy, and Christ conquered And so for those of us that know that there's more to life, there's more to reality than just what we see and hear and feel, that there is a God, a creator. There is a plan, there is a purpose, there is a spiritual reality. And we understand that through the word of God, that death in the end does not win. But Solomon's coming from the approach under the sun, and his conclusion is death wing, death conquers all. From an earthly perspective, death conquers all. And he said, just make the best of it. You're going to die, that's it. There's nothing we can do. There's nothing we have. Just make the best of it. Now he comes to this passage, these two verses, and I was captivated by these. What he says here from an earthly perspective, from a from a temporal perspective. And he makes some interesting statements, and I'll summarize it before we look at it. Says something along these lines. Life is unpredictable. Now, I'll be honest with you, that's true. How many folks ever had something happen you did not see it coming? Yeah. Life is unpredictable. And that's a reality for everybody. He says, he's telling us here, life is complicated We plan things out and we've got things figured out and we know think we know what the formula of life, what it is, and how it works out. A lot of times it don't work out that way And so he's approaching all of this from under the sun, and I see that he makes three statements. He makes three observations about life from under the sun in these two verses. Number one is this. Life is unfair. Life is unfair. Look with me, if you would, at the first part of verse eleven. I returned and saw under the sun, look at this, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong. Neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill. What he's saying here is, he's saying that's not fair. You're saying that's not fair. Here's the guy, he's the fastest runner. But he doesn't win. That's not fair. Here's a fellow that uh uh he's the strongest soldier. And he doesn't win the battle. That's not fair. Ah, here's the guy that works hard. He's the smartest. He works smart and he works hard and he invests himself and he understands how to uh prosper and He doesn't prosper. And he's the hardest worker on the job, and he's the smartest worker on the job, and somebody else gets the position And he says, that's not fair. Now, generally speaking Generally speaking, the fastest runners do win races, right? Generally speaking, that's true. That's why fast people run in races. Because generally speaking, they're going to win the race. The faster the runner, generally speaking, they're going to win the race. Generally speaking, the the strongest, most well-armored, and uh well-equipped soldiers, generally they're the ones going to win the battle. The keyword generally. Generally speaking, the hardest workers and the smartest workers and those that put in the time and put in the effort and they learn the job and they do it well and they're uh my son guided for um the Secretary of State under Ronald Reagan, I think it was Reagan or Bush James Baker. Anybody old folks remember James Baker? My son guided him in a in a bird hunt down in Texas. And they were driving, we spent the whole day driving around the pickup truck together, and uh Sam was of course was excited and he was talking to him and he asked him, he says, give me some advice, you were successful in in your endeavors What would be advice? This was his advice. He said without hesitating, he said, be the first on the job, be the first one there at the job and the last one to leave Very simple. And so, generally speaking, those that are there first and last to leave and work hard and best, generally speaking, they're the ones going to work their way up the ladder. That's a general truth, but it is not a guaranteed truth. And Solomon says, I've seen all these categories, and it wasn't fair. It wasn't fair. Sometimes the lazy guy gets the promotion. And in our hearts and souls, we say, what? That's not fair. Sometimes it's not the guy that trained the hardest to win the race. It's not the guy that put in the time and the discipline and the diet and the exercise. Sometimes he's not the one that wins the race And we say, that's not fair. That's not fair. You see, God has created us in his image. And God has placed within us certain characteristics that we share with God. Not that we are divine in any way, shape, or form, but we do have some characteristics, for instance, a sense of fairness. A sense of justice. Our God is a just God. And He has instilled into our very nature, into our very makeup, a divine instinct, if you want to call it that. That senses a need for fairness, for justice. And Solomon said, I look under the sun and I don't see it. I don't see it. That is not fair. How many people here ever said that you saw a situation, you watch news, maybe a circumstance at work or somewhere, and you made that statement? That's not fair. Anybody ever say that statement? As I got studying this, I came to a conclusion. That is an under-the-sun statement. That's an under the sun statement. Is it true? Yes. And by the way, the sooner we understand and accept the fact that life is not fair, the better off we'll be. Sometimes bad things happen to good people, and sometimes good things happen to bad people. It's not fair. But God placed within us a divine concept for fairness, and we get upset when we don't see it. And it frustrates us because it goes against our very concept of our thinking of right and wrong. I thought it was interesting as thought about this. I don't see that concept in animals My dog has never stolen one of my pieces of food that I had there and walked away and said, Nanny nanny boo-boo, that's not fair to you. He could care less about fairness. And by the way, I evened the score on him, by the way, in a sense of fairness. Animals don't have this awareness. It's only found in human beings. I like ice cream. We have a policy we've instituted on Thursday night soul winning. Anytime someone makes a profession of faith, we all go down to Devlars and we get ice cream. Sometimes even when folks don't get saved, we go down and get ice cream. And so we're down there and I got ice cream and Kathy says, Can I have a lick? I always get a Methodist twist. It's a twist with sprinkles on. And Kat Kathy will say, Can I have a lick of your ice cream cone? And me being the guy Sure. And she'll get a lick of my ice cream cone. And then she'll have she always gets moose tracks. Worldly moose tracks. And I'll say, Can I have a lick of your moose tracks? And she'll say, No, it's mine. And you know what I say? That's not fair. You ever uh here's the old one, I say this one a lot. Do you ever go to Walmart? And you've got nine items. You've counted it twice. I've got nine. Ten items or less Hmm. And you get up there and that stinker in front has twelve items. I'm counting them in line. There's twelve And what do I say? That's not fair. Under the sun, life under the sun is not fair. Life under the sun, we exclude God and His plans, His purpose, the sovereignty and provenance of God. We exclude all of that, and all we see is what happens, time and chance. There's no purpose, there's no plan, there's no anything. And we say, that's not fair. This is frustrating. This is disappointing. And life under the sun is disappointing. Do you notice we live in a frustrated world? Did you notice we live in a disappointed world? People are angry if they didn't get their way and all of that. I think Job learned this lesson. If you would, come with me back to Job, and I'll tell you what, go to verse 38. Just a few pages earlier in your Bible. You have Ecclesiastes, then you hit Proverbs, Psalms, and you hit Job. Go to 38. I'm just kind of, I want to look at the whole event that Job went through. The first 37 chapters. Now, if you're familiar, how many folks would say I'm fairly familiar with the book of Job? Anybody here, I'm fairly familiar with it The first 37 chapters, of course the first two, God allows Satan to basically destroy Job. At least physically, under the sun-wise, his property is taken, his crops are taken, his all his investments are gone, he has zero income His his children are all murdered and killed and murdered. Um His wife turns against him, curse God and die. And then his health is taken from him, and he has boils, and he sits on an ash heap, and he's cutting himself, he's in so much pain. And for the first 37 chapters of the book of Job, Job is incredibly frustrated And his buddies show up and they just add to the frustration. And to be honest with you, to maybe cut them a little break, I think they're just as frustrated as Job is And the reason they're frustrated, the reason they're disappointed is this doesn't make sense. This isn't fair. Job says, I was honest, and I dealt with my sin, and I walked with you, God, and I trusted you, God. And this happens to me. And he says over and over, why, why, why? And if you read those first 37 chapters of Job, you just sense an intense frustration on Job's part. Which, listen, is understandable. And then verse 30, chapter 38, if you wouldn't look at chapter 38 there. And then God steps in. And in chapter 38, we're not going to read a lot of this here, but look at verse 1. It says, Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind and said, Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words what? Without knowledge. Can I suggest to you, now I may be stretching the application here a little bit, but I can I suggest to you, God was saying to Job and his buddies, hey, you've been thinking under the sun. You've been looking at this whole thing from an earthly perspective. You've been looking at all these circumstances and all these horrific events that are not fair. But you've seen it from the world's perspective. You're seeing it from the world's perspective. And then God says, listen, you've been darkening knowledge You've been, let me quote it correctly here. He says, you've been darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge. He's saying this. You don't know what you're talking about. There's a whole different perspective to see this from. And God begins asking questions. And if you'll notice chapter 37, 38, 39, and 40, there is a ton of question marks. Where were you when I did this? Where were you when I did this? Are you able to do this? And God is doing something very powerful in the life of Job. He's getting his eyes off of himself. He's getting him to look not under the sun, but start looking up above the sun. And he's redirecting his perspective. Everything that's happening is, yes, unfair. By world standards, it's incredibly unfair. But God says, I want you to look above this. And come with me, if you would, to chapter 42. And Job's whole perspective is changed. Verse 1, it says, Then Job answered the Lord and said, I know that thou canst do everything. And that no thought can be withholden from thee. Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore, I uttered that, therefore I have uttered that I understood not. Things too wonderful for me, which I knew not. He's saying there's a whole lot going on here above the sun that I didn't even see. There's a whole lot of things happening. There's a whole lot before behind what has taken place that what appeared so unfair, and now I got, I see, a whole different perspective. And look what he says here. Hear I beseech thee, verse 4, and I will speak. This is Job talking to God. I will demand of thee and declare thou unto me. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now Thine eye seeeth thee. Therefore I abhor myself and repent in dust and ashes. He's saying, now I'm looking above the sun. Now I see that you, God, know everything and you are all powerful. And you have a plan and a purpose for the things that appear to be so unfair and the things that appear to be so unjust. Now I look above the sun, I see there is a God. That God is all powerful and He's in control. And all this complaining and all this misunderstanding and all this frustration, I confess and repent in dust and ashes. Job had a whole different perspective. And so we come back to Solomon in Ecclesiastes chapter 9, and Solomon doesn't see that. All he sees is what's under the sun, and he says, life isn't fair. Life isn't fair. Solomon had lost the perspective that there's a God in heaven that is good and is all powerful and is wise. And that he is in control and he allows these things for his plans and his purposes. How many folks here are glad that even when things seem so unfair, they're not just in vain? It's not just chaos. There's a plan and purpose behind all of that. The second thing Solomon points out here that he notices is that life is fatalistic. Under the sun, life is fatalistic. Look with me at the last part of verse 11. But time and chance happened to them all. Time and chance. Under the sun, there's no plan, there's no purpose, there's no reason, there's no rationale, there's no control. It's just I think there's three views of life we can have from under the sun. Now I'm talking about world's perspective. One is optimism. How many people know what it means when you say they're just looking at life through rose-colored glasses? What's that mean? They're looking at life through rose-colored glasses. They're not what? They're not being realistic. They're just trying to paint everything positive and it's not necessarily positive. There was a stupid song, I don't know anything about it, except people talk about it, I probably heard it at Sheets when I'm pumping gas sometime. Anybody notice that they play all these stupid songs, right? And it's this, don't worry, be happy. And there are some people under the sun and they'll see injustice and they'll see unfairness and they'll see all this and they'll just be put on those rose-colored glasses and they'll say, well, we'll just won't We just won't worry, we'll be happy. And we're just going to have this unrealistic optimism about life. It is baseless optimism. It is wishful thinking. It's fairy tale thinking Listen, anytime we exclude the Word of God and we look for some sort of optimism without the Word of God, it is just optimistic fairy tale thinking. There's no basis for that. Now, as Christians, as believers in the power of God and the goodness of God and the love of God, we understand we have a basis for our optimism. It's grounded in the promises and in the person of God Himself. But if you remove God from it, that optimism becomes empty. Empty. Another perspective on life from under the sun is pessimism. I think Solomon leaned this way. You read through Ecclesiastes here, and man, he paints a grim view of life. Oh, it's just terrible. We're going to lose no matter what we do. How many people recognize the name how many people recognize the name Eeyore? I think there might be a few in church here tonight. But um what do you what was the characteristic of Eeyore? Woe is me. Everything that can go wrong will go wrong. Oh, it's gonna be terrible. That is a joyless existence. And there's a lot of people that have pushed God out of their lives. They've completely excluded the promises and the power and the purpose of plan of God. They push that out, and they become spiritual Eeyores. Everything is terrible. There's no hope. There's a third way of looking at life from under the sun, and that is suspicion. That is suspicion. The whole world's out to get me. Everybody's a liar. Everybody's a cheater. Everybody's a crook. Reminded me of the guy that went to the library and he asked the librarian, I'm looking for books on paranoia. And she said, they're right behind you. That is a joyless, angry existence. Everybody lies to me, everybody steals from me, everybody cheats on me. Everybody's a crook, and it's just anger. I think David struggled with that a little bit. In Psalms, he made this statement: I said in my haste, all men are liars. And I think there was a period of time when David was being pursued by King Saul, and he was just so overwhelmed by his circumstances, and humanly speaking, under the sun, everything looked hopeless. And no matter who he turned to, no matter where he went, it seemed like everybody and everything was against him. And for a brief period of time, David started thinking under the sun. For a brief period of time, David pushed God out of the picture, and he saw it from an earthly perspective. And he became very suspicious. He became very angry. And there's a fourth perspective from under the sun, and that is what Solomon is referencing here, and that is fatalism. Time and chance. There's nothing we can do. K Sarah Sarah Know what that means? If you know darkest day, you know what that means. Whatever will be, will be. It's nothing you can do. There's nothing you can say. It's hopeless. It's just fatalistic. Time and chance happen to all. They're just unplanned circumstances that we have absolutely no control over. Nobody controls it. It's just going to happen. By the way, if God is not a factor in life, then it certainly appears like there's little or nothing we can do. One of the most hopeless, one of the most hopeless and empty World views is that of evolution, where there is no God, and there is no plan and there is no purpose. And it's just whatever is going to happen, is going to happen. How many people would agree with me? That is despair. Absolutely despair. I am trapped into a fatalistic world That there is no control. Hey, I want to remind you, fatalistic view of the life is not a biblical world view. I'm here to remind you, there is a God in heaven. It was all powerful and all-wise. And God answers prayer. And God can and does change circumstances. And I love where God says that He can turn the hearts of the king. I'm telling you what, it is not fatalistic. God can do anything. And so Solomon's looking at the world, and he says, Life is unfair under the sun. God's been pushed out. The word of God has been pushed out, and all I see is from a world's perspective, and it is not fair. And it's fatalistic. There's nothing we can do. And the last observation he comes to in verse 12 is this: and this is the saddest of them all: life is futile. It is futile. Look what he says here. He says that man also knoweth not his time. You don't know what's going to happen. As the fishes are taken in an evil net, they're just swimming through the ocean and out of nowhere, they're taken in a net And as the birds that are caught in the snare, they're just going about their life, and the next thing you know, they're taking the snare, so are the sons of men snared in an evil time It's futile. Without God or His Word, life has no purpose. Life has no guarantees. And we all die. That's evolution. That's Darwinism. I was reading an article this afternoon, a Christian research put out an article on Darwinism, and they were quoting making some taking some quotes from leading evolutionists. And I'm telling you, read what these guys say and you want to go out and hang yourself. Their view of life is completely devoid of any hope, any purpose, any meaning or fulfillment Listen to what this gun guy wrote, I put it down here on my phone. His name is Edward Humes, he's a leading evolutionist. I never heard of him He says this. He said Darwin, Charles Darwin's brilliance was in seeing beyond the appearance of design Do you get that? Darwin was able to see beyond the appearance of design and understanding the purposelessness And the mercilessness process of natural selection of life and death in the wild, how it culled all but the most successful organism from the tree of life, thereby Creating, look at this, thereby creating the illusion that a master intellect had designed the world But close inspection to the watch like perfection of honeybee combs or antrails reveal That they are a product of random, repetitious, unconscious behavior without purpose or meaning. I read that several times and I thought what he's saying here is don't pay any attention to design. Don't pay any attention to the obvious design in a honeycomb, the obvious design in creation. Don't pay any attention to the purpose. Just push all that aside. And see, there's absolutely no meaning, there's no purpose, we're all here, we are hopelessly existing until we die. I thought, what a worldview. What a dishonest worldview To say, don't pay an attention to Zion, don't pay any attention to all the evidence that there's a God. Don't pay attention to that. Look beyond that and see nothing and see hopelessness. That is a deliberate, purposeful decision to push God out of the picture. It is under the sun. Under the sun. And he comes to the same conclusion Solomon does. There is no purpose. There is no plan. There is no hope. But I'm here to tell you, I've read the rest of the Bible, and I've found out that Solomon is dead wrong. Our life does have purpose. We do have meaning. We're here for a reason. God in heaven is in control. You say, preacher, you're taking that by faith. I tell you what, I have more to go on from that faith than what the atheist has in their faith. I like what the one guy said. It takes a lot of faith to be an atheist. That's the truth. That's the truth. So what I'm telling you is here, you look out under the sun, we live under the sun, and we see stuff that's unfair, don't let it ruffle your feathers. We're tempted to get fatalistic. Oh, it doesn't matter how hard I work, I still lost the job. It doesn't matter how work much I do at this, and it just still didn't work out. Don't get fatalistic. Remember, Job. God said, wait a minute, there's a whole nother perspective on this. A whole lot of other, there's a whole lot more going on than what you see under the sun. A whole lot more happening. One day we're going to stand before Jesus Christ. And it's all going to make sense. It's all going to make sense. Isn't that good? Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to see things from above the sun. What a dark picture Solomon paints. What a dark worldview, an empty worldview he had. I'm so glad, Lord, you've shown us. There's a whole lot more to this world than what we can see. That you love us, you have a plan and a purpose. If we'll just trust you and acknowledge you in all our ways, you'll direct us in your perfect will. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I see some things in my life that really don't make sense. They're almost overwhelming. I'm not going to get an under-the-sun view. I'm going to get above the sun view. And I'm going to trust and look for God's hand that He's leading and working and He has a plan. Is there any like that, preacher, by conscious decision and by faith I'm going to trust that my God knows what he's doing. I'm going to see it from God's perspective. God bless you. We've got to get in the Bible. We've got to keep God's word so we keep that perspective. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I have some friends that are lost. I can see the emptiness in their life. I would like for God to use me to be a witness to them. See them come to Christ. Is there any like that? Pray drives some folks. I can see the emptiness in their life, and they need Christ. I want God to use me, be a witness. God bless you. Find a place the altar Maybe there's some sin or unbelief has crept in, some disobedience. Where we go to the Lord's Supper, let's bow on an altar and say, God, cleanse me, search me, try me. So I can come humbly to the Lord's Supper. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer is going to play the invitation.