Well well, but wisdom is what we think of of Solomon. And God gave him supernatural wisdom. And uh but now we come to the book of Ecclesiastes. I like for the young people be sure and give their attention up here now. Now we come to the book of Ecclesiastes, and we find Solomon in a terrible state. He has absolutely walked away from God. And he has gotten to the point where he has pushed God out of his life, and he is trying desperately To live life without God being a factor in it, and yet find meaning and purpose, fulfillment, joy and happiness, and he's coming up short every time. Now we've looked at it pretty pretty in depth and it's pretty repetitious up to this point. Where he goes after wealth, he goes after uh education, he goes after party in life, he goes after all these things And he comes up short, and he comes up short, and he comes up short. And of course, his conclusion is repeatedly that life under the sun, without God, uh part of the uh part of the picture, factoring God out, under the sun, life is vain. It is vanity. It is vexation of spirit. And so that's been reiterated over and over and over and over up through these first several chapters. Now we get to chapter 3. And there's a little bit different take on it. And to be honest with you, as I started studying, I wasn't exactly sure where he's going with this and how to approach what he's saying here. But I did notice, and we'll read it here in a moment, I did notice that 29 times in the first eight verses of chapter 3, he references time. Time. There's a time for this. A time for that. Time. Time. Time. Time. If God uses a word 29 times in eight verses, I think that's a subject we ought to look into And so if we remember, last week we kind of stepped aside from the flow of the book, and I just wanted to consider what the Bible says about time. And if you remember, we tried to define what time was, give a definition of time. How do you define time? We know what it is, we understand it to some extent, but how do you give a definition to it? The best I could come up with, if you remember, was a progress of existence. Irreversible progress of existence. And so that's the best we can do there. Then we talked about the demands of time. We are servants of time, not vice versa. I can't stop time. I can't store it up. I can't go back and get a second chance. It is just ticking by, ticking by, ticking by, ticking by. And there is nothing I can do about that. Best thing I can do is use it wisely. Because as I said, we can't stop it, we can't store it up, and we don't get no second chances with it. We talked about the demise of time. Now, this is hard for me to comprehend. But Revelation tells us that there is a time when, there'll be a day when time will be no longer. Time will stop. And we will exist outside of time How many people like me say, preacher, I I can't grasp what that is. I can't grasp what that's like. We have no idea. I think we got an eternity, there's gonna be a whole lot of things we didn't grasp while we were here And the demise of time. And then we talked about the demand of time. Like I said, uh we can't stop it, we can't store it, we have no second chances. The only thing we can do, particularly as Christians What the Bible instructs us to do is what? Who remembers? There's one verse in the Bible that tells us a Christian's mindset towards time, a Christian's relationship with time, we are to redeem the time. Redeem it. In other words, I'm to use it every minute that God gives me. I am to use to its full extent Squeeze as much out of as I can for God's glory, redeeming the time. To do that, I have to determine God's purpose for my life. If uh there was a young fella made a statement years ago, I don't know, I don't know who he was, I've heard this reference, but he got saved, he was a young man. And he says, he says, I'm not afraid of failure. He said, I'm afraid of succeeding at that which really doesn't matter. In other words, it would be a tragedy for you and I to invest our whole lives and live our whole lives for something that was not God's plan for our life. And use our lives selfishly, lose use our lives for ourselves and get the end of life, stand before our Savior, and find out. And he says, you know, that wasn't even my plan for your life. You didn't pay any attention to my instruction, you didn't pay any attention to my word. You didn't paint, you you grieved and resisted my Holy Spirit the whole time. And you completely wasted the time you have for life So it's imperative we determine what is God's purpose for my life. Well it's for God's glory. We're to live for God's glory. We're to be Christ-like, we're to try and win others. And so we redeem the time by determining God's purpose for our life, by establishing God's priorities for our lives. Prioritizing my life is really using my time deliberately. What I'm prioritizing, I got so much time, I want to make sure this is a priority, this takes place. I want to make sure this takes place. Practical, and I know I say this almost every service, but practically speaking, we ought to prioritize Bible reading. And we got so much time, some of that time needs to be invested in spending time in the Word of God so I can get God's direction. And so prioritizing our our time and determining priorities. Uh I think My personal opinion is, and this is my opinion before I was ever pastor, I think church attendance ought to be a priority. We got so much time. I want to invest that time that I have into being with God's people and worshiping the Lord and serving the Lord together. And then waiting on God's timing. Waiting on God's timing. We don't want to get ahead of the Lord. We are praying and have been and been doing research and a number of folks are helping me with this. We're looking for someone to come in and be our assistant. And you've all been praying with us and it's an important part of our church. It's going to be a significant impact on our church But one thing I've been very concerned about is that we do not get ahead of God's timing. We don't want to bring someone in just because we need someone We want the right person and we want to wait on the Lord till we are sure of that. You on board with me on that, you understand? So God's kinding is important So the word time, 29 times, 8 verses, he references the word time. Now, before I read this passage, I don't think I've prayed. Let's pray. I'm going to make a few statements, then we're going to dig into this real quick. Let's pray together. Father. I ask now you bless our time that we have to invest in the Word of God. And Lord, I don't want to take for granted the time that others have given to sit here and listen to me And I pray, Lord, as I always do, that it would not be just simply listening to me as the preacher, but it would be you speaking through me to our hearts, and we would be hearing from heaven And so I again present my body anew, dear Lord, yield my will with all my heart, plead with you that you fill me with your spirit and use me as a conduit, Lord, just uh a a spokesman, so to speak, that you would uh challenge us and teach us and help us in Jesus' name. Amen. Got thinking as we're up to this point in the book of Ecclesiastes and Solomon's dark picture of life without God and life under the sun. Just a few thoughts. One is, I I thought of this. God is a very benevolent God. Now what do we mean by benevolent? If we say someone is very benevolent, what are we talking about? Wasn't it? Loving, that would be part of it, no doubt. If someone's benevolent, very giving. Very giving. Uh we have sometimes we'll do a benevolence fund. Help people that are needy or whatever. And so God is a very benevolent God. And the the this is where I get that. Solomon has been pushing God out of his life. He has been doing everything he can to keep God at an arm's distance. How has God responded to Solomon? It's been very gracious. I noticed the whole time that Solomon's doing this nonsense, God is giving him breath to breathe. God's giving him food. He's still very, very wealthy. He's still living in at that time the greatest nation in the world. God's people And God has been very, very generous to go uh to Solomon. God has been very, very gracious to him And the fact of the matter is, how many people here have ever failed the Lord since you've been saved? You've come up short somewhere or another, you've failed the Lord short. How many people, when we did that, God nevertheless was still good to us? Isn't that a wonderful thing? Our God is very benevolent. We were flying a number of years ago. It was Brother Dave and it was Brother Jerry and Brother Pat and myself went over to Kazakhstan on a little survey trip, our last trip over there. It's been a number of years now And I was reading my Bible and praying, very anxious, get in there and and seeking the Lord. And uh while we were flying in, we were coming over the country, it was at night, I had my Bible, and I was reading Psalms, and it made this statement, the whole earth is filled with With the goodness of the Lord. And I thought of Kazakhstan as such a dark nation spiritually and so little witness and such little light there, gospel light there. Nevertheless, God is very good to that nation. God is very benevolent. As a country, they're primarily atheistic, and uh of course the Soviet Union in their heyday was completely atheistic. And pushing God out and pushing God out. Nevertheless, God's very gracious. God was very benevolent, gives them a beautiful country, and uh, and takes care of them. God sends rain on the just and the unjust. And I got thinking about that. Here, Solomon is being so just pushing God aside, and yet God is still very gracious and kind to Solomon. I put this down, number two, God is very patient and forgiving. I don't know about you, but I'm very glad for that. God is extremely patient and forgiving. God gives the most hardened hearts. An opportunity to come to Himself and find forgiveness. God gives some of the most wicked, vile sinners Opportunities to be saved. Opportunities to trust Christ. We need to be very, very careful about writing someone off. Our God is extremely patient. Our God is extremely gracious. And uh we need to remember that and keep that in mind. Here is Solomon. I don't know about how you would be and And uh this is I don't I hope I don't want to be disrespectful in any way, but if I was God, I'd be very aggravated with Solomon. I'd probably squish them. You know, it's just I do all this for you, I do all this and you're like this. You little bug? I'm glad God doesn't squish us. Because if God was in the squishing mentality, I'd have been squished a long time ago. God's very patient. He's very forgiving. The backsliding Christian. He gives them opportunity after opportunity after opportunity to come and make things right. Listen, let me just throw this out, and this is a little off-subject, but let me just throw this out there. I've said it many times before. If a Christian is backslidden, don't stay home from church. I've had people say that to me other years. Well, preacher, you know, I'm pretty vaccinant. I ought not to go to church. I don't want to say, you knucklehead, that's where you need to be. I'll take a church full of backslidden people any day. It gives me targets to preach at. God is very, very gracious. And I look at his interaction with Solomon and some of these stuff Solomon is doing. And God's very patient, very gracious, very forgiving. Now this brings us, my next statement brings us to what I believe is being addressed here. And that is this: God is sovereign. Now what do we mean by that word sovereign? What do we mean by the word sovereign? Somebody help me out here. When we say God is sovereign, Alright, authority is a key word and the term sovereign. There's another one I'm looking for. God is in control. Solomon is trying desperately to live life without God. He is trying so hard to live life without God. And here's the thing, God keeps showing up. He's trying so hard to live under the sun, under the sun, under the sun. I don't need God. I want to find peace. I want to find fulfillment. I want to live my life without God, and yet still find meaning and purpose, and boom, everywhere he turns, God's there. And he has to acknowledge, he gets the point here, and I think this is what he's doing. He has to acknowledge: listen, I'm living under the sun, I'm frustrated, it's vain, it's empty. And everywhere I turn, I see God doing stuff, God stepping in. And I see the sovereignty of God here. Try to deny God, we try to escape God, he keeps showing up. I referenced the Soviet Union and their atheism and all that and they tried so hard to push God out of their country that God kept showing up And all through that country there were underground churches that were preaching the Word of God and preaching the Word of God, and finally their atheism and their godless society collapsed. And they could not function. I'm fearful for America. We think we don't need God We think we got all the money, we got all the s we got everything in place. I don't need God. We're just gonna live it up, eat, drink, and party, and carry on, do whatever we want. I don't need God. Here's the problem. Our God is sovereign and he's gonna keep on showing up. We can try and ignore them all we want. We're free to choose how we live our lives. Absolutely. We uh we are free uh God's sovereignty does not mean we do not have a free will. We do have a free will, but we can make all the choices we want, but we can be sure one thing, God is ultimately in control and he's gonna keep showing up. I think there was a lot of people that um I get letters periodically, about once a month or so, uh just folks that oppose us and our stand on some social issues and they make all these try and tell me how stupid I am, which they don't Well yeah, I agree with you, you know, um and how dumb our position is and how much better a anyway, don't get me going on that. But um They go on and on and on about the silliness of worshiping God and the foolishness of worshiping God, but I sense in their spirit a frustration. I sense in their spirit they are fighting something they cannot conquer. And what I believe that is, is the sovereignty of God. Everywhere they try and push God out of their lifestyle, try and push God's standards out of their lifestyle. But everywhere they turn, God keeps showing up. God keeps showing up. God keeps confronting them. A life lived under the sun is vanity and vexation of spirit. However, there is a God above the sun that is still on his throne. And Solomon is learning that again. I got looking, I found out there are 36 references to God. In the book of Ecclesiastes. A book that is the record of trying to live life without God, nevertheless He constantly has to reference God. He referenced God. He referenced God. He cannot get away with it. Fact of the matter is, life is not vain. Life is not vexation of spirit. Life is very fulfilling. Life has tremendous purpose and meaning if I understand that vital to my life is God's involvement. It's when we try to push God out that it becomes vain and empty. A life lived as designed by God, is fulfilling, it's satisfying, it's joyful. And that's where he brings us to a passage. Now I want to read our verses here. Verses 1 through 8. I'll go through this and share some things here. To everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under heaven. Do you see there? He's recognizing, hey, there's some things here I can't control. There's some things that are outside my ability to live under the sun. Then he lifts them. A time to be born and a time to die. A time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is planted. A time to kill and a time to heal. A time to break down and a time to build up. A time to weep and a time to laugh. A time to mourn and a time to dance. A time to cast away stones and a time to gather stones together. A time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing A time to get and a time to lose. A time to keep and a time to cast away. A time to rend. In other words, that means tear apart. and a time to sow, a time to keep silence, and a time to speak, a time to love and a time to hate, a time for a time of war and a time of peace. This is probably the most famous passage in the book of Ecclesiastes, of all the chapters and verses. This is probably the most famous. And as I'm looking at this, I notice That life is full of change. Did you notice that? Time for this, time for that. Time for this, time for that. Change, change, change. How many folks find things changing in your life? Yeah. If there's one thing true about life, it changes. How many people are different now than you when you were five? I'm glad. Now mentally some of you I'm maturity wise oh no But listen, we have to accept the fact that life changes. And when you want to get frustrated, you want to beat your head against the wall, try and fight the changes that are inevitable in life. Us guys getting old well some of you guys getting older. You're trying so hard to still be 27 years old. And you're convinced you can still play ball, you can still do all this stuff, and uh oh I can still do that, and you pay for it the next day. Right, Ben? We can do one or two things. We can try and fight change and we're gonna lose every time. Or can I accept I can accept it, and that's part of life is part of God's plan. So life is characterized by change. There's a time to be born, there's a time to die. There's a time to plant, there's a time to harvest. Changes. Everything changes, a constant change. Here's the point I'm trying to make. Although life changes, li life is made up of change. Life is never just chance. All those changes in life are designed by God. I heard this statement just recently, somebody made it. I don't remember where I heard it. But somebody made this statement. There are no accidents with God. I was telling the young people in Sunday school this morning, I really enjoy teaching the young people down in the teens Sunday school class. I was telling them this morning, nobody is ever born by accident. Regardless of what the circumstances are, regardless of what the human planning may or may not be, nobody is accidental. It is all part of God's plan. And I think he's touching on that here. There are changes that taken place in life, and uh they are all part of God's sovereignty Now as I look at this, I look at this list of changes, time for this, time for that, time for something else, time for something different. I look at this, I don't see any clear pattern, but I tried to categorize This list here. And the first thing I see in two the first in verse two and three, I notice the sovereignty, God's sovereignty in our physical life. Now this is loosely categorized, but notice what he says. There is a time to be born and a time to die. In other words, our entrance into this life and our exit out of this life is in God's hands. We can try and regulate it, and we can try and do this, that, and the other, but not one of us had any say as to when we were born. That was completely in the sovereignty of God. And we can have a factor, perhaps humanly speaking, in when we exit this life. But ultimately it's in God's hands. And in between birth and life, look what he says here. In between time to be born and a time to die in that Period of time between those two events, our entrance and our exit, then he touches on some things that take place. There's a time to plant and a time to pluck up. I put it this way: that's our sustenance. That's us trying to stay alive. Planting and harvesting. Planting and harvesting. That's part of what happens to for us to keep uh stay alive. And then he touches on, he says, uh, and a time to pluck up that's fine, verse 3, a time to kill and a time to heal. I put it this way: that's our struggles. In between the time we arrive, our birth, and the time we exit, that's our death. We plant and harvest to stay alive. We deal with struggles Killing and healing, fighting healing the struggles of life. And then I notice here he says a time to break down and a time to build up. Although what's he talking about there? And this is what I come up with. Our service, our employment, our vocation. Do you ever drive around a city, you go one street and they're tearing a building down, you go another street, they're building a building up You go here, did you ever notice in the in the world that you got you got materials on the East Coast and you have materials on the West Coast, and so they drive uh they drive uh uh this oil from the west coast to the east coast main uh meanwhile they're driving the exact same thing from this coast back over there. I thought why don't they just keep it? But it's just building and tearing down, building and doing this and doing that, and I come up with this, it's our it's our service. Building one guy's building a house, another guy's tearing it down, another guy's doing this, another guy's doing that. And so God is in control. God is sovereign over when we're born and when we die. God is sovereign. How many people are here are glad that God in his sovereignty put us into a country where there's plenty of sustenance for us to live? We don't have to be like Ethiopia where they're struggling just desperately. God in his sovereignty has been very, very gracious to us. We need to see that. God in his sovereignty helps us in our struggles. I don't know about you. We ought to thank God every day. We live in a country that is a peaceful country. We're not in a war-torn country. You and I didn't have any say in that. That was God's sovereignty put us in this situation. And then our service and God in his wisdom and sovereignty leads us into this. the occupations we're in if we trust him and let him lead us. So I see God's sovereignty in our physical life. In verse 4 and 5, I see God's sovereignty in our social life. You say, where do you come up with that? I kind of squeezed this one a little bit, but look here at verse 4. A time to weep and a time to laugh. Time to mourn and a time to dance. A time to cast away stones, a time to gather up stones, gather stones together, a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing. I'm looking at that and I'm seeing this is all interaction with other people. The overwhelming causes for me weeping have been other people, interaction with other people. Do you agree with me? Overwhelming heartache. Maybe 100% of the heartache you and I deal with is our interactions with other people. We have no we have very very uh let me put it this way, we have very, very limited control onto how other people treat us. I cannot stop somebody from breaking my heart. And so I recognize God in his sovereignty allows that to happen. I'll sharing with the young people this morning a little bit of my teen years and different events in my family in a little more detail than I normally do. Some of them came and talked to me afterward. And what we need to do is we need to accept I could not, I had no control over that environment I was born into. I love my family very dearly and I thank God that they're most of my parents are saved, know the Lord, and living for God. I have no control over that. And so we come into this life and there's a time to weep. And we can't control that what people say and do that hurt us. And there's a time of laughter, and sometimes out of no control, also man, there's this joy shows up. Our joys, our laughter, our dancing, our weeping, our mourning, our loneliness. We often have little control over that. How many people here at some point in your life you're ever going through and things were going pretty well, then out of the blue, something broke your heart. Out of the blue. Kig comes home from school, has no idea anything's wrong, walks in, and his parents are split up. And he is shattered. And there's another side to that. Sometimes things like, man, nothing's going right. My heart is so broken. Then out of the blue, something good happens, and God fills your heart and life with joy. We remember the negatives more, but there's positives like that too. There's a time we ought to a lot of times don't even control it. Something good happens. And wow, praise the Lord. And it brings great joy and it brings laughter. Joy many times surprises us. Do you ever go into a situation thinking Oh, this is going to be terrible. Anybody know I'm talking about? Oh, I dread this. Oh, I don't want to go into this. Oh, it's going to be terrible. And you get in, and lo and behold, it's great. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's like wow that was fantastic. I never expected that. Or you get a you get a job or you got to work with somebody you say oh I'm gonna hate them. I already hate them, I'm gonna hate them, it's gonna be terrible And you get you meet them, it's like, wow, I love them, they're fantastic, they're my best friend in the whole world What he's saying here is God is control. He brings these events, these things into our lives. And then look at verse 5. I thought this was interesting. I thought, what in the world is he talking about? A time to cast away stones and a time to gather stones together. What in the world is he talking about? And I could be completely wrong on this. I don't think so. I wouldn't be saying if I thought I was, but I could be. I thought I was wrong one other time, but I was mistaken. I think what maybe what he's talking about here is this. What did the ancient what did they do back in those days with stones, gathering stones up? What would they do with those stones? Build houses, but they build something else, more time. Walls. They'd clear a field out. You still see it sometimes. They'll clear a field out and they'd put those stones up around the walls I think maybe he's referencing getting along with my neighbors. Sometimes the best thing to do with a neighbor is build a wall. Huh? What's the old saying? High walls make good neighbors. And sometimes you need to tear that wall down, you need to gather those stones away and cast those stones away, and I need to open the door there. And so he's talking about God's sovereignty in our social life. And then verse 6 through 7 and 8, I see God's sovereignty in our personal life. And I think what he's talking about here is personal issues. Look at verse number 6. A time to get and a time to lose. A time to keep and a time to cast away. How many folks ever cleaned your garage out in the spring? Alright, I gotta throw this away. I'm gonna keep this. Right? Alright, I need to get this, I'm gonna get rid of that. How how many fellas, your wife ever redid the furniture in the living room? Oh, we're going to throw that chair out. What's wrong with that chair? That's a good chair. Nope, it's time to cast away, and it's time to let loose. Time to rend and a time to sew. So I think he's talking about values and about relationships. A time to keep silence and a time to speak. Anybody here ever wish you'd have kept quiet when you s And you talked and you wish you'd have kept quiet? Anybody here ever keep quiet and later on you say, I wish I'd have said something? Talking about interpersonal issues, relationships, and values. What do I value? What is important to me that I want to keep? What is not important? I need to cast it away. What is it I need to destroy? I need to tear up. Get this out of my life. I can't let this in my life. What is it I need to put together? I need to fix this. This is important. It needs to stay a part of my life. A lot of times we have little control over these issues. And so I believe Solomon is recognizing the sovereignty of God. Under the sun, it looks like everything is just random chaos. All this stuff that's coming into my life, it's just chaos. It doesn't make any sense. Time to born, time to die, I gotta do this, make this, this season, these events come into my life, my heart is broken, I'm happy. There's no pattern, there's no plan, there's no pause, there's no purpose under the sun. But he has to recognize that God's sovereignty times all these events for a plan and a purpose And as I go into a new week, as we go into a new week, we're going to experience things this week that we may not anticipate. Some of us might experience some joys and blessing and laughter we're not anticipating tonight. Some of us may experience some heartache and some tears and some mourning. That we do not see coming tonight. If there is no God, and we're just living our life without God, then we're just going into this blind. And there's no purpose, there's no meaning, and it is empty, it's frustrating, it's vain. Or I can say, you know, there is a God in heaven. That is in control. And though my heart is broken, I understand that God in his wisdom has allowed me to go through this. And I accept it from his hand, and I understand there is a plan and a purpose, and it makes sense Old song, summer and winter, springtime and harvest, sun, moon in their stars, in their courses above. Join with all nature in manifold witness to thy great faithfulness, mercy, and love. God is in control. God does allow these things to come into our lives for a purpose. And there is a plan. You've heard this illustration before. I've used it many times. And when I was young, my grandmother made uh they would make quilts. They'd get a bunch of ladies together from the church, the Mennonite church, and they'd sit down in their basement. They had this big frame and they'd all sit around there and they'd just quilt away and gossip and go and quilt. As a little kid, you crawl down underneath that thing while they're quilting away, and you look at those underneath that quilt and all the little colored threads and blue and yellow and orange and green and they're just crisscrossing and making sense you look up and say, this is a mess. These ladies have no idea what they're doing. This is chaos, there's no plan, there's no purpose, this is vexation to my spirit And everything they're doing is vain. Underneath it's what it looks like. There's a time for a blue thread, and there's a time for a green thread, and there's a time for a yellow thread, and time for this thread to go over there, then back over here. Doesn't make any sense. It's just Or you get out and you get up on top and you look down on it from above. That's a beautiful pattern of butterflies. On flowers, color, and detail, exquisite. And you say, oh, looking from above, it all makes sense. It's a plan and a purpose for all of it. And I think that's what Solomon is saying. Under the sun, you push God out of the picture, you're going to be frustrated, it's not going to make sense. Like the atheist, our life is just chaos, there's no meaning, there's no purpose. Of course not, if all we see is from under the sun But as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ and someone who knows God and experiences Him and He's working our life, we understand there's a plan and a purpose. And God is in control of all these events, the good and the bad, the up and the down, the everyday mundane things and the surprising things. God in his sovereignty brings them in. Does that make sense? Solomon can't he can try and ignore God all he wants, but God keep showing up. Because God's got a plan and God's got a purpose. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that you would challenge us this week. To take all of the events that come into our lives as from your hand and your plan and your purpose, and you're trying to accomplish something in our lives, and help us by faith accept that. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed to say, preacher, you know, there are some things that from my perspective and going on in my life that just don't make any sense. But by faith, I'm going to believe that God is doing something. That God is molding me and God is working. And I'm going to, even when the tears are on my cheeks, I'm going to rejoice in God's goodness. I'm going to trust in his sovereignty. When the laughter comes, time of dancing comes, so to speak, I'm going to take that from the Lord also. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, there's some things that just from my perspective doesn't make sense. I'm going to take it from God's hand. God bless you, hands all around. It's faith. Faith. Maybe there's some here tonight that say, preacher, I don't know God. Know about him. I think he exists, I think. I'll tell you, you can know him by trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. Is there any here tonight and say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I want to know the Lord and know him as my personal Savior. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Young or old? Any at all? That means most of us here, no doubt, perhaps all of us, know Christ as Savior. Maybe as we finish out the day, we go into the Lord's Supper, maybe we just want to kneel on an old altar. Say, Lord, I'm putting myself in your hands. I'm going to take whatever you give me from your hand and trust you. Maybe some of us need to address some sin issues. Maybe the Lord's been working and trying to get that attention, but whatever it is, let's let the Lord have his way tonight. Let's stand together. Father, bless now our invitation in Jesus' name. Amen.