I tell you, it was what about about a year ago or whatever, six months ago, I felt like maybe the Lord was directing to study the book of Ecclesiastes and preach on that, and I was all excited. Then I got studying, I thought, wow, this is tough And um but I'm enjoying it. I hope you're getting something out of it. While you're finding Ecclesiastes, uh little girl was the preacher Now I don't want to hear any snide remarks, but the preacher's sermon dragged on and on and on. And uh the little girl was getting restless and finally she leaned over to her mother and she whispered, Mommy, if we give him the money now, will he let us go? So if you're concerned about the long sermons, see me. We can arrange something for you there. Ecclesiastes chapter 3, this is a very uh familiar passage of scripture, I guess, in a lot of ways. Uh the world and different ones kind of gravitate to this sometimes, this passage of scripture. Verse number one of a chapter three says this, to everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under the sun. A time to be born and a time to die. A time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is planted. A time to kill and a time to heal. A time to break down and a time to build up. A time to weep and a time to laugh, a time to mourn and a time to dance, a time to cast away stones and a time to gather stones together. A time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing. A time to get and a time to lose. A time to keep and time to cast away. A time to rend and a time to sow. A time to keep silence and a time to speak. A time to love and a time to hate. A time of war and a time of peace. I'm kind of continuing on what we were talking about a couple weeks ago. We started the seasons of life, but I want to just kind of Stop before we really delve into this, and I want to share some thoughts about time. Time. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, grateful again for a good day. It's very cold out. Of course, and uh I know that's uh affects uh folks' ability to get around, but uh nevertheless, we're we're grateful for your presence here today in the good spirit And I trust the decision's been made already for you, and we've been helped by your word and the fellowship. So Lord, as we finish the day out, I'm asking you, Father, to please be here with us. In a very evident way. I asked, Lord, you'd fill me with your spirit. None of us know the amount of time we have left and whether we have another week or not. And so I pray that what you teach us in your word about this thing called time, that we would uh uh receive it and uh take it seriously and apply your principles to our lives. Fill me is my prayer. with your Holy Spirit, Lord, and speak through me as I always ask you for that. And so please, Lord, in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Of course, the Book of Solomon, uh Book of Ecclesiastes, Solomon is addressing the idea of living life. Under the sun. That's the key word, right? Under the sun. Under the sun. Under the sun. We understand by that what he means by that is the fact that he's trying to live his life with God removed With only the things that are under the sun, all the only with that which can be seen, felt, hear, uh smelled, just the something, whatever my senses pick up, anything beyond the sun, any kind of heaven or God or any of that He's pushed that out of his life. And his conclusion is what? He's trying to find f fulfillment. He's trying to find purpose in a life that excludes God. And his conclusion he comes to, he states it over and over, is that with under the sun, a life without God, is what? Vanity and Vexation of spirit. And so that's his overall conclusion. And would you agree with me? We can look at the world And we see that played out on a daily basis. We see people just running to and fro. We see people grabbing for this, that, and the other, pushing God out, never giving any thought to their spiritual well-being, never giving any thought. to their relationship with their creator, never giving any thought to spiritual realities and the Word of God, and we find them there frustrated Uh they're angry, um their spirit is vexed, there's a restlessness there There's an emptiness there. You hear them say stuff like, oh, I wish I'd never been born. Oh, I I just want to die. Oh, uh, I just hate life. I just hate everything. You listen to a lot of the music and it's just angry. And you go out in the marketplace and people are angry. You know what that is? That's vanity and vexation of spirit. They're living life under the sun And so Solomon, as hard as that is to believe, he gets to the point where he is actually and seriously and earnestly Trying to find fulfillment without God. And of course, he ends up being very unhappy, and uh his life becomes meaningless without the Lord. However, and this is what we pointed out, I think, last time, he does not deny God's existence He's not saying there is no God. He's just simply saying this. I'm not interested in God being a part of my life I'm not interested in what God has to say or God's plan or purpose for my life. I want to be my own God. I want to be the authority of my life. I want to decide what is important, what isn't, what is right and what is wrong, what I should live for and what I don't want to live for. I want to do that. So he doesn't deny God's existence. And the other thing I thought was interesting as we're getting down here, he's acknowledging, at least in an indirect way, God's sovereignty. Did you notice as we went through there, he says there is a time for this? There is a time for that. He says there, verse number one: everything, there is a season and a time to everything And I see this an indirect acknowledgement that God really has the final say. God decides, and I'm getting way ahead of myself, this is a future message, but Really, we don't have much say in when we were born, do we? God decides that. We don't really have much say when we die. We can do all we want and do the medicine, and I think we should, and take care of ourselves, and try and prolong death as long as we can, and that's fine. I think that's the right thing to do. But when it's all said and done, God's the one that has the final say How many people are familiar with the Atkins diet? That guy Atkins, he died uh tremendous shape and uh died uh what it was a heart attack on his doorstep, I think. Now I'm not trying to ridicule him in any way, I'm simply saying this. We can try and postpone death as long as we want, and ultimately God's the one that has the say. So I think Solomon is acknowledging this here That God does exist. I'm not denying that. He knows that's true. We read his earlier writings, Proverbs and things And he acknowledges that ultimately God has the final say. And he does that in particular in reference to time. And if you notice here, twenty-nine times in eight verses, he uses the word time Time. Time. So I want to talk tonight a little bit about time. Now this is some of this is a little mind-blowing. It's kind of hard to grasp. But think about time. God and God alone regulates time. You and I have no control whatsoever over time. Right? God gives it, the Bible teaches that God gives time to us as a gift. It is something God has created. It's something God has given. God determines when my time begins. Anybody here ever like me, did you ever get looking at pictures from years ago, the Wild West and whatever, and you think, man, it'd been neat to live back in that time. Anybody ever think that way? Boy, that'd have been neat. I think we'd probably be there about a day And uh, all right, I'll come back now. But we don't have any say in what period of history we're born, do we? That is God's sovereignty. God in his sovereignty, God in his wisdom, has placed you and I in this period of time. We have no say over that. God regulates. God decides when my time begins. And I mentioned here a moment ago: God decides when my time ends. It is appointed unto man once to die. And that word appointment means, if you study it, how it's used and the meaning of the word it comes from. It has the idea of a very specific moment in time that God has ordained, appointed, that we should die. Now I'm satisfied with not knowing when that is. I just soon live every day anticipating the rapture, live every day anticipating another day and living for God. But Nevertheless, God is the one that controls that. God actually regulates the timing of the events in our lives. I found the older I get, the more I'm finding I have less and less control over my life than what I thought I did. Things happen that I have absolutely no control over. Events take place that I have absolutely no control over You say, what, is this just chaos? Is this just circumstances? Is this just coincidences that all these events are happening when they do? No, I don't believe that for one moment. I believe with all my heart, and I believe the Bible clearly teaches God regulates the timing of the events that come into our lives. I read Wednesday night and I read a part of it again this morning, the letter from Brother Chris Phillips over in Kazakhstan. And he made an interesting statement to this young Muslim fellow that came to their Bible study He said, listen, we don't believe in coincidences. We believe it was God at this moment in time directed you to be in this service, and the guy ends up getting saved. How many people, since you've been saved, you can look back over your life and see events that took place that there's no way in the world that was a coincidence. It was very obviously God bringing that event into my life at that time. Anybody know what I'm talking about? God regulates the timing of the events that take place in our life. Notice he says there in verse number one, to everything. Every event in my life, every circumstance I face, every situation I deal with, every event, to everything, there is a season and a time. There's an appointed time, an appointed purpose that God determines. Now that's not fatalistic. We have to be careful here. We can make decisions And our decisions have consequences. And very much of what I face tomorrow will be a result of decisions I make today. And so I'm not suggesting that we're just fatalistic, we have no control, that God just but nevertheless, God does regulate time. Um anybody here ever plan out your day? How many folks like me you try and plan out your day? This is what I need to do, this and this and this and this Anybody here know what I'm talking about? Anybody here just get up and say, ah, whatever. Oh you rake tired folks. Yeah, I know it. Tired folks and housewives, they just get up, whatever. That was a bad statement. I don't take that back. But you ever plan out your day and uh you try and have at least organize your your activities for the day and have that get completely blown out of the water and the end of the day you look back and nothing happened the way I planned. Anyone know what I'm talking about? It's a daily basis for me, pretty much. God is the one that does that. Take your Bible with me, if you would, and come with me to James chapter 4. We're going to look at several references and You put money in the offering plate will not be long. James chapter 4, and look with me at verse 13. Way back towards the end of the New Testament, right after Hebrews, James chapter 4, look at verse 13. It says this, go to now, ye that say. Today or tomorrow we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get a gain and get gain. They got their daytimer out They got their little calendar on their clock. They got it all planned out. What we're gonna do when we got all this. I got mine all planned out for this year. But look what he says in verse 14. Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. I put in the margin, I circled that ye know not, I put in the margin of Proverbs 27:1. Does anybody know what Proverbs 27:1 says? Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. He says, Whereas ye know not what shall be in the morrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appearth for a little time and then vanisheth away For that ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. You know what he's saying here? He's saying you need to recognize that ultimately God is the one that's in control of time. God is the one that brings events in. Now he's not saying don't plan, don't make your plans and do all that. He's not saying that, but he says, but just recognize God has the final set. God is ultimately the one that controls time. And what we try to do is we try to regulate our time. And we can't. We really can't. Now I want to give you a few thoughts. I want to go down through these pretty quickly. This first one is tough. And I want you to think with me on this, all right? We're going to think a little bit tonight. The first point I have is the definition of time Let me ask you this. How do you define time? What is the never-ending? Is that correct? We're going to look at that. Now what is the how would you define time? I want to suggest to you it's easier to measure time than it is to define it. What exactly is time? Let me give you some my attempts at defining it. And I looked at some others and I looked at the old Webster dictionary, different things, and nobody really nails it down. I could not find a good, simple definition of what time is. Is a time a thing? Is it a substance? What is time? This is the best I could come up with. Time is the progress of existence. I put this, I added this to it, an irreversible progress of existence. I added this an unstoppable progress of existence I can't reverse it. I can't stop it. It's just my existence progressing on in time. It's hard to define Time. A time for this. A time for that. Everything has a time. What is time? Another word that came up in a lot of definitions I looked at was endurance. Enduring. So the definition of time, it's easier to measure than it is to define. We know what it is, but to define it, it's very, very difficult. Second thing I put down is the demand of time. We might not put it in words. We know what time is, this progressive or endurance of existence. Can't stop it. I can't go reverse it. Just constantly going on, going on, going on. So what does it demand? And by demand I mean this, the importance of time. I think we fail. Now, some I don't want to say a blanket statement. This isn't true of everybody. I think a lot of times folks fail to stop and consider how important Our time really is. It is incredibly important. We are given only a certain amount of time In our lives. We have no control when it starts. For me, May 6, 1960, 2:30 in the morning. My time started. We have no control when it starts. We have no control when it ends. My time might be 11. 30 tonight. That may be it I have no control when it starts. I have no control when it ends. We have no idea how much time we have. We think, we plan, but we really don't know how much time we have. I cannot stop time. How many people would love to be able to stop time every now and then? Wouldn't that be great? We can't do it. We can't stop it. Um I cannot store up time There's an old folk song back when I was younger. If I could save time in a bottle, we can't. It just goes. It goes, it goes, it goes, it goes. I can't stop it. I can't store it. And by the way, we get no second chances with it. Can't go back and no redoos. Instant replay is great for watching a ball game, but it is not true in life. How many people would how many people would give your right arm to be able to redo some things? In life. Goodness. I hear people say sometimes, I say, oh, if I could do, if I live my if I do it over again, I do it exactly the same. I wouldn't change a thing. That tells me they didn't learn a thing. Go back and say make the same mistakes, do the same stupid decisions. Wouldn't it be wonderful to go back and redo it? You can't All we have is this time that is slipping to our fingers. We don't know how much we got left. It's going, going, going, going by. So we have no control when it starts, we have no control when it ends, we don't know how much we have, we cannot stop it, we cannot store it up, we cannot go back and reuse it. Yet every aspect of our life is governed by time. It is important. Every aspect of my life is governed by time. Everything we do is on time. Another day. That's a time frame. We do this. Every aspect of life is governed by time. And it's slipping through our fingers, slipping through our fingers. Let me give you a third thought. Now, this is, I don't know what the practicality of this, I don't know how this applies necessarily, but I think it's fascinating. The demise of time Somebody said about defining time as an eternity type thing. Do you know time is not timeless? If you would, turn to Revelation chapter 10. There's a fascinating, at least in my mind, this type of stuff just captivates me. But there's a fascinating statement in Revelation chapter 10, and I'm going to begin reading in verse 5. And it's actually in verse 6 where he makes the statement. But verse 5 says this. Are you there? Revelation, end of the Bible, chapter 10. Verse number five, look what he says. And the angel, which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth, lifted up his hand to heaven. And swear by him that liveth forever and ever, who created heaven and the things that therein are, and the earth and the things that therein are, and the sea, and the things that which therein uh which are therein. Now look at this last statement. I underlined it in red in my Bible. That there should be what? Time no more. Longer. I was just testing you to see if you had the right Bible in your lap there. That time should be what? No longer. I put it the demise of time. I got looking at that, I got thinking about that. Time is not eternal. Time is limited. It's not limitless. This sounds contradictory, but I think it's true. Time is temporary. God created time in the beginning. It's when time begins. God created the heaven and earth. This tells us that God is coming a day when God says time will be no longer, no more time. What is that like? How do you measure anything? It's no time. I think it reflects a little bit on God's essence. You and I are limited by time, right? You agree with me on that? I can't go back in it. I can't go forward in it. We're locked right now. You hear talk about time travel. I don't see that happening at all. I think God can do time travel because God transcends time. For God, there's no past, present, or future. It's all present. That's hard to comprehend. Tomorrow is just as present to God now as the present is to you and I. And there's going to come a day when time will be no more. It's not going to be a factor. Time will be no longer. And the demise of time. Now here's my last point, and I'll end with this. My decision concerning time. It's hard to define what time is. Man, we can measure it in seconds, minutes, hours, days, centuries. Millenniums. We can measure it, but to define what it is is very, very difficult. It's a duration, a progression. The demands, it's incredibly important. We only have so much of it. How many folks found that if you have $1,000, a $1 bill doesn't seem that big of a deal When you got $2, $1 bill is pretty big. Right? That's the way time is. It's just going through. It's just going through. It's just going through. It's just going through. It's important it's of incredibly valuable Well a little bit of it. It's gonna end sometime. There's not gonna be time any longer. We don't have a limited amount, unlimited amount. And then my decision concerning time. Now, here, if you would, turn to Ephesians. This is where I'm going to try and be a little maybe more practical. Ephesians chapter 5. He can't talk about time from God's perspective without ending up in Ephesians chapter 5 and verse number 15. Are you there? Look what it says. See then that ye walk circumspectly. Well it has kind of had the idea of just very, very carefully, being aware. What's happening? That's just not just lumbering through. But you're living your life circumspectly, not as what Fools, but as what? Wise. Now you notice he makes the next statement, and he's explaining what he means about w walking through life foolishly. Walking through life, being wise, circumspect, he explains what he means in verse 16, redeeming the time. Because the days are evil. I think as a Christian, my key word, the frame of mind I have to have when I'm doing and thinking about my time is it has to use that word redeem. Redeeming the time. We only got so much. We don't know how much that is. It is passing by. It is passing by. I like to look at it this way. I I have a a friend of mine, a couple friends that uh in years gone by that had some big um boats, really nice boats. They would go out deep sea fishing, they'd call me up and I'd go out with them uh three or four times and we went out and they would go They talk about deep seafacing. They're going deep facing. We're fifty to a hundred miles out from the coast. I mean, we're like almost to China. It is way out there. Not that far. But uh I mean we're out there And um it's amazing when you get out that far in the ocean. Some of you all have been out there, uh it's a whole nother world And the thing I noticed one time, I got to think of this, we were cruising, I think we were coming back at the end of the day, we had caught some fish. We were coming back, and it's about a four-hour uh a three hour tour. We crashed on this island and we were trapped there. No we weren't. Uh but it's about a four hour trip back And we're going on and they're just flying across that water. And the most crazy things are out there. We're going by, and here a laundry basket is floating by out in the middle of the ocean. I mean we're 75 miles out. This laundry basket's floating out there. I said, wow, I wonder where the laundry is. It's just what I mean. Lo and behold, here's a big pallet, a wood pallet. floating by. And just stuff. But we're going along and I kind of picture this as life, as time. You'd see something in the water up ahead. And it's coming closer and closer and closer. And then you go by. And then you see it fading off in the distance. And it's kind of like You see Christmas up there. A couple months off. Then it's a month off. Then it's a couple weeks off. Then it's here. Then you're looking back. There was Christmas two weeks ago, two months ago, eight months ago. You follow what I'm saying? And it's just whoom That's the way life is. And so what are the decisions I'm going to make? What I got to do is this time is slipping through my hands, slipping through my hands, the time of my life is slipping by And I've got to make some smart decisions. I've got to redeem the time. Now here's the question. What does it mean to redeem my time? Well, some would say it simply means to get the most out of it as you can. Man, uh, you only go through life once, go for all the gusto. Squeeze as much as you can into one day. Give as much, I mean do extreme everything, because man, this is the only time you have to live. You only have one round. Get all you can out of it. That is not what he means. By redeeming the time. Now I'm all for having a full schedule, but that's not what he's talking about. What he's talking about when he says redeeming the time, this is what he's talking about: investing the time that I have. in those things that are genuinely good. Here's the time I have. How am I going to invest it? I've got it, I can spend it, I can redeem it and exchange it for something that is good and have of eternal value Or I can squander it on something that is completely meaningless and has no value whatsoever. As a Christian, I understand how important time is. And I want to redeem it. It has the idea of investment, putting it in something of value. In other words, I want to suggest to you he's talking about investing my time in that which outlasts time. Follow what I'm saying? Anybody here old enough to remember SNH green stamps? My folks used to collect SNH screen stamps. Now I can't remember what how you got them. You buy something, they give you some screen stamps, right? Well yeah, you get gas and different stuff. You you get these S and H screen. Then you had the little book, you kept them in, remember that? The little thing, you stick them in there And we got so many of them you could redeem them. Now, those little stamps in and of themselves were meaningless, had no value. But I could take them and invest them or exchange them for something that was of significant value. I don't remember what all we got, an an iron, I think. You could exchange it and get an iron or shotgun or stuff like that. Incredibly important things, you know. I'd get the iron for my wife and the shotgun I'd go get for my No, I'm kidding. But um it's the idea of exchanging it for something of greater value. So as a Christian, I've only got so much time. I can't store it up. I can't stop it. I can't reinvest it. I can't do anything with it over again. It's gone. So when it comes, I've got to make a decision How am I going to use this time? In something of value or just squander it? Squander it. God, in his grace, has given to us time. God's gift to us. I have today, I have tomorrow, I think, I hope, I have a week, maybe a couple years, maybe a decade, maybe a couple God has given this to me. As a Christian, I want to use that time. I want to invest that time in the things of value. Things that are good, things that will outlast, invest it, so that when time ends, I still have the the um Uh not the lie the li not the liabilities, the the assets that I've invested it in. I can I can I can what's the word I'm wanting? Uh I can reap that I can get that benefit, what I've invested my time in when time is no more. I have the rewards, I guess, is what I'm trying to say of that investment. So how I invest that time is my decision I can't control how much of it I have. I can't control all the events that come into it. But I can control how I use it. So here's some tips to help us invest our time. These helped me Number one, this is the idea of decision, my decision concerning my time. Number one, determine God's purpose for my life. If I'm going to use my time wisely, if I'm going to redeem it, I need to stop and think, all right, why am why do we even have this time? Why am I alive? Why did God give it to me? What's my purpose in time? That's what my life is, my existence in time. Why do I have it? What's my purpose? Well, the Bible tells us some general things that our purpose in life is. Number one, do all to the glory of God. So I want to use my time, whatever I have of it. I want to use it so that God is glorified. People are appointed to God. God is lifted up. He's pleased. So we're to glorify God with our time. The other aspect is that we are to be conformed to the image of Christ. And so one of my purposes in life is to be a Christian, Christ-like, to be a representative on earth of the Son of God. And so one of the reasons I have this time, if I'm going to make the right decision, I'm going to redeem it. I need to understand my purpose in life is to bring glory to God. My purpose in life is to be an accurate ambassador and representative of the Lord Jesus Christ. So that's going to determine how I invest my time. Another purpose I have in life is the salvation of the lost. It says he's left us behind for the same purpose he came in the first place, to seek and to save that which is lost. And so this time that God has given to me, my purpose of having this time To bring others to Christ, bring glory to God, be an accurate representation on this earth of the Lord Jesus Christ. Means I got to study Him. I need to be filled with the Spirit, as Turing Hyde talked about So I need to determine my purpose in life. Then you determine your individual specific purpose in life. There's no doubt in my mind, it's God's will for me to pastor Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church So I use my time with that. That's my purpose in life. Whatever your purpose in life may or may not be. And so, number one, determine my purpose in life. Number two And I'll finish this real quickly. Establish God's priorities in my life. If I find out what my purpose is, then I can establish my priorities. And then number three, seek God's timing. God works on a schedule Right? I know there's some distractions. But try and give me your attention up here. God works on a schedule You see statements in the Bible like this: in the fullness of time, Christ came. That is a schedule. It talks about today is the day of salvation. So if I'm not saved, I understand I only got today. Now's the time to be saved. There's statements like waiting on the Lord. Waiting on the Lord. So Is this making sense? Everybody with me, all right? I was challenged by this. 809, January 8th, 2017 All that last 56 years and several months of my life are gone. Spent. Can't ever get it back. Gone. I've got some time ahead of me, Lord willing. How am I going to invest it? What am I going to do with it? Oh, what is my what is why did God give it to me? What's my purpose in time, in life? Alright, what my purpose is, alright, what's the what's that make priorities? Makes the Lord priorities, seeking his kingdom a priority And then understand God has a timing. God will lead me. God will direct me. In all my ways acknowledge him, and he'll direct my path. And God will bring these events into my life. Do you ever have something happen to you? Say something like this, oh why did this happen to me? Why now? Anybody ever think that God in his timing. God in his timing. So time is a fragment of eternity given to you and I by God, and we can use it for ourselves. Or we can use it for God's glory. If we use it for ourselves, when it's all said and done, it's nothing more than vanity. And vexation of spirits. Nothing more than a laundry basket floating by a boat out in the middle of the ocean. Or I can take it and invest it in the in the Lord. Cause of Christ, bring glory to God. And when it's all said and done, and time is no longer, I still have the results, the benefits, the blessings of redeeming that time. So we got a week ahead of us, we think, right? First day of the new week. Maybe we just tonight decide, you know, this coming week, I'm going to redeem the time. I'm going to live for God. I'm going to honor Him. With every minute that comes into my life, I want to bring glory to God and honor Him with what I have. I'm going to be a witness. Try and get someone else saved before time is no longer. And go to heaven. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that you'd use these thoughts. I know you challenged me, Lord, as I studied this. And I pray we'd be wise and walk circumspect, not foolish, but redeeming the time you've given us, bringing glory to our God, and being a blessing to others and pointing folks to Christ. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How we say, Preacher, God's challenged my heart tonight to think through a little bit how I'm using my time and living my life. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me, pray with me. I'm asking the same for me That I'd be able to live my life and redeem the time that God has given me. Any like that, I need to just stop and think through how I'm using my time, how investing it And what really is my purpose in life and the priority? God bless you, a bunch of hands around. As we go into this week, maybe finding a place to old-fashioned alter and just say, Lord, use me this week, direct me. Fill me with your spirit and help me redeem the time. And I believe God would honor that prayer. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand