Ready church. Want to learn from this uh little book here about the church in Thessalonica. If there's one church in the Bible that uh I would like for us to uh pattern ourselves after, I believe it will be the Lord and then uh follow the Lord in that same way. So uh good church here. And uh we're looking at we're now into chapter three, and it says this in in uh verse number one of 1 Thessalonians chapter 3 says, wherefore, when we could no longer forbear, we thought it good to be left at Athens alone. And sent Timotheus, our brother and minister of God, and our fellow laborer in the gospel of Christ, to establish you and to comfort you concerning your faith. Faith, that no man should be moved by these afflictions, for yourselves know that we are appointed thereunto. I just want to look at this fella Timotheus that's been that's named here and uh let's let's pray and we'll get into our message tonight. Father, thank you for this little book here in the New Testament and all the rich truths and the help that's here, the instructions. um thoughts that we can glean and and and uh incorporate into our life and ministry. I pray you bless our study of these few verses and of this young man Timotheus. Fill me with your spirit, I pray for Father, speak through me tonight. Help us to grow. I pray that I could and uh and all of us could be a little bit like Timotheus in our ministry and uh grow a little bit tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. And chapters 1 and 2, Paul has been going to great lengths to explain to this little church there in Thessalonica his great concern for them. It seems, I mean he's just going on and on here about his compassion for them, his concern for them. And then he along with that he's explaining his actions In fact, if you're paying attention here, you notice he's rehearsing what they did in Thessalonica, particularly chapter 2. And we get into chapter 3 here, and he continues that on. He's still going on telling them, explaining to them how much of a concern he has for them. Not a concern in that they're not well and he's concerned for their well being, just his compassion for them, his concern that they continue on in the dictionary in and uh he's explaining his actions to him now as I said chapter three picks that up in fact he says the first word there in chapter three verse one wherefore Because of all that I'm saying there, uh this is what we were doing. He says, wherefore when we could no longer forbear, we thought it good to be left at Athens alone and sent to Motheus Now the first thing I notice here in this couple verses is I see the selflessness of Paul. The selflessness of Paul. Paul, if you study his life, he's an unusual man. How many people know Notice that. Paul is an unusual Christian. Anybody notice that in your Bible reading? He stands out. And we find Paul very, very selfless. His relationship with the Lord was not a priority in his life. As I look, his relationship, his service lord, it was not a priority in his life. It was his whole life. He said in Philippians, um, he said this, for me to live is what? Christ. Jesus Christ was everything to him It was a whole purpose for his living. So for Paul, the Lord Jesus wasn't number one on a list of priorities. It was everything. There was no number two. There was no number three. It was Jesus and Jesus alone. He says in Philippians again, he says, I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ. And he goes on, and I'm putting this in my own words here a little bit, but he says something basically to the effect that anything that doesn't have to do with my relationship with Christ is just dung. It's of no value. It doesn't benefit. I'm not concerned about it at all. Jesus Christ is everything to me. So we see that, I believe, here in verse number one. And uh if we see his selflessness here, he says, When I wherefore when we could no longer forbear, and by the way, as I was studying this and looking up what commentators said on this passage and uh just trying to glean everything I could out of it. A big issue for a lot of the commentators was that word we When we could no longer forbear, then at the end of verse number one, he says, left in Athens alone. If you go back to Acts, I believe it's chapter 17, you find out that nobody was with Paul. When he sent Timothy from Athens. So when he uses the term we here, uh I I think it's in the sense that he's just we the ones writing, but it wasn't we left in Athens. You follow What I'm saying? He just kind of uses that term. Uh sometimes when I'm writing letters to a missionary or something, I write, we'll be praying for you. And I don't mean everybody, I mean myself, but you use that term. Anybody here know what I'm saying? I'm talking about. Alright. Sorry, good. So anyway, that was a big fuss, and I didn't see what the fuss was, so that's why I brought it up. Anyway, wherefore, when we could no longer forbear, that word forbear is what I want to get to There's two thoughts behind the meeting for Bear there. The one is to hide or cover something up. When we can no longer hide the fact, When we could no longer hide the fact we thought it good to be left alone in Athens and send Timotheus unto you. Now I explain what I think he's saying there. But there's another aspect to that meaning, a thought behind that word forbear. It means to endure or to put up with. That's the common idea you have with the word forbear. What is he saying here? I think what Paul is saying is his concern for the believers at Thessalonica Became very, very great. He tried covering it up. He didn't want others to see how concerned he was for them. They had started out so well. The last he saw them, they were doing so great. But now it's been a period of time since he's been there. They didn't have internet, they didn't have email, they didn't have all those types of things, and even a mail system, they didn't have anything real organized. So it would go Months, maybe years, till you'd hear anything from these people. And so he was very concerned about that, but he tried, if I understand this correctly, he tried covering up his concern. He didn't want everyone to know how worried he was about that. concerned that they were still doing well. And so he tried covering up, but it was becoming more and more obvious that he was very much concerned about them. So he said, finally I couldn't cover up my concern anymore, I couldn't endure it anymore. I had to send Timotheus unto you. And I was left here alone. Now that tells us a little bit about Paul. First thing it tells me about Paul is this, his selflessness. It tells me that he was willing to be in an unpleasant situation for the good of other believers. He says, I was left in Thessalonica alone. Now, if you would, keep your place here. Come back to Acts chapter 17 real quick. Here we have the account of Paul being left in Athens. Of course, Athens being in Greece Greece, Athens in particular, and Corinth did not have a lot of Jewish influence there. There were Jews there, a fair number, but they didn't have a lot of influence. Athens and Corinth were very much pagan cities, very much heathenistic, very, very wicked. They had, you've heard of the Greek mythology and all the different gods they had. Some of their gods were very perverse That they worshipped, and of course they would emulate their gods. See, it had a very perverse, wicked uh society. And Paul is left there. Look what Mythe would. In chapter 17, look at verse 16. Notice his reception as he starts witnessing to these Athenians and the Corinthians and sharing the gospel with them. Look at verse 16. While Paul waited for them at Athens, now he's there by himself His spirit was stirred within him when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry Now, can you imagine you're out, you're a soul winner, you're a you're a missionary, and you find yourself in a society That everybody worships idolatry. Everybody is wicked. Everybody is ungodly. Nobody has the fear of God whatsoever. That could be a little unsettling. And Paul is left there, and for the good of the church at Thessalonica, he says, I was willing to be in this situation by myself. Very unpleasant. Let's read on. Therefore disputed he in the synagogues with the Jews, like I said, there was an element of Jews there, with the devout persons in that market and in the market daily with them that met with him Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans and of the Stoics encountered him. Now these are the hardcore pagans. And they said, some said, what will this babbler say? And others, some, he seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods. You talk about strange gods. Did you ever check out those Greek gods they had? I mean they had women with snakes coming out of their heads. That to me is a strange God. But they think Jesus Christ is a strange God. So they say this. He seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods. Why? Because he preached unto them Jesus and the resurrection. Isn't it funny to the world how the weirdest things of the world are normal, but Jesus Christ seems strange? Isn't that strange? And uh, but uh anyway, then read on. And they took him and brought him unto Areopagius Saying, May we know what this new doctrine whereof thou speakest is. For thou bringest certain strange things to our ears. We would know therefore what these things mean. For the Athenians and the strangers which were there spent their time in nothing else but either to tell or to hear some new thing. Sounds to me like Occupy Wall Street Group to me. Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars Hill and said, You men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you are too superstitious. And he goes down and he starts preaching to him. But you get the setting that Paul finds himself in. Somewhat antagonistic. They're mocking him a little bit. What will this babbler say? Come over, if you would, to verse number 32. And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, this is when Paul's done preaching, heard of these pagans, uh resurrection of the dead, some mocked Others said, We'll hear thee again of this matter. So Paul departed from among them. Now praise the Lord for verse 34. Howbeit, certain men clave unto them and believe, among which which was Dionysius, the Areopagite And a woman named Demaris and others with them. By the way, just a little trivia. See that name in verse 34, Dionysius? I circled that in my Bible. Do you know what that name is? That is the Greek name for Dennis. That's me. And so um, anyway, by the way, Dionysius, speaking of strange gods, was the name of the god of wine. So I'm named after the god of wine, Chester. How about that? But do you notice Paul's, do you notice the crowd that Paul's in? Question from the little bit I just read there. Would you say he was in a friendly crowd or an unfriendly crowd? Unfriendly crowd. There's a few get saved, one really good guy with a great name. And uh, but for the most part It's uh they're mocking him, they're calling them names, they'll say, ah, he's talking about some strange things Here's my point. Come back to Thessalonians. Paul says, listen, I was so concerned for your well-being, I was willing to put myself in a very unpleasant situation. It'd be a whole lot easier if he'd had some folks there with him, dealing with this crowd, rather than there by himself. But his concern for others. Now here's my thought behind this. What the church needs to be a good strong church, and this tells us a little bit why the church at Thakesonica was such a tremendous church. Because they had people like Paul who were willing to put themselves out for their good. Too many times we get, and I have to include preachers in on this. Too many times we get this idea, well, I've got to do what's best for me first, and then if I can, I'll help out others But Paul wasn't that way at all. He said, Listen, I'm really concerned for the church there. I mean, they already have believers there. They already have a somewhat of a leadership in the church. But You know, I think it's better for them that Timothy be there with them than he be here by myself. I'm willing to be here in a very unpleasant situation by myself for their good. And so sometimes God calls us, and sometimes the best thing for a church is for us to put ourselves in an unpleasant situation for the good of the church. Unpleasant for us personally, maybe But it's good for the body of believers. And Paul was willing to do that. Second thing I notice about Paul hearing this, he was willing to be inconvenienced. For the good of the Thessalonian church. Timothy was Paul's assistant. Timothy was right there. If you read through the New Testament, you find out Timothy was right there with Paul through some of his most difficult times. And Timothy helped him. Timothy was his preacher boy. Timothy was his assistant. No doubt he carried out a lot of the trivial things that consume Paul's time and whatnot. He had the care of all the churches on his hands. And he said, you know, I really need this guy, and I'm reading into it here a little bit, but I can see it. I really need this guy. I'm really lean on him, depend upon him. He's my uh co-laborer, but you know what? The church over there really needs some help. I'm really concerned. I'll go without it. It will inconvenience me, but I want to do what's good for the church. And you know what good, successful, strong churches are built up of? Folks who say, you know, my convenience is not the priority. It's the well-being of God's people that's the priority. You know, man, if we do that, that fingerprints thing, you know, it's Thursday night, Friday, that's kind of inconvenient for me. But you know what? That's a powerful ministry for the church and for our missionaries. Maybe I can be and inconvenience myself a little bit to uh be a part of that and do that. That was Paul's mentality So we see the selflessness of Paul in just these couple verses, his actions there, how selfless he was. I put this down. It was not Paul's agenda that was important to him, it was the church's good that was important to him. Second thing I notice here in these passages and verses we read, I notice the characteristics of Timothy, and this is what I really want to get to. The characteristics of Timothy. Paul says three things about Timothy. Look at verse 2. He sent and sent Timotheus, our brother. It's one thing. Statement about Timotheus, our brother, and minister of God, there's the second thing, and our fellow laborer in the gospel of Christ. Three statements he makes about Timothy, and these three characteristics of Timothy apparently Paul felt would be very beneficial to the church there. Now, Paul references a lot of different people throughout the New Testament. A lot of them are good people. Romans chapter 16, he goes down through a list of folks that he thanks God for. He sends his greetings. They were significant. They were friends of his. They were people that were beneficial to the church. There's some folks that Paul references that were not beneficial to the church. For instance, in 3 John in verse 9. He makes reference to a fellow by the name of Diatrophes. How many people have ever heard of diatrophes? Anybody ever hear of that name? Diatrophes? Oh, let me tell you about diatrophes. Not a good God. Paul said, and I'm paraphrasing here again a little bit, but he said to this effect, watch out for diatrophies. He loveth to have, come on, some of you know the what? Preeminence. Now, what registers in your mind? When they say, oh, that guy likes to have the preeminence, what do you picture in your mind? Untroubled, yeah. But uh what else? He wants to have power. What's that? Yeah, he wants to be up in front. He wants to be top of the pile. He wants to be on the platform, but he wants to be calling the shots. He wants his agenda over top of everyone else's And Paul said, this guy's not helping the church. Somebody that's out for themselves, to exalt themselves, to demand their own way, to uh uh get all the attention, get all the glory, um that person is not going to help the church. He says, be careful for that guy. Apparently Diotrophes had a problem with authority. And uh in fact uh he uh run Paul off, went and received Paul. So Paul's not gonna show up here and tell us what to do Oh, what does it say? Paul's an apostle. Now there are no apostles today, but then there were apostles being in the church. They had tremendous authority over the churches And so doctrines. In 2 Timothy 2 and verse 17, he makes reference to two folks, Hymenius and Philetus. They had. He said that they were hurting people with their false teaching. They would come to church and they would teach things that were contrary to scripture. They were uh they uh they uh the things they said hurt the people church. In 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 14, he makes reference to a fellow named Alexander. Does anybody know what Alexander's occupation was? What was it? Copper Smith. Coppersmith. Very good. Alexander the coppersmith. And Paul said he did me much harm. He caused me all kinds of problems. He was a headache. Now, I don't think he was the thorn in the flesh, Paul talked about in Corinthians, but uh he caused Paul a lot of problems. He was destructive to Paul's ministry. And he tells Timothy, in 2 Timothy, he says, watch out for him. He's going to hurt you. So Paul makes reference through the New Testament of different folks Who hurt the ministry, but here he has a fellow, a young man, that was a tremendous help to the ministry, a tremendous blessing. Timothy was unlike these other fellows we just referenced. In fact, Timothy was the exact opposite. He was somebody that was a tremendous asset to the ministry of and the to the local church. Now, notice he says three things here real quickly about Timothy. First of all, he says, I sent Timotheus our brother. That term brother tells us a few things about Timothy. First of all, it tells us he was what? He was a Christian. The only time in the Bible, the only time in the New Testament I should say, that you find somebody referred to as a brother that is not a Christian is when Paul references the Jews who were his brothers according to the flesh. So he's telling us here, Timothy was saved. So that's my first characteristic of Timothy. He was a saved man. If somebody is going to be a spiritual help to the church, they must be saved. We do not want, listen, we do not want unsaved people teaching our Sunday school classes. Amen? They must be saved. They must be a brother, or in case of a woman, a sister, in Christ. Timothy, if he was not saved, he would not be a help to that church. He'd be a hindrance. We do not want unsaved people singing in the choir. Amen? Or in leadership positions or any of that. In fact, a New Testament church, you got to be saved to even be a member of the church. And so, you say, well, you guys are awfully, you guys discriminate. No, we obey the Bible. The church is God's people. So the first thing we know, and this is obvious, this isn't news to any of us, Timothy was saved. But you know there's something else in that word brother, more than just indicating was a Christian I see the word brother as a term of endearment. It gives the idea that there is an intimacy in their relationship they have with each other. Now we use the word brother uh pretty loosely. Hey brother, hey brother. I catch myself sometimes um you know just uh somebody at the store. I say thanks brother. I'm like wait a minute, I don't even know if they're saved or or not. You know, I just so used to saying it, I'll say it. I called brother brother I called brother um uh Utah. Mike Bardon Several years ago I called him about something. We were taking a trip out there or something, I forget what. I said, and he answered the phone. I said, hey, Brother Barton. He says, depends. Are you saved or not? This is Brother Leatherman. He goes, Oh, hey brother, this is Brother Barton. He says, Let me explain that answer. He said a lot of the Mormons call him brother, and uh he does not accept that term from a Mormon. He says, you're not saved according to the Bible. I'm not your brother. So I have that stuck in my mind. So it's a term of endearment, I believe. It suggests that Timothy and Paul had a intimate fellowship with each other and with the believers in the church. And if so, if someone's going to be a spiritual benefit to the church, I don't know about you. But I want to be of benefit to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And I think you feel the same way. That means number one, I need to be safe And number two, I need to be along this line of being saved. I need to be in fellowship with the church. Calling someone your brother is an expression of affection And so there ought to be an intimacy in our fellowship and an affection one for another. In other words, if I'm going to be a help to the church, I've got to be able to get along with the folks and I've got to care about the people. A brother. So Timotheus, his spiritual benefit to the church. First of all, he was saved. Then he uses another term to describe Timotheus. I sent Timo and sent Timotheus our brother and look at this minister of God Now we use that word minister a lot. We throw it around. I got looking it up. It means this. This was the first and primary definition. I thought this was interesting. I never caught this before. It means this: one who carries out the commands of authority. In this definition of this word here, one who carries out the commands of authority. You know what he's telling us about Timothy here? First he said he's a brother. It means he's saved in a good relationship with them. Then he says he's a minister of God. In other words, what would you call someone with another term? What's another term you would use for someone who carries out the commands of their authority? What's that? Well, pastor should be a minister, but what would be another term for minister there? Someone that's carrying out the terms of doing what they're told. A Servant! Very good. We should have done charades, two syllables. He's a servant He follows leadership. Timothy, I think that one simple statement, a minister of God. It's not referenced to him. I do not believe this is referencing his title as pastor here. I think it's describing his character. Timothy was someone who had a submissive attitude. What the authority, what God, and the authority here is of God. God says to do that, I'm going to do it. If it's in the Word of God, I'm going to follow it. He had a submissive attitude. Brother Holmsther, Charles B. Holmcher, founder, director of neighborhood Bible time, worked under him for years, and uh he's getting up there. We really need to keep our prayers. He's in an assisted living now. He's like 86 or 7 years old But uh I heard him say a hundred times or more to kids doing these big teen r uh uh big Bible time rallies out in Denver and different places, he would say this. Um he would say something like this He called them boosters, the kids he called boosters. He'd say, boosters, if you cannot obey your mother You cannot obey God. If you won't obey your father, you won't obey God. If you won't obey the authorities God has placed over you, you will not obey God. And that's a powerful statement. And he says, and Paul is saying about Timothy here, he's a servant. He can obey, he knows how to follow the directions of those who are in leadership, authority over him, ultimately God. And if we have a hard time obeying the authorities God has placed over us, then we're going to have a really hard time obeying God. And Timothy was that way. One of the greatest characteristics of a believer, I believe, is that of submissiveness. Submissive to God. Humble before God. God gives some stern warnings about stiffening our neck and hardening our neck against God. Timothy was not that way. He was a minister of God. He was submissive to God. He was a servant of God. I believe one of the greatest benefits to a church is folks in the church who are submissive to God. Folks in the church, when God deals with their heart, when God says something from the Word of God, we say, yes, Lord, I'll obey that. I will do that. Paul had complete confidence that when Timothy got to Thessalonica, Timothy would do what God told us to do. He was submissive. So number one, he was a saved young man. Number two, he was a servant. And a third thing that Paul believed Timothy would help the church. He was very concerned. He was willing to put himself in an unpleasant situation. He was willing to inconvenience himself for their sake, and he sent Timothy there because he believed Timothy would help them, and he gives the reasons why. Number one, he was saved, number two, he was servant. Then he gives a third one. Look what it says here. And our fellow laborer. Now notice he doesn't stop there. I'll be honest with you, and I first started studying this passage and breaking it down and trying to get a root out what's being said here and flesh it out a little bit. I kept stopping after that word. Our fellow laborer. Our fellow laborer. I thought, wow, Timothy's a hard worker. He works well with others. He gets along. Fellow laborer. He works hard. He works good with others. But the statement doesn't end there He's not talking about Timothy's work ethic necessarily. Notice what he goes on and says. Our fellow laborer, what? In the gospel of Christ. Ah, that tells me what Paul sees in Timothy as an attribute, as a positive characteristic, not just a hard worker. Hey, thank God for hard workers. Amen? I think the Christian ought to be a hard worker. My daddy was a hard worker. My family hard worker. I've tried to be a hard worker. I tried to train our boys. I believe our fell our boys are hard workers. Now that's good, and thank God for that, and we need that, and that ought to be a characteristic of our church. But something about Timothy went beyond just being a hard worker He was a fellow laborer in the gospel of Christ. Now, see if you thinking along the same lines I am How would you describe that? What term would you use to describe a laborer in the gospel of Christ? They would be a. Okay, a preacher would be one aspect of it in the gospel of Christ, a soul winner. That's what I see. Timothy worked hard at getting the gospel to lost people. Man, he could, Paul knew that he could get in that church and he would work with them, fellow laborers. He would work with them and he would work hard at helping them get the gospel to the unsaved And that Paul considered that a tremendous asset for the church, a tremendous benefit to the church. It would relieve some of Paul's concern and worry For the church, Harry hasn't heard from them. If he knew that Timothy got there, because Timothy was a hard worker and a cooperative worker in getting the gospel out to the lost, he would help them I tell you what, thank God for hard workers. But you know what the purpose of the church's existence is? Is to take the gospel to the lost. Listen, and again, don't misunderstand what I'm saying, but you can have a liberal church filled with hard workers Right? They can have soup kitchens and build habitat houses and do this and do that and do the other. And don't misunderstand what I'm saying. Those are all wonderful things But that's not the purpose of the church. The purpose of the church is to propagate the gospel of Jesus Christ. Win others to the Lord Jesus Christ And every one of us can be a benefit to the church if we know Jesus Christ as Savior. If we have a relationship and an intimacy and a compassion, affection one for another. If we're submissive to God and we just obey what God tells us to do, and then work hard at getting the gospel to the lost, we can be a benefit to the church. We help the church. We become an asset to the church. Not everybody that Paul referenced in the New Testament was an asset to the church Some were tremendous liabilities. Some were very, very, uh caused a lot of problems and difficulties. But Timothy, Paul said, he'll help you These three things that are true about Timothy, he'll he'll he'll help the church there. It'll be a better church, he'll be an asset to them, a worker in the gospel. And then thirdly, and we'll pick this up in next week's message As we're working our way through here, we have the service that Timothy gave to the church. He says there in the last part of verse 2, to establish you and to comfort you concerning your faith, that no man should be moved by these afflictions. for yourselves know that we are appointed thereunto. So he talks about what Timothy, he knows Timothy is going to do when he gets there and how he's going to help them. But my thought tonight is this, Timothy. I want to be an asset to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I want my being a part of this church, helps the church Makes us stronger, makes us more what God intends for us to be. My my part, my influence. And if that's so, then I think these three things that were true to Timothy need to be true about me. Saved Affection for one another, submissive to God, doing what he says, and then working hard at getting the gospel to the law. And then I can be an asset. Now, you're here Wednesday night on a foggy, rainy, yucky night. I feel probably, I sense probably you would feel the same way about this as I do And we all want to be an asset to church. We want the church to be better because of our presence and our influence. Let's ask the Lord to help us I can't say. I can't honestly say it'd stand up here and say, yeah, I breached this. I'm just like Timothy. I wish I could. I can't. So I prepared this. The Lord spoke to my heart several areas And so let's ask the Lord to help us. I can't be everybody, but I can be me. And I can be what God wants me to be. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us to learn from Timothy here. And what a great church this was. And we see one of the reasons was because men like Timothy were a part of it and had a role there and influence. And I pray, Father, that what was true of Timothy, God, you'd help me to be true of myself and my influence here also. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, God spoke to my heart that I can pick up some of these characteristics of Timothy? And I'm really down in my heart. I want to be that I need some of these areas incorporated more so into my Christian life. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me, that God would help me. Be a lot more like Timothy in these areas. Any like that by the uplifted hand, goodness, hands all around. Of course that's what we want. Well, let's just ask God to help us. Ask God to enable us to incorporate that in our lives. Father, bless our imitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Catherine's here at the piano she's playing. Why don't you slip on out? Just come say, Lord, help me in that area. Maybe it's this matter of uh being affectionate and maybe just getting along better with others. I don't know. Maybe God's dealing with you some area in your life where just need to be a little more submissive to God