And he gave me just a sample of a bunch of them and there's all different kinds of things here, just different subjects. One's Christmas and then other things. I'll uh put these in the back. They're free for the take and if you can take it, you want to read it and then pass it on, share it with somebody. Just good little uh booklets here on different subjects. And so I'll put them in the back there then. And you're welcome to have them. 2 Timothy 2, if you would notice with me verse number 24. The Bible says, and the servant of the Lord must not what? Strive. The servant of the Lord must not strive. There's no question about what he's telling us there, how we're to interact, what we're to do. The servant of the Lord must not strive, but be what? Gentle unto how many men? All men. Apt to teach, patient, and verse twenty-five: in meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves You could say this kind of instructing those that take a position that's harmful for themselves. They're opposing themselves. If God preadventure will give them repentance unto the acknowledging of the truth. So he's telling us here, in a brief statement, Paul is under the inspiration is telling Timothy. how to respond to those who oppose themselves in this matter of the gospel. And the way I get the gospel out as the last part he says, if God uh will preventure give them repentance unto the acknowledging of the truth. In other words, they would get saved. And so they're opposing themselves. They're taking a position opposed to the gospel that will ultimately hurt themselves. And he tells us how to do that. Now, keep your place there. We're going to look at that here again in a bit, but come back to Timothy And uh or I'm sorry, Peter, uh 1st Peter and chapter number three And verse 15, this is maybe a familiar passage for a lot of us. 1 Peter chapter 3. And verse 15. Notice what it says. It says, But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always To give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is within you. Now look at the last part. With what? Meekness and fear. That's how we are to interact, how we're to respond to those who ask us A reason for the hope we have within us. What I want to address tonight, try and share some thoughts on answering folks that have objections to the gospel Or people who are resistant to the gospel. They're out witnessing with somebody and they bring up questions, they bring up objecti objections, they resist. The gospel. How do we respond to that? What do we say? How do we answer that? So let me give you some thoughts. Let's pray it first before we get into it. Father in heaven, we ask now you bless our tips for soul winning. And I pray that you would stir all of us, myself and all of us here, to commit ourselves, to be effective witnesses, to be earnest, diligent. And maybe even more aggressive in our witness, this old simple world, and that we could become soul winners, see people say Give us wisdom as we interact with people and they bring up questions, they bring up objections, and that we would be able to respond in a correct manner, but also with correct information. So fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord, I yield my will and my present my body anew. Pray that you would speak through me and help us in Jesus' name, Amen. I think you'd agree with me, and we emphasize this all the time God has given to us as a church and as individuals a tremendous responsibility. What is our primary responsibility as a church and as Christians? What is the main responsibility God has given us? To be a witness. Take the gospel, what? And to all the world. Our responsibility, our job is to get the gospel of Jesus Christ to every single individual on this planet. One way or another, following the pattern of the Lord, and uh to do that. Now the question is, what is the gospel? It's the death, burial, and resurrection. What does the word gospel mean? Good news. Good news. How many people here like to get good news? How many people here like you get a phone call and they say I've got good news I like that. I don't hang up on them. I don't uh smart them off. I don't do anything. He said, really? Now if they hang up, if they call and say, I got bad news, then I I'll hang up on them No, not really. But uh we like good news. Good news is good. We want good news. And um What is the good news? We can be forgiven for sins. How many people like to be forgiven? You did something wrong, you're in debt, and somebody says, I forgive you. That's a good thing, right? That's good news. Somebody calls up. I got good news. What is it? I'm forgiving you all that debt you have. Woo! That's wonderful. So forgiveness is good news. How about eternal life? Well, even if we die, yet shall we live, Jesus said. And so that's good news, right? You agree with me? Anybody would be glad for that. Good grief. Um how about uh salvation from hell? Hey, you're never going to go to hell. You're guaranteed you are not going to hell. That's wow. Who would turn that down? Who would oppose that? How about being saved from sin? Some guys in bondage to sin. He's a drunkard or he's a drug addict, he's addicted to something, and he says, hey, you can be delivered from that and you can have a clean, pure life, a clean no uh uh guilt f guilt is gone, a good, clean conscience How many people agree with me? That's a good thing. Goodness. What a wonderful thing. Now here's the thing. This is good news. These are wonderful things. Everybody wants good news, but what we find Is when we go out and we engage people with the gospel, not always, but we run into people who are resistant to the good news. Isn't that strange? People with objections as to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, forgiveness of sins, eternal life, salvation from hell, deliverance from sin and bondage. And they resist that. And they object to it. And um not everybody does. And I'm glad that a lot of times we go out and we'll meet somebody and boy, they're just hungry for the good news Anybody ever the way I describe it, a lot of people describe it is like picking a br a ripe apple off a tree. Boy, they're just ready. And that's an exciting thing. But The thing that is strange for us on this side of salvation is to think: why would somebody object to this? Why would somebody resist this? Now how many people like me, leading up to your salvation, you resisted it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Under conviction, I knew I needed to be saved. And just fighting that and on then once you got saved, how many people said this? Boy, I was a knucklehead. Why in the world was I fighting this Why in the world was I objecting to this? So um resistance and objection to the gospel is very real, as strange and uh as uh uh uh uh uh what's the word I want as uh uh as uh as not unusual, but as strange and as um nonsense as it is to resist something like that, nevertheless we do run into it Fear is a real factor in Christians witnessing, right? We've talked about that before Fear and doesn't matter. Somebody, I forget, I was talking to you just recently. He said, Well, you don't still get nervous when you get up there and preach or when you go out witnessing. Oh yeah. Still do. And uh Thursday nights come around. I usually have to knock on a couple, two, three doors before I calm down and um I s you know, and uh m my speech is coherent and they understand what I'm saying. I just it's nervous. And I think one of the factors in that people are fearful about, Christians are fearful about, is just that very thing, people objecting to what I'm saying. Or people asking questions that I don't know the answer to. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Well what if they ask about this? What if they ask something I don't know the answer? What if they resist or they object to what I'm saying? And so it's a real thing. Now we really should not be surprised, even though it seems bizarre to us. We really ought not to be surprised that people do object to the gospel and resist it. Anybody here ever read the book of Acts? What are they doing all through the book of Acts? They are what? They're resisting the gospel. Now a lot of people get saved. Multitudes get saved. But there is a heap of intense resistance to the gospel. There is a heap of intense objections to the gospel. Paul is in Corinth and he's debating with these guys. They're asking hard questions. They're challenging him on the resurrection. And uh all through here. Uh so we shouldn't be surprised if it was taking place, if Paul dealt with it in his day and age And as we're time is going by and evil men and seducers are waxing worse and worse as we approach the end of the days and the world is in greater darkness, we ought not to be surprised that people question and challenge the gospel of Lord Jesus Christ. We won't turn to these, but just to explain why we face objections to the gospel. In John chapter 3 verse 19, Jesus tells us that men love darkness rather than what? Light. As strange as that may seem for a believer is some people just love being in darkness, spiritual ignorance, and The darkness of sin. In 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 14, the Bible tells us that the natural man does not what? Where remember, does not receive the things of the Spirit. They can't discern it. And so to the unsaved man, the gospel and much of the Word of God doesn't make sense. It's just it's just nonsense. I always think whenever I read that passage or I think about that passage, I think of Char uh Bush Ride Hardesty And uh before he uh before he passed away, he said to me, Ron would witness to him, talk to him, reading the Bible, he said, he said, that that book does I can't make head nor tails out of that book, it was his word. And he's and he says it made no sense to me He says, then I got saved. Now also it makes sense. Now I appreciate it. So before he was saved, it was uh he didn't discern it. The natural man does not discern. So we go out there and we're talking sometimes to unsaved people that what we're saying They can't discern what we're talking about because the natural man can't discern the spiritual things. And then 2 Corinthians 4. 4, the Lord tells us that uh the devil has the lost blinded They're blinded to the gospel. The God of this world has blinded them. And so we really ought not to be surprised. When we go out to the world where they love darkness rather than light, they're unsaved, they're natural, the things of the Spirit really don't make a whole lot of sense to them, and Satan has a lot of them blinded So we shouldn't be surprised when they do object to what we're saying. They resist and they question the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. But nevertheless Paul told Peter or told Timothy, and here Peter tells us how we are to respond when people do that. So let me give you a few thoughts here. I want to talk first of all how to respond. Then I'm going to look, if we have time, I want to look at three um uh questions that come up that are a bit challenging. I don't think I turned Just like there. Alright, there we go. Alright, so how do we respond? If you're writing these down, write this one down. When somebody objects or questions the gospel, I'm witnessing to them. Maybe I'm sitting in their living room or we're at a dinner together and We met and I'm sharing the gospel or uh maybe you're up at an altar or wherever it may be. Uh and they challenge or they resist or they question something we do write this down, number one Be kind and patient. Be kind and patient. You say, Brother Leatherman, every tip we get about soul winning, it always includes being kind. I know that's very important. Be kind and patient. Now, if you would, are you still in Peter? Did you stay there? That's where we ended. Look at Peter. Let's go to this one. Look at verse 15. He says, But sanctify the Lord in your hearts. Be ready always to give an answer to everyone that asketh you a reason of the hope that was in you. And that asking would include questioning and challenging. What I believe to be true, the hope that is in me. Now look what he says, with two things. First of all, meekness. Meekness. How would you describe meekness? What does it mean that I'm to answer them, that question, I'm to answer them with meekness? How would you describe that? Mellow? Oh, with humility? Yes, absolutely. Without any pride, pushing the pride aside. Meekness is very closely associated with humility. Meekness, we always say this anytime we define it, meekness does not mean weakness. You ever hear that? Doesn't mean we're to be timid, or doesn't mean we're to cower before them, but it does mean we're to be very confident, we can be very firm, but we're not proud. We do it we're confident and we're firm with humility, saturated humility Probably an uh an antonym for meekness would be arrogance. We don't aim we're not we're not arrogant. So when someone questions or challenges, I'm sitting in our living room and what uh and boy they start throwing stuff and they start challenging things that I hold dear, that I know the Bible teaches. One thing I need to do, I need to respond with meekness. Not cowering, not just timid and caving in, but not arrogant. Just very humbly responding to that. But then he also says another word to every man that ask you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. Now, are we supposed to be afraid? No, this let me just simplify what I believe he's saying here with respect. We're to treat them with respect I'm convinced we need to be respectful to all people. A Christian should treat all people with respect. You say, yeah, but they're not very respectable. Ah, but they're created in God's image. Now think about this. Somebody you think very highly of, who would be someone you think very highly of? I was with Dr. Smith. We all respect Dr. Smith. He's a good great man of God, a man of integrity, no doubt about it. I tremendous respect Dr. Smith or Dr. Pat Creek I had profound influence. I had tremendous respect for both these men. Now suppose they come along and they introduce me to somebody. It was a little rough around the edges, but he makes this statement, I love this person. With all my heart, I love them dearly. I would give my life for this person. Now, because of the integrity and the character of the one that loves that person, though I may not know them that well, I would be respectful to that person simply because. You follow what I'm trying to say? And so here's some person he's smarting off, he's challenging everything I do, he's got an attitude, and uh he's smarting me off. I'm trying to share the gospel with him. One, I need to be meek. I don't get arrogant about it and I need to be respectful. I need to be respectful. Do you ever see those video clips of p policemen And the guy's just arrogant as could be and all, and they're saying, sir, sir, you need to do this, sir. And they treat them with respect, even though they're they're dirt balls. And uh they treat them with respect. And I think that's the idea here. Regardless of who we're talking to, regardless of how they're responding, regardless of what their attitude may be, their throwing stuff, they may be saying ridiculous stuff to us. We need to be number one meek and then we need to be respectful to them. When I was studying this, I thought about when I was up with Steve a couple years ago, not this last time I was there, a time before we went out soul with him one day And we're knocking on apartments there in the town, apartment doors. And this guy came through, he's in a wheel fit uh wheelchair and just arrogant um atheist, I mean he was mocking us, he was calling us names, he was calling God names. I mean, just terrible And uh just going on, and we tried to answer his, and I tell you, I was just uh impressed with Steve. See was very respectful to him, and he was very, very gracious, very, very kind, did not respond in kind back And I believe that is what Peter is telling us when we're witnessing the people and they challenge us or they resist or they object to what we're saying. We need to maintain our humility, our meekness, but we also need to be very, very respectful to them. Don't go down to their level. Follow what I'm saying? Now come back to Timothy. He gives us further instructions. On how to respond to that. And my summary of what we're taught here is this: be kind and patient. Be kind and patient. That would include meekness, respect. Look at Timothy. Look at the first part of verse 24 He says here, and the servant of the Lord must not strive. So we're told there also we should not what? Don't get in a fight with them. All right? Don't start swinging fists around and throwing stuff and getting mad and getting in a fight. How many people agree with me? It would be terrible if we knocked on someone's door, ended up in a fist fight with that person at the door trying to win them to the Lord. Do you agree with me? We probably wouldn't ever win them to the Lord. You can knock them out, but you won't get them saved, maybe. That's why I take Pastor Matt with me so with him. Nobody wants to fight. So he says, don't get in a fight with them. Alright? That's pretty obvious. But then he expands on that. He says, must not strive, but what's the next thing? Be what? Gentle. Unto all men. What does it mean to be gentle to somebody or something? What does that mean? Just be very easy, be very nice. Be very careful. I want to try my best. Here's what I think we're getting at here. I want to try my best not to be offensive. Not to be offensive. Now, if they're offended by the message of the gospel, I can't control that. Some will be. But if they're offended because of my demeanor And because of how and the I conduct myself if I'm offending them, uh then that's a problem. So I need to be gentle Then he goes on, here it is, apt to teach, in other words, I need to know what I'm saying. But then he says, be patient, be patient. I found that most people don't get saved the first time they hear the gospel. So this may be all new to them, possible. They may have to hear the gospel many, many times. I'm getting way ahead of myself on this, but I think when sometimes when people are very obnoxious or they're very objective, To us sharing the gospel and they're very resistant, I found that a lot of times I believe there is conviction going on inside their heart And this is a response. This is a defense mechanism to throw questions out at them and resist and challenge this. Because there's conviction going on inside the heart. And so I need to be very patient. Let the Lord do his work. Let the Lord be working there. Don't try and choke them to salvation, you know, don't beat them into salvation Be very, very patient. Give them time. And then again he brings up that meekness there, verse 25, in meekness instructing those that oppose them. So regardless of how rude they may be, regardless of how strong their objections may be, um, I need to be very kind and I need to be very patient with them. And to be honest with you, we're going to talk about this again if we have time. Sometimes people, they're not being trying to be rude, they're not trying to be obnoxious, they're not trying to be rebellious, they just have sincere questions. And sometimes their sincere questions are very difficult questions to answer. We're going to look at one here in a little bit. There are some questions that are hard questions. There's no doubt about it. And so sometimes we get fearful that I don't know the answer to that. How do I answer that? And then we uh respond in arrogance We try to cover up our fear or our insecurity there because I don't know the answer necessarily. And I come across with this uh arrogance on my part. And we have to watch out for that. There's a world of difference between confidence and arrogance. I've heard some very arrogant preachers who, when you got to know them, were not had very little confidence. And they're overcompensating for that incomp that uh lack of confidence with arrogance. And so, whatever the case is, I'm coming up, I'm trying to share the gospel, however they're responding, whether in sincerity and truth in their questions. or just being difficult, I need to be patient and kind. Number two kind of goes along with this, but write this down. Don't argue with them. Don't argue with them. They ask a question, and um I give them an answer, and then it comes back, and next thing you know, this thing's delving into an argument Don't let it go there. Don't let it go there. We are not out to win arguments. We're out to win souls Or out to win souls. So don't argue with them. Number three, put this one down. Don't just give a flippant answer Don't just give a flippant answer. Now I have a little thing I say, if somebody asks me, oh preacher, I got a question. All right, where did Cain get his wife? I have a little flippant answer I throw out. Well, from his mother-in-law You know, and I always do what you just did. I always laugh and chuckle when I say it. You know, just trying to be funny. But um we have to be careful that um that we take their questions seriously. Now again, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but we need wisdom and determine, is this question a sincere question, or are they just trying to throw me a curveball? There's a difference. You understand what I'm saying? Are they do is this something they genuinely is this question something that is genuinely hindering them from trusting Christ? Or is it simply a roadblock to keep me from being able to share the gospel with them. And so you have to need a you need a little discernment there to be you know uh where wh why where is this coming from? What is this sincerity of this. And uh either case, we have to be careful about trying to be a smart aleck with them or anything like that. Don't give them a flippant answer. Now under that I put this down. If you don't know the answer to their questions, to their question, admit it. There's nothing in the world wrong with saying, you know, I really don't know the answer to that. That's far better than saying something stupid and turning them off completely and maybe hindering a witness down the road a little ways. It's far better to say, you know, I got to be honest with you, I don't know the answer to that question. You say, well, if I can't answer all their questions, and if I can't answer all their objections, they'll never get saved. That's not the case. In fact I'm way ahead of myself now, but it's not my arguments or my answers that saves their soul. It's the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. And so I want to try and answer their questions and I want to answer them as as accurately, as biblically as I possibly can, but if I don't know, just admit to them, you know, where did Cain get his wife, you know Our preacher talks about that sometimes, to be honest with you. I don't know the exact answer to that. Let me but here, look, here's what you should say. But if you'll let me, I'll find out and I'll come back and try and answer that for you So what does that do? Number one, I'm being honest with them. And number two, if they're sincere, what's that doing? Gives me another opportunity to come back. Opportunity for two things. One, to learn something I didn't know. And then also come back and maybe answer a question. Again, if they're sincere. If they're just throwing it out, you know, you have to discern that a little bit. So don't just give a flip an answer. Don't be a smart aleck. If I don't know it, admit I don't know it, and then offer to find the answer to that question and come back later. Number four, jot this down Now this is where I was getting ahead of myself, but determine the nature of the question or the objection. I put it two ways. Some are open and some are closed. And by that I mean this. The nature of the question or the objection. One, is it an open question? By that I mean this. Are they sincere? Is this a genuine question they have on their heart? Um I was thinking of Mabel. We visited, oh, it's been a year and a half ago now or so, and out to visit Mabel. Were you with me, Dale, on that visit? She trusted the Lord. And we were talking and she said, we visited a little bit. It was real nice. And she said, Uh, Pastor Letherman, I've got some questions. I said, okay. I didn't share the gospel or anything. We're just making light visits. She asked a couple things that were just good. And then she said this. She goes, here's a question that bothers me. She goes How can I know that God has forgiven me of my sin? Wow. That was an open question. That was sincerity on her part. And I didn't even have to, I didn't even ask, I didn't have to say, can I show you how from the Bible how to be saved? She was asking me. And so I was able to open my Bible and let me show you. And we went through a plan of salvation. She trusted Christ. And so that would be a very clear, open question. It was very sincere, very genuine. She wanted to know that. And so you'll get questions like that. People that have genuine, sincere questions about these things. Sometimes the questions will consist of some cult was by And they told them about you can be a God, or you know, there's no place called hell. Hell does not exist. And sometimes they'll be confused and they'll say, well, you know, I always thought this, and these people are telling me, is there a real hell or not? And that would be a very sincere question, and I could answer that from the Bible. So I have to determine the nature of the question or the objection. Are they sincere? Are they open? Is it a genuine question? Or is it what I'm calling a closed question? And by that I simply mean they're just trying to obstruct me sharing the gospel with them, just a diversion. It's not a sincere question, and I've had this often over the years. They really don't care about the answer to the question. It's kind of like this, is uh stump the chump type thing. And when I was a youth pastor in Indianapolis, I got this ingenious idea. I was going to have uh open it up and let anybody ask me questions And uh I would answer their questions from the Bible. Two problems with that. One, I thought I knew the Bible better than what I did. I found out pretty quick. And number two, it devol it d devolved into, we're going to try and get questions he can't answer. They really didn't care what the answer was. They were just out to see, prove that I couldn't answer it. You follow what I'm saying? And so sometimes these closed questions, what I call it, they're not sincere. They're not genuine. They're trying to derail the gospel. Question Did Jesus answer all the questions that were thrown at him? No. No. A lot of times he didn't. In fact, in front of Pilate and Herod, he didn't answer them a word. They're throwing all these questions at him. He wouldn't answer them. Why? Because they weren't sincere questions. They weren't genuine questions. The Pharisees threw all kinds of questions at him. Were they genuine or were they insincere? Insincere. They would be closed. And the Bible qualifies them. They said they would ask him this so that they could, how does it say it? Catch him in his words? tempting him. They didn't want an answer. They brought the woman caught in adultery. They weren't wanting they didn't care what his position was. They just wanted to get him to say something that they could prove that he was terrible and catch him in his words. So a lot of times he didn't answer them, or if he did, it was just very general, very brief. However, there were some times when people asked him legitimate, genuine, sincere questions. Can you think of anybody that asked Jesus a genuine question or maybe had a genuine objection and Jesus took the time to explain it and answer it? The woman at the well is a classic one. You say Jerusalem is a place to worship, and our fathers say Samaria. And he took time and he answered that. Oh, you water from this well? Are you older than Abraham? How can you get water out of this well? And he answered that. He had legitimate, genuine questions. Can you think of anyone else? Nicodemus is a classic. How can a man be born when he is old? Go back in my mother's womb. And Jesus took quite a bit of time to explain that to him. It's best that Nicodemus could understand. And he answered that it wasn't necessarily an objection, but a sincere question. Something that was standing between him and putting his faith in Christ that needed to be addressed. And so I have to be able to discern, is this something that is standing between them and having faith in Christ that needs to be a question? needs to be answered or objection that needs to be removed so they can put trust tr uh their faith in Christ? Or are they just putting roadblocks up? Are they just trying to derail the train? and get out of this. And so I have to discern that there. So at number five, let me put this, give this suggestion. How to respond when they have objections or questions. Try to address the question or objection after I explain the gospel to them. Try to, if you can, and again, this takes discernment, if it's something that needs to be answered before they can trust Christ, then I've got to answer that. But if it's possible, try to defer that question or that objection to after I give them the gospel. You can say something like this, tell you that's a really good question. You know, a lot of people wonder that If you would, let me answer that when I'm done sharing this what I've got here for you. Remind me and I'll try and answer that for you when we get done. And what you'll find is a lot of times if you can give the gospel to them, that question or objection becomes meaningless. becomes meaningless. Now if it's a sincere, genuine thing, then um then you know it needs to be dealt with And sometimes you can kind of tell ahead of time, I really probably need to answer this for them before they'll ever be able to put their faith and trust in Christ. But if he can, if possible, defer it to the end, and a lot of times they will answer themselves. However, some need to be answered. before I give the gospel. Now let me give a couple of these and I won't be able to give a thorough answer to them, but I'll just, these are ones that you may hear when you're witnessing, and just some suggestions on how to answer them One common objection or question that people have is this. What about hypocrites? What about hypocrites? I worked with a guy, and he was the biggest hypocrite I ever saw in my life. He'd talk about God, he'd talk about Jesus, he'd talk about heaven and hell. And man, he had a filthy mouth, and he's running around carrying on, cheating on his wife, and doing all this stuff. And to be honest with you, I'm not even interested in what you've got to say. Legitimate concern? Sure. I think so. That's a legitimate concern. In fact, I'll go so far as to say this: Christianity's biggest liability is Christians. The doctrine itself is pure. The doctrine of Christianity, the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ, there's nothing there that's utmost integrity It is true and pure. The Lord Jesus Christ, He is absolute integrity, is absolute truth. The weakest chain, the weakest link in this whole Christian chain is Christians. Did you ever hear the quote by Mahatma Gandhi? He studied Christian doctrine. He said, I'd have been a Christian were it not for Christians. And so in a lot of people's minds, that's a legitimate concern. They've gotten burned, maybe they've gotten ripped off by some guy talking about being a Christian. And um uh they're just totally turned off. So you come by and say, you know, I can like uh do you know for sure you're going to heaven? Uh um Uh are you concerned about that? Yeah, I'm concerned about because I show you from the Bible how to be saved, sure. But let me tell you this. I'm guys I know a bunch of guys claimed to be Christians and they were just the biggest hypocrites. I you know I'm not really that interested That needs to be addressed in that person's heart and mind. And so what is the answer when someone says, oh, I don't uh uh uh uh what about all these Christians? I I don't want to listen to this until uh you know because of all these Christians. My answer to that is various. One thing I try to point out is, hey, I agree with you. Jesus rebuked hypocrisy severely. Jesus' strongest rebukes were to those who said one thing and did something else. And I'd say, listen, your thinking is right in line with the Lord Jesus Christ. Hypocrisy is wicked and wrong. And just because somebody claims to be something doesn't make them that. And so hypocrisy is a is a very real thing. And the answer to that is this, but you will find that Jesus Christ has never been hypocritical. And our faith and our trust for our forgiveness of our sins and the salvation of our souls is not in other Christians and other people. It is in the Lord Jesus Christ. And he has never failed to live up to who and what he claims to be. And what I'm wanting to introduce to you, what I'm trying, what I want to uh share with you is not about the failures of other people, but about the success of the Lord Jesus Christ in purchasing salvation for us. And so what I want to do, I want to redirect him. And I think it's important that we agree with him Don't say, oh no. Somebody says, ah, I've been to churches full of hypocrites. I say, listen, I would like to tell you, I wish I could say to you that our church has no hypocrites in it, but the fact of the matter is, there's no doubt there are Oh yeah, that is a good place for hypocrisy. Especially if the preacher is preaching on hypocrisy. But what I want to do, you catch what I'm suggesting you, I want to divert their attention. The devil's got them distracted by the failure of man I want to divert their attention off of the failure of man, the sinfulness of man, and on to the sinlessness of Christ. Sinlessness of Christ. And so I think it's important if somebody brings that objection up, agree with them. You're right, there are hypocrites. You're absolutely right. There are people that claimed one thing and were absolute opposite. But Jesus has never been that. Jesus is the Savior. He has never failed anyone. And the other thing I like to do along these lines is I try to point out that, you know, there are hypocrites in every area of life. There are hypocritical doctors. I worked in the surgery department for four years. I was in the room when they amputated people's legs and they would say to the guy, the one fellow in particular I'm thinking of, the doctor says to them, you need to quit smoking or you're going to lose both your legs and your hands and your fingers and everything. You need to quit smoking. or you it's going to kill you. That same doctor, 20 minutes later, is back in the doctor's lounge. Guess what he's doing? Smoking a cigarette. If that's not hypocrisy, I don't know what it is. But you know what? If I needed surgery, I'd have gone to that doctor because he's a good doctor. And I'd have gone to him and let him take my appendix out if I was going to die. And he's hypocritical. Well, there's hypocrites. Yeah, there is. You go to the grocery store. Guess what? There's hypocrites at the grocery store. There's hypocritical doctors. There's hypocritical lawyers. There's hypocritical Christians. And so if we're going to allow that to keep us from doing what needs to be done, we're not going to get anything done. And so what about hypocrites? Yes, you're correct. They are hypocrites We hate to admit it, but it's true. And really, between you and I, all of us, to some extent, are hypocritical at some point. None of us live up to the ideal. None of us live up to it. Paul said, I've not attained. So that's a legitimate question. I believe it needs to be addressed, and the way you address it is acknowledge the reality of it, the truth of it, and then point to Christ. get their faith in Christ. He's the Savior, not the preacher, not the deacon, not the Sunday school teacher, not anybody else All right, number two, what if they ask this? I've got a few minutes here. What if they say this, I don't believe in God I don't believe in God. You know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? Well, I I don't really believe in God I found, I believe, 99. 999% of the time that's just trying to derail. I think I have spoken with very, very few people that genuinely did not believe in God. I think they throw that out there. And the reason I say that, I have scriptural support for that. Psalms 14, verse 1, I think Psalms 53, verse 1, says the fool. Has said in his heart, there is no God. And a fool is someone that doesn't think things through. A fool is someone that doesn't pay attention to the obvious. And so when someone says, I don't believe in God, first thing that tells me is most likely they haven't really thought this thing through very much. They're just speaking off the top of their head. What I like to do when someone tells me I don't believe in God, just about the first question out of my mouth after that is this, how did you come to that conclusion? You know I found most of the time they don't know. Well, uh, they never thought it through. They're just saying that. I had one guy mention this fairly often. I had one guy say, he says, uh, I don't believe in God. The Bible was just written by man. I said, how'd you come to that conclusion? Um I saw a documentary on TV once. I said, oh, so you believe everything you see on TV? And he goes, well, and he had no answer. He didn't think that through. He didn't sit down, boy, I really want to know if there's a God or not, and look at all the facts and look at all the evidence and sort it through and use logic and come to the conclusion, oh there's no God. He know no you need to do that So ask them, how did you come to that conclusion? A lot of times they will use this. Well, I had a bad experience. Somebody treated me wrong, or and this is becoming more common, and this is horrific, and this is why we have such a strong policy in our church. I went to a church and I was molested in a church. By a youth worker or a teacher or a preacher or something. And I say, I don't I don't I don't I don't believe in God, I don't believe in any of that. I don't think you'll agree with me. That would be a blow That would be something hard to get over, something like that. And so, a little diversion here, that's why we have such policies and If we know of anything, it gets dealt with thoroughly immediately. Um so how di how well how did you come to this conclusion? Well, I had a bad experience. Uh somebody uh did uh something to me. Now I think if that comes up, and I had a couple times in witnessing people that had that come up, the very first thing we need to do is we need to express our sorrow over that happened. Don't ever diminish it or downplay it. If somebody I'm witnessing somebody and they say, boy, this happened to me, my first response is going to be, I am very, very sorry to hear that. That is awful. That should never have happened. However, it is we're not trying to get you to trust in what people have done. We're trying to you to trust in God. And the Lord and He is not, regardless of how man acts, that does not determine whether God exists or not. And so it's a hard thing to get over, and sometimes they will say, I don't believe in God because they have no desire for God. That's where this guy says, well, I saw a do I saw a documentary or uh you know I I somebody told me or I had a class a professor in college told us there was no proof for God. Usually that type of answer, they're just looking for excuses. A lot of times they're under conviction. And they're just trying to excuse uh uh accountability. Um here's how I respond. To folks that say, I don't believe in God, regardless of what their purpose, motives may be for not believing God, here's a good statement to make if someone says I don't believe in God. Say this to him. Ask him this question. Do you believe it is possible that God exists, but you're just not aware of it? And the honest answer to that would have to be what? Yes, it is possible. If a person would say, I know for certain there is no God, I know that for certain, they would have to what? They would have to know everything there is to know. They would have to be omniscient to be able to say there is no God. I know that for a fact. That is the epitome of arrogance. The way I illustrate that is this, and I've used it in messages occasionally What if I would say, I know for certain I'm absolutely no there is no gold in West Virginia? Anywhere within those states' boundaries, there is no gold there How could I possibly know that? I would have to know every mineral that is in the ground for miles and miles down. I would have to know what's in every safety deposit box. I would have to know what's in every hidden safe in the house. I would have to know what's in every tooth. Which that might not be too hard. But um I'm joking. You follow what I'm saying, there's no way I could possibly say I know there's no gold in West Virginia. I would have to know all I would have to know everything about that. Now, I could honestly say I don't believe there's any gold in Western Union. I could say that, but I can't say I know. So when my challenge to a person says, I don't believe there's a God, they say, I don't there's no God. I say, listen, you might not believe it, but can you allow for the possibility there may be a God and you just don't know him You just haven't been introduced to him. You just aren't aware of him? No, there is no way. No, there's no way. There is no God. And I said, well, how can you possibly say that? You have to know everything. You'd have to know everything. Along those lines is the objection, I don't believe the Bible, I think it was written by men. Again, ask them this question: how'd you come to that conclusion? How'd you come to that conclusion? Well, it's full of contradictions. If somebody says to you, the Bible's full of contradictions, what's the very first thing you say to them? Show me one. Well they're there, I know it. I said, okay. Uh you show me one, I'll I I'll try to answer it for you. And I have yet have anybody in going on forty years have anybody that's able to come and say, yeah, here's a contradiction. There's one guy that worked at the meat packing plant, he said that, and I said, well show me one And he had where one of the gospels says that Jesus rode on a colt, and another gospel says he rode on the foal of a cult or something. It's just the same thing. It's just reworded. So I said, well let's look at it. And we got it out and it says the same thing. It's just worded differently in each one. So finally he agreed. Yeah, okay, it's really not a contradiction. So ask them. If they are full of contradictions, well, can you show me one? And if by chance they come up with something and it's an apparent contradiction, how do you answer that? I say that's a good question. Let me uh let me check that out, see if I can get an answer for you on that and come back. Don't blow smoke. Don't Don't come up with something. Just be honest. I don't know the answer to that. That's a good question. Let me try and answer that for you. Another thing you can do, and I'm taking longer now, I need to quit. Another thing you can do is point out how the Bible came about, the miraculous assembly of the Bible, 66 books Written by 40 men over a 1600 year time frame, and the whole book fits together perfectly with one theme. That's miraculous. You could talk about the prophecies that have been fulfilled to the T. And so again, if you can't explain, admit it, offer to find the answer. Then there's another one. We'll have to look at this one there. And this one's a toughie C. S. Lewis said that this question, how did he put it? He said, this is Satan's greatest, oh, I didn't write it down. I'll find that quote for you. And that is this. If there is a God, why do good people suffer? That's a toughie. That's a toughie. And that's the one question Satan uses to get people to doubt and question. Come back next month and we'll look at that one and try and answer it. If there is a God, why do good people suffer? There is an answer to that, and I'll try to give it to you All right, let's pray right now though. Father in heaven, I ask Lord you'd help us to be very bold with the gospel, the believers in Acts, to ask for boldness. We ask for that also. I ask, Lord, you'd help us to be meek and humble, help us to be patient and respectful, not to argue or fight with people. But Lord, help us to present the gospel. That is the power of God unto salvation. And we ask you to fill us with your Spirit. And this week and this next month, help us to share the gospel with as many people as we possibly can. And give us wisdom on these questions in Jesus' name Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And maybe just there at your pew. I don't know if you're welcome to come to the altar if you'd like. But as Jane plays, let's stand together and just Maybe just present yourself to the Lord and say, Lord, help me to be a good witness. And when folks oppose themselves and they challenge and have these objections, Lord, give me wisdom. And fill me with your spirit to be able to answer in a gracious, kind, scriptural way. And God will use us. He sure will. And it's amazing how he gives us wisdom at the moment. And verses come to mind and answers come that maybe we didn't even think of ahead of time, but God's Holy Spirit gives it to us. Now, Father in heaven, we thank you for loving us and saving us and help us carry out this great responsibility you've given us in Jesus' name. Amen.