Two passages scripture, Matthew, I want you to find Matthew chapter 5, verse 14, and then also Philippians chapter 2. And verse 15. Matthew 5. 14, Philippians 2. 15. Set up here. It's the first Wednesday of the month, so what does that mean? Anybody know? Tips on personal soul winning. And I didn't have it in the bulletin this week, but that's what we're doing. So Dave, keep that in mind for the title there. Tips on personal soul winning. I've been trying to take the first Wednesday of each month, if there's nothing else going on, and just try and give some different tips on how to be a personal witness. Our church's primary responsibility, our mission, is to get the gospel to every person in the whole world. That's the mission that God uh Jesus left the church here uh when he ascended. Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. We take that very seriously. Now that's a twofold, uh two pronged attack, so to speak. Uh one is foreign missions, and we try and put a strong emphasis on getting missionaries into every country in the world and getting church established, getting the scriptures translated into their language. get Bibles printed in that language and get churches established and get those churches then winning souls out of that church. That's the mission God has given us. So uh foreign missions. But there's another prong to that approach is that is local missions. And just as earnestly as we need to work in getting missionaries out and winning souls on the foreign field We need to in our area do our part to win as many people to Christ as we possibly can. And so we're trying to give some tips as we go through here. on um uh how to do that. I feel like I'm a little bit loud up here, Dave. Just barely. Uh just a little bit. Um and so I want to give some of that to you. I came across this just this afternoon uh got I get all kinds of magazines and periodicals and different things in the mail. And a little article in one of them here I thought was interesting And this is not directly related to the message, but this fellow said that he was having lunch with another pastor who was out west in California And he said, I saw him reach out to witness in a little different way. He said, we are in a restaurant, and when the waitress came with our food, they ordered her food, when the waitress came with the food, the pastor said this to the waitress. He said, we're about to pray over our food in just a moment. Before we do, I would like to know if there is anything we could pray about for you when we pray and thank the Lord for our food. And then he said the lady was obviously very moved, and she looked at him. She kind of opened up and she started telling them some different things going on in her life and different issues. And uh he says, Okay, we'll make that a matter of prayer And then when they prayed for their food, he prayed for this waitress and that God would help her in these different issues, whatever they were. And then of course after the meal, he left a nice generous tip and left a track. And he said that he felt like the guy re uh conveying this said he felt like just that little gesture at the beginning, asking if she had a prayer request and then going ahead and pray for her uh was very, very significant in opening her heart up to the gospel tract that he would leave with her and maybe touch her. I thought that was kind of a neat thing And uh maybe something that we could do when we go to pray if the waitress there. I know at Denny's we've been a number of times we were there, one of the uh several of the waitresses have come up to us, they know I'm a pastor, and they'll say, Pastor, would you pray For my brother, would you pray for this or pray for that? And so we try to maintain a good testimony there with them. But think about that. Maybe sometime you're out to eat and And uh might just that little extra thing might touch their heart. God could use that and uh get them to turn to the Lord. All right, all right, Matthew chapter five, verse number fourteen We preached on this some time ago, but I want to use it to set the tone for what I want to talk about this evening. Matthew 4, verse 14, it says, ye are the light of the world A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Ye are the light of the world. Philippians chapter 2, verse 15. Come over there and look if you would. He says in verse 13, of course, for it is God which worketh in you, both to will and do of his good pleasure, do all things without murmurings and disputings. Verse 15, that ye may be blameless and harmless. The sons of God, without rebuke. Now look at this. In the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world. Both these passages refer to you and I as lights in this world. If we are the light of the world, and we noticed this when we studied that in Matthew a number of months ago. If we are the light of the world, what does that imply about the world? The world's in darkness. We are the light of the world and the world's in darkness. So what I want to do tonight is try and give you some tips on answering questions. When people have questions, we're trying to witness to them and they ask us questions. How do we respond to that? Um and that's one of the big issues. Sometimes people are afraid to witness. Oh, they're going to ask me stuff. I don't know the answer. They're going to challenge me on things and I won't know how to respond Well, I want to give you a few thoughts tonight that might help you with that. So let's pray first. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the tremendous privilege it is to be a witness, to be an ambassador to be the light in this old dark world. And Lord, many times we tend to um uh cower from that a little bit. We're a little fearful to speak up or address people or engage them in conversation. So I pray that maybe some thoughts tonight, Lord, that you could give us that would help us be a little bit more bold, a little bit more confident. in sharing the message of Christ with others. I pray with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, present my body, and yield my will and pray. That you would speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I just make this statement. I believe the answers to our nation's problems are not necessarily the answers to our nation's problems are not in the person we send to DC. The answers to our problems are the people we send out into the neighborhoods of our country. That is how our country is going to be saved. When we start reaching people with the gospel. There's not one person, I don't care who, that is or has run for office that can do for this country what it needs. And what it needs is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what you and I have And so God has given, as I said a few moments ago, God has given us this phenomenal responsibility, and I view it as a privilege To go out to folks in darkness, share with them the message of Christ, and do all we can to urge them to trust Jesus Christ as Savior, have their life changed. And then eventually have a home in heaven. And so, um, answering questions. Um, the great concern I think a lot of people have about witnessing, I think one reason some people maybe are hesitant to step out and come to something like a Great Commission Day or come out on a Thursday night when we go out and visit folks. I think one of the great concerns is I'm afraid I will not be able to answer the questions that people have What if they ask me something and there I'll be embarrassed, I'll be ashamed, I won't know what to say or do. Well, we are Christian, as Christians, we are light in the world. We just saw that Um lights in a dark world. Now what does light do? If you if this room was completely pitch black, the power's out, it's cloudy, I'm over here and uh Men in this situation where it's completely dark, and uh you turn a light on, what does that do? Okay, it takes away the darkness. Darkness is the absence of light. And so it takes away the darkness. I put two things down, what we're talking about here. I put this down. Light reveals unseen realities. In other words, when that room's dark, there's a chair here, there's a sofa there, there's an end table here, and I can't see them. They're very real, they're there, but because of the darkness I cannot see the realities that are in this room. I don't know the layout, perhaps. I don't know where the hallway is. I don't know where fixtures are or furniture is. It's all very real. It's all there But I just can't see it. And that light reveals to me the realities that I did not see. Or re uh light reveals to us sometimes it's not just the realities that are unseen. But sometimes it's misunderstood realities. How many people when you were small, you're laying in bed, it's just about pitch black, there's just a tiny little light maybe coming in under the door or through the window a little bit, night light down the street. Just barely enough to let your imagination go wild. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You are absolutely convinced that door is swinging open. Is that better? Anybody there? And you're staring at it. And uh you're convinced it's moving. So finally you turn the light on and it hadn't moved a bit Or uh you're sitting there and um there's a shadow on the wall and you are convinced that is the silhouette of a skeleton coming through the window. And uh just enough light and you see there's something there, but you really can't make out what it is, and you completely misunderstand what it is. You are convinced that's a hand coming out of the gar uh the closet door, you know. And uh you turn the light on and it's just your sweater you threw in there and it's hanging down over it. I imagine it to be something, I misunderstand what it is, but when I turn the light on, the misunderstanding's gone And I see what it is for real. Well, the unsaved people are in spiritual darkness There are spiritual realities that many people that are unsaved do not know exist. They do not know they're there. They don't even know about it. I don't know how many times over the years I've had people and I go through the gospel and they say, I've never heard this before. Nobody's ever told me this before. Um, they had no idea. We were in Indianapolis and this stands out in my mind. There was a young boy where out of every Saturday we'd take all the teens and we'd go soul winning somewhere. We taught 'em how to do it And uh there was a little boy on a park there in Indianapolis and we said something about Jesus and he was just dumbfounded. He didn't know who Jesus was. He had no idea what we were talking about. Let me ask you a question, is Jesus real? Sure, but he had he didn't know idea existed. He was in darkness. He didn't know that reality was there. And uh we live in a world that is, in some sense, getting darker all the time. People are understand, at least in our country, less and less and less of spiritual realities. They don't know it exists. They're in darkness. And so uh and so and so darkness re uh reveals unseen realities, but it also uh reveals misunderstood realities. We have we live in a world, in our country particularly, where there's a little bit of truth out there, but people have got it all mixed up. Uh people think that they have to be baptized to be saved. Well, that is a misunderstanding of the reality of what baptism is. People think, well, I gotta go to church. I had a lady one time, an older lady, I was shortly after we moved here, I tried to win her loose, she goes, I can't get saved here, I gotta get saved in a church. And then she said, I ain't never going to no Baptist church. She's just enough light to be confused and misunderstand what it what it is. And so um uh our responsibility as a Christian is to Reveal to them the realities of heaven and hell. Reveal to them the reality that Jesus Christ suffered hell for us, was punished for our sins. Some people we have to re reveal to them the reality of what sin is I don't even understand a lot of times. I'm finding myself have to more and more and more explain what sin is. It's a reality, but they're blind to it. They don't understand. Or people are so confused, you have all this. And so our role as soul winners, as Christians, our responsibility is to shed light on this darkness, to uh expose these people to uh to this truth. So that's part of our job Now there's various ways we can do that. Gospel tracts are very, very helpful. Brother Derek was telling us at our victory banquet the other week about a fellow that they had been witness to, witness to for a long time And finally got a gospel tract, read it, also it started making sense. Is this real? Is this true? So that gospel tract was revealing to him, opening his eyes, putting light On a reality that for whatever reason he never noticed before. So how do we shed light on uh in this darkness How do we take people who either are unaware of their need of Christ in the gospel or they misunderstand what that means and how to go about it? Well, to do that, and I'm still building up to what I want to give you, but to do that, there's several things have to be in place for us. Number one, we have to know what the gospel is We have to know the gospel truth. I can't tell somebody the gospel if I don't know what the gospel is. And so it's important for us as Christians that we learn the gospel. That we understand what it is. Paul had to write to the church in Corinth, in 2 Corinthians, and he had to restate to them, for whatever reason, he restated to them what the message was that he preached to them In 2 Corinthians chapter 15, he told them what the gospel is, how that Christ died for our sins according to scriptures, and he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to scriptures. He had to clarify and make sure they understood what the gospel was. And so if I'm going to be able to share with someone else what the gospel is, I need to understand it myself And so if we're saved, we at least have a very basic understanding of what the gospel is. We know what Christ did for us. We know how we trust Him as Savior. But it it's important that as we grow as a Christian we study it more and more and more. And so that's why uh somebody says, Oh, you preach a gospel message a lot of times and you got all your church folk there and I understand the concern of that. But you know what I found out? The more I hear preachers preaching the gospel, the clearer it is in my mind, and it helps me to be able to share it with others in a more clear way I'm try I try to read gospel messages all the time. The Sword of the Lord, if there's uh cover one where it's about how to be saved, I want to read that because it might get me a little insight, an illustration, a truth that for whatever reason I I didn't grasp completely. And so we need to learn what the gospel is. We ought to give ourselves to study the gospel. A friend of mine, a preacher friend of mine, Jack Howell, down in Beverly, West Virginia He put together a number of years, just a little book, and it's all gospel messages, all sermons on how to be saved. That thing has been a tremendous help and a tremendous blessing as I read that and study that and I want to be able to do that. So we must know the gospel. So we have to know the gospel truth, and then to some extent we have to know why it's true. Alright, I understand everybody's a sinner, but why do you believe that? Why is that thing? Well, I need to go to the Bible and understand why That we're sinners. What caused that? What brought that about? I need to understand a little bit some basis behind it. And then I want to learn how to explain the gospel clearly I want to be able to explain the gospel clearly. I found there's two ways to help me explain the gospel clearly. One, I'll study it, I learn it, I understand how to share the gospel with people, I take a soul-winning class or whatever I I I get a grasp of what the gospel is. And then I want to know why, the basis behind it, the verses that tie into it. But then I want to be able to explain it clearly. One way I can learn to explain it clearly is kind of like riding a bike. You just have to do it. You just have to. The more you share the gospel of people, the more you talk to people about the Lord Jesus Christ, the more you share the gospel of them, you know what you find out? You start learning and think, well, I shouldn't have said that way. Well I could explain it a little better this way. And I found that the more I do it, the better I'm able to explain it clearly. And so just the old practice makes what? Perfect is kind of the idea there. It helps me develop. But there's a second way to help me explain it clearly And this is what the Bible says, I need the filling of the Holy Spirit. There have been times when I was in a conversation, I didn't know how to explain that and work that thing around. I'm stumbling over my own tongue and Uh I don't know. I I think I'm just mudding the waters and I'll just kind of pray, Lord now help me. And that thing starts coming together and the Holy Spirit starts giving verses and giving illustrations. And thoughts, and the Holy Spirit just works in that thing. If you've been out soul winning much at all, you know exactly what I'm talking about. How the Spirit of God will just get in there. And just you don't even have to think. The words just come almost and uh able to share the gospel. So I practice, I do it more and more, and I trust the Holy Spirit, have the Holy Spirit fill me, and I do better at sharing the gospel with folks. Alright, here I am. I've Somebody at work we're sitting at lunch or maybe uh I get up the nerve and I go out Thursday night and I'm out there witnessing and Um with somebody and they're witnessing somebody else comes up. Whatever the setting is, here I am. I'm about to share the gospel with somebody. I'm a little nervous about this, but um this is what it's all about Here we go. And lo and behold, they start asking questions. And they're asking stuff all over the place How do I respond to that? They're asking about this. Well, what about that? Well I was taught this and who said that and why do you think this? And how do you know that? And they start throwing the stuff at you. And it's like, okay, I'll go home and watch the pirates You know, you just want to try and get out of there. Let me give you a few tips. What to do? If you're witnessing to somebody, they start asking you stuff, how do you respond? Number one, this is the first one, don't be intimidated Don't let people's questions about God and the Bible and about the gospel intimidate you. Turn with me, if you would, to Acts chapter 4. So several passages here I just love. Acts chapter four and verse number thirteen. He said, Oh I I don't know. I don't know my Bible. Well, I haven't been to college. I'm not that educated. I'm not really this. I'm not really that. I'm not real sure this. And if I go out and witness and they ask me questions, I'm going to mess it all up. It's going to be terrible Uh look at Acts chapter 4 and verse number 13. Now when they saw the what? Boldness of Peter and John, and they perceived that they were highly educated and very intelligent men. Is that what it says? What were they? They were unlearned and I qualify. I can relate to that. They saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived they were unlearned and ignorant men. They marveled, and they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. Here you have you have Peter and John, and they are with boldness speaking the word of God. And their boldness is not because of how string smart they are and their boldness isn't because of what a grasp they have on the scriptures and what Bible scholars they are. I think they probably knew the scriptures pretty good, but this is early on in their involvement in the ministry. And the guys say, these guys aren't educated, these guys are ignorant. And yet they're speaking the gospel with power and boldness. What in the world? Uh come over to chap or same chapter verse 29 And here the disciples, I mean, they're starting to take some heat, persecution's coming down on them. And they start praying. And verse number 29, and now, Lord, behold their threatenings, and grant unto thy servants that with all Boldness, they may speak thy word. By stretching forth thy hand to heal, and signs and wonders may be done by the name of thy holy child Jesus. And when they had prayed, The place was shaken where they were assembled together, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with Boldness. Look at verse 32. And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and one soul. Verse 33. And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And great grace was upon them all. I'm reading these passages, and the word intimidated does not come to mind. This is the exact opposite of intimidation. These guys are confident. The word boldness there has this idea. In Acts 28. 31, it's translated confidence. Question. They're unlearned and ignorant. Do they have all the answers? Yes or no? No, they're unlearned and ignorant. They don't have all the answers. These are just common people like you and I. These aren't Harvard professors. And yet they have boldness, they have complete confidence. What do you think of, if you were trying to explain somebody what confidence is, what would you say? Somebody has confidence. What do we mean by that? They're very sure of themselves. Would you agree with me? They are not easily intimidated. And so these are just ordinary people Not highly educated, they don't have all this, but uh they are very, very confident. In 2 Corinthians 3 and verse 12, the word boldness here is translated plainness. And the idea is this, very simple and clear. And they were able to wait with great confidence explain the Word of God, the gospel to these people, how to be saved. Very confidently and very simply, very clearly, in very plain words. It wasn't deep. It wasn't difficult. It wasn't complex. It was just a simple little message that Jesus Christ died for their sins, was buried, and rose again. And they gave that message very confidently, very boldly, and they were not intimidated. Listen, you and I, to be an effective witness, do not have to have some great education We do not have to have tremendous gifts. And by the way, there is no gift of soul winning. Sometimes people say, well, I just don't have the gift of soul winning or the gift of evangelism. You don't find that anywhere in the Bible. Soul winning and evangelizing is a command that we're given. It's not a gift that we have. And you look at through the book of Acts, you have all different personalities and all different characters That are giving out the word of God and being saved. So we don't need a great education and all these great gifts, but we do need a genuine conviction. What's going to help me deal with folks, and they start throwing questions up at me, one thing I need to do is I need to be sure I'm not intimidated by their questions. I need to have strong conviction that this simple little message is the truth. And regardless of what questions they throw at me, regardless of what issues they bring up, this simple gospel message is the truth. And I get and uh I'm not shaken by it. Uh you come into a room, a large room, and it's pitch black, and you light just a little tiny candle. And that candle produces a big light in a dark room. Right or wrong. I was over here, I was trying to think of different times, and it was when I want to say it was when her with during Hurricane Sandy. Sandy. Uh everything was out and uh there was no power or anything and for some reason I was over in here and I mean it was dark in here and I had just this little tiny flashlight. I think we gave it out on Father's Day or something I turned that little tiny flashlight on and whoo. I could see this whole room. Listen, you and I don't have to be some big anything. To be able to share with people the message of the gospel, just a little witness, giving that simple little message can absolutely brighten somebody's life, bring light to their mind and understanding to their heart and soul, and they say, I see it, I understand. And be saved. So when we're dealing with questions people have, the first thing I want to say is we must not allow ourselves to be intimidated. A little tiny candle is not intimidated by the darkness Oh, but it's really, really dark. Doesn't matter. That little light can make a profound influence on a dark room. Well, what if the darkness is this at? For example, my mountain coming out on the cell phone, every all I can and I had a oxygen tree for that, it had a thing that I and I will Just a little bitty light. And so um uh what's that candle doing? Is that candle intimidated? There's so much darkness here. And oh I'm I just no no no, that candle just does what it can Just burns. That's what it can do. And it just does it. And man, it makes a profound impact. And so you and I just Be that witness. Just give that gospel. Well what if they asked me about Cain's wife? What if they asked me about the hypostatic union of Jesus Christ's spiritual existence with his physical existence and how that hypostatic union put I don't even know what I'm talking about. By the way, I've never had anybody ask me that. The only time I've ever been asked that question was in my ordination when one preacher was trying to embarrass me. He says, What do you think about the hypostatic unity? I said, I think I would ask my pastor about that The overwhelming majority of the people that we're going to witness to do not know how to be saved. They might know a lot about physics. They may know a whole lot about mathematics. They may know a whole lot about a lot of things I don't know anything about. But chances are they don't know how to be saved. And I do. And I may just be a little candle with not much, but I can tell them how to be saved, no matter what questions they ask. I don't have to be intimidated. Yeah, what if I knock on the door and it's the mayor? What if it's a uh a commissioner? What if it's the bank uh the owner of the bank, some rich millionaire and all that? You know what? He gets saved the same way the bus kid gets saved My message is no different from him than it is the little kid comes on the Sunday school bus. Well he's really smart and he's really rich and he's gonna know all this stuff. Yeah, but chances are he doesn't know how to be saved And though I may know a lot of stuff that he knows, and I may not have a lot of things he has. One thing I do know that he probably doesn't know, one thing I do have that he does not have is Jesus Christ and the gospel And so don't be intimidated by these things. Some people do. Here's what I ran into a lot here in Garrett County. Now we were in Boulder. Most people we ran into in Boulder, Colorado, did not know how to be saved They didn't know anything about the gospel. They were just completely in the dark. The one thing we heard there all the time was, I don't believe in organized religion. That's what this whole thing. I don't believe in organized religion. I said, well, uh I had two things. I didn't always say this but uh two things. What do you believe in disorganized religion or thought if you don't believe in organized religion you'd fit right in my world Or anything but organized. But they didn't know what we were talking about, we were talking about. They said, when we talk about the gospel, well, when they said I don't believe in organized religion, you know what they were talking about for the most part? the Catholic Church or some high church type denomination. But if we can get past that and say, listen, we're not talking about organized religion We're talking about being saved, sins forgiven the gospel. So in Boulder I found out most people didn't that area that setting. Most people didn't even know what the gospel was. They didn't know what we were talking about. So we were able to share it with them. But you know what I found out here? A lot of people, and I'm tempted to say most, many people here, they know about being saved. A lot of them know you should be saved, but what don't they know? How to be saved. And there's churches all along here all around here, and I'm not trying to be critical. I'm glad they're telling people they need to be saved. I'm glad they're preaching that folks should get saved. But I wish they'd take it a step farther and tell people how to be saved So a lot of times, I'm I we had a, I think it was uh Jacob was with me just a couple three weeks ago and Derek was he wandered off And uh Jacob and I uh we knocked on the guy's door, Pastor Letterman! I didn't know who the guy was. Hey uh I said, hey, we talked a little bit. I said, uh do you I said we're just talking to folks if I didn't come to church? And he goes, Yeah, I haven't been in church. I ought to come out to your church I said, yeah, you know going to church is important, more important than that, it's known for sure when we die, we go to heaven, not for hell. I said, Do you ever give that authority? He goes, Yeah I do I said, well I'd like to show you from the Bible. He goes, sure, I'll take a look at it. You know what? Every point I went through, Romans Road, he quoted those verses to me. He already knew how to be saved. He already knew that he needed to be saved. He even knew what the gospel was, but never ever nobody ever showed him how to trust Christ as a Savior, to make that decision, to urge him to make that decision. And so we know that. And so don't be intimidated. When people ask questions and all this stuff, you know, don't let that shut you down. You have something that they probably don't know, that they probably don't have. And just be very confident, be very bold with that. Either they don't know the gospel or they do it, and for whatever reason they've never made that distinction. There's a difference between having a lot of information and having correct information. Some people have a lot of information. Well you got it I had some Mormons come by years ago. I said, well do you know I asked them the same thing. I said, Do you guys know for sure when you die you're going to heaven? Kind of looked at each other and went back and forth and they said, Well, yeah I said, how do you know? What makes you sure you're going to heaven? They said, well, and they knew I what answer I wanted, and they said this, I think they knew what answer I was looking for. They said, well, we've accepted Jesus as our Savior I said wonderful. Anything else you're trusting in to get you to heaven? Well, yeah, we've been baptized by the true church. Anything else? Yeah, we keep the commandments. I said, all of them? They said all of them. So wow. And they went down and gave me a list of about five or six things that they were trusting in that they would go to heaven. Now their understanding of heaven is distorted. They had a lot of information, but it was all wrong. It was wrong information. It was incorrect information. And so I was able to, and they didn't really receive it, but I was able to share with them the truth of the gospel. And so don't be intimidated by that. Learn what the gospel is. Understand what the gospel is, and then share it with people. Be confident when you give it to folks. And they will ask questions and they might challenge this, that, and the other. You see, there's a world of difference between knowing about Christ and having information and knowing Christ. So don't be afraid. Don't be intimidated by anybody for any reason. You and I have the truth of the gospel. It's the power of God into salvation. We understand what it is, and we just give it to folks. You say, but what do what do you do when they do ask questions? Alright? Don't be afraid to say this. I don't know. People asked up, where did King get his wife? Well, I don't know What about this hypostatic you know you know whatever question they come up with? Well do you think there's m Martians on Venus? I guess there wouldn't be Martians on Venus, but uh They ask all these questions. If they ask a question you don't know, you know what the best thing to do is? I don't know. How did God do that? Well why was this? I had somebody ask me this been a couple years ago. They said, why did God wait so long to send Jesus to die then? Why didn't he do it right away? As soon as a man died, come down and die. This is a good question I study it out and I studied it and came to a conclusion in my mind. They ask questions sometimes. Charles Spurgeon said this, a fool can ask a question that a thousand sages could never answer True. And so don't be afraid to say, I don't know. I don't know. The best way to do it, suppose Tom, I'm supposed he's a stranger, I met him, I'm witnessing to him, and he asked me a question I don't know the answer to The best thing to do is say this, you know, Tom, I don't know the answer to that, but let me go, I'll figure it out, I'll try and figure it out, and I'll get back with you and try and give you an answer. Most of the time they're not really concerned about getting the answer They might be trying to impress you that they can come up with this or they're trying to throw you off track or whatever. Stump the chump, something like that. But I'll uh if I don't know the answer, I say, listen, um I don't know the answer. That's a good question. Let me work on it and um I'll try and get an answer and maybe I can get it back with you. If I do it that way, what am I doing? I'm opening the door to come back and see him again. Next week come back, hey Tom, I looked that up. I talked to the preacher and we looked it up. We found the answer to your question. Uh what question? It's usually how probably how it go. I'll get back with you. That lines up another visit. And by the way, if you're giving the gospel to somebody And they ask a question and you do know the answer. You know what the best thing to do is? Say, that is a really good question. I'd like to answer it for you. Let me finish. what I'm sharing with you and at the end when I'm done showing you this here to me, you remind me and I'll give you the answer to that question. What am I doing if I do that? If Tom answered asks me a question Well, uh uh are the seven churches in Revelation, are they real, literal churches, or are they just figurative? You know, that's a really good question. I have an answer for you, but let me finish this part here about how that we're all sinners And when I'm and when I'm d done going through this, then you remind me and I'll give you the answer to that. What what's that doing? Exactly. I'm staying focused on the gospel. And I I want to get through that. Because if I answer that, then it's going to lead to another question. Then it's going to lead to another question And the next thing you know it's ten thirty at night and I'm giving a whole outline of revelation to them. I'm telling them about the the women with long the the locusts with long hair like women and how they come out and they sting people and some die and some have a mark and I'm spending hours and hours and hours And I never get to the gospel. Follow what I'm saying? And so if he does answer the question that I do know the answer, don't try and impress him. Oh yeah, I know that. I'll tell you the whole outline of Revelation. No, no, no I'll get back to you. And the other thing I want to do is you remind me when we're done. That way, I'm probably going to forget. And so I put the burden on him to remind me to get back and answer that question. And you know what would usually happen is usually if they'll trust Christ, they're not worried about that question. That never was an issue. D. L. Moody told the story. He said I had a guy come in into his office and he was all upset, the Bible can't be true, and evolution, and that's when evolution was really entering and all this stuff and D. Almerti said something to the effect, says, You know what your problem is? You need to be saved. So let me show you how to be saved. He went through, told him how to get saved. The guy got saved and he says, Now what were your questions? He goes, Never mind. They're not important. So just push that off. David's a guy walked in his mind one time. He said, I'll be about the big grass offers and revelation. I said, that's about Yeah. That'd be a great sermon. Big grasshoppers So number one, don't be intimidated. If they let 'em ask questions, that's a good question. I don't know the answer to it. That's a good concern. What about what about Uh who was the guy, um uh James Baker. That was big years ago. How many people remember James Baker and uh uh Juanita TMI Fay. And then there was another Dow involved in there. And uh what about James Baker? I said, Oh, what a mess. That's a good question. But look at this here. And just going to stay focused on it. Don't let them until you, oh, oh no, he'll think I'm like them. And oh no, what? Don't let any of that come in your mind. And so don't be intimidated. I put number two down here. I hope this is helpful. Number two, I put down this. Don't be irresponsible If they ask a question about something and I don't know the answer to it, don't just say this. Well, you just got to take it by faith. That ain't gonna fly. Well you just gotta take it by say, well you no no no. The best thing to do is just say I don't know about that. They're they're gonna know you're just blowing them off. They're gonna know you don't know the answer to that and you're trying to cover it up So don't be irresponsible. Our faith is not blind faith. It is based upon And if I can't give them an answer from the Word of God to their question, don't just try and cover up the fact that I don't know the answer and just make this statement Either give them a Bible answer after you're done or just admit you do not know. But don't be irresponsible. Number three, I'll give you the last one. We'll end with this one. So number one, don't be intimidated. You witness somebody and they ask you a question, don't be intimidated. Number two, don't be irresponsible. Don't just say, well, you just got to believe that. No, no, no. If I don't know the answer, give them the answer. Number three, this one, don't be arrogant. Don't be arrogant. There is a world of difference between confidence and arrogance. In fact, arrogant people generally are very un uh uh unconfident uh Um no, they're very they don't have a lot of confidence. Insecure. Uh arrogant people a lot of times are insecure people trying to come across as being very confident confident. Trying to be very they overcompensate to make up for their lack of confidence. So don't be arrogant I believe the two greatest characteristics humanly of an effective soul winner are this, confidence with humility. Remember, that person I'm witnessing to, I'm just as bad a sinner as they are. I'm saved by God's grace just the same way they need to be saved by God's grace. I like the way that one guy put it. Soul wedding is simply one beggar telling another beggar where to find food. I like that. It's one sinner telling another sinner how to get forgiven. So don't get too arrogant. Our purpose in soul winning is not to show these people how much better we are than them. That is wicked pride. Our purpose in soul winning is not to win an argument, not to show them how wrong they are and how right I am. There is no room for pride in soul winning. There is no room for arguing in soul winning. I'm not out to intimidate Tom or browbeat him into getting saved. Nobody ever gets saved because their arm is twisted hard enough till they alright I'll trust Christ. People get saved because they see the truth, they understand it. The Spirit of God stirs their heart and they make a decision to accept Jesus Christ for their own personal Savior. I can't intimidate or browbeat anybody into that So don't be arrogant. My soul-winning efforts are not to put another notch in my Bible. Well, I've got 15 this month. Well, praise the Lord if it's legit. But if it's just I'm trying to get them to do this so that I can have this record. There was a guy out in Colorado, we met him, he came by for a Bible time training when we lived out there. He said Now I I don't know. Maybe I shouldn't say this, but he said he won someone to Christ every day for twenty-seven years. He won a person to trust Christ as Savior. Now that's true, praise the Lord, that's wonderful But man, at what point is it I've got to do this? I've got to talk them into it. I'm not as soul winners, we're not car salesmen. We're ambassadors of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we have to be very, very careful. Don't be intimidated by their questions. They were very confident. They were very bold in the New Testament. They gave the gospel out. They knew what they were sharing. They knew it was true. And whatever anybody else said or did didn't matter. This is the truth. Don't be irresponsible and just throw out answers and just, oh, you just gotta believe it, you just gotta accept it. No, no, no. Show them from the Bible. If they ask you a question If I don't know the answer, say it. And then don't be arrogant. We are out to win souls to Christ. We are out to win introduce people. I like this statement. We are out to introduce people to their Savior. And urge these people to trust their Savior with their eternal destiny. Here's the thing, Jesus is already their Savior. He's already died for their sins. He's already made salvation available. He is their Savior. They just haven't received him yet. And all I'm doing is telling them the truth about the Savior, the gospel, and then as much as I can, urging them and trying to persuade them to trust Christ. I'm not browing them, I'm not trying to prove anything. Just wanting them to accept Jesus as their Savior. And so what do you do when people ask questions? My answer to that is, if you don't know the answer, just say I don't know the answer. If you do know the answer, tell them later and stay focused on sharing the gospel with them. Now, I'll end with this, but uh what do you do when some people get angry? What if people are very aggressive? Guy in Chattanooga came out with a baseball bat. I said, see you later. What if they're violent? What if they're angry and threatening? I don't know. Maybe other preachers would tell you differently, but my advice is just move on. Just move on. Don't engage them. Don't try and argue them. Don't get in a fist fight with them for Pete's sake. Just move on. What did Jesus say to the disciples? If they don't receive you, do what? Take the dust off. He didn't say throw rocks at them. So just move on. Just move on. And so if you encounter somebody at work or at break or whatever, you offer them a gospel track, you can try and witness to them Don't be intimidated, just trying to. But if they get angry, if they get aggressive about it, say, whoa, God bless you, man, and just move on. My approach is, especially living here for 23 years, eventually they're going to get attracted somewhere, some way They're going to run across it one way or another. They're going to open a Republican and there's going to be the gospel. So there's no need to get in a fight with them. There's no need to try and address an aggressive angry person. Just move on. What if they like to what if they get and they start debating? They start twisting things around. I had a guy last year in track month. He called me up. And for whatever reason, I tried to engage him. I thought, well, I'll try and witness this guy. I'm telling you. And that guy would take my words and twist them around. And I mean this guy was slick. He had to run for president. And he had me saying stuff I wasn't saying, and he was just going on, and finally it was like, man, you're good And so what do you do in a situation like that? One of the ways is just say, wow, do you is this skill you have at debating, is that natural? Did you study this? How did you get this good at that? And um if they're uh I found if they're if they're wanting to debate and they're and they're twisting things around, the best thing in the world to do is just shut it down and give them your testimony Say, well listen, let me just tell you what Christ did for me. I was a sinner messed up on my way to hell. Somebody showed me from a Bible. How I could accept Jesus as my Savior. When I did that, God forgave all my sin. Peace came into my heart. I have purpose and fulfillment. And I know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven and not to hell. I just want you to know the same thing And don't try and argue, don't try and debate. And so maybe next month we'll go through and how to share your personal testimony in a way that is very, very effective. But um I hope this is helpful. Cindy? Um it's probably maybe two people out of a hundred that evening to ask you a lot of questions. So I just wanted to put that out there. Right. Right. It is it is not when it happens, don't be intimidated by it. Don't get arrogant. Don't eng don't argue with them. Share the gospel with them, go on, but Cindy's correct. Very few people are going to be aggressive. Very few people are going to challenge. Most people are going to say, I'm not interested. Not interested. You'll find some folks, sure, they'll talk to, and there'll be a handful that are going to challenge So I hope this was helpful. Let's pray and ask the Lord to give us boldness. Let's pray and ask the Lord to stir us, to speak up, engage people, challenge them. And share the gospel with them. Father in heaven, I just pray this was helpful tonight. I pray, Lord, that you would give us boldness, give us confidence, peace, graciousness. To be able to share the truth of the gospel and that people could be saved here in our community. In Jesus' name I pray. With our heads