Uh this week I want to do a and I did this last year. It's similar to last year's list, but I modified it a little bit and added a few thoughts and I think they'll be very, very helpful. But tips for holiday witnessing. Christmas witnessing. How many folks are going to get together with family sometime over Christmas holidays? Christmas Eve going to get together a family. Sure. Very few people don't. How many folks uh you have family members that are unsaved? That don't know Christ? Look at that. Just about every hand And so this is a great, great opportunity. How many folks like me, it's a little more difficult to witness. I'm going to turn this mic on, Dave. we don't blast everybody. How many folks you find it more difficult to witness somebody close to you, like a family member or somebody that works beside you than it is a total stranger How many people like that? Yeah. How many folks say I can witness somebody I know very well better than a total stranger? Anybody like that? If my wife was in here, she'd raise her hand. She is she would far rather witness somebody and she does And so witnessing at the holiday season, look with me at Mark chapter 5, and I want to look at verse number 19. 19, this is an interesting statement the Lord makes. This is not a Christmas passage, obviously. It's the maniac of Gadera A guy lived in the cemetery possessed of devils and they couldn't chain him. He ran around naked and he was just a maniac. And he gets saved. The Lord comes there and he comes down. The Lord casts the devils out. And the guy trusts Jesus Christ as his Savior and as uh often happens in situations like that he is transformed immediately. God completely changes him. And it says that he was clothed and in his right mind. And uh and so he wants to follow the Lord. And he said, I want to go with you wherever you go. I want to be committed to him. But look at verse 19. This is what the Lord told him. And this is what I'm using to introduce our thoughts tonight. He says, howbeit Jesus suffered him not, didn't let him follow him. And notice back to verse 18 at the end it says he that had been possessed with the devil prayed him that he might be with them. So he prayed, and the Lord said, no. Lord didn't answer that prayer. And look what he tells him. Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him, Go where? Go home. Go home. Go home to thy friends and tell them what great things the Lord hath done for thee and had and hath had compassion on thee. Go home to thy friends. And so I thought of that for Christmas. A lot of times we get together with our home. We go, so maybe we go home or the kids come home. Or whatever the case, we get together. And look what the Lord tells us we should do when we go home and when we get together with our friends and family at home. We should tell them what great things the Lord hath done for us and how he has had compassion on us. So I want to give some holiday tips. Let's have a word of prayer. I want to encourage you to jot these down and we're going to have a little group involvement here. So um I think it might be helpful. Father, I ask you bless now as we give some consideration how we can be effective witnesses in sharing the message of the Lord Jesus over the holidays at Christmas dinner and and and these types of situations Lord, this is your idea, this matter of the gospel and of us sharing it with others. You've instructed us very clearly. And so help us to take advantage now in these unique situations. to share the gospel and to point people to the very purpose of this holiday season. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Would you agree with me for a Christian particularly, Christmas is a unique time of year. What other time of year do you walk into stores, just secular stores, and they're playing songs that have profound biblical content. Silent Night, Holy Night is a powerful doctrinal song And you hear that in places that any other time of the year, the last thing in the world they would have is Christmas Christian music. And uh genuine Christmas music in the true sense of the word is Christian music. And so it's a unique time of year when the Word of God, now think about this, when the Word of God is filling the air to some extent, as you and I as children of God are going into these environments. And uh I know uh I don't want to get too spooky to this or sensational with this, but I can't help but think when the truth of God's word and the truth of the gospel is being presented, even though it's in the song through the speaker system, I believe that has an impact. And I believe in many ways it establishes an atmosphere where the gospel uh may be a little more receptive. And so it's a unique time of year in the fact that they These great hymns, or that's what a lot of the Christmas songs are, great hymns are being played. Mangers are everywhere, the little baby Jesus and And um uh you know, Joseph and Mary and the shepherds and the and uh the uh uh sheep. And what else is there? The star over top, and then they'll have the wise men. That's really unbiblical because the shepherds and the wise men were not there at the same time. But nevertheless, it's biblical in uh in its presentation. And so it's a unique time of year. I think that's one of the reasons the world's trying so hard to squelch what Christmas really is about and try and drown it out Um it's a unique time of year when people are tend to be a little more open to Christianity, a little more open to come to a church. uh special program or something. How many folks ever had someone come with you to Christmas program that would never come to just the Sunday service? Anybody ever had something like that? Sure, we see that a lot And uh so at the unique time of year. Now, I want you to think with me. I'm I'm getting somewhere and I'm going to give you a list. I think I've got six or seven suggestions But I want you to think with me, what those are unique advantages we have at Christmas time of witnessing. Can you think of some unique hindrances to witnessing at Christmas time. Some unique things, some things that maybe would keep us from being that witness and sharing the gospel at Christmas time. Anybody think of anything? Ah, too busy. I've got them alliterated here. Any ones you say that I have are correct. Alright, so uh I got I put it this way, we've we're immersed. We get caught up in all the Christmas stuff, buying presents and parties and getting together and banquets and presents, and we never take the time, we never give thought maybe to sharing the gospel. We get too busy We get all immersed in the Christmassy stuff, and we fail to take advantage of the opportunity to share the gospel. So being too busy is one thing. How about, can anybody else think of something else? Go home to thy friends. I kind of touched on it. I got we get immersed in the holiday activities and fail to witness. I put this one, we get intimidated. We get intimidated. See, you should have said it. And we get around family and we're scared to death. What are they going to think? What are they going to say? Oh, I don't want to start an argument. I'll feel like an idiot. I'll say the wrong thing And uh we'll get intimidated. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And uh that's a very real hindrance to the gospel. And I think Satan jumps all over that. So you better not say something. They'll put all these thoughts in our mind. Oh, they'll get mad. You're going to run them off. You're going to say something stupid. You're going to look like an idiot. And don't cause a fuss. But the fact of the matter is intimidation in witnessing has been a a a hindrance since the beginning of the church. In Acts chapter number four and verse 29, the New Testament church, that early new church, and they're setting the place on fire with the gospel. But they prayed over and over and over, Lord, grant unto thy servants that with all boldness we may speak the word as we ought to. Now the fact that they prayed that repeatedly tells me that they were struggling with what? Intimidation. They were lacking boldness. And they knew we should be speaking this more than what we are. We should be more bold with this. We should be more confident. We should be more courageous. But we're not. And so those New Testament believers that their enemies said turned Jerusalem upside down with the gospel, nevertheless, they struggled with intimidation. And so that's true. Paul in Philippians chapter 1 and verse 20, he prayed, he asked the church at Philippi to pray for him that he would speak the gospel with boldness. Paul asked for prayer for boldness. So I can't imagine Paul being intimidated. Philippians 1. 20 was the verse. I can't imagine Paul being intimidated. You read his exploits with the gospel, but nevertheless, apparently he was. In Colossians, he has said almost the same prayer request, pray with me, I speak the word of God as I ought to And so intimidation is a real factor. Um getting immersed in the activities and getting too busy There's one other one, and I certainly would think this wouldn't be true with anybody here, but I put this down indifferent. Indifferent. And hate to say it, but there's a huge a percentage of Christianity that, you know, maybe down in their heart or to some extent they're concerned for the loss, but they are so indifferent that they don't act on that at all. And just indifferent. And just don't even give it a thought that maybe I should be a witness to these people. Maybe I should share the gospel in some way or another. And so these are three hindrances I put down. Now, let me give you some tips. Again, I shared some of these last year. I adapted them and I added a few, adjusted it around a little bit. But uh number one, and I believe this is true in any witnessing situation, no matter what, number one Prepare with prayer. If I know I'm going into a family situation, I know there's some unsaved people there. Maybe it's a parent, maybe it's a child, a cousin, an uncle, step-neighbor-in-law, whatever. And I know there's somebody going to be there that's unsaved. I ought to be saturating that appointment with prayer. I ought to be praying and praying and praying. And I think it's not a bad idea to get others praying with me, say, hey listen on this Saturday, December twenty-third, we're having our family get together and Uncle Roscoe is going to be there and he's not saved and he's and he's really on my heart, and I really think the Lord wants me to witness to him. I'm going to try and witness to him. I need you, would you pray with me that at 12 o'clock when we get together that I'll be be bold I think that's a good idea. Get other people praying, praying, praying. Saturate yourself with prayer. Pray that God would prepare their heart and that they would be open. uh to your witness. And um if you would, take your Bibles and turn with me to Ephesians chapter 6 And verse number eighteen And this, I kind of referenced this here a little bit when I was talking about intimidation, but Ephesians chapter 6 verse 18, it says, praying always, with all prayer and supplication. And we talked about what supplication was on a Sunday morning here recently. Praying with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints and for me, look at this, that utterance may be given to me, that I may open my mouth, what Boldly and make known the mystery of the gospel. So Paul was asking for prayer that he would be able to be a good witness, that he would be able to boldly share the gospel. Colossians chapter 4, just a few pages over there. Let's go ahead and look at that. Colossians chapter 4 and verse number 2. He says, for yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord, oh, not Thessalonians, I'm sorry I thought that didn't sound right. And verse 2, continue in prayer and watch in the same with thanksgiving, with all praying for us also that God would open unto us a door of utterance. What does he mean when he says That God would open a door unto us. What's w how would we say that maybe? Opportunities. And he's asking him, listen, pray that God would open a door, God would give us opportunities uh of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ, then the context tells us he's referencing the gospel, for which also I am in bonds. So Paul is saying, listen, pray with me that I will have opportunities to share the gospel. And I think that same mentality going into the holidays If we know we're going to maybe there's going to be um uh uh uh uh a work par uh what do you call it, work um Christmas party. Uh Office party, that's what I was trying to get. Uh maybe it's gonna be an office party or something. They're gonna get together. And um and uh yet man so and so's there, has been unsaved, and so and so I've never witnessed to him, and they're gonna be there and Man, I really want to take advantage of this outside of work. Maybe I can talk to them a little bit or share the gospel somehow. Hey, listen, pray with me that God would help me have an opportunity to do that. and then pray in myself. We cannot overemphasize the importance of prayer and soul winning and preparing our hearts and preparing their hearts. for soul winning. All of our ministries, and we talked about this before, particularly our soul winning efforts, should be saturated in prayer. So what do we pray for? I already referenced a couple. One, we ought to pray for opportunities And actually, I want to reword that. I want to walk that back a little bit. I don't think we need to pray for opportunities, and maybe in situations like a Christmas party or whatever we do But I'm telling you, opportunities are all around us. And what I need, what I need personally, and what I need to pray for, is that God would help me recognize These opportunities that are all around me and not miss them. And that means I got uh at the Christmas dinner or whatever, or opening presents, or whatever setting we're in, the banquet I need to be listening and watching and paying attention for that opportunity that God may give me to be a witness and share the gospel with somebody. I think it was Saturday we went to Morgantown, Kathy and I. And um uh we uh making some hospital visits at Ruby Memorial. Back when we first came here, when there was hospital visits in Morgantown, we'd get a babysitter and the hospital visits were our dates We go visit sick people and that was our date and it was wonderful. And uh but anyway, we're getting back to we don't have a babysitter now, but Kathy and I went on a date and visited in the hospital. And uh we visited Don Herman and Bear Sisler and we had a wonderful time, got to talk and pray with folks. But Kathy had a stack of the Christmas tracks back there And I mean she had a good stack of them and I had some in my pocket and you know if I talk to somebody on the elevator or whatever if they're sick or they got a new baby I always introduce myself and give them a track. Well Kathy took this thing to a whole nother level And you know, Ruby Memorial, those elevators are pretty big and they're packed usually. She walked in just beaming. Hey, y'all want some Christmas cards? Everywhere we went Christmas cards. And uh and you know a lot of times you do, hey, I'm gonna give you gospel tracts and folks will be nice and they'll take it, oh yeah, whatever. This was a whole other spirit. They were all like Yeah, sure. Thank you. This is so sweet. Oh, this is wonderful. You know, it's no different than a gospel just a regular gospel tract, but it was a Christmas card. And I mean everywhere. And what I thought was she is op she is recognizing tremendous opportunity here to be a witness. And more than one when we were in there. We had to go to several different floors in another elevator and up there. And uh more than a f uh more than a few occasions we saw where people were staying in the elevator reading that little Christmas card And so looking for opportunities, pray. God help me to see these opportunities. Help me take advantage of them. Pray for boldness. We already talked about that. Here's something that some of us might need is pray for tact. Heck, sometimes when we're nervous or we're a little intimidated, we're sometimes we can kind of blurt something out, you know, or we'll say something, so oh, why did I say that But if we pray and ask the Lord ahead of time, Lord, help me to see the opportunity, help me to be bold in sharing the gospel, but Lord Give me some wisdom and tact on the best way to approach this and the best way to go barging in. Don't sit at the Christmas dinner and just before you're ready, what do you eat at Christmas? Not turkey. and or both. We used to, when I was young, we had duck or not duck goose. Grandma used to make goose a lot for um uh Christmas. But don't all right, we're gonna cut this open. Uh can I say something before uh sure. Y'all are gonna go to hell if you don't get saved. Appreciate the boldness. There is an opportunity, but it might not be the best approach, right? Yeah, at least that you ain't getting dinner. And uh and so, you know, be real careful and you want to be careful here about not being preachy. Nagging them about it. Bring them to church. I'll preach at them. But when they're sitting around the table or opening Christmas presents or you're out doing Christmas shopping together, you're spending a little time together, you want to avoid being preaching. That's when you want to share your heart. That's when you want to talk to them in compassion and uh and uh love. And so ask the Lord to give us opportunities, help us to see the opportunities, ask the Lord to give us boldness, ask the Lord to give us tact. I was telling them Kathy about your Christmas cards on Saturday in the elevators. That was fun. Um And here's something else to pray for, maybe leading up to the opportunity, is pray that maybe God would send some other Christians by. to to uh water the ground a little bit, so to speak. Follow what I'm saying? If they hear it from more they they're expecting, oh yeah, so and so's coming, they're a Christian Baptist fanatic I know what we're going to hear. But sometimes if they hear it from other voices, some different people, it's like, oh, they're not as odd as I thought they were. And so I pray a lot of times for hooks, particularly if they're out of town, I'm praying for their salvation. I say, Lord, send some good, godly Christians by. Send some faithful witnesses by. A lot of us have family members who live far away that are unsaved, and we would sure like for somebody to go and talk to them and share the gospel with them. Let me throw this in, then we ought to be faithful witnessing here because there may be somebody there praying that a good Christian would come by and visit their family. And that'd be you and I would be the one that could do that. So pray that God will send others by. I think I shared this before, but I was going somewhere, a mission trip or somewhere, I don't remember. Uh it was down in DC at uh Dulles, I think It was late at night we were coming through. I don't remember the whole situation, but the guy there at the security, you know, you get half undressed and you're going through there And uh I gave second guy and said, here's a gospel tract. Can I give you a gospel track? And as soon as he got it, he looked at it. And he said, hey Bobby! He yelled to a guy about five conveyor belts down He goes, here's one of those Bible things you've been giving me. And I thought, bingo, that guy down there had been witnessing to this fella. And uh all I did was just watered the ground a little bit and uh just reinforced what that guy was doing. And so if we pray between now and whenever we get together that God would send some other Christians by and give them a track or get them thinking along those lines, their hearts may be more prepared for you and I witnessing to them. Make sense? So this is where prayer is so vital In going into a witnessing situation. I'm going home to my friends. I want to tell them what great things the Lord has done for me and had compassion on me. I want to share the gospel with them. I want to pray that I'll see the opportunities I have to do that. I want to pray that I'd be bold, that I'd be tactful, that maybe others are witnessing also, and I can get in on that. And so prayer. Number two, put this one down. Holiday tips for personal soul winning. Number two, maintain a positive attitude. Maintain a positive attitude. Some of us may be going into situations where there's little or no Christianity. And maybe the language might not be what we would be comfortable with. Maybe some of the things that take place, some of the things that happen, aren't necessarily what we would approve of and we wouldn't choose that. We need to be very, very positive in our attitude. We need to understand that we live in a very sinful world. How many folks have recognized that? We live in a very sinful world, and mankind is a very sinful creature. And so we just have to keep in our mind Listen, don't get I don't mean this to be demeaning, but don't get angry at the pig for acting like a pig. Right? A pig is not going to act like a sheep. They just gonna uh operate by its nature. And unsaved people are unsaved people. And it's gonna come out a lot of times and how they talk and how they live and the things they the way they look. And uh so be very, very careful going in. Maybe cousin Fernando got a huge tattoo down the side of his face and down his arm. Don't walk in and just start railing on tattoos Right? You're going to turn him off before you ever even get a chance to talk about Christ. And so maintain a positive attitude. I put these down under that. Express gratitude. Just be thankful for anything and everything they do and just look for every opportunity. You know what I found out? People are a whole lot more receptive to me when I'm expressing gratitude for what they're doing. If I'm grateful for anything they do for me, they have a more of a tendency to listen and to be open to what I have to say. But if I'm condemning them for every little thing they do and everything I don't agree with, I letting them know I'm shutting the door. I'm locking the bar I'm locking the uh I'm I'm locking the door, I'm pulling the bars down over the window, I ain't getting nowhere with that. And so I gotta be careful. Dorothy Yeah, or rolling your eyes at the things they do, you know? Uh oh, is that right? Oh Well uh don't roll it back. So yeah, and you're gonna get that and they're gonna criticize us and sometimes we may some of us may be in situations I know years ago for me it was this way These little snide remarks are thrown out about Christians and little stuff like that. Don't react to that stuff. Maintain a positive attitude. There's a statement we use a lot. Dr. Robertson used to say it all the time, and this solves 99% of our problems. Die to self. Just die the self. And so when they roll their eyes and they make snide remarks or maybe they're just whatever. But be grateful for what they have and what they do, even the smallest of favors. And then exercise caution. Exercise caution. I think most of us understand this, but I would avoid talking about politics. You know, maybe your family is different political spectrum than what you and I would be comfortable with To me, getting them to know Jesus Christ is more important at this point than getting them to be a conservative Republican. Right? And so uh, you know, arguments over politics, expressing my opinion about everything that's going on in the world. Um, you know, I would just try and avoid all that and I just I'd look for every opportunity I can just to be positive, turn that subject into something that maybe can open up the gospel. You know, it's hard to talk about God's grace when you're arguing about the NFL kneeling at the anthem, right? And so you're getting an argument over that with the family members, how are you going to talk about the grace of God? Whatever their position is, whatever so what I want to be able to share gospel with them. I want to share Christ with them. So watch out for politics and sports and all these kinds of things. Just die to self. I'll give you a great, I'll tell you a great little technique we teach in our soul winning. If they bring something up that's controversial or you're tempted to give your opinion and say, oh, it just gets under my skin, I'm going to let them have it. When they say something like that, just say this. Well, that's interesting Well, what do you think about Trump? Well he's an interesting guy. Just leave it at that. Uh well, you know, just stuff like that. And uh, you know, you just try and deflect that stuff. And um uh uh uh the th the sad thing in our country is we've gotten to the point and and even in the church that we can't discuss differing opinions without it being an argument and getting personal. And it's just everybody's on edge and ready to to draw knives at the drop of a hat. So I don't even want to enter that arena. I just want to point them to Christ. I want to be a witness to the grace and the love of God in that situation. Now it doesn't mean I compromise or I water down the message, but it just means I got to pick the battles I want to fight And I want to win the gospel battle. I want to win them to Christ. Number, three. Write this down. Number one, prayer. Number two, positive attitude. Number three, give praise to God. And what do I mean by that? Instead of complaining about everything Give glory to God. Just determine. I'm going to go in here. I'm not going to complain about anything. I'm not going to get in an argument about anything that's temporal. And uh I'm just going to glorify God. I want to talk about how good God has been to me. Some of us are are so negative and so critical and so complaining, nothing is good enough, nothing's ever right. We are convincing the unsaved world that God is terrible. That God treats us horribly. And nothing is right, and everything's terrible. And um and so the unsafe say You know, I don't see anything there that appeals to me. And so let's go into this situation talking about how good God. Hey, how's things going? I haven't seen you since last year. How was your year? Oh man, God's been so good to me God has blessed us. We went through some tough times. The Lord brought us through. And that's where you might get the rolled eyes, you know, sometimes and stuff like that. But I'm telling you, that has a much more positive influence for the gospel than saying, oh, it's been terrible. My whole life's fallen apart. I hate everything. Oh yeah, I want to be like you. I want what you got. Right? And so give praise to God. Give glory to God. Here's my goal. I want to go in and convince them that God is good. I want to convince them that being a Christian is a good thing. I was unsaved for all my teen years, and I'll tell you, I found out that being on this side, being a Christian, is a whole lot better than not being a Christian. And so be positive. Number four, put this down. Pay attention for opportunities. And I kind of touched on this already. Listen to what's being said. Watch for open doors. And this is something I thought of when I was putting this together. A lot of families, you have that loner. Anybody know what I'm talking about? They're always sitting off by themselves. You know, they never engage in anything. Anybody know what I'm talking about? They're just somebody that they don't they're not part of the thing, and they're just always out there. Kind of keep an eye out for that. You know what it could turn into. They're sitting over there on the couch. Everybody's over here watching a game or whatever and they're carrying on going on. They're sitting over on their couch on their phone You know, there's nothing. Uh maybe sit down beside him and say, hey, listen, I haven't seen you for a while. How's things going? That's all right. And just try and engage them in a conversation a little bit. And if you're careful and you ask the Lord to help you, that thing could lead maybe to sharing the gospel with that loner. There's probably a reason why they're a loner You know, things going on in their life and issues. And so really pay attention. Pay attention what's happening and where there's opportunities are and where folks might be open to the gospel. Number five, I put this down. Perpetuate. Perpetuate opportunities. I was trying to keep them all peas. I don't know. P E R P E T R A T E perpetuate. Right? UA T perpetuate. Stop asking hard questions like that. What do I mean by that? Anyone have any clue what I mean by that? Create active uh opportunities. They're all around us, they're there, but you know sometimes you and I can do something that can create an opportunity. Jesus did that all the time. You know how he created opportunities to teach people about himself? He'd heal a blind man. Everybody's there. And he'd use that as an illustration. He'd walk on water. Wow, what an opportunity to teach the disciples that he is God. And so Jesus was creating opportunities all the time, miraculously, you and I can't do that. But we can sometimes do some things that perpetuate opportunities, that produce opportunities. I jotted it. Well let me ask you, what what do you think? What are some ways that we could create an opportunity where I could share the gospel? Kathy's not allowed to answer these because I already went over these with her. Anyone think of any? What? All right. Okay, yeah. Use your health situation, use that, give glory to God. Dale Uh and if they're having a hard time, they're gonna open up somewhere along the line. And when you mention the scriptures sometimes, well what does the Bible say about it? Yeah, just initiate a conversation and then see where that leads. Yes, excellent. I put down you have to be careful about this. Uh yeah again you have to be tactful, you know, especially with family. You know, you don't you want to be k you know do this the right way. By the way, if you're having the folks over at your house, you have a little more liberty at this type of thing. If you're a guest at someone else's house Then you have to be a little more careful. Let me give you some of that I jotted down. One is reading the Christmas story, either at a meal or when you get together and open the presents. We've done that. uh uh ever since we've had our home. Uh we always read the Christmas story before we open presents. And what you can do is read the Christmas story and then um Make personal application. What does it mean? For instance, it says thou shalt call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. Let me tell you, some ways God was really with me this past year. And Kathy, but she mentioned, boy, God's really, I can sense the Lord was with me. I've seen God with me. and help me in my physical needs. God's with me in this. God was with me. And use that opportunity not just to read it and set it aside, but comment on it. And, you know, very few people are going to say, no, we don't want to read the Christmas story at a Christmas meal. And so there might be an opportunity. And then I put this down, and these these aren't all original with me. I picked some of them up from some other stuff I was looking at. But One of the suggestion was, I like this if I had smoke kids, but reenact the manger scene with the kids. Alright, before we open a presence, we're gonna let's act out the Christ Christmas scene. And um, you know, you take a t-shirt, makes a great head thing. Like the shepherd's warp, just put the t-shirt over your head and uh just kind of act it out a little bit and uh that would be fun At Christmas dinner, everybody share what Christmas means to me or when I'm going to open the presents. Alright, let's before we open them up, everybody tell us what's Christmas mean to you. Then when it's your turn, let me tell you what it means to me, my Savior came. And may open a door for a gospel. A birthday cake for Jesus. One of the things I read was a gift from God, have a present under the tree from God. And everybody's like, what is this? A present from God? Well, let's open up, see what it is. Open up and inside and have an illustrated gospel, the plan of salvation, like a little gospel thing. Oh, Jesus came, he died for us, the gift of God's eternal light. Handing out Christmas cards, tracks, like we said. Sending a Christmas letter. I think Cindy does this, a little Christmas letter out, kind of recapping the year, then working the gospel in that, giving a testimony in there. That would be a good thing The Joneses did this the other year. I tell you, I really enjoyed this. And if somebody would would initiate, it might be a little late this year, I would love to get in it. John and Terry Jones a couple years ago invited all their neighbors. They got the community center up there at Mount Grove. Invited all their neighbors, said, come on out, we're going to have a neighborhood Christmas dinner. And we'll provide it. And they got all the I think we ha what do we have? Turkey? Everything. I mean it was a big spread. And there was probably what, thirty-five, forty people there. And all came out and uh had the meal and we enjoyed everybody's talking and laughing and having seen each other in a while. Man, we're neighbors, we should get together more, yeah, and they're going on and on Then Johnny got up and he says, Now before we go any farther, I've asked my pastor to come here and he's going to tell all y'all how to get saved. And so, all right, they got a free meal, so and I told them all how to get saved, just went through the gospel. And uh it was the neatest thing in the world. And just enjoyed that. And I thought, man, that would be a great thing to do. And that's initiating opportunities. And they made it happen. Inviting folks out to Christmas programs, taking advantage of that. Let me give you, I've got a couple more here real quick I want to give you. Number five, participate in their lives. You know, folks are in out of town, they're looking for stuff to do. If they're all going out shopping or whatever, they're all going to go do something they're going to go do with them. You say, yeah, but their language is terrible. And you know what they talk about is awful. I just, you know, I just really don't want to uh we have to be careful we don't set up a holier-than-thou attitude. Or at holier than now perception. Oh well they're too good to go to the restaurant with us Now we don't want to compromise our convictions in any way, shape, or form. We don't want to compromise our standards. We want to hold them up high. However Jesus ate, would you agree with me? Jesus ate some places that I would have been very uncomfortable going and eating. He went into homes of sinners. And people, he got criticized if he'd have known what kind of woman she was. And uh he uh he was a friend to sinners, and so You know, we sometimes just get involved. I found that an absent Christian, an absent Christian has no influence. If I'm not there, if I'm not part of their life, if I'm absent, I don't have any influence. I can't say anything, that can't be an example, it can't be a testimony. So participate. Now if they're going to the bar, that's another story You know, I'm not I'm saying don't compromise our convictions anyway or or harm our own testimony, but um, you know, get involved, be a part of their life Exactly. Not to be so critical at first and let these things go. But like you say, no make no compromise. But for goodness sakes, remember where you come from before you trust you Christ in his name. And so be involved. Establish some sort of relationship with them and not just be somebody that shows up once a year and and preaches at them, carries a big Bible around. beats them over the head with it. And now I I want to be careful and I'm not suggesting any way we compromise in any way, but uh be a part of the light. Number six, I put this down. Present the gospel. Now I said all of that. We've got to be careful that we're not so careful that we don't give the gospel out. We're so tactful we never actually give the gospel. So at some point I want to be determined. I'm going to do all this. I'm going to be very, very careful. I'm going to get involved. I'm going to try and be as tactful, look for all these opportunities. But at some point I want to give them gospel. You know what I see in the Bible? Nobody gets saved without the gospel. People don't get saved by me being tactful. People don't get saved by me being part of their life. People get saved when they hear the gospel and believe it and trust Christ as Savior. So all of that, all that we've set up to this point is simply laying groundwork, is opening doors, making it possible for me to present the gospel. Don't fall into the trap of thinking that if I just have a good testimony in front of them, then they'll get saved. Bible says faith cometh by hearing. Jesus said, go into all the world and preach the gospel. And so I've got to be sure I give the gospel out, give the gospel out, be thorough, be as clear as I possibly can Use wisdom, watch my timing, make sure it's the appropriate time to do that. Be compassionate. But all it is, I like this statement. I heard it years ago, and it's just stuck in my head Soul winning is simply one beggar telling another beggar where to get food. And I had modified that a little bit. It's one sinner telling another sinner where to find forgiveness. And that's what it is. And we've got to do that. At some point, I've got to get the message of the gospel to them, one way or another. And then the last one, I'll end with this, is be patient and persistent. Winning family members is oftentimes a long-term endeavor. I look back at my daddy. And um he got saved 1970. I was 10. Uh my sisters were younger, and you know our you know our situation there a little bit. Nobody, nobody in our family got saved when my daddy got saved. Nobody in our family got saved the year that my daddy got saved. I want to say maybe one or two of my sisters professed faith, but I don't think there was anybody in our family made a profession within the first five years that my daddy got saved. Now one of my sisters may be in there, but it wasn't early on. I was eight years later. A mom was after that, of course she was gone out of the house by then, but it was after I got saved, a number of years after I got saved, that mom got saved. And so my point I'm trying to make is this. If we think we're going to go in, and the first time we give the gospel or we show up, that we're going to see them all get saved. And if they don't, then you say, oh, their hearts are so hard, it's hopeless. Don't approach it that way. And family in particular, a lot of times, is long term. It might be years and years and years of just a faithful witness and loving them and trying to share the gospel with them. and maintaining a good testimony consistently over a period of time, it may be what it takes to see family members come to Christ Now you can pull the Bill Barron's approach. Anybody hear his, remember his testimony? Marched his whole family in the Sunday after he got saved, made them all sit down here. You know, he's drill instructor. Invitation time, stand up, we're all getting saved. You know, that's very, very rare that the whole family gets saved immediately. And so just stay at it, stay at it, stay at it. I was reading about George Mueller, and he had a fellow, I don't know that he was family, it was someone dear to him, they were unsaved. And he prayed for 20 some years for this guy to get saved. Of course, Mueller was very bold witnessing to him. Mueller died. Without that fella trusting Christ. And it was, I don't remember the time frame, but it was after Mueller died that the guy trusted Christ. And he attributed his salvation to George Miller's witness and his prayers for him all those years. And so be patient and be persistent. Just stay at it, stay at it. So I hope these are helpful. Let's pray. We're going to give the invitation and let's pray that as we go into this Christmas season, will you be able to play, Kathy? Invitation. And uh let's really make it a matter of prayer here as we're going into the holiday season. We're going to be getting together, seeing people, have uh unique opportunities. Let's ask the Lord to give us boldness and tact and ask the Lord to prepare hearts. And uh and to be a real effective uh witness through these holiday seasons particular. Now, Father in heaven, help us is our prayer, and hear us as we give this invitation in Jesus' name. Amen.