Of the month. And so what I want to do is take a little time and give some tips for personal soul winning Acts chapter 14 and verse 1. Last uh month we gave some things that we should do, be sure and do. I try to keep these very, very practical And just kind of maybe give us a little thought or a little idea or some method or something that would give us a little more confidence and uh maybe a little more boldness in our witness How many people feel like I do you'd like to have a little more boldness in speaking up for the Lord? I sure do. Anybody ever get in a situation, walk away and say, Oh, I could have been a witness there. I could have and I hate that And uh so sometimes just a little thought or a little observation or something somebody learned uh helps us uh in that. But I noticed in Acts chapter 14, I've always Like this verse in this matter of soul winning, let's see, I better turn this on. Hope it's working. Oh, they there, good. I always like this. There's a little statement in the middle of this verse, 14 verse 1, that's I want to use to set the stage for my tips for tonight. Verse number 1, it says this. It came to pass in Iconium That they went both together into the synagogue of the Jews. And what's the next two words there? They so spake that a great multitude, both of the Jews and also of the Greeks, believed So what I want to give you tonight is some don'ts for soul winning. Some things don't do. Do not do these things when you're trying to witness to people. All right? Let's pray. Father, I ask now you bless our lesson tonight. Lord, I've along with uh look to me like everybody raised their hand. We want more boldness, Lord. We want to be wise and uh tactful, compassionate, but bold In our witness. And so maybe some thoughts tonight would help us. Fill me with your Spirit. Be our teacher, I pray. And use us this year to point people to Christ, is our prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. Says they so spake. What do you think that means? Why did God do that? I got I was looking at this earlier and and uh why would he put that statement in there? It came to pass, I couldn't, they went both together in the synagogue of the Jews. Why did he just say They spake, and a great multitude of the Jews also the Greeks believed. Why did he have to put they so spake? Anybody want to take a shot? What would that mean? Why would he say that They so spake. What's he talking about? Okay, it's the things they said. Now what were they saying? What do you think when they went in the synagogue And they spake. What did they speak that a whole multitude believed and got saved? The gospel. They preached the gospel. So the subject matter What they were saying was the gospel, but he says they so spake. What does that mean? Okay, uh let me put it this way the manner in which they spoke or um the way they spoke in such a way So the what he's saying telling us here is it wasn't just the content of their message that had a profound impact But it was the manner in which they presented their message had an impact. You follow what I'm saying? It was not just what they spoke, that was the gospel, but it was How they spoke it, their demeanor in giving it, it had a profound impact. In fact, look what it says there. It says, a great multitude, both Jews and Greeks um believed the gospel and got saved. How many is a great multitude? It's a great multitude. He doesn't put any figure there. Remember back in chapter two it says three thousand Then a little bit later, I think it's chapter four or five, it says five thousand. It's like they quit counting and they just said, Good Greek, there was a lot. A great multitude. But what I want to zero in on is their demeanor, on how they spoke. There's a certain way, there was a certain manner in which they presented the gospel that profoundly affected the hearers in a positive way, and they decided to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. So that's what we're considering. How how do we so speak Well this I'm going to take the negative side, what not to do. Last month we did what to do, this month what not to do. Let me encourage you to jot these down. They may come in handy someday and uh may be helpful. I like these. And um I I think they're very practical and very, very helpful. Number one, here's the first thing not to do. Whatever you do When you're witnessing, you're trying to be a testimony, somebody, do not do this. Number one, do not argue. Don't argue with them. Do not argue. Go with me, if you would, back to 2 Timothy 2. Paul is writing to Timothy under the inspiration of God. And he's giving them some instructions, and Paul is doing a little bit what I'm doing here. He's telling them things to do and things not to do. And in 2 Timothy chapter 2, beginning in verse 22. He tells them some things he should do and some things he should not do. And in the middle of this passage, he makes an important statement. 2 Timothy 2, look at verse 22. Flee also, youthful lust. Now why would he say youthful lust? Timothy was a young man. So he's addressing his particular situation, but it applies to everybody. Plea also youthful lust, but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. Now look at verse 23. But foolish And unlearned questions, what's he supposed to do? Avoid them. Stay away from that stuff. Foolish unlearned questions. Knowing that they do gender what? There are certain kinds of questions and that are foolish, that are unlearned, and they produce strides. Strides. Now look what the next verse says. And the servant of the Lord, how many folks here would consider yourself, at least to some extent, a servant of the Lord? Sure, if you're saved, you would be a servant of the Lord to some extent. The servant of the Lord must not what? Strive, but be gentle unto how many men? All men. Hapt to teach. Patient. Now look at this next verse. In meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves, if God peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth Huh. He says, Timothy, when you're teaching people, when you're working with people, do not avoid foolish and unlearned questions. Those things produce strives, and the servant of the Lord must not strive. But rather be patient, meekness, instructing them, gentle unto all men, and in with that approach, with that demeanor. You may win them to Christ. They may repent and come to the truth. And so one thing we do not want to do in our witnessing is argue with people. Now what is strive here? I come I came up with two definitions for the word strive there. One is physical altercation. How many people agree agree with me when you're witnessing someone you shouldn't punch them? Well, Green, I I've won more people, Lord, by not punching them than I have by punching them. And I haven't ever punched anybody. So it means physical altercation, but it includes another type of altercation. Not just physical altercation, but it includes verbal altercation. Getting in an argument with them. Do not argue with the lost. I have never led someone to the Lord that I got in an argument with. Over all the years, I never got an argument with them and ended up winning them to the Lord. You know what an argument often leads to? You get in an argument with somebody and you end up getting what Mad. You end up getting angry. Arguing almost always leads to anger. Almost always. And my Bible says in James that the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. And I cannot win anybody to the Lord if I'm arguing with them, which almost always produces anger. So avoid arguing at all costs. Be gentle to all men. Be patient. Be meek. You say, what if they say something really ignorant? Be patient, be meek, be gentle. And it may lead them to repentance. I'm not a big fan. Some of these creation guys. um uh Kent Holden and several of them and I and you know that's their ministry so I I I gotta answer for myself. But I'm not a big fan of these debates they do. Do you ever see them? They'll get up and they'll have a debate. We'll get an atheist There'll be an evolution. I'm a creation. Boy, we'll get in a debate with each other. And uh to be a debate, and maybe there's a place, and maybe I'm sure God's used it to some extent. But uh a lot of times a bait, a debate is simply a civil argument. You know, and uh I don't know, I'm just not a big fan of that. And when it's all said and done, both sides always claim they won the debate. And I think it I think it I think it uh it engenders real pride. Boy I I whooped him in that debate. Well you know you spike the football, boom, boom, got him And to me, that's not soul winning. That's not soul winning. Our objective is not to win an argument. Our objective is to win souls. And bring people to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so put that down. Number one, don't argue with them. Whatever the, just don't let out. What if they're argumentative? What if they want to get in a fight? Just walk away from it. Don't be drawn into that. And um you'll end up I'll I'll mark it down, you will end up getting mad. And uh the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness God. So the first thing I put down is this when you're gone soul winning, you're Maybe you got someone you've been burdened for and you said, I'm going to take them out to lunch and I'm going to witness to them. You got your Bible, you got some gospel tracts. And you sit down, you're going to start talking, boy, right away they bring up something. They say something ignorant. They want to argue about stuff. What I would suggest is just drop it right there And have a visit, have a nice visit, and go on. Try again some other time. Number two, put this down. Do not belittle them or their religion. Do not belittle them or their religion. They might let's let's, for sake of illustration, say they're Catholic. Does Catholic doctrine point people to Christ? No. No, it's a works-based religion. It is idolatrous in a lot of ways Catholicism is not scriptural in any way, shape, or form. And so what I need to be-and the Baptists and the Catholics are notorious at button heads all the time. I know some folks have told me that the Catholic, that look whatever particular Catholic church said, if you go to a Baptist church, you're going to go to purgatory for sure and be there a very, very long time Now, one, there is no such thing as purgatory. I think everybody ought to go to Baptist church, in my opinion. So you get in there and say, you're Catholic? Yeah. Oh, brother. You know, don't do that. Are you kidding me? Catholics are a bunch of idolaters. They're wicked. They're of the devil. Haven't you read Revelation chapter 17? That woman rides the beast. That's the Pope Don't do that. There's a time and place to address false doctrine. There's a time and place to deal with that. What I want to do at this point is I'm concerned about their personal standing and relationship. With the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what I found out? When I give the truth of the gospel, it often addresses the false truth of whatever religion it may be And so you say, well, shouldn't we deal with works and all that? Yeah, absolutely. But you don't have to belittle their religion. Don't say stuff like this. Oh, all Catholics are morons. Don't say that. In fact, can I be honest with you? I'm thinking of one lady in particular. I knew a Catholic, very devout Catholic lady. She was a sweeter, kinder person than a bunch of Baptists I know. So don't belittle their religion, don't mock their religion. Some of them that's what they grew up in, that's all they know. We were down in Sydney, Australia last year. And um Brother Fox and I, or no, it was a different guy, we were witnessing to three Muslims, hardcore, about 25-year-old Muslims. I mean the beard, the eyes, they were they were they were hardcore We're out in the plaza. And um, you know, there's a lot of stuff goes through your mind, you're witnessing these guys, and we tried to be very, very careful, and both of us were very, very careful, that we stayed on point And we stay with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we emphasize the love of God for sinful man, which is a foreign concept. And they kept saying stuff like this, ah, but the Quran teaches, but the Quran teaches, but Muhammad said And we didn't address any of that, oh Muhammad, he's a pedophile. No, we didn't say any of that stuff. We stayed right on point with the gospel, right on point with the gospel, right on point with the gospel. Now we couldn't, we weren't able to leave those guys alone, but I tell you what, about forty-five minutes of putting the gospel in their heads, in their heads, in their heads. And so what I'm trying to say is this, don't belittle their religion. Maybe they're an atheist, they have some off-the-wall belief. Don't belittle. What does it mean to belittle somebody? What do I mean when I use that term belittle? What does that mean? Run them down. Make them say it's insignificant or they're unimportant. You're just an idiot. You're just dumb. You're just that. Don't do that. Stay focused on the gospel. Stay focused on the gospel. This helps me a lot. Always keep in mind, Jesus Christ taught that person was worth suffering hell on the cross for. And that's not insignificant. There's nobody in the world that's insignificant. There's nobody in the world that's unimportant, regardless of how they were trained or what they may believe with all their hearts. They can be as wrong as can be. But I gotta stay on point and um and uh share the gospel. Uh I wouldn't even address their religion, quote unquote, unless they ask or it becomes necessary. For instance, if I'm let's come back to the Catholics, and I don't mean to pick on them, I'm just using them for illustration. Let's suppose I'm sharing about being saved and they s I ask them, do you know for sure you're going to heaven? They say something like this, oh yeah, I was baptized by the priest as an infant. And I I'm I'm saved on my way to heaven because of that. Now, do I need to address that Absolutely. But I can do it in a way without making them look foolish or making them feel like they're an idiot. I can show them from Scripture it's by grace that we're saved through faith, not of works, no such things. See what following what I'm saying? So be very, very careful there. I'm not saying don't address it if you need to. If they bring it up, answer their questions. And you say, well, what about they're in this wrong church? What about that? They're in this wrong doctrine. Well, let's win them to Christ. And then once they get Christ, and once they get saved, then we can start teaching the Word of God. You know what I found out? A lot of times the Holy Spirit will just bring them right out of that mess. They'll see the difference And they'll see that what they had and what Christ has given them is so different, and they'll come out of it. Amen? So number one, don't argue. Number two, don't belittle them or their religion. Don't put them down or uh uh um or make fun of them. Number three, this one's important. Do not get sidetracked. And witnessing, do not get sidetracked. Father, people can bring up everything in the world, every question, every issue in the world. You witness somebody and they just out of the blue. Anybody here ever witness someone out of the blue? They bring up the most unrelated thing in the world to what you're talking about. You witness to them, they'll say, well, what do you think about Trump's speech Don't go off. Oh, I mean, I'm glad you said it. And don't do that. Trump's speech has nothing to do with their eternal salvation. I want to win them to Christ. What's a question? Anybody, there's one question that seems like inevitably somebody's going to ask it when you're witnessing to them. Where they change it there what I think it's I think the devil printed that and and distributes it to everybody. Where did Cain get his wife? If they ask that question, there's one or two responses you can give. Well, you're telling them, you believe you're a sinner, yeah, I know I'm a sinner. You know that's serious. That that's bad Yeah, I know. Um I have a question, okay, where'd King get his wife? What? Has nothing to do with what we're talking about. So I give one or two qu one or two responses. One is Um I'll say, well from his mother-in-law, that's where everybody gets their way. And then you go on Or a better response is this. That's a pretty good question. People ask me a lot. Tell you what, hold on to that. And when I'm finished going through here, you ask me that again. Remind me, I'll try and answer that for you. And then stay on point. Stay on point. And the important thing is have them remind you. Because if I say, well, we're done, I'll answer that. Then I forget to, then whose shoulder isn't on me? But if I tell them, remind me when we're done, ask me that again, we're done, I'll try and answer that for you. And then stay on it. So don't get sidetracked. They're going to bring up every goofy thing in the world And just come right back to that. If they say something, we always teach this in our soul winning thing. If they say something like, you're going through that, and boy, you feel like I'm really making progress there with you, and they'll say some bizarre thing Uh, you know, well I was abducted by aliens once. You know, the best response to give to that is, well, that's interesting. And just go right on. And um so uh don't get sidetracked, stay focused on the go on the gospel. Here's another thing. If they start asking these strange Bible questions, or even sometimes they're legitimate questions, they have a real legitimate question. You're going through them and they'll say, well, what about speaking in tongues? I mean people agree that could be a very sincere question. They may they've heard that, they don't know what it is, they've seen it, they're scared of maybe, or maybe they've been caught up in it. What about speaking in tongues? That's a legitimate question, but that's not the subject at hand. And so I want to, if they bring up a little bit of us and say, you know, that's a good question. A lot of people ask that. Hold that and remind me afterward, and I'll try and answer that for you. And so even uh you know even uh good legitimate questions, but here's the here's the temptation. That might bring up some question. If you've got a little bit of Bible knowledge, the temptation is going to be to try and show them how much of the Bible I know. And pride can step in there and next thing you know, it's an hour later and I'm going through the whole uh book of Ecclesia uh Ezekiel explaining those wheels, you know, and a wheel inside a wheel and they're moving, the spirit's moving them And do you know the Holy Spirit of God didn't fill people in the Old Testament? The Holy Spirit of God came upon them and God was doing this that has nothing to do with the gospel Twenty minutes later, half hour later, I'm all out of breath and I've dumped my whole Bible knowledge on them, and they're still lost on their way to hell, have no idea how to be saved. And so be very, very careful about not getting sidetracked. Now, sometimes we do need to lay some foundation. Sometimes we do need to answer questions. In John chapter 3, Nicodemus came to the Lord Jesus. How many people are familiar with that story? And he says, Oh, you're a man sent from God, you're a teacher of come from God, for no man can do these miracles thou doest except God be with him. And man, he's just pouring it on the Lord Jesus, and Jesus just shuts him down and says, Nicodemus You must be born again. Nicodemus says, Huh? He says, Marvel not, that I say unto you, you must be born again. No man can enter the kingdom of heaven except to be born again. And Nicodemus asks the question What was his question? How can a man, when he is old, be born again? Must he go the second time into his mother's womb and be born? How many people agree? That sounds like a sincere question on his part. Born again, this was a new concept to him. He had no idea what Jesus was talking about. And if you pay close attention there, Jesus took a moment And he attempted to answer his question. He said, that which is born of the flesh is flesh. You're born physically flesh. But that which is born of the spirit is spirit. And he said, I'm talking about the spiritual aspect. The spirit of God moveth like the wind. You don't see where it is. And um and uh Nicodemus says, how can these things be? And Jesus says, well listen, if I tell you earthly things, you'll understand how you understand heavenly things. And then he goes on with the gospel. But Jesus did stop and address a sincere question that was related to what he was saying. So if they ask a question like this, how could all my sins be laid on Jesus? How does that happen? I might want to stop and pause and say, you know, this is a legal transaction This is a legal standing before God, and God is taking it off of my legal record and putting on the record of Jesus Christ. And maybe take a moment. If they don't get it, then just go on. Okay? You follow what I'm saying? So sometimes we do need to stop and lay some groundwork or lay ask a little legitimate question. I'm finding more and more we need to explain a little bit who Jesus even is. nowadays. And uh we explain who God is. And I think we're going to see more and more of that. And then you almost have to go back to Genesis just a little bit, explain God's the creator of all this Jesus, God's Son, God became man. And so, uh, but don't get sidetracked, just determine your heart and mind. But I'm going to stay focused on this. And the better I know the gospel, more I'm familiar and confident with the gospel, the easier that is to do. So number one, don't get angry. Number two, don't belittle them or their religion. Number three, don't get sidetracked. Number four, uh don't come across as a holier than thou. If we're not careful, we come across, and I don't think we mean this, I don't surely nobody would deliberately do this, but if we're not careful, And and we don't speak, present it correctly, we come across as, you're the sinner and I'm not. You're going to hell and I'm not. And so you have to be careful in presenting the gospel that I'm not presenting it in such a way or presenting the the image that somehow I am holier than that. And this may be a particular danger for a preacher. Some people have in their head that a preacher is like Oh, you know, you guys have halos and all that stuff. Nobody in this church thinks that about their preacher, I'll tell you that right now. But if we're not careful, we so speak in such a way that it comes across as if we are sin they are sinners and we are not. They're going to hell, I'm going to heaven So, how can I present the gospel in a way to avoid that? Anybody have an idea? How can I so speak to avoid coming across that way? Here's a good word to use: we. We are all sinners. And when I present John 3, chapter 3, verse 23, 9 and 10 in that section there, I always, I never, ever, I tr I don't think so, I try not to ever, ever present it this way. You are a sinner. You are sinner. I always say stuff like this. We're sinners. All of us are. I'll say something like this. You, me, whoever's with me, Charlie, especially Charlie, and um But always include yourself. Always include yourself. In sharing the gospel, a lot of times I'll say something along those lines. I'll say, you know, suppose I go out here, God forbid, a tractor trailer, run over stop sign hit me. And I'd be, you know, I'd be uh knocked out of the car, I'm laying there, I'm dying, I'd feel my life leaving my body, and um I'd say something like this, I know for sure that when if that would happen, I know for sure I would go to heaven and be in the presence of the Lord and I would not go to hell. And I always quit to add this. Not because I'm better than anybody else. Or not because I'm a preacher or because I'm sinless, because I'm a sinner just like everybody But God has promised that whoever calls on him in sincerity, turning to him from their sin, shall be saved. And I know May 7, 1979, I called on the Lord, and he saved me. You follow what I'm saying? And so we have to include ourselves in that we are all sinners. Christ died for all of us, myself and all of you, whoever, myself, anybody calls on the name of the Lord. So avoid coming across as holier than thou. Paul presented himself with these types of phrases. In me That is, my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing. You never find Paul presenting himself as holier than anybody else. He said, I'm the least of the apostles. He said, I am chief of sinners. In John 7, he says, Oh wretched man that I am. That doesn't sound like somebody considers himself holier than anyone else, does it? And that's the demeanor, that's the attitude we need to come across, that's what we need to express. So speak in such a way that we do not come across holier than others. Number five, here's a very practical one. Go to Proverbs chapter 27. Don't argue, don't belittle them, don't get sidetracked, don't come across as holier than now. Number five, don't stink You'll get a lot farther in witnessing the folks if you don't stink. How many people believe that? That's true. It's true. And I got scripture for it. Ah, you're way ahead of me. Look at this. Here they are. I always carry them in my pocket. Now this is kind of gross, but I dump them out of the can and have them loose in my pocket. Does two things. One, it doesn't make a lot of noise. You ever have one of those little b uh uh uh those little uh altoids in your pocket and it's rattling around or even worse is the um tic-tacks. Oh brother, you might as well have a mouse in your pocket. It's a makes a racket Now the only other thing about having them loose in your pocket is I get lint along with it sometimes and But if you're in West Virginia, they just think you're chewing and so it doesn't matter. Don't stink. Look at chapter 27, verse 9. I love this verse. Ointment and perfume do what? Rejoice the heart. So that means if there's absence of ointment and perfume, what does that do? It saddens the heart. How many people are sad when you have to be on a train beside somebody that stakes? I was I was on a plane that I was uh coming back and the I was a guy. We're walking down to get on the plane, you walk down that uh thing there and the guy's in front of me and I mean it was bad. And I said, Lord, please don't let him be sitting beside me. Please. And I had an empty seat beside me, so Lord answered my prayer. So uh have mints. Carry mints with you at all times. Keep them in your car, keep them in your purse, keep them in your pocket, keep them somewhere. Um don't eat Don't eat onions and ramps before you go out visiting somebody, whatever you do. Use deodorant. Yodorin is a good thing. It's a gift of God. Take a shower. Be clean. Have your clothes clean. Don't wear the same shirt for seven days in a row. Get a new clean shirt out when you're going to go visiting. And here, let me throw this in with it. And this uh this may sound humorous, but I'm serious on this. Don't react to them if they don't aren't clean. Don't walk in the room and say, Phew. Don't do that. Don't sit beside them trying to witness them. Don't do that. Just ignore it. Just do the best you can. There was a lady, God bless her heart, down in Chattanooga road uh she didn't ride our bus, she was on our bus road. We'd visit her uh every week. And I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I could not even step inside that door. I would li I'm I think I got a pretty strong disposition physically, but I would gag just at the door. And um I mean it was terrible, but we would visit her and I'd always uh she'd say, well come on in, Brother Letterman. I said, oh I'm in a hurry. Let me just pray right here So be very, very careful about that. So don't stink. That leads me to number six, kind of ties in with my last statement there. Don't be rude. I ain't coming in that stinky house. Don't say stuff like that. Somebody says, well, I had a guy years ago who said to me, he said, well, that's just kind of the way I am. I said, well, that's why we have the Holy Spirit to change us from the way we are to the way we should be. So don't be rude. Well, I just speak my mind. Well, stop it. Uh to be rude means to be discourteous or impolite, to be harsh. The only person here that can be harsh is Charlie and Helen. And Helen. And Helen, yeah. Don't call 'em names. Some p you know, I hate to say this, and I tr there's uh probably guys in other groups, but independent independent Baptists, there's some preachers that kind of take pride in being rude and from the pulpit and different things and and just being rude. We're not going to win anybody of Christ by being rude to them. Now, we need to be honest sometimes. I think in our preaching we ought to be forceful and right at it. But there's a world of difference between being truthful and being rude We ought to be respectful to everybody. You say, well, they're just a man, they're wild, they're wicked, sinful people. Yeah, but Christ thought they were worth dying for. And I can still treat them with respect. I can still treat them with respect. Uh and compassion. So don't be rude to people. Now this one I threw it in. It's probably not that big of an issue, but down south I ran into it for whatever reason. But number seven, I put this down. Don't be weird. You know, don't be weird. Some people get religious and they get weird. And uh talking in strange ways. Don't get in there and get wound up and start shouting at them and carrying on Don't do that. Remember, when I'm witnessing to somebody, maybe I'm in their living room or somewhere. I'm not preaching to a thousand people. I'm talking one-on-one with a person And there's a world of difference between the way you preach and the way you talk to someone one-on-one. Anybody here ever hear me uh give an illustration? I'll say, I'll say some crazy things that I said to them, then I'll add this on the end. Well, I didn't really say it that way. It's because when you're talking to one on one with somebody, it's different. So Don't be weird. Uh just uh talk one on one. Be s put this down. Be sane and sensible. Just respectful and sane and sensible. Some of these guys down south and I'm not knocked on them. Some there are a couple of guys on the radio and they got good stuff and and certain Cultures they fit right in, but they get this hacking. Anybody know what I'm talking about when they're preaching ah and they preach ah Any anybody know what I'm talking about? Now I got preacher friends down south would slay me for making fun of that. And I'm not really making fun of it, but what I'm saying is don't do that when you're witnessing. And uh You know what I mean? Just don't be weird. Just be a normal person. That's why I like like in Bible You know, we got we have some standards here and we try and preach the Bible straight up, you know, and that kind of gets a reputation in the community. That's why I like Bible time and Wild Game Dinner and stuff like that. We can get people in there and realize, you know, we're just normal, sane people. And when we come to their house and we visit them or we're interacting with them, just be normal and sane. Don't be weird. Don't be weird Now let me give you one more real quick. At least try not. Some takes more effort than others. Proverbs 25, 17. Come over there, please. Proverbs 25, verse 17. This is my last one, number eight, I think, is the number. Do not stay too long. Do not stay too long. If you're visiting in their house, do not stay too long. Proverbs twenty-five, seventeen. Let me find it here. Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbor's house, lest he be what? Weary of thee, and so hate thee. I don't want him to hate me. It's best to leave on good terms if at all possible. If you're trying to witness to them and maybe You know, and I've I've changed my thinking on this a little bit over the years. When I was younger, boy, I'd push it. I'd get in there and I'd just press that and press I wasn't going to leave until they made some sort of profession of faith or outwardly verbally rejected Christ. I had such a mentality. They're going to either get saved or they're going to tell me they're rejecting Christ. To my face, they're going to say that. And there may be some times when that may be appropriate, I don't know. But I found I came here and I started Growing a little bit. I found that if I if they're not going to accept Christ and they're not on board and they're not interested, it's far better to leave that door open to come back another time Then to push that and push that and push that and push that until they hate me. And they ain't never going to answer that door I come again. And they're going to avoid me in Walmart. And they're not going to come to nothing we do. And folks are going to say, why don't you come see this chalk artist in November? I ain't going there. Because I've stayed way too long and I've worn out my welcome and they hate me. They don't want nothing to do. And so it takes a little bit of wisdom, it takes some leadership of the Holy Spirit. Sometimes all it takes is a little more persuasion there. I just need to poke them a little more, and then they'll make that decision. And other times I need to quit poking. I need to back off and say, well listen, God bless you. Let me leave this gospel track with you. Take some time. Would you do something? Would you read this? Maybe tonight before you go to bed. Just read that. Would you give me your word you'll do that Sure, preacher, I'll read it. Okay, that's all I'm asking. God bless you. And then slip out. Follow what I'm saying? Rather than staying there and pushing it and pushing it and pushing it or just sitting around talking about everything in the world Um generally a soul-winning visit, you do a little small talk, chit-chat a little bit, then you get down to business, you present the gospel, and Then if they trust Christ and can spend some time it's appropriate to spend time and disciple a little bit right then then go for it. Read and feel it out. But if they're if they're shutting things down, it's time to get out of there I like what Benjamin Franklin said. He said, guests are a lot like fish. After three days, they start to stink. And probably if you're there three hours and they're not interested and you spent three hours, I venture to say you're pretty stinky to them. And so uh know when to leave. Don't s don't stay too long. Uh get out uh at the appropriate time, leave that door open. And maybe you can catch them another time. The exciting thing about Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and we were talking about this on the trip, and in our rural area here, is we're going to cross them sooner or later They're going to maybe come to Wild Gandhi or they're going to tune into the radio station. They're going to get attracted on their door. Their kids or grandkids going to go to Bible time. Somewhere or another, we're probably going to cross paths again. And so be wise, be persistent, be earnest, and you know, push it as far as you can. But Know when to stop, know when to back off. Some don'ts in soul winning. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray you'd use us this year. We could see many souls saved. Lord, you Lord, and maybe, if nothing else, at least share the gospel with many, many people. And we're asking you to give us wisdom, give us tact, give us confidence and boldness in sharing the gospel. But help us, Lord, to so speak. That uh folks will believe and be saved. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many like me say, Preacher, I have got to step up my soul wedding I've got to step that thing up a bit. Anybody like that? I've got to step it up. Maybe some this year, and this is between you and Lord, I want to ask you to raise your hand, but maybe some this year say, you know, I'm going to get out that Thursday night and help make those visits. I'm going to get them somewhere or another. I'm going to take it to another level. And then God will bless you on that. Or maybe sometime during the week, I'm going to designate a time to go out and talk to people about Christ. And so, Lord, hear us, help us, fill us with your spirit, I pray, and provoke us to good works. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I don't know Maybe you want to kneel at an altar and say, Lord, give me that wisdom, give me that boldness. In the book of Acts, chapter 4, they pray for boldness as the piano plays. And maybe just kneel at an altar and say, Lord, give me that boldness to witness. God, give me that boldness to speak up when and where I should, and the way I should. And know when to press and know when to back off. Avoid arguing. God will help us. He sure will. All through Acts they prayed, Lord, give me boldness. Lord, give me boldness. The Bible says God the place would shake it and they were filled with the Spirit. And they spake the word of God with boldness. Thank you, Father in Heaven, for the great responsibility and privilege to be your ambassadors in this old simple world. In Jesus' name, Amen. You may be seated, ushers, while you're being seated, come down. We're going to take the offering up. And uh want to be faithful in our giving. Randy, would you pray for us, please? So much for blessing us, Lord, and for blessing us with the message tonight. Lord, I pray that you'd help us to be better soul winners, Lord, for you. And uh Father, thank you for bringing our pastor back to us, Lord. Um praise Jesus for your hand of Jesus. Amen. Miköksti tuolti. Thank you, Jane. Uh just a few announcements. Of course we have an invitation. Tomorrow evening, and I want to encourage you to come on out, 6 30. And uh we have a good time. We get out and make some visits and uh talk to people about the Lord. So uh encourage you to come on out then. Saturday, uh ladies' luncheon was scheduled for noon. That has been canceled for this month Uh the memorial service for Jim Kent is Saturday here at the church at eleven o'clock in the morning. So we would encourage folks to come on out. Of course, Jim went to be with the Lord, was it last Saturday, I think, and um He went uh be with the Lord. So he's in in the Lord's presence right now, but uh we want to have a memorial for him on Saturday at eleven o'clock. So keep that in mind. No ladies' prayer luncheon But we do have the memorial. Kathy's been talking to some folks about maybe bringing some side dishes, we'll have a meal afterward. And if you're interested in helping out with that, see Kathy. I know she's been talking to some folks about that. And then of course Sunday we're back up and running. I think that is our announcements. The Wild Game Dinner. Please sign up and help us somehow if you got Mounts that you can bring in. We got a sign-up list for that. We like to decorate real good. And uh if you can come up with just some wild game dishes, just something different. Go out and shoot a muskrat or something And uh I was talking to Brother Creed, Dr. Creed's son Pat Jr. went with us on this trip, and his son pastors over on the Eastern Shore, and they had their wild game dinner. this past Saturday night and he was listing off all the stuff they had. They had muskrat, groundhog, um I mean just everything as crazy as you can find. So go out and shoot something, cook it and bring it in. The neighbor's cat, uh it's just Anything, but uh we'll have a good time and door prizes and all those things. Uh help out any way you can. I think most of you are familiar with what we do there. Uh Couples Banquet is a week from this Saturday. I hope you all will come on out And um dress up a little bit, bring your wife. If you don't have a wife, go find somebody to bring along with you, girl, and um uh be good. Be good. Alright. Uh one other thing real quick. We have a few posters. Anybody could use a poster for the wild game dinner. Anybody? I got one here. I can print more Anybody at all? All right. Looks like we're pretty covered there on that. Alright, if you have your prayer list, um want to go over these, please pray uh for the unsaved here listed there, the spiritual needs. Pray these people be saved And for the new believers, the ministries, we're praying for that building fund, the wild game dinner coming up. We should pray for the Uh Couples Banquet also, Brother Clink's going to be preaching that. And so the ministries of our church we need to saturate in prayer. Salvation and new believers pray for them. I'm glad that John Pinkerton was baptized Sunday. Wasn't that a blessing? And um I heard Pastor Matt about drowned them, but other than that, uh it went real well. But uh I'm happy for that. Pray for pray for John. God's work in that boy's heart. We would pray for him. I'm excited. Kazakhstan, if you would. Under physical needs, uh the list is pretty much the same. Michelle Michaels sees a kidney specialist tomorrow. Very important meeting. and pray that they will be able to help her and that they can get something going there. Um and then Steve Wesson, I've added Steve Wesson I was able to spend time with the Westons. I'll talk about this Sunday. I think I might have already mentioned it. They are doing very well, uh, but Steve is very, very ill. And uh he needs repairs. He picked he had leukemia as a small child and recovered from that, but that impacts your body, something like that. And he got a virus somewhere that he's told he's going to live with the rest of his life And it just wipes him out and um he'll be down for weeks at a time or he can't get up but an hour or two. And when we got there, boy, he just looked drawn, his eyes were black and by the end of the week he picked up and he was able to do some stuff with us. But But uh Steve really needs our prayers. He's a good boy, he's a leader in the church, and God's using them. Uh so if you would. And then add this, Raymond Titchenal is very, very ill. And so pray for Raymond. Saw a doctor today. We didn't hear anything. But Raymond needs our prayers. Uh expecting cancer. We have Peggy Cooper. She came, I believe, if I'm correct on this, she came home from the hospital. Do you know, Trish? Imagine the problem adopter because it's still happy. And she's not worried about But she definitely worked as far and uh treatment is topic parts. So she's crying and We'll pay for them. This is the family that just trusted Lord here just uh several weeks ago and I think one of the girls is getting baptized uh this Sunday. One of the two For girls. So pray for Peggy and for that whole family. Rehab Tammy Hardesty is actually home. She came home Um, but they s I believe, if I understood correctly, they sent her back up to Morgantown today. She needs two lungs transplanted She can hardly breathe on her own. And uh sh she very much needs our prayers. I'm not sure if she's home or back up. I heard both, uh and I haven't been around here long enough to find out. Tom Kite's still in the nursing home. Pray for him Of course, Helen. Bus Family of the Week, starring TJ May. TJ hasn't been out lately. Pray for TJ, our senator, Jamie Raskin, pray for salvation. God would direct him and do right as far as his role in our government. Trump and Pence and our governors pray for them that God will lead and direct them to do what's right, that we can live peaceable And quiet lives. Missionaries, this week we're praying for Scott family over in Japan. He's trying to learn that language. Can you imagine that? And uh pray that he'll do well. He's been doing more and more. And um He's concerned about opportunities to preach. Shepherd's home is up in Wisconsin. They have a school, a home for um uh handicapped folk. They have expanded that to a university. Now they are college level approved And they are giving college level courses to handicapped people. It's an amazing thing. And so pray for Shepherd's home. Of course that involves money. Clayton Schumpert's doing pretty well. I talked to him a little while ago on the phone month or so and um his health is an issue and he's got projects going all over the world. They go and help missionaries build projects, building projects. On the back are military and then uh as we mentioned the Kent family and other needs. And uh I got a prayer request here. Um Uh Diane Smith asked me to pray for their son Brandon Kitzmiller. He's a solid surgeon today. They're gonna have to do more surgery. They're gonna put a stent. and some sort of valve in his under his skull to help with the pressure and fluid there. So uh pretty serious stuff. So keep Brandon Kitzmiller in your prayers. Alright, any other requests? Helen. Saturday the daughter is taking him up to Philadelphia for a couple of days and then he's gonna come back and go to his house. So we need to pray that he scare to death to go home. Well she has caregivers lined up around the clock. Good. When you go those uh he he's still real apprehensive about going back to the house and all those balls. Ninety one years old and I'll tell you it just bugs him to death as a spider. is what he felt. Got up to step on a spider and he just that bothers him that it was that simple for that to happen. So yes, pray for Tom Kite very earnestly. Uh others? Uh Don uh Charlotte Taylor Lake, Evans and Taylor. Um uh Carolyn? Yeah, uh Oh, tomorrow? No. Oh, in March. No, hopefully, that's all right. Let's really pray for Eddie Nutter. He can get that.