Uh take your Bibles and turn to Luke chapter number fourteen. I know what he was talking about. Luke chapter fourteen. We're going to use the over projector uh tonight and if we can get that back there resonate so I can see what I'm doing myself and I would encourage you to try and jump things here. Boy, what a guy. Broke broken leg and uh you want to jot some of these tips down, I think it'll be very helpful. to do tonight of course being the first Wednesday of the month. If the uh church schedule allows, I try to give some different tips on personal soul winning and different aspects of reaching law school folk with the gospel. So tonight I want to give some tips on inviting people to church. Say a few words about that. While you're finding Luke, I just want to use a few verses there. kind of the springboard this had uh lay the groundwork for the lesson tonight. Uh while we're turning there a couple things I wanted to say is um One is you had the funeral today. I didn't have a part, I was at the funeral today, I should say, for Brother Chester's brother-in-law. And uh I want to say the preacher did a fantastic job. job on giving the gospel, Brother John and Matthew. I mean it was straight up gospel. Um and uh you couldn't have got it any clearer than what he gave it. That uh I think what Paul I rejoice in that the gospel is preached. And so I praise the Lord for that. Nobody left there. Uh they paid any attention at all. They uh they knew they needed to be saved they knew how to be saved. Amen. And so I really appreciate that. Can you imagine if every church in America preached the gospel consistently and clearly, what a different country we would live in. And so I wanted to compliment him on that. I think I'm kind of going here brother David with my cord list. Says on but It says on but there ain't no light, so reminds me of some people I know So maybe the battery's dead. I'll just stick try and stick. Alright, we're good? Alright. We got our report from the website for the month of June. The sermon's on the website. I'll tell you this, I just enjoy seeing this. And as of Sunday night, I guess, as of the end of June, I should say, we have 1,024 sermons archived in the library on our website that people can listen to. Of those sermons, sixty-three uh that's one thousand twenty-four sermons, sixty-three thousand two hundred and sixty-nine sermons have been downloaded. off of that website. So that's nearly uh that's near that's over 60,000 sermons have been downloaded. That's amazing. to me all around the world. Now people are starting to get these sermons on their phones. And 17,499 sermons off of our website have been downloaded onto of phones around the world, people listen to them. Now that doesn't mean that doesn't mean they just listened to it, sat there and listened to it. They actually download it onto their computer into their phone. to store it and use it. In the month of June, there were 827 sermons downloaded. Over 300 of them were on to phones. The most downloaded sermon, there's two of them, both 41 times, was Effectual Fervent Prayer from James on a Sunday night. That was downloaded, both of those uh two of them uh forty one times. Uh the there was give the report here. Um Forty-three states had sermons downloaded and 28 countries. Anyone want to guess the most popular state? This state had 112 sermons downloaded Nebraska. What in the world? I don't know. Somebody got fired up out in Nebraska, I guess. And then the number one country, 47 sermons downloaded into the United Kingdom, England. 47 there, Canada, Germany, Australia, Philippines, France, Spain, Vietnam, Zambia, Nigeria, Hungary. Uh Papua New Guinea had several. Sweden, Thailand, a couple countries, I don't know how to say the name. China had one. Isn't that something? So we praise the Lord for that. So pray that God will continue to use that. Alright, tips on inviting people to church. Luke chapter 14, look at this here. I want you to notice a couple words he uses He says, Then said he unto him, a certain man made a great supper, and what's that next word? Bathed many Keep note of that word. We'll come back to that. And he sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden. Come for all things are now ready. And they all with one consent began to make excuses, and they gave these series of excuses. Then he said, verse 21, So the servant came and showed his Lord these things. Then the master of the house, being angry, said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and the lanes of the city And bring in hither the poor and the maimed and the halt and the blind. And the servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is room. Verse twenty three. And the Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and Compel them to come in that my house may be full. Let's pray and uh I'll give you a few tips on inviting people to church. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our lesson tonight. And uh Lord, maybe something said or something given, uh you'd be able to help us be a little more confident, a little more sure of ourselves when we do invite people to church Maybe uh something we could be a little more effective. I ask Lord that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, yield my body to you, present, yield my will, present my body, ask you to speak through me again in this hour and uh help us. And we'd like to see the church grow. We'd like to see people saved and lives impacted with the truth of your word. And so stir our hearts Maybe some of the young people get stirred up about bringing their friends and and folks to church. Some of us adults, you'd stir us up About inviting people and bringing people to church. So bless this hour we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I noted three words in that passage I just read that kind of stand out to me at least Considering the subject that we're talking about tonight, the one as I highlighted when I was reading it, he says he bade many, verse number 16. That word there means to cry out aloud, inviting people to come in. I get the idea as I was studying how it's used other place. Kind of like you're going down the street. Hey everybody, it's Bible time. Come on out, Brother Charles Holmeshire. used to have an old bus, 1964 Chevy bus I think it was, and a rounded top. It was a unique thing. Had it all painted up. And he had big loudspeakers. And he would drive through the s the slums of Chatta of uh di of uh Denver. And he'd drive down there a big loudspeaker. It's Bible time, it's Bible time. And uh come on out, everybody, go out and he'd just drive around, sign up, pack, pack that thing out with kids and Teach them the Bible. That's the idea behind that word he bade many. They're calling out, inviting people to come to this supper is the idea. Very public, loud invitations. Come on, come on, supper's ready. It comes down to the word bidden there, same word. uh to cry out, invite people loudly. Then you get down to verse 23 and he uses the word compel. Now I'll be honest with you, that's That's a pretty strong word when you look at what it means. It means this, to constrain somebody to do something. Now, what do you picture in your mind when somebody is being constrained to do something? You're handcuffing them. In fact the definition has the idea of use of force To get somebody there. When I was a kid, I don't know, if I didn't do what my mom said when she told me to do it, she had a technique of constraining me to do it. She would take me by the ear Anybody can I get a witness? And twist that ear a little bit and pull it. Yeah, yeah, Mom, I'm gone, I'm going. That's almost the idea behind this word compel them to come in. In fact, one definition says use the word violent in the word. Now, I don't think the Lord is suggesting here, in fact, I'm sure he's not suggesting that we use violence to get people to come to church It's not suggesting that we force people against their will to come to church, but that's the intensity of the desire of the Lord. For you and I to get people to come out. Now I know he's not talking about the church here. He's not addressing bringing uh a church attendance. He's obviously talking about salvation. And he's illustrating that. But I think he is illustrating for us the urgency of reaching people with the gospel. Now, God has clearly instructed all of us as Christians that We should do all we can, both individually, me as an individual Christian, I ought to do all I can to try and get people under the sound of the gospel, try and get people saved, and we as a church, body, ought to be doing all we can. To get people to the Christ, get people to be saved. Again, I really appreciated that preacher today. He had an opportunity here at a funeral to present the gospel. He did a very good job. And that's what we as a church ought to do all we can to get people to the gospel. Now, there are some people who are obviously much more gifted, quote unquote At communicating. We all know people that are very that that are very much at ease in talking to people. You know what I'm talking about I mean they can engage somebody in a conversation, no matter who it is, what the circumstances are, they can get them in a conversation and get talking. And if that person gets stirred up about winning people to Christ That person is very so many times very effective at engaging people with the gospel and getting them talking and getting them going and share the message of Christ with them. Some people are very gifted at communication They're very much at ease speaking with total strangers. Uh not everybody is that way. Some of us are a little awkward. when we try and talk. And uh we get our B's and our Ws mixed up a little bit, you know? And uh we're trying to and we're doing the best we can Now, here's where sometimes folks will get the wrong idea. They'll say that person is very gifted at evangelism. That person has the gift of soul winning. You will hear that somewhere sometimes. There is no such thing as a gift of soul winning. Now some people may be gifted in their ability to communicate. They may be very at ease and very naturally able to engage people in conversation But don't confuse that with a gift of soul winning, gift of evangelism. There is no gift of evangelism. We are commanded to win souls. We are instructed by God, all of us, whether we're good at it or not We're instructed to do all we can to try and get people saved. So, there is no such thing as a gift of soul and a gift of evangelism. All of us, the best we can, some maybe a little more at ease with it, a little more confident in it, a little more uh natural ability in talking and and and sharing ideas. Others of us, we may struggle with it a little bit and kind of stumble over our words a little, but nevertheless, we're all commanded to do that Now, one very effective way at getting people saved and getting them under the sound of the gospel is inviting them to come to church. Sometimes people say, well, I'm just I get nervous, I get tongue-tied, and this, that. I think we all ought to get out and try and win souls from people. But one thing everybody can do That doesn't require a lot of skills as far as communication skills is simply inviting people to church. In fact, there are some advantages to getting a person to church as far as getting them saved. Now before I go on that, I want to again clarify a little bit. People can and do get saved anywhere. Right? I was reading my devotions the other day, a couple of several days ago. Naaman The captain of the Syrian army. Guess where he got saved? In the middle of a river. Why seven times the Jordan River. He fussed about it before. They got there, he got He healed of his leprosy and he turned to the God of the Jehovah, God of Israel. The old boy got saved in a river. I've seen people trust Christ in their cars. I've seen them trust Christ in buses On bus stops. We were able to lead a lady, make a profession of faith up in Pittsburgh when uh Paul Lynt, she was sitting on a bus stop, sat down beside her, showed her gospel, she called the Lord actually came out to his church a few times. This is many years ago People get saved in their living rooms, in their kitchens, on their porches, in their driveways, on their front yards, in their backyards. I got in an attic, my bedroom in an attic So nobody has to get saved at church. You can get saved anywhere. I had a lady here in Matlake Park when I first came here. I was going all through the town inviting people and interviewing self inviting people out and a lady, an older lady in a tr in a mobile home over in Mount Lake Park on the other side of 135 Still s I don't think the house is there still. I still remember sitting in the living room. Went through the gospel. An elderly lady went through the gospel with her. She said she says this. If I ever get saved, it's gonna be in church I said, all right. And then she and then she added to that, if I ever get baptized, it's going to be in a crick. I said, okay. She wouldn't get saved and she wouldn't come to church. And so I never was able to get her to trust Christ But uh some people have the idea, well, you've got to go to church to get saved. No, you don't have to go to church to get saved. But church is a good place to get saved. And I think there are some advantages in getting an unsaved person to church to hear the gospel. Can anybody think? Now I want you to give me a little input tonight. Can anybody think what would be some advantages? I wrote three down. I'll share them with you in a minute, but I want to see what your thoughts. Anybody think what would be the advantages of having an unsaved person in the church service to hear the gospel. Anybody? David. What's that? There's more people there? Yeah, they might be a little more at ease with that. Uh-huh. That's one I put down. Uh how many times have we sat in the living room and the TV's blaring And you're trying to share the gospel with somebody, or the radio's playing rock and roll music. Now back in the old days, the preachers just say, turn that stinking nasty thing down, you know. It wasn't the most tactful way of dealing with that And so you have that. You have people walking in, babies screaming, dogs chewing on your leg while you're trying to share the gospel with them. There's less distractions. There's more people there. Anybody else? What would be some advantages of uh having people in church. Anybody? Ed. Okay. I think I am not clicking, Brother Dave. I got three I put down. Some advantages on inviting people to church. If I can't do it back here we go. What advantage of bringing people to church? I put this one down. They're going to hear the gospel Uh you bring them to church, they're going to hear the gospel. I I give you my word, and we work very, very hard at making sure we give a gospel at some form or another and invite people to trust Christ at the services here at Mount Lake Independent Bow Church. I think it's a crying shame that a church would never give the gospel or an invitation to be saved in any of their services ever. That is a crying shame. And I've run across it since I've been in the ministry where people talk about being saved and tell you you should be saved, but they never tell the congregation how to be saved or give an opportunity to be saved. And we worked very, very hard in the Sunday school class. I was thrilled. Promotion Sunday. A couple of the Sunday school teachers came up. Pastor, we had two kids in Sunday school accepted Jesus as their Savior. That's the way it ought to be. So when the visitors come in the Sunday school hour, in the church hour, in master clubs, they're very careful about going through the gospel with the kids in there. Teens alive. And so one thing that we work very, very hard at, if you invite an unsaved friend or co-worker somebody to church, we're going to do our best to make sure that they hear the gospel. Uh Sunday night we had a great crowd. Wasn't that a great day, Sunday? We had a great crowd down there in the barn. Just a blessing. The singing, the preaching was tremendous. And I told the preacher Um uh just before the service started, I looked out and I said, I'm sure we have several unsaved people here. And did you notice Towards the end of his message, he was very deliberate, very carefully worked the gospel in there and invited people to trust Jesus their Savior And so if we invite people to church, one advantage of that is they're going to hear the gospel. Inviting people to church really isn't evangelism. It's really not soul-winning. I like this though. It's like pre-evangelism. I'm setting them up. Putting them in a position where they're going to hear the gospel. So one advantage is they will hear the gospel. Another advantage is, I'm not clicking again. Another advantage is I like this one. They're in a salvation environment or a spiritual environment. We mentioned there's minimal distractions. I don't have to worry about them watching Fox News or something while I'm trying to thing this or whatever shows are on. Church kind of seems to be a place to make spiritual decisions. The whole service is designed to help people make spiritual decisions. I believe, with unless rare exceptions, whenever the Bible is preached, there ought to be an invitation for people to make a decision. Whether it's for salvation or spiritual. So it's a salvation environment. It's a spiritual environment. Um and by the way, this uh have getting uh visitors into church, particularly unsaved people into the church service spiritual environment, a salvation environment. I tell you one thing takes place in this church. I know this for a fact that when there's an unsaved person and unpreaching the gospel or the Evangelists, whoever is preaching the gospel, and we're inviting them to be saved. I know for a fact there are a team of people, a group of people in the congregation are praying earnestly that those people will get saved And so you see what I mean? It's a whole environment, the whole atmosphere, the songs, the scheduling, the invitation, people pray, it's a it's a hot spot of of of salvation and you get them in there into that environment it can be very effective. Of course they can get saved at home. They can get saved out in the parking lot in my home church back in the 60s. power of God was upon that place. My daddy attended for years and it's going south now. But man, they had ushers in the parking lot that would lead people to Christ out in the parking lot That God was stirring with their hearts. And so people can get saved anywhere, but in church you have this environment where it's it's uh it's conducive to that. And I put a third reason down why uh it's advantageous to bring them to church. is um then they're connected to the body of Christ. And what I mean by this, when a person comes to church and they hear the gospel, they're a visitor or whatever, they hear the gospel And they make a decision to trust Christ, there's already a connection there. You see what I'm saying? Sometimes, and again, uh Most people in the Bible were saved outside of the church walls. But if we leave someone of the Lord out in their living room, then we got a challenge. Now we have to get them from their living room to where? To church. We've got to get them here. If they come here and they trust Christ here, this is they have a connection Somebody in the church led them to Christ. Others they're introduced around. They get to know people. It's a whole lot easier to get them back. And uh they have that connection. I trust in Christ there at that church. I got saved I'm curious how many folks here you got same at a church service? How many Q? I'm just kind of curious. Look at that, that's the majority of the people And so there's that connection there, and um sometimes it's hard to get them back. So there's our advantages of getting lost people, inviting people to come to church And the same thing applies to maybe somebody that's saved, that's away from the Lord, they're backslidden, they're out of fellowship with God, inviting them in, these same principles apply. And so it's a great advantage, it's a great ministry tool of pre-evangelism. act that every one of us can do by inviting people to come to a church service. Now let me give you a few tips here on how to do that. What can I do? How do I go about this? Inviting people to come to church. Well I jotted, I think I got about 10 down here. Let me give them to you as quickly as I can. Number one I put this down. If I'm going to be effective in inviting people to church, can you read that? Did I make that big enough? Can you see it in the back, you guys? Alright. Can't hear me, but you can see it. Alright Maintain a close and consistent walk with God. I found that the closer I am to the Lord, the more confident I am in all areas of my Christian life. Now maybe it's not true for some of you, but for me, if I get out of sorts with the Lord, that happens I felt I'm not real confident in a lot of other areas of my life, and especially inviting people out. But if I'm tight with the Lord, if I'm close to God There's nothing between my soul and the Savior. And I'm walking with God. I've got that daily devotions down, and I'm faithful in church, and I'm living, I've separated myself, I've got the garbage out, I've got the good in And I'm walking with God, it's a whole lot easier to invite somebody to come out to church. It's a whole lot more natural to invite somebody to church. But if I'm not right with God, If I got sin in my heart and I'm not wanting willing to deal with and forsake and I'm not obeying the Lord, you try and invite somebody out to out to church, man, it's kind of like uh And it's not the same. And that's true in every area of life. And so one of the things I want to do, if I'm going to be effective inviting people to church, I need to get close to the Lord and have a consistent walk with him. Number two, I put this down. If uh if uh I want to be effective at least inviting people to church, maintain a close relationship with the church. Uh if I'm gonna invite people out to church, I need to know where the church is at. Right? How many times we're out knocking on doors? Hey, I'm Pastor Leather Mountain Lake Baptist Church. This here's Jerry. We're out in the neighborhood inviting folks out to church. Love to have you come. Oh, thank you. Hey, you go to church anywhere? Oh yeah, where's that at? Uh Uh it's um where is that? Uh uh Hazel, where's that church at we go to? That's if I don't know anything about my church, if I'm not faithful and I'm not involved and I'm not close to the church, I'm not going to be very effective Inviting people to come out to my church. Will you go to church with me? Sure. What kind is it? Ah, my wife goes there. I don't know. That's not going to work. I need to be faithful in my attendance You know what I've seen happen? I've seen people invite, I've seen this, I mean just in recent years. Somebody showed up, a visitor showed up, say, so-and-so invited me to church. Where is so-and-so? Oh, they show up every now and then. That's not very effective. And so if I really want to take serious about helping people find Christ and helping people know the Lord, I'm going to Invite them to church. I need to be close to the church. I need to be faithful to the services. I need to be involved in the activities. I don't want to be a visitor myself if I'm inviting visitors. I want to be involved in it. Faithful they're involved. I want to be involved in the ministries. In other words, I need to know what's happening at church. Well you come to church with me? Sure. Huh? Yeah, I go to church with you. Okay. Uh what time do I need to be ready? Uh I need to call the preacher to see what time Sunday school starts If you're going to invite people to church, you ought to know what time Sunday school starts. You ought to know what time Sunday night starts You ought to know when Wednesday night service is. Hey, uh uh, can you come to church? Be sure I can't go Sundays. I gotta work all day. Did church have other any other time? Uh maybe you could come to our Tuesday night service We don't have Tuesday night service. We got Wednesday night. So you see what I'm saying? I need to be close relationship with the church. Um Most of us here would refer to Mountain Lake as our home church, right? Our home church. Brother Lewis Howe sent uh uh something out on the computer and I noticed he put Mount we're at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, our home away from home church. And that ought to be our attitude. You know, it'd be kind of awkward if I would invite someone over to my neighbor's house It's not my house. I'm not there. I don't live there. It'd be very awkward. But I'm very easy to invite someone to my house. My home. And so the church needs to be our my home church. And I'm involved in a faithful way. Of course, this is a Wednesday night crowd, so most of us would be that way. So maintain a close relationship with the church. Um know what's happening, know what's going on, know the facilities. You ought to know where the nursery is. If you invite people to church, know where the nursery is, know where the Sunday school's classes are. Um, know where the restrooms are. You bring I guess they want to know some of this stuff. Of course we got ushers available to help out with that. You ought to know the people in the church. Being able to bring a visitor in, I'll tell you it's a whole lot more effective if you bring a visitor in and you know the people in the church. Oh, here's my friend. Now let me introduce you here. Let me introduce you to this person I thank God for the folks in our church. We have visitors, if you'll notice handshake in time, zing! They're just mobbed with people. Oh, we're glad you're a church here. It's not a good thing if we've got a visitor in a church and they're sitting by themselves back there and nobody's coming around shaking their hands. Everybody ought to go over, introduce, shake their hand, thank them for coming, tell them who you are And I ought to know the people in the church and be able to introduce my visitor to the people in the church, know the facilities, know what's happening and when. Number three, I put a third tip down here Third tip. Uh there is one. I'll give it to you. This one's important. Ah, whoa. Alright. This one's important. Maintain a good testimony in the community. Uh there's been times I've been out visiting and I say, uh, where are you what church are you from? I said I'm Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Oh. I know so-and-so goes there. They don't say it, but you can hear it in their voice. I ain't never gone there. And sometimes on the rare occasions where it did come up where it was issued like that, I say, listen, uh not everybody's like that Our folks are good folks, and I'll say and I'll say something along these lines. We're not perfect, but we do worship a perfect Savior And we fall short. But but we ought to have a testimony. I use I mentioned this several times over the year, but it just so sticks out in my mind so much is early days when we came here we were Thursday night visitation and I had a bunch of names of prospects and different potential people to invite the church and we had a pretty good turnout this uh Thursday night and Uh I had one fellow I said, here's a guy that showed interest. I'd be great if somebody besides the preacher would go by and buy him. And I gave him the name and the guy said this. He goes, Oh, I can't visit him So why not? He goes, Oh, I have a terrible testimony and then he wouldn't listen to anything I say. My testimony's terrible with him. Well I'm glad he told me, but I'm disappointed that he has that bad of a testimony that you couldn't invite somebody to church. And so we ought to have a good testimony in the community that as an individual so I can invite people to church and it not be an issue. So maintain a good testimony. A bad testimony hurts my witness. Number four, I got a fourth one. Let's see. Ta-da! It's halfway. How does that happen? There we go. By the way, we have a completely brand new system ordered. So praise the Lord. Saturate my efforts in prayer Here's the thing to keep in mind. I think this will encourage us. Everybody still with me? Everybody alright? Here's the thing that encourages me. And keep this in mind. This changes, this is a game changer. When I'm inviting somebody to church, here's Tom, he's a total stranger, or he's somebody I work with, or he's my neighbor, whatever it may be, and I say, Tom, listen. We got a big day coming up. We got these two guys coming, all the kids. I'd like you to come be to church, be my guest. Would you be visit with me at church? And uh and I start talking to him and he's asking me questions about the church. Here's the thing I've got to keep in mind This is more than just me inviting a guy to church. This is God working in his life. God, this is all part of God working to get that person into under the sound of the gospel. and hear and have an opportunity to be saved. This could be the biggest thing of his life. Coming to church. So it is more than just me, oh hey, how about coming to church? I don't see it. I don't know what's happening in his heart and life. I have no idea what God is doing in his life. All I know is I'm trying to invite somebody to come to church, and God is working there. And that could be the biggest thing of his life. And so don't look at it as just, ah, it's not that much. I'm just inviting people to no no no, it's huge. Or as some people say, it's huge. Inviting people. God's working in this. Remember that God is working in this. And saturated in prayer. God uses people. You and I, just like you and I, to invite people to change their lives. I don't know what's going on in his heart. I don't know what's happening in his life. God does. God is working there. It's not just a coincidence This is a subpoint on the list. I don't have it in the outline, but saturate my efforts in prayer. And by that I mean have faith that God is working. God is doing something in their life. Here's some things I put down to pray for, inviting people. Pray that God would give me wisdom. And inviting them. How to approach them. Have some tact. You know, I don't walk up to a guy I work with or neighbor or something or a family member and say, you know, if you don't get stayed sinned, you're going to hell wide open. You better go to church with me this Sunday. Yeah, it might be a little, you might want to use a little more tact in approaching them on that. So pray and ask the Lord to give you wisdom. Pray for boldness. I think the biggest issue for a lot of us is we're just scared to invite them. What if they reject me? What if they say this? What if they get mad? I found most people don't get mad. Very, very few. They might say, no, no, thanks. I'm not interested. I found I'm polite to people, 99. 9% of the time, they'll be polite back. Overwhelming majority. So I'm politely asking them very tactfully. If they do reject it, most likely it'll be very polite. No, thank you, I'm not interested. But pray that the Lord gives you wisdom, gives you tact, God gives us boldness. Pray that God would help you be relaxed. I wonder how many of us ever went out visiting and we're so nervous and we're so tense that it just and that conveys over. Do you ever get around people and you know they're nervous? You can just sense it. They're very tense. Pray that God would help you be relaxed. You know? And pray for that. Pray for their salvation. Or maybe if they're saved and away from it, pray for their restoration. Here's a suggestion under this. And I have this in my phone. I have a prayer app on my phone. And I have listed down different days and different prayer requests categorized. And have a prayer, uh a prospect prayer list. And I'm going to give another tip here about who to invite. I think it'd be good to have a little list either in your Bible or on your phone or somewhere, a little notebook you carry with you, and people to pray for that you'd be able to invite out to church to be your guest. Saturated in prayer. Pray that God's working in their heart. Pray that God would open them to come out. Pray that God would open their eyes, that they would see the Lord working in their life and make them desirous to come out to church. Saturate it in prayer. Number five, let me give you another one. It worked. Praise the Lord. Be consistently alert for opportunities. I mentioned this many times before, but I quit asking God to give me opportunities. I am overwhelmed with opportunities. I'm praying, Lord, help me be alert to it. Here's my problem sometimes. I don't see the opportunity till it's passed. Oh man, I could have. Can I get a witness? Oh, I could have given a tra I could have invited them out. Sometimes late in the middle of the night I wake up. Oh, I didn't do that. I should have So I need to pray. Lord help me be alert. How many see these opportunities that you have? What are some opportunities that would be to invite people to church? Get some group involvement. What would be some opportunities? What's that? Yeah, something messed up is going on in their life. They're going through maybe they're going through a divorce or somebody recently passed away or something say, hey, you know what? Maybe come out to church, it might be encouraged, it might help you. Something like that. They lost their job? On Black Friday. I uh could be. Oh giving out tracks and stuff, invitations, yeah, Walmart, giving out places like that. Um I was thinking like this, um uh we like to have I like to have f fairly regularly have big days You know, Mother's Day, Baby Day, what else? Father's Day, All American Sunday. I like having big days. It gives me an opportunity to invite somebody out Baby Day. Oh, I've got some family that has little babies. Be alert. Don't wait till Monday and say, oh, we forgot about Aunt Carol has a baby. We should have invited her. Pray that God helps and be alert. Big days. I put down here big days special meetings, this uh Constitution thing coming up, Constitution Awareness Conference Man, opportunity. This is a big year. There's opportunity. Somebody's involved in politics and they're all mad at everybody and everything. Come on out to this thing. You'll like it. Um the special meetings. If we have special guests Special events, wild game dinners and stuff like that. Don't miss these opportunities to invite people out, of course, Bible time, uh, on their birthdays. Hey, listen, it's your birthday. I'd like to take you out to lunch. Well how about would you come to church with me? I'll take you out to uh I'll take you to Denny's for lunch. And uh we'll have a great time You say, oh brother, I got to foot the bill. Well, you're going to probably buy them a present anyway. Take advantage of it. Look at it as an investment and maybe they'll get saved. And even if they don't get saved, maybe a seed will be planted down the road somewhere. What an investment. What an investment. And so ask God or be consent constantly alert for opportunities, anniversaries Dave had a good one with bad things going on in their life. Their hearts burning with it, man, what an opportunity to invite them out. I put this one down, number six. Target hot prospects. What do I mean by that? I have four what I'm calling hot prospects. Number one is a friend. I wonder how many of us have friends for a long, long time and we never one time invited them to church. Isn't that a shame? There used to be a letter used to float around. I don't I have it in my file somewhere. I didn't get it, but there was a letter, it was fictional, of course, but it was written by a friend in hell. And they wrote the letter to a friend that was a Christian and never witnessed to him, never invited him to church, never said anything about their soul, and this person, imaginary person in hell, is writing this letter to them Wondering why. I'm telling you, friends are great prospects to invite to church. I think a friend sometimes is difficult. A close friend might be difficult to witness to For whatever reasons, other people are different, but to invite them to church is a great, great Prospect. So think about friends. Write that down. Friends. Who can I invite to church? Well, go down your list of friends. You know, some of y'all be pretty small lists, but uh list of friends Put this one down. I put this down. Relatives. Now I'm not, don't get upset, and I'm not mad at anybody. I'm not trying to rebuke anybody necessarily, but When family relatives come in town for something, rather than staying home from church to be with them, why don't you invite them to come to church with you? Hey, I go to church Sunday morning. Oh, come on, we'll along Just invite them on any on Father's Day, Mother's Day, relatives. Invite them to come on out. So friends, relatives, here's another prospect, co-workers. I wonder how many have us worked side by side with people for years, never invite them to church service. Hey, there's a great prospect. Invite them out. Look for an opportunity there. Neighbors Now, I don't think we should neglect total strangers. There's a lot I've had a lot of visitors over the years that I didn't know them from Adam, but I met them. God was working, I didn't know it. Invited them out to church, lo and behold, they came out. So don't neglect, say, well, they're not a friend or a relative or a co-worker or a neighbor, so I can't invite them. No I'm just saying those are real good prospects or hot prospects. Let me give you another one. Number seven, plan ahead. Sometimes spur the moment works. I remember in Indianapolis, I knocked on the wrong door. I was going to invite someone to church. I knocked on the wrong door. Ended up leading three people to Christ. They ended up coming out the church. Wrong door So sometimes spur of the moment works, but a lot of times deliberate, pre-planned invitations are very effective. You know, on Sword Sunday, I've got five friends of mine that I think I could get them to come out on that big day And plan ahead and mention it to them maybe a couple weeks or a month ahead of time. Hey, we've got a big day coming at church. I'd like you to consider maybe coming out with me on that day. And it gets a little closer. Send them a little note But plan ahead, work that thing. Be deliberate in it. It's very, very effective. I think it's a good thing for a Christian. Why don't you just schedule every week I'm going to schedule some time out of that week where I'm going to focus and put effort into inviting somebody just to come to church. Thursday night, Saturday sometime, just on your own. Monday afternoon's a good time, or I'm going to make some phone calls Saturday afternoon. But every week I got a period of time, half hour, 15 minutes, an hour I'm going to try and deliberately work at inviting somebody to come to church with me. So what I'm saying is this. Plan ahead. Be deliberate. Number eight. Don't give up or get discouraged. This projector makes me discouraged. Don't give up or get discouraged. I'm going to tell you some discouraging things, but I'm going to encourage you. Say, well, I've never invited people to church before, but I want to start. God stirred my heart. I want to start inviting people to church. I'm going to tell you something right up front. Most people that you invite to church are not going to come with you. Yeah, lucky if you like a bunch, a few might come. But here's my here's how I compensate for that. I say man I invite I invite all these people. Hardly come. But some will. Amen. Not everybody invited to church is going to come, but you know I found out some will come. That's good for me. Yeah, yeah. Some will come. Invite 'em. Uh not everyone will come. Most will not come the first time, but some will come. Most won't come the tenth time you invite them, but some will. There's some people you invite them the tenth, he said for 20 years I've been inviting them at the church. Try one more time. That might be the time they come. Let me ask this, how many people here God had to work on you for a while before you got saved? Huh? I mean it was months for me So I started praying, man, God works. Some people it's years that God works on us, works on us. Don't give up. Don't get discouraged. Uh just stay at it. Stay at it. I get a friend of mine down in Hollywood, Maryland. Some of you all know Brother Connor. Brother Connor went down to Hollywood, Maryland to start a church right outside of Lexington Park. He and his family. Brother Connor is a hoot. He's been up here vacationing. Now I think I have my numbers correct on this. Dr. Krieg can correct me if I'm wrong. But I want to say, and I'm pretty confident I'm correct on this, Brother Connor went seven years Inviting people out to church. Seven years. Guess who he preached to Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night for seven years? His wife and his kids. That was it. And the old guy's just stubborn enough and he didn't care. He wasn't gonna quit. And he stayed at it and kept biting people and biting people. Seven years. Guess what? You go down there today, uh they run uh way more. They've run two, three hundred. They're building a new building right now. They've got church members. Chris uh Scott Kanoir? Chris Corrigan? Brother Edbeard? Um, Chris War? Guess what church all those guys are out of? Brother Connor's church. Seven years, nobody showed up, nobody showed up, nobody showed up. Do you think he ever got discouraged? I'm sure he did. But here's the thing, he never quit. He just kept inviting people and inviting people and inviting people and inviting people and lo and behold they started coming. Sometime, why don't people come? I invite people to church, why don't they come out? They might be intimidated by going to church We have some folks that are members of the church attend Sunday mornings. They they'd never been in a church other than a funeral and a wedding before they came to Mountain Lake. They got saved. It's a little intimidating. Sometimes they're in another denomination. You invite a Catholic to come to a Baptist church, they might think we're going to kill them or something, you know. And so there's a lot of reasons why somebody might not respond to my invitation, but just be patient. Don't get discouraged. Don't quit. Just stay at it and be tactful and keep at it. They may have had a bad experience years ago. Stay calm. If they refuse it, stay calm. Don't get offended. Don't get mad at them. There's probably going to be another opportunity. And leave the door open for a second invitation. If I invite someone to church and they don't come and I go back and chew them out and lay into them and tell them what sorry they are person, and you know what I'm doing? I am locking the door for anybody else ever coming and having any kind of influence on them. I learned that early on here. In this little town, sooner or later, they're going to get a track from us. Sooner or later, somebody's going to knock on their door some point down the road, somebody at Walmart's going to stuff a track in a purse they're buying and they're going to open it up and. So don't get upset. Just stay calm and let let there be an open door for future events. God didn't give up on us. All right, I've got to give you these last two very quick. This one is simple and very important. Be nice. Just be kind inviting people. Be generous. As I said, idea take them out to lunch. Invite them to church. Take them out to lunch. You're investing in their salvation perhaps. Have genuine compassion for them. Really care about them If you say, I don't really care and I'm not genuine, then pray and ask God to give you love in your heart for these people. Just love them. Care for them. Be kind. And then number 10, I like this one. This one's important. Encourage others. Be positive. There's someone else inviting folks out. Encourage them on that. If some other church member has a visitor, go over there. And greet that visitor, make them feel welcome, and tell that church member, hey, good job. You got a visit now. Wonderful, that's a blessing. On Sunday nights in testimony time Be positive in your testimony. Don't stand up and say, I invited 279 people and not one came. Then sit down. Don't say that. If you're going to say that, say I invited 279, and this week I'm going for 379. Be positive. Encourage others. Press it forward. And uh God will bless it. Be friendly. Greet other people's visitors. Here's my challenge. That's my tips This is my challenge for us. Let's, for the rest of the summer at least, let's every one of us make a diligent effort on a weekly basis to just invite people to church How about that? Some and a bunch of people are already doing it. But let's just say, you know, I'm going to make a diligent effort. That's going to be my ministry. I'm going to invite people to church. Invite people to church. We've got all kinds of tools. Tracks are a little thing you can use. We've got brochures and postcards and we got big days. So a lot of opportunities. But I'm asking all of us, myself included, let's just invite people to church. Now if you can get out and lead them to the Lord, praise the Lord. Let's do that. But it's a very basic. Let's invite them to church. And our Sunday school teachers and our children's church workers and the preaching up here, we will give the gospel. And we'll invite people to be saved. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to stir our hearts in just this simple matter of bidding people to come to the church service. kindly and graciously compelling them to come on out, be in our services, meet our people, hear the message, hear the songs. And I pray that give us boldness and tact and compassion, wisdom. And we pray you'd use us that people would be saved. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I'm wondering this, how many tonight would say, preacher? My heart's stirred. And and maybe you're thinking of some folks that you could invite. Maybe God's brought some people to mind. And you say, preacher, pray with me. I really want to give myself to inviting people to church services So that they can hear the gospel and may be saved. Is there anybody like that? Say, preacher, I really want to give myself to that. To simply inviting people to church service. God bless you. Bunch of hands all around Maybe tonight Catherine's going to play the piano a little bit. Maybe you want to get an old altar and say, Lord, just use me to help people come to Christ, come to church. Help me to know who to invite and when and wh how and just ask God to bless the decisions we're making this evening. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now uh this effort that we want to apply ourselves to in Jesus' name. Amen.