We all agree God wants people to be saved, right? We all understand that, we all agree with that. I believe God wants people to be saved even more than we want people to be saved. The intensity of God's desire for the loss uh to come to Christ is far greater than ours. One of the reasons, I believe God's desire is greater than ours, is God understands the consequences of dying without Christ. Right? Jesus Christ paid the full price. When he was on the cross, he said, it is what? Finished. You know what he was saying? The entire price of sin was paid for. Now he is the only being in existence. that understands what that is. If a person dies and goes to hell, an unsafe person dies and goes to hell, horrific thought as that is, They can never ever say, in hell, they can never ever say, all right, it is finished. It's never done. All eternity. But Christ paid the full price of our sins. So if anybody understands the horror of dying without Christ, dying in our sins, it would be the Lord Jesus Christ. So God wants people to be saved. And we understand that. We all agree with that. We want people to be saved. But if you look through scripture, I notice something pretty clear. And that is this: that the salvation of the lost, winning the lost And prayer goes hand in hand. You find people going out with the gospel, you find people praying. You find people praying, they're going out with the gospel. The book of Acts It's a perfect example of that. And I challenge you, next time you read through the book of Acts, go through and highlight every time it mentions them preaching the gospel or declaring the gospel or speaking the word of God and then highlight also how often they spend in prayer, how often they pray and how long they pray, how much time they spend in prayer. And I come to the conclusion in the book, when I'm done studying the book of Acts, I come to this conclusion. The early church consisted of two things primarily. Preaching the gospel and spending time in prayer. And by preaching the gospel, I don't mean standing behind a pulpit and declaring to a congregation. We mean people going out into the communities, into the neighborhoods, into towns and cities, all through that region, and publicly, one-on-one, uh in in groups and marketplaces, telling people how to be safe. The book of Acts, that's what the church consisted of. Preaching the gospel and prayer. Preaching the gospel and prayer. I've come to this conclusion. I believe this is true. I believe I'm correct on this. If an unsaved person has nobody praying for them, here's a lost person. There's nobody in the world praying for their salvation. I believe it's very unlikely that that person's ever going to get saved. I believe behind every saved soul, at some point there is somebody praying for that soul to be saved. So we talk about personal soul winning, and of course that includes engaging people, it includes knowing what to say, know it includes how knowing how to answer questions and deflect distractions and all of that Includes all that. But one thing we cannot neglect in our personal soul winning and our evangelistic efforts, we cannot neglect this manner of prayer. Now I kind of already pointed this out, but in verse 1 of our text, we notice here that God says we're to pray for all men. Verse 2, he says we're to pray specifically for leaders and those that have, as I said, significant influence over our land And then number three, this is what God wants. This is well-pleasing to him. And then number four, he wants all men to be saved. So prayer is a vital factor in winning the world, in winning lost people the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I want to give you some tips. on how to pray for the lost. I think these will be helpful. And again, I encourage you, maybe you can jot these down somewhere. I think they'd be very, very helpful. Number one. And praying for the loss. I'm going to commit myself to pray for the loss. I'm going to share the gospel. I'm going to commit myself to pray for the loss. Number one, I Just make sure my motives are right I must make sure my motives are right. James chapter 4 and verse 3 says this. He says, ye ask and receive not. Okay, so I'm praying, but I'm not getting answers to my prayer. You ask and receive not. Ye kill and desire to have, and you cannot obtain. Ye fight and war, ye have not, because ye ask not, ye ask and receive not, look at this, because ye ask amiss, that you may consume it upon your own lust. What's he saying? He's saying sometimes, many times, our prayers are not answered because of selfishness. Selfishness, I want it for me. I want to consume it on my own loss. Selfishness is an awful thing. Selfishness in a home will make it miserable. Selfishness in a church hurts that body of believers. Selfishness in the Christian life hinders my spiritual growth. It hinders my prayer life. And it hinders My ability to witness to the laws. I wonder how many mission fields do not have missionaries because of the selfishness on the part of Christians. Do you think there's only two or three independent fundamental Baptists in Kazakhstan because that's Kazakhstan because that's all that God has called there? You think God doesn't want any more there? He just wants two or three there? No, I'm convinced God wants every nation. He wants scores and scores and hundreds and hundreds of missionaries there. But we don't go And I'm afraid a lot of the reason mission fields do not have missionaries isn't because God isn't calling anyone there, isn't because God doesn't will for anyone to be there. I think sometimes just our selfishness And then we're not willing to give up or whatever. So when it comes to this matter of prayer, James is telling us if we're selfish, if we're praying for things to consume in our own lusts, for our own benefit, for our own pleasure. Then our prayers would not be answered. Now here's my question: What would wrong motives be in praying for a lost person to get saved? What could possibly be a wrong motive in praying for a lost person to get saved? Let's have class interaction. What do you think? What would be a wrong motive for praying somebody to get saved? Uh huh. Alright, maybe maybe here's a uh lady, she has an unsaved husband. And the guy's miserable. He's making her like miserable. And she thinks, oh, if only he would get saved, my life would be so much easier. If only he'd get saved, he'd be a perfect Christian gentleman, and then things would be so much better for me That would be a wrong motive in praying that somebody gets saved, praying for my own benefit, maybe make my life easier. Maybe it's a child we're praying for. A child's praying for a parent And our motive behind all of it is just so that it would be easier for me, so that my life will be easier, be uh get along better. uh or whatever, something like that. That would be a wrong motive. I put another one down, or another wrong motive for praying for the souls to be saved is to make my ministry bigger. Oh, I want more people to get saved so our church is bigger, so our pews are filled. Now there's nothing wrong with wanting to get a bigger church. There's nothing wrong with wanting pews filled. There's nothing wrong with wanting to be able to work better with a family member But if that's our motive in praying that they get saved, we have a wrong motive on that. Um now this is a true statement, but this ought never be our motive for praying for lost people to be saved. I believe the more people get saved in a church The better the budget seems to go. You bringing new people in, and they tend to give as they grow in the Lord, they give. And it is good for the budget of a church to be a soul-winning church. You invest money into it, of course, but when people get saved and they come in, it's good for a budget. But if we are winning people to the Lord just to improve our budget Just to get more money coming in, our motive is wrong. I dear a friend of mine, uh well, I should say someone I knew it and time's gone by, uh, they had a school and the school was struggling. And financially, and um they needed more students in the school so that they could pay their bills And every time I saw the fellow, and every time I talked to him, uh, it was always, we need more, man, our bills, we need more students, we need more students, our bills, our bills, we're getting behind, I need more students. And I came to the conclusion early on this guy had lost sight of training young people for God and it had become the ch the young people weren't students that he was going to train for God. They became uh resources to pay the bills. And we have to be very careful when we're praying for the loss that it does not praying that somehow this will benefit me, it'll make my life easier, it'll do this or that, or I can have more notches on my Bible, or I can put on Facebook. I led five people of the Lord tonight. So our motive must be right. If we're going to reach lost people, especially if we're going to pray for the unsaved, we must not be selfish in our prayers. Now here's the question. What would the right motives be? For praying for lost people to get saved. I got somebody that are lost. I'm praying that they'll get saved. What would the correct motive be? Alright, keep them out of hell. Yes. Keep them out of hell. Any others? What's that? What's that? Yeah, wanting them to get in the family of God for their benefit, to be better for their life and they'll grow. Any others? And the other motives for praying for lost people get saved. I think the number one overriding motive in winning people of the Lord, whether it's praying for them or engaging them and sharing the gospel with them The number one overriding motive must be that Jesus Christ is glorified. He said in John chapter 14, 15, somewhere there, Jesus said this, herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. When a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, that is the one thing that brings more glory to God than any other thing we do. Herein is my Father glorified that you bear much fruit. And so when I come and I'm going to pray, I got somebody that's unsaved. We have a list on our prayer list here, a lengthy list of unsaved folks we're praying for by name. My number one motive is, Lord, that they would come to Christ that would bring glory to God. So that God would be glorified. Exactly. That was uh I have a list of these here. One is bring glory to God, another one is in getting them saved, it opens up the opportunity for more people to be saved. You think about that. Um there's a number of folks, probably many of us in here have had led someone to Christ in our Christian lives. At some point or another, we were able to had the opportunity to bring them to Christ. Can you imagine if we didn't get saved And then that person would not have been reached. So the very fact of trying to carry out the Great Commission would be a motive. This person gets saved, then they'll be able to win others. Did you ever think this? Man, if that person ever got saved, they'd be a great witness. Do you ever think that of someone? They have a tremendous personality or whatever? Well, from the scriptures it starts with that should be our primary thing. But when you just decide that's a good thing. How he explains hell that's a horrible place. You and me to remember if someone wrote that message to you, someone to act, or you read it. That's how that's a Right. So what forever and everything. Exactly. It's the will of God. It brings glory to God. Keep people out of hell. Advance the gospel in a greater way. And uh I thought of this just for their own well being. A person has a better life as a Christian than they do as a non-Christian. More fulfilling, purpose, joy, contentment And so our motives, the number one, if I'm going to pray for the lost, I've got this list here, I'm going to pray for this. I've got somebody, a worker I have, a family member, a neighbor I come across I'm going to pray that they get saved. Number one, I need to stop and ask myself, all right, what is my motive? Why do I want them to get saved? I think most of us, our motives would be pure and would be right. We want them forced to Escape hell, know the Lord, bring glory to God, and maybe they'd be able to reach others. Number two, let me give you a second tip on praying for the unsaved. Write this one down. Be persistent. Be persistent in praying for the lost. I do not believe this prayer will accomplish very much. Lord, save so and so, and then I go on and forget about it. That prayer is, I mean, it's better than nothing, I guess, but it's not going to be very effective. Turn to Luke chapter 18 with me, if you would. The Lord touched on this. Luke chapter 18, we must be persistent in our prayers for the lost Luke chapter 18, and I want to begin reading in verse 1. I'm going to read the first eight verses of Luke 18. Notice what he says. This is Jesus speaking. He spake a parable unto them to this end. Now I underline this next phrase in my Bible. That men ought always to pray and not to faint. And what he means when he says not to faint, he means don't quit. Don't get up. Don't give up. Don't get tired of praying. Stay at it. Be persistent. You could put in the margin of your Bible. Then he goes on. He says, saying there was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man. And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, excuse me, she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary And he, the judge, would not for a while. But afterward he said within himself, Look at this, though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet this woman is driving me nuts. I mean, that's not exactly the way it says it. But um yet because of this because this woman, this widow, troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. He says, this gal is wearing me out I'm going to do what she wants. She won't quit. She is persistent. Now look what the Lord says. And the Lord said: hear what the unjust judge saith. And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? Yet I tell you he will avenge them speedily, nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh shall he find faith on the earth. Do you catch what the Lord's saying here Here's somebody that's unsaved. They're without God. They're without hope in the world. If they die in their sins, they're separated from God for all eternity. And let the reality of that sink in. And I'm going to pray for them. I don't want them to be lost. I don't want them to die and go to hell. I don't want them to live a life without praise. And I begin praying. And I need to determine, number one, check my motive. Then I need to determine I am going to pray and I am not going to quit. I am going to stand, just like that widow woman, I'm not letting this judge have a minute of peace until he does what I'm asking. And just wear about. Do you ever uh do you ever have one of your kids I used to do this when I it's I know this would be hard for you to believe, but I used to do this when I was little. Just uh if I wanted something from my sister, I'd just stand there and say Give me that thing, give me that thing, give me that thing, give me that thing, give me that thing. Just drive her nuts, fine. She'd throw it at you. And that's the Um uh I am I believe God is more willing to save a soul than he is just to give us stuff. Right? How many people ever pray and ask God to get give you something or do something for you and God answer that prayer? Anybody at all? Sure Listen, we ask for this and that, and Lord, I need to pay this bill, and Lord, I need to do that for the house, and I need money for this, and I'd like to have that, and boy, that's a nice uh dress there, oh that four-wheeler, and we ask God for these things, and that's fine He says, let your requests be made known unto God. There's nothing wrong with asking God for stuff. I believe far more than God is concerned about giving us stuff. He's much more concerned about souls being saved. And we get persistent on that and say, God, uh my spouse. or my brother or my neighbor, whoever it is, now they need to be saved. And I get a hold of it and I just do not let go and pray and pray and pray and pray and pray. I was reading about John Newton. Anybody recognize the name John Newton? Amazing Grace. How sweet. The author of Amazing Grace. The guy lived a horrendous life. Sailor, foul mouth. I like to tell the story. We fell overboard. His crew hated him so much when he fell overboard. Here's the amazing thing. The guy couldn't swim He flew overboard and they threw a harpoon at him, through his leg, brought him back in. That's how I rescued him. That was his life. I was reading uh a little bit about I read some stuff I didn't know about one time they said he was on a ship and he got so drunk that he got the edge of the ship and he jumped uh oh his hat blew off into the water and he jumped off the boat, dove in to get his hat, so drunk he forgot he couldn't swim. The rest of the sailors were so drunk they forgot he was in the water. Finally somebody said, Hey, whatever happened to Newton? No, he must have drowned. It's been over an hour. Finally, one of them heard some noise that looked over the edge of the boat and here when he had jumped in his k his coat or his le his pants leg had gotten caught on a thing on the side of the boat and he was hanging there upside down for an hour They said he would have surely drowned had he not gotten hung on that thing. He was in uh Africa, they were going, he was big on slave trading, they get slaves and bring them uh to England or whatever and sell them just a horrendous man And uh they got lost in the jungles of Africa one time and uh would have surely died and somehow something came around some miraculous way and they got out of there. I was reading all this, I thought this is amazing. This is all before he was saved And then I got to the end of what was the article and uh found this out. His daddy and his mother were good godly Christians. And they had been praying and praying and praying that John Newton, as horrific a person as he was, they were praying that he would get saved. They died before he got saved. But the little booklet I was reading said this: their prayers outlived themselves. And after they had already died, God answered their prayers. And the point was that God was answering their prayers. He was keeping John Newton alive until he got saved. And of course God used them in a great way. So persistence. They had no idea. He was out in the ocean. He had no idea where their son was or what had become of him, but they refused to quit praying for salvation, and God heard their prayers. and honor their prayers and say their son in an amazing way. I can't help but, I've got to say this, I can't help but think of my own father. He'll pray for eight years for his son. No indication whatsoever that God was doing anything in my life. In fact, it looked like it was getting worse and worse And I'll never forget. I got saved on that Monday. I think it was like Friday or Saturday. Dad was came home and and uh we're he came in and uh I don't remember the exact details of the setting, but I conversation went and I said, Dad, I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior Monday night. I need to tell you, if you saw the look on his face, it was shock, disbelief, joy. I could have probably touched him and he'd have fell over. He had no idea, no inkling whatsoever what God was doing in my heart and that God was hearing and answering his prayers. Eight years I don't know about you, but I'm glad daddy was persistent. I'm glad he didn't quit. And so when we're going to pray for the unsaped, one check my motives. Make sure my motive is right here on this. Number two, just get a hold of God and keep praying and praying and praying and praying. Be persistent. Number three, I put this down. Be specific. Now I think just saying Lord save so-and-so, that's fine. But I think we can do a whole lot better than that. I think we can be very, very specific. Now I put a few things down here to praise specifically for this unsaved person. Now it may be somebody that lives far away from us I don't interact with. It may be somebody that lives next door. But I think some things that we can pray for very specifically for this person to be saved. I put this down. Number one, under being specific, pray for soul winners to engage them with the gospel. Pray for soul winners to engage them with the gospel. In other words, something along these lines. Lord, please send a good Christian witness across the path of so-and-so. God sends some church in the neighborhood where they are, maybe come down their neighborhood and knock on their door and share a gospel track. Lord, let somebody in a market be faithful and give so-and-so a gospel tract. Pray that God will send somebody, a soul winner, into their path and engage them with the gospel in some form or another. Can you think of any scripture that backs up that prayer? Jesus said the harvest is great, but the labors if you pray ye there for the Lord of the harvest that he would send forth laborers into the harvest. You know what he's saying? Lord, uh there's people who are unsaved. Pray that you, Lord, send some soul winners, missionaries, somebody by. And uh if the harvest is great and these are laborers, what are the laborers doing? They're harvesting. And so here's lost people. Numbers great. Here's somebody I'm praying for. Lord, send somebody by. to be faithfully engaged them. So uh pray that God would send somebody by with a good testimony, somebody that is wise and tactful, and they will engage this person. Now if it's me, then Lord help me But that somebody, a soul winner, would engage them with the gospel. Number two, under specific, put this down. Pray for soul winners to be bold Pray for soul winners to be bold. In Ephesians chapter 6, 19 and 20, and for sake of time we'll not turn to all these. But Paul prayed that they would that uh he asked the Ephesians to pray for him, that he would have boldness. In sharing the gospel. And so we need to pray that whoever it is, whether it's me or somebody else is coming by and visiting or working with this person or giving them a gospel tract, pray that they would have boldness. A timid presentation of the gospel is not very effective. If I'm presenting the gospel to somebody, or somebody is presenting the gospel to a lost person, I'm very timid and very apologetic and stumbling over it. And all of that, it's not going to be very effective. It's better than nothing. But when somebody can approach an unsafe person with confidence And boldly and share with them the truth of the gospel. That is a powerful, powerful witness in that person's life. Now I want to caution. There's a world of difference between being bold with the gospel and being arrogant with the gospel. There's no place for arrogancy and soul winning in the Christian life. So it's not coming in, I know it all, I'm going to tell you how it is. No, none of that. But it is very bold, very confident, very assured, not timid, and sharing with it. And that's what I want to pray. Here's this person that's unsaved. Maybe it's an uncle lives far away or a former classmate or whatever. I'm praying they get saved. Lord, send somebody across their path. Help them be bold and and confident in sharing the gospel with someone that they be able to give it clearly and and strongly. So praying specific, praying for soul winners to engage them, praying for soul winners to be bold. I put this down under specific Pray that the person will be open to the gospel, that they will be receptive. Pray that when the gospel doesn't come across, that whatever the circumstances are, whatever's going on in their life. that they will be open to listen to what the gospel says. We pray that this is, I put it this way, that God will soften their heart That they won't be hard-hearted against the gospel. They won't be, if we use a Bible term, they won't be stiff-necked against it. We've all many of us have tried to witness to somebody, and they're just hard, they don't want to hear it, they don't want nothing to do with it You can't get very well very far with that. But if their heart's soft and they're open to hearing the gospel, that's a whole nother story. Now, how does God soften someone's heart? How does God get someone so that they are open to the gospel? What does God do? How does he do that? Uh-huh. The Holy Spirit brings conviction. Conviction softens the heart of the heart of sinner. And so I want to pray. God, soften their heart, make them open, bring conviction to their heart. So I'm praying that they're open to the gospel, Holy Spirit's conviction. Now, along with that, I was up And I want to say, I was trying to remember where I heard this, and I want to say it was up in New England, up in Massachusetts. I was up in Bible time doing some rallies up there And I I think it was there. I heard somebody say this. They were talking of I'm pretty sure I know who the preacher was, but he said something like this. He says, when uh when praying for the unsaved, he says, I always pray this That God would hedge their mind about so that the devil cannot distract their thinking from the truth of the gospel. And that stuck in my mind. And I've prayed that many, many times. Lord, hedge their mind about, don't let the devil get their thinking so distracted that they're not open to the gospel. You know, the devil is a master at distracting people. I'll tell you something he is he has become very effective using as a distraction. Right or wrong. I mean, land alive, people are walking out into traffic with these things. People are uh I've read uh there's a R News article that people more and more people are dying from taking selfies Well, fall down and die. Uh what I'm trying to say is this the devil is a master at distracting people from the word of God and from the gospel. And so what we need to do, if there's a person I'm praying for, I'm persistent, my motive is right, and I'm not going to quit praying for them, and I'm asking God to send soul winners by, asking God to bring uh tracks or engage them with the gospel somehow. And I'm praying that the Holy Spirit of God will soften their heart, make them receptive, and hedge their mind about so that Satan I hate to say it, and I don't think our church is certainly not any worse than any others. I think in many ways a lot better than some churches, but I seen Satan distracting people when I'm preaching the gospel in church services. When I'm preaching the Word of God You know, people talking away and going on. And all that is when when the and this is why I want to explain a little bit, this is why one of the reasons I stop and try and stop that when it's going on, not just for the people who are doing its sake But what they're doing is they're being used of the devil to distract other people around. And I've seen it Folks come in very earnest and they're wanting to hear what I have to say and they're under conviction perhaps it appears like it and then never never and so often there'll be somebody sitting there nearby And they'll be doing something, and I'm thinking that they're being used as the devil and they don't even know it. They're just little puppets in the devil's hand. That person walks out And distracted and never perhaps able to win them to Christ. So when we're praying for the unsaved, we need to pray that God hedges that mind around Hedges that mind about. Don't let the devil get those distractions in and keep them from uh being open to the word of God. So prayer, being very, very specific. I got another one for specific Um under specific, we said first of all, that our soul winners will engage them, that the soul winner will be bold and confident, that they will be the person I'm wanting to get saved will be open and receptive to the gospel and not distracted. Uh and here's another specific, pray by name for lost people to be saved. I believe, I believe very strongly. That every Christian ought to have a list of unsaved people's names that they are praying for. We have one on the prayer list. You can cut that out. Stick that in where your devotions are and pray down through that list persistently. God, send people by. Lord, open their hearts, guard their minds from being distracted. Um I have one on my phone. I try to pray every single day. I got a list of unsaved people. Many of the chur folks in the church here said my so-and-so, my friend, my child, my father, my brother, somebody's unsaved. And I try and put it on there and pray by name specifically for them. I don't uh I guess this is better than nothing, but just saying, oh God, save all the lost people. Well that's nice. But I think it's a whole lot more effective. Well I'm praying, Lord, pray. Uh so-and-so needs you, dear Lord. They're living in sin. If they die like this, they're going to go to hell for all eternity. God, please. And so pray by name. Get you a list of people that you're burdened for, and get that list and pray every day. Put it somewhere in front of you. Pray throughout the day. Um I uh I d lived for years at the altar. I I had family members that were unsaved, and I never had one service where I did not hit the altar and and beg God to save my mother as one of them And uh other family members. And for years I would pray and pray and pray that God would save them. Let me give you one more tip. Our first one was make sure our motives are right All right, we want to make sure we're uh w m our motives are right. Then we said uh second of all be persistent, don't quit. Then we said be specific And praying for this and gave some suggestions there. Now, last of all, I put this one down. No doubt there's many others you can come up with. Pray that I would be an obedient soul winner. I think I'm going to hinder my prayers of asking God to save so and so if I'm not faithful in witnessing to the people around me. And even that individual, if I say, oh, I'm not going to witness to them, I'm just going to pray they get saved. Now that's wonderful. But I think I'm hindering my prayers if I'm not willing to be the one used of God to share the gospel with them. And so I need to be faithful. Now maybe the person I'm praying for that's unsaved is far away Maybe I don't have any direct interaction with them, but they're burdened. I love them. I care about them. I want them to be safe. Then I ought to be faithful in witnessing to the people I do interact with Because what am I praying for? I'm praying that God will send a soul winner by to witness to them. You go to Walmart, I venture to say we're walking past some people that somebody somewhere is praying that God would send a soul winner by. To witness to them. Now, if I'm not willing to do that myself, why should God be obligated to answer my request to send someone to my one I'm concerned about? You follow what I'm saying? And uh I got thinking about this, and I don't know that I ever really thought of it this way before. Maybe I have. But you know, when I'm hand when I'm handing a gospel tract to somebody Wherever it may be at a at a fair or wherever it may be, and I'm handing a gospel track out to somebody, you know what that could very well be? An answer to somebody's prayer. An answer to somebody's prayer, somewhere, a grandma, a brother, a child. Lord, please let somebody witness And so, uh, I need to be sure that I am being faithful and being a witness while I'm praying for others to be saved. The person I encounter maybe have somebody praying for their salvation. It may be a grandparent that died years ago, but prayed their grandchild be saved. And that may be the very answer to their prayers. Abraham prayed for Sodom. Remember back in Genesis? Lord? There's 50 people there, righteous, would you spare the city? Lord, if there's 45? Lord, if there's 40, Lord, if there's 30, 20, 10? Abraham was praying, interceding for lost people, that that city would be saved. Remember Moses And God was going to judge and kill the Israelites. We don't have time to turn around. I want to look at these verses, but uh Moses says, Lord, please blot their sins out. And if not Lot my sin. Let me bear their sins for them. He's praying for the salvation of his people. Moses prayed. Abraham prayed. We mentioned this Sunday night. Paul in Romans chapter 10. He says, My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. Paul prayed for lost people to be saved. Moses did. Abraham did. Jesus on the cross. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they say. He was praying that God would grant them forgiveness. So let me challenge all of us, wherever we're at in our comfort zone, in sharing the gospel with the unsaved, let's begin, as they did in the book of Acts, let's begin with praying for the unsaved. Acts chapter 2, Peter stood up, the great sermon at Pentecost, 3,000 people, not just saved, but baptized. But you know what they were doing the night before Peter preached the gospel? They were up in a room praying, fasting and praying. And so let's commit ourselves as individuals, as a church, to pray for lost people to be saved. By name, specifically for God's glory. Amen? Let's pray now. Father in heaven, I ask you would bless us, Lord, in this matter of praying for the unsaved. Lord, I believe if you could stir us In this matter, I believe maybe we'd be much more bold, effective, and involved in sharing the gospel. So I pray your Holy Spirit would convict us and challenge us, and that we would see people come to Christ. Because of the prayers that go in behind them. I pray that nobody in Garrett County would have, I pray that nobody would not have anybody praying for their salvation. I pray that every person in our community would have somebody praying for their salvation and help us to do our part in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed.