Through it I remember uh when we we uh taught through the book of John in our Sunday school class back in our home church. Uh I teach the adult class whenever we're we're in and and uh uh this is just one of my favorites uh favorite uh chapters. Uh it's one of my favorites uh uh uh to read and uh to preach from. A lot of good stuff in it. It starts out in uh well let's I'll tell you what let's let's just Let's just start reading in verse uh twelve. We'll let all this uh preliminary stuff uh slip by the wayside at this point. Uh the Word of God says in verse twelve, in John chapter eight. Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world, and he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. That's just uh that that's a tremendous verse there. The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record of thyself, thy record is not true. Always got those guys around, don't you? Jesus answered and said unto them, though I bear record of myself, yet my record is true. For I know whence I came and whither I go, but ye cannot tell whence I come and whither I go. Ye judge after the flesh, and I judge no man Yet if I judge, my judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I am the Father that sent me. It is also written in your law. That the testimony of two men is true. I am one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that sent me bears witness of me. Then said they unto him, Where is thy father? And Jesus uh answered, You neither know me nor my father. If you had known me, you should have known my father also. He's kind of laying it out to him, isn't he? Verse 20. These words spake Jesus in the treasury as he taught in the temple. No man laid hands on him, for his hour was not yet come. And then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins. Whither I go, ye cannot come. And then said the Jews, Will will he kill himself? Because he saith, Whither I go, you cannot come? And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath, and I'm from above. Ye are of this world, and I'm not of this world. I said therefore unto you that ye shall die in your sins For if you believe not that I am He, you shall die in your sins. I'm going to stop the reading there. We may pick up later on. Heavenly Father, now as we uh come to the preaching hour, uh Lord is always that uh heavy heavy weight uh on my shoulders as I preach your word and Lord, I want to do a good job, and I just pray that you would uh you would help me and and uh uh point my mind and my thoughts in the right direction. that we might uh preach a message that the Holy Spirit can use to convict hearts. Now Lord, I don't know who's here that's uh saved or lost. I know most of these men and women that uh are here I I've known for many years and uh trusted you many years ago. But there's some maybe that uh that I don't know that uh have never trusted you and and to those, Lord, I I would pray that you'd You would speak to their hearts, help them to see the uh absolute need of of being born into the family of God before it's eternally too late. So bless our time around your word and bless the chalk drawings. We show it in a little bit. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. I'll point your uh attention to, I believe it's in verse 21. No, it's in verse 24. I said therefore unto you That you shall die in your sins, for if you believe not that I am He, you shall die in your sins. Then look up in verse 21. And then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and you shall seek me, and shall die in your sins. You shall die in your sins. You know one of the tragic things I think in in uh uh in the in Christianity in the especially in the in in the Christian church I should say And not this one particularly, I'm not talking about this particularly, but I'm talking about there are troops out there that that uh have forgotten what the gospel is. They uh they they preach works, they have social clubs, they have all these things uh you know for the people, and uh some of those things are good. You have some of them around here, and you have uh uh a uh building over here that you've dedicated to the Lord uh to be used to draw people to Christ. That's that's a worthy cause and it's a good cause Uh you uh you have uh dinners and suppers at uh Valentine's Day and Thanksgiving and all that. I mean th these are all good things. They're good things because they bring the the church together And the the born again, those who trusted Christ their Savior, brought them to bring them together, fellowship and all that, and that's good But uh there uh there are some churches that uh they're they're total um thinking about What the church is all about is that they think it's just uh to get people together to have sort of a social club and uh uh just for to entertain people. And that's tragic 'cause the church wasn't meant to do that. Jesus said he came to seek and to save that which is lost. And that ought to be the bottom line on anything we do and every uh activity we have and whatever we do in here, it should uh go to that one thought And that is to reach people for Christ. That's the important thing. And this this p uh one verse of scripture here, it says uh uh in I was looking down in in verse uh Uh let's see, I think it was verse 21. So I go my way and you shall seek me and shall die in your sins. That's a strange verse to me. Because I thought if you sought the Lord then you know you'd find you. That's what it says in the Bible, isn't it? Uh, you know, if you uh seek, you ask, or if you knock, the door will be open to you. And yet here it tells me that uh Uh, you shall seek me. Who's he talking to? He's talking to these Pharisees, and theirs their minds are made up. That's the read Jesus used that terminology to 'em Uh the the Pharisees were a a rigid uh Jewish uh sect that uh you couldn't change their mind if you stomped on them uh you know with uh uh uh steel toe boots. It's it wouldn't happen So he's trying to bring a point here to these these people and try to shake them up. And one of the ways he's doing it is he's pointing out all the things that are negative were all the things that makes them what they think they're not, and that is a sinner You know, it's it's hard for people to you know admit that sometimes. When I say that I I mean it. I know one thing, I'm gonna have to get my water. Just grab that water, then thank you. Appreciate it I don't know why my m m must be that what we had today. I'm good now though. And uh now if I remember where I was at. Uh That's awful when you get your line of thought. It has to do with something about seeking the Lord. I know that, okay. All right, so that's where I'm going to just uh start at. I'm sorry? I would say it one more time. That's exactly right. You ought to be preaching instead of me. The uh the truth of the matter is people don't like to admit they're sinners That's that's the whole whole bottom story. I remember we were uh preacher and I was down in uh North Carolina and we're uh uh out visiting And uh we went on went on the porch of this this lady. She came out on the porch, you know, and greeted us. She's very pleasant. People in North Carolina are very pleasant people. And um she came out on the porch and uh the pastor uh uh you know told them what what they were doing. We were just out uh knocking on doors and uh introducing herself uh as members of this particular church and and uh we're talking to 'em about uh about Christ and about the church and so forth. She just really uh accepted that and was just pleasant, you know, and and said, Won't you sit down? And so we sat down there on the porch and she sat down the swing and she's just swinging back and forth. And just as pleasant as could be and talking and smiling on her face and and uh uh brother wrother Wilts said, uh let me uh let me ask you a question. You're talking about church and about the Lord and so forth. So I'm gonna ask you a question is have you ever trusted Christ as your personal Savior? And uh She said, Well no. And he said uh what would you like to? And she said, Well Okay. And so he started down the Romans road. He's you know, there's none righteous, no, not one, and so forth. He we got on down there, you know, and Whereas for by one man sin entered sin entered into the world, death by sin, so death past what all men from that all have sinned. And and uh and uh he said, Now would you like to uh bow your head and uh and have prayer with me and and uh That sounded all right. So she bowed her head and he said, Would you like to uh like me to pray with you or or uh help you pray uh the sinner's prayer? And uh uh she just didn't say anything. He said, okay, so I'll I'll start it and you just uh you you just follow me as I go through it. And he said, Dear Lord God, and she said, Dear Lord God, and he said uh I'm a I'm a I'm a terrible sinner. And uh he waited for a response and there wasn't any. And uh so he said and he raised his voice a little bit louder and he said, I uh uh uh I'm a I'm a terrible sinner and uh she wouldn't she wouldn't didn't say anything and finally said uh are you having a pro she said, Well you're not gonna get me to admit I'm a sinner here in front of God and everybody else There was just something about that she just couldn't do it. And I had other people out on visitation, you know, when you talk to 'em and get right down to the nitty-gritty and ask 'em, you know, about being uh being born again Uh, and get to that matter about being a sinner. Well, I'm not that bad. And usually that's the idea. I'm not that bad You know, I I I know people are going to church and I'm better than they are. I don't drink and I don't smoke and I don't do you know and they go down through all the things that they don't do But my friend, that's not what makes a difference. That's the tragedy of it. And there are people that uh uh will seek the Lord and they'll seek him in the wrong place too. You you say, Well, there's n that's there's no Yeah, you can get the saved any place. Well, uh I had a friend that uh got saved in a strange place. He was in his eighteen wheeling driving down interstate about 70 or 80 miles an hour and uh God spoke to his heart uh through the music it was playing on his uh on his truck And uh got him under conviction, he stopped, pulled off the side of the road, and got knelt down beside that front wheel and he showed me the wheel Where he knelt and and asked God to save him. I know that God can save people anywhere. I mean I know that he can do that. But you know there's some places it's awfully hard to get people saved. How about beer joints Uh how about red light districts? How about yeah, there's a lot of places, you know, that you might uh you might think, well, those people need it. Yeah, you need it all right, but uh you don't need to be there to find out Wrong place. How about the uh how about the wrong time? Is there a wrong time to get saved? Well, in one way you have to say no. There's no no really wrong time if you're sincere. But I have to put that on there because I've I've watched teenagers, I'm not knocking teenagers because I love them, but uh I've I've watched teenagers chewing their chomping I I say chomping their gum. You ever notice The teenagers don't chew gum, they chop it. Maybe I'm making some enemies there, but uh uh but anyhow I've seen walk the eye, you know You know, and they they wake up the girls they go by and they'll kneel down at the altar, you know, and they'll kinda look to see who's there with 'em and and finally they'll get up and and go back to their seat. Nothing I mean, nothing spiritual transpired. But there is a time that's right to get saved. And that's when you heard the Word of God and there's there's elements that have to be involved in this process. And one of them is that you have to hear the word of God. You have to know that's the reason you you do these books, you know, the these these Bibles that you send out all the time Uh the fingerprint ministry. That's the reason why the all this whole church is here and everything about it. The word of God has to be preached. The person has to hear the word of God has to hear what uh what God says about them and what God says about himself. And then there has to be the element of the Holy Spirit that speaks to the heart that brings conviction in the soul Because if there's no conviction there, if there's no concern about sin, if there's just the there's no thoughts about that, then there's there's not any any reason to do anything. So there is a right time to get saved, and that's when the Spirit of God has spoken to your heart and has convicted you of your sin. You need to be saved then for sure. 'Cause God's dealing with you. When God deals with you that's the time to get s to get saved. And of course there's a there's the the wrong reason to get saved and and I think you know, I won't even cover that but but you know it uh Uh a good reason to get saved by some people's imagination might be uh because her boyfriend got saved. Or because because a girlfriend got saved. And they s they just went through the motion just because their friend got saved. Or the mother or their father. But but just simply You know, they're just doing it, just to do it. And that's uh that's the wrong the wrong reason to try to get saved. One of the things that I found I was uh preaching up in Wisconsin and uh The uh preacher's wife, I stayed in their home and uh this one morning I got up early and and was uh out at the breakfast table getting uh a cup of coffee and and uh she came in and and uh we were just chatting. And uh uh I I I sensed there was something that was kind of bothering her And uh um finally she said, uh can I ask you a question? And I said, sure. And she said, uh, well You're t you're talking about talking about being born again. She said, I don't know whether I've ever been born again. She said, I was raised in a Christian family. My mom and dad are are pastors and you know, in the another church and That's all I've ever known. Just going to church. You know, she just never had repented of her sin and trusted Christ as her personal Savior. And I Had the privilege of leaving into the Lord that morning. Isn't that amazing that a person can be r be raised around that and somehow or another miss it? That's why it's important uh these young people, you know, uh it's good to get 'em young. I think our young uh our one daughter would say when she was what three years old, three or four, something like that And uh you say, well is that is that kinda young? Yeah, it is kinda young. But we were talk we were talking to her about I don't know what that was We were talking uh we've been talking to her though about about salvation and reading your Bible stories and all that stuff. And all our kids were saved when they were young But we need to be set and be careful we don't just uh uh let it slide by and let them slide into uh this thing of well my mom and dad were Christians and they they're holding on to that for their own salvation. That's a scary thing to let 'em go with. And then there's the wrong way we get to say. Well there's some people that believe in baptism and some people believe in good works and all that. I think Just about everybody in here b you know, you understand that. It's not it's not uh by works of righteousness we done, but according to his mercies he saved us. And uh so uh that baptism water won't do anything but just get you wet. That's all it's going to do. But it's also as an obedience to the command of God that we we uh you know whenever you get saved, you ought to be baptized as an identification with Christ who rose from the dead and it's picture of of his death, burial, and resurrection. So I'm just saying that that uh here's here's some places that uh you know Uh here's some things about the about seeking the Lord that you need to understand. But if you die in your sins, and that's that's what we're talking about, uh Whenever whenever it comes that down to that last moment of life that uh you're experiencing There's one thing you don't want to be have to ask in that last moment of life, and that is, I wonder if I'm saved or not. I wonder if I've ever really trusted the Lord. You ought to know, make sure, make sure. I say make sure that you're saved. Make sure you're saved. Because if you're not saved, if you die in your sins, you're going to die unpardoned. Unpardoned. And stand before a holy and righteous God, unpardoned. That means that uh the weight of all your sins is upon you. It means that uh that uh that first moment in the lake of fire is gonna convince you that you should have got saved when you heard the gospel the very first time. Not waited for the preacher to talk to you about it and then your teacher and the Sunday school teacher and all the you know, but uh that you Just simply uh you you'll wish then that you'd um taken advantage of that first thought If you die in your sin, you're also going to die. I I have unfit. I was gonna put un unpure, but I don't think that's a word, is it? Unpure. Impure, I think But I was trying to get a U in there, don't you see? But uh I I put unfit in there. And when I say unfit I'm I'm just I'm simply talk well let's let's le look over in uh Psalm twenty four, verse four Psalm twenty four and verse four. This is Who Shall Send? Who shall ascend into the the hill of the Lord? Or who shall stand in his holy place? And then it answers the question in verse 4, where it says, He that hath clean hands and a pure heart Who has not lifted up his soul in the vanity nor swore deceitfully? Clean hands, pure heart Clean hands means that you the the work that you're doing is a is a work that's acceptable to God. And the the uh the pure heart You know what that means. That means a heart that's been cleansed by the blood of Jesus Christ. There's a verse over in 1 Corinthians that says this. It says, but of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us. And listen to this now because this is This is really what I mean, this is good stuff. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom He's our wisdom. That's hard to understand, but but uh that's what he that's what it says. He's our wisdom. He's made unto us wisdom And righteousness, well, aren't you glad of that? It's that righteousness that makes you fit to stand before a holy and righteous God. It's the righteousness of Christ. that uh that we depend upon uh to get us into the the protogates, if you want to put it that way. He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. I believe I quoted that right. And uh that tells me that he is our righteousness. Then it goes on. And then he says, sanctification. Boy, that's an interesting word. Uh it uh it it just uh means what it says. Sanctified. I know we like to we're Baptists and we like to stay away from those words where you're sanctified holy and and that type of thing But I want you to know that there's a work of sanctification going on in our life at this very moment. It's just a cleansing that takes place because the Holy Spirit is working and working and working in our life. And when we we kind of uh slide slide off the edge every once in a while, the Holy Spirit's the one that that kinda nudges us and makes us get back on again. That's a work of sanctification And then it says finally, it says in redemption. Oh so glad that I'm redeemed. By the blood of Jesus Christ. I know that I'm saved because of what He did for me, not what I'm doing every day and and preaching the gospel and doing all these chalk drawings. That's that's not what I'm depending on I'm doing these things here because I am saved. Because I I I I want God to be pleased with my life. And these are things that please him. Well, I remember where I'm at now. I was in John's where I was at. There we go. I just messed up my there we go, I think. All right. We're back on track again. So if you die in your sin, you're unpardoned, standing before a holy and righteous judge that's going to uh judge you on the basis of what this book says that I'm reading from tonight. This book says you must be born again. Then the question is, have you been born again? And if you haven't, then why haven't you? In a church like this, uh uh in your town and I don't care if you live out of town, uh, with a church like this is preaching the gospel and doing everything it can to get people saved and a radio station on FM eighty eight s uh point seven and uh tracks going out every day and and uh literature going out all the time. Why aren't you saved if you aren't? Why aren't you saved? If you die in your sins, you're you're unfit. That means that that uh you'd stand before God uh in your own righteousness and and that's unfit for God And then of course uh if you die in your sins, uh you die unprepared. Unprepared. I look back in the in the book of Revelation. I don't know whether my eyes are kind of giving out on me or tonight. But uh uh somewhere in the book of Revelation in the last chapters there. We f see a a picture that uh is not one that we're really we like to e uh to preach on, but we're we're bound by the word of God to do it. Supposed to be instead of in season, out of season, you know, we're supposed to preach the word of God and rebuke and all that. And back here in this last part of the book of Revelation, it talks about this great white throne judgment. Everything's already been taken care of in this world. And now God is uh getting ready to judge uh all the lost. And all the the dead in Christ and are the dead in in the grave and all those that have died without Christ are lined up and ready to to hear their punishment. And the Bible and the Bible tells us that God says he says, bring out the books. And so the books are brought out. One of the books I'm sure will be this and and none of us are going to be able to stand and no one will be able to stand uh against this book trying to say, well we did this, we did that because we didn't. We like those people over in Matthew chapter seven where the they come before the Lord, you know, and said, Hey uh, you know, we've done all these good things and we're we're looking forward to getting into heaven and Jesus uh I'm just paraphrasing, you understand, that wasn't a King James Bible that I was quoting there. But it uh he he says uh Uh departure me that work ye that work iniquity, for I never knew knew you. I never knew you. I've done all these good, wonderful works in your name. That's what the Bible says in Matthew chapter seven. And yet I never knew you. Oh yeah. There's going to be a lot of people that uh going to churches just like this church, just like this church. There's some of you sitting back there that very likely, uh, you know, at some time or another You've gone through the motions, but you've never truly been saved. I'm not trying to scare anybody. I'm just saying we need to make sure that we're saved. Make sure that we're not in our sin Because that that that condition makes you unfit, makes you unpardoned, makes you uh unclean, makes you you know not ready for heaven So you need to settle that matter before it's uh before you get to this this point. And uh this point here is where the where uh God finally has to uh save I can't see your name written down the Lamb's book of life. You know that's I hope you I hope everyone in here has their name written in the Lamb's Book of Life. I wonder if he doesn't uh pin those words or those names in his own blood On the in the Book of Life. But uh whether it does or doesn't, if you're named in the land Book of Life, you've made it. And the question is, is it? Is it in there? In this uh in this message or in this chapter that we we started reading, the uh in the book of in i in earlier verses in this book of John Uh is where the Pharisees brought a a young lady uh to Jesus and said, uh, this woman has been caught in the very act of adultery. And the b the the Bible says, Moses' law says it, that you're supposed to stone him, stone her to death. And uh, you know, uh It's amazing to me. There's probably uh fundamental, independent, Bible believing, hard-headed Christians. that would say, yes, stone her to death. She's uh caught in in in adultery, give it to her, you know, kill her. Uh it's it's hard to believe that there's people like that, but you know there are There are people just like that. Uh of different sects and different religions. I think of the Muslim people that uh uh tolerate a a religion that allows people to be uh uh you know, uh a father to kill a daughter because uh she uh got out of m uh of uh the the uh religion of Islam Uh, that's tragic, isn't it? But that's uh you know, that's another story. This lady was uh this girl was uh caught in the act of adultery. She doesn't deny it. She's accepted the fact that she was caught. And uh uh she's there w waiting waiting for the v for the judgment. And so uh this is her This is her. And there's a I'll read the I'll read where uh where it says where it talks about her. Says Master, I'm looking at verse four. Now I'll read this and we'll show the chalk drawings. They said unto him, Master, this woman was taken to an adultery in the very act. Now Moses in the law commands us That such should be stoned. What sayest thou? You'd almost s hear the you know that that attitude in the in the words that he's saying This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down and with his finger wrote in the ground. As though he heard them not. Uh yeah, you have to love him. Just the way he does things is so exciting And so verse seven says, So so when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself and he said unto them, He that is without sin among you, uh let him cast the st uh a stone at her. Let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down and he wrote on the ground. And they which heard it, being convicted of their own conscience, oh boy, turned it back on him. Went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even into the last, and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing. That's just like a warden. Just likes the Lord to uh come to the rescue of a damsel, damsel in distress. And uh then he says uh And when Jesus had listed up himself, and he saw none but the woman, he said to her woman, Where are those thine accusers? Has no man condemned thee? She says, She said, No man. No man, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I, condemn thee. Go and sin no more. I just see the mercy of God. I see the grace of God. I see the compassion of God. I see the love of God. I have I see all the the great attributes of God taking place in that just that very moment there that is missed because we don't have enough words to explain it all and to see it all But we have a savior that loves us. We have a savior that that wants to save the lost And that's what this service is all about. So we're going to have an invitation after I show the chalk drawing and give you an opportunity To do business with God. It may be that you're uh you're a Christian and and maybe things are just not quite, you know, where they ought to be. And you know that. The Holy Spirit's already, you know, he's been working on you in that that area. And and uh and then there's some of you you you know, you uh I'm not saying that you you're bad guys. I'm not saying that at all But I am saying that every once in a while we never we need to have a foot washing. And you know what I'm talking about. When I say foot washing, I'm talking about if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us. and cleanses from all unrighteousness. That's that's what this is all about. Or it may be that one who's never trusted Christ and you're still in your sin. Still in your sin You're not in Christ, you're in your sin. And in your sin is going to be judged one day at the great white throne, and you'll be cast into the lake of fire. That's what the Bible says. But you can settle that today. You can come down here in an old-fashioned altar of prayer. Let somebody take an open Bible from the Word of God, show you how to be born into the family of God and know that you're saved beyond the shadow of a doubt. Amen. We're going to show this chalk drawing now