Thank you, Preacher. Good evening. Boy, what a day this has been. I've been uh blessed by uh y'all. Not you all, y'all. And uh yes, of all of y'all. Yeah. Anyway, open your Bible tonight if you would please to Acts chapter twenty-six. I uh do want to make a comment or two about uh the DVD that you viewed there. Um this actually came about um The Lord just simply sort of dropped this in our lap, and uh the military chaplaincy part of it's what I'm talking about. And uh I don't know but what you're probably like I was. I had heard so many horror stories about the restrictions that were placed upon military chaplains. I've heard they can't witness. I've heard they can't have a Bible on their desk even. I've heard that they can't pray in Jesus' name. They can't preach the gospel and so on and so forth. And we found out that none of that is necessarily true. It all depends on the endorser, which in this case is Calvary Baptist Church, uh All Points Baptist Mission on the paperwork that we have on file in Washington, D. C. , with the Department of Defense And what that means is that they request and require that we lay down on you know in on paperwork there in a systematic fashion what we believe. And once that is set, it's sort of written in concrete, they legally cannot be made to stand down from that doctrinal statement. And so what that means is we have, for instance, uh all of the cardinal doctrines in our doctrinal statement at Calvary, which is a part uh you know, which is uh the same doctrinal statement that we would have for all points baptism, uh all of the uh things about the deity of Christ and the Trinity and uh you know all of that Uh but in addition to that we have the statement on uh transgender sexual things and what a marriage is is between one man and one woman, naturally born man and one naturally born woman, and all of that And in fact, if our missionaries choose to, they can, and some have done so, they can preach on base in a military chaplain uh chaplain chapel service an entire message against homosexuality. Who to thunk it Right? And yet that's the the that's the truth of uh of the situation. So it's a wonderful, wonderful opportunity. Uh these guys uh uh are are uh fastened to a unit And if that unit uh is deployed, uh they are they're deployed along with them. Uh we've had uh people in Afghanistan, we've had people that are on uh ships in different parts of the world, Navy chaplains and so forth. And um we even have a um I can't say too much about it, but we even have a chaplain that is attached to a Navy SEAL unit. And uh you all know about the Navy SEALs, right? So we don't know who they're blowing up this week, but uh anyway, uh what a wonderful opportunity, amen, for uh uh an independent Baptist preacher to be a chaplain. uh and uh being able to deal with uh people who are in harm's way. And uh yes, sir. When I was in, brother, I was in for twenty years until ninety four. There were no Baptist preachers. That's right. And um I guess that I'm not sure whether there has been a change in the rules in Washington since then or we just didn't know about the opportunity that was available there. But uh the Lord brought it to our attention. We jumped on it like a duck on a June bug And uh it's just uh been wonderful. Twenty-five men, like you saw here, I don't know, six or eight of them there, but twenty-five men now in their families uh living on base and one of the great things about this is we don't have to raise missionary support for it. Amen our tax dollars pay for it. And uh not only that, but they are required uh to when they are not deployed to come once a year uh back to their endorsing agency uh for training and so forth. So every year Pastor Snow and Robbie Morrison go to Washington DC and they are briefed on any changes that have taken place or the direction that things are going and then they come back and then when the men come together uh in August at our annual we call it their our advanced chaplain and missionary training week And uh then those chaplains they spend most of their time. We get together for chapel service and we eat together and everything, but they're kinda kinda off by themselves and then uh the rest of us missionaries are over in uh in another part of the building there. um uh doing uh stuff that pertains more to missionaries than does to chaplains. A wonderful, wonderful opportunity. I'm just about to bust with excitement over it And we just a matter of fact approved uh two on Friday, two more chaplains on Friday, one going into uh the military, uh into uh the army, the other one going into the Air Force uh military chaplains, twenty I think now, uh twenty-six families maybe, but um That would bring our total to military chaplains plus missionaries, about uh sixty-eight families now that are with all points uh Baptist mission. And um I want to tell you for this old farm boy Uh that's quite a thing to witness uh what God has uh has done and his doing uh through this uh feeble effort. And uh we're just so uh appreciative of being able to be a part of that. Uh not knowing of course what the Lord uh back in the beginning days, uh what the Lord would choose. Now let me just share a little bit with you. I may have done this before in in years past, but I think it's been eight years or so since uh since we've been here, maybe not that long, but it's been a long time. About how it all came to be. I heard the testimonies of some of y'all tonight, and you were uh excited about missionaries, families that had impressed you And I did catch what many of you actually said, that they've been through a lot of trials and difficulties and troubles and so on and so forth, and yet they stay faithful to the job that God has called them to. Trials are something that not only come to church members in Oakland, Maryland area, but they come to missionaries as well. There was a time in our life when Barbara and I were on the mission field happy as a pig in the mud, doing what God had called us to do. And she was diagnosed with a blood condition called ITP. Anybody know what that is? immune thrombone cypedia purper or something like that. I'm probably not saying it right. She's smiling, so I know I know I'm not saying it right. But anyway, it's a shortless uh short uh shortness of uh white blood cells, platelets. And doctors told us, well, that's it. You're done living remotely. You can't live in the Arctic. You're two days away from a real hospital and you just can't live there because this is very dangerous. It could take her life At that point we came off of the field, not knowing what God was doing, really brokenhearted, because we thought that we were going to lose our ministry up in the north there and of course for a missionary is his ministry is his life. I mean that's that that's that's it, you know And so we began to pray about what God had for us. I had pastored before, actually Calvary Baptist Church that you saw there. I planted that as a young man. Um and if it weren't for Don Snow being coming when he did, that church wouldn't be there today. I was bad enough as a pastor, but they got even worse than me after I left. But uh pastor came and rescued the church and uh it's taken off and it's a good ministry there. But we so I thought, well, I've pastored before. With the Lord's help, I could do that again. Maybe evangelism, you know, or something. I love the classroom. I actually teach one day a week um at Mastlin Baptist College and Mastlin, Ohio there. And so uh maybe I could could have done that full time. But as we prayed about that, God didn't give us he he just it just like he refused to give us peace that we were supposed to do something like that. And so out of that came the idea that We have always been short, desperately short of missionary help that far north. Nobody wants to go there And so we started Points North Baptist Mission. And uh of course uh it started to grow and since then as you saw in the video Uh we start at all points and now we've they've it's morphed into just the one mission agency which cuts down on the confusion by people But um you never know the the trials that come into your life. You just never know what God's doing. I mean he doesn't he has he it doesn't say in the book anywhere that he has to explain himself to us Okay. And so by faith we just go ahead and keep on plodding on, amen, and doing what we know is right. And um You'd uh sometimes if we'll just stay faithful, that's all that God requires, and one day the clouds will part and the sun will shine again and God will make it very clear and very apparent uh why all of this came about. Can I say to you that it had not been for the sickness that God allowed to come into our life, none of this would have happened. And all you would know is about this crazy couple that live they're getting old now, but they live way up in the Arctic and they minister to Eskimos and Indians. That's all there would be to it. But now, sixty-eight families around the world, what a great thing God's done. Well, in Acts chapter 26, we're going to look tonight. I'll try to be brief. But I want to talk to you about the subject to open their eyes. And that's actually a phrase from chapter 26, and we're going to read verses 13 through 19. The context of these verses before we read them is this. Paul is giving his defense before King Agrippa. Now, I don't know whether you know what you know about King Agrippa, but his message to Agrippa, what takes place here is that Agrippa says, Paul, thou art permitted to speak to speak forth for thyself. And Paul says, I think myself happy this day, King Agrippa. And he goes on and begins He compliments the king, but then he gets down to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and it's actually not only the gospel, but there's reference here to missions. And so that's what we're going to read about right now, verse 13 through 19. And it says in verse 13, Paul talking now, giving his witness to Agrippa, At midday, O king, I saw in the way a light from heaven. About the brightness of the sun shining round about me, and they which journeyed with me. And when they uh were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice. Now they heard something, according to what we read later on in the scriptures. They heard something, but they didn't hear the words enunciated like Paul apparently did. Okay, so he says, I heard a voice speaking unto me, saying in the Hebrew tongue, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. And the idea of pricks here was that a goad, an ox goad, and it was something there were two different styles of it apparently One would have been a pointed thing on the end, somewhat pointed, but kind of blunt on the end, but to poke and to praw the oxen into action to keep them moving Another kind would be that that would be on the the uh either a double tree or a single tree. How many know what I'm talking about? Double tree or single tree? All right And uh they would put some uh some things back there that if the oxen, or I suppose the horse too, would kick back, he would hit himself and poke himself in the leg, and it wouldn't be too long before he'd learn not to do that. And when the idea here is that God has been poking and prodding Saul of Tarsus with the testimony of Stephen, for instance, and different things as he went through his life persecuting the church. But he said, It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks, God says to him. And I said, Paul says in verse 15, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. But rise and stand upon thy feet, for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness, both of these things which thou hast seen and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee, delivering thee from the people and from the Gentiles unto whom now I send thee. Okay, there's the missionary challenge. There's the the the missionary commission right there from the Lord unto whom I send thee. Now look at this. To open their eyes. There is a title of the message. I'm sending you to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light. and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and inheritance among them, which are sanctified by faith that is in me. And look at verse 19 Whereupon, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision. Father in heaven, bless this portion of thy word, and as we uh develop a little bit and look into it. Consider uh Father our need tonight. We want to hear from you. We must hear from you. We beg that we would hear from you And so Father, speak to our hearts, draw us even closer to the Lord Jesus, I pray in his name. Amen. Now what we see here is uh the the Lord making a statement here that Paul in his ministry was to preach. We saw this morning how that as a missionary he was called to preach. He was called uh to a profession as a missionary And he was called to a people group or to a place. And now we're seeing a little bit more being added in depth. In other words, God opening up for uh for Paul to see and for us to see, by the way. what entailed and how he was supposed to go ahead and what he was supposed to preach and the results that were supposed to come The idea is here that it was to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light and from the power of Satan unto God. Now first of all, let me talk to you. I'll try to be brief because I know that we're tired, but we're excited as well. Amen. So that'd be that's good for something But I want to talk to you about the reality of the blindness. All of our blanks tonight, you don't have a blank there, but there will be an R associated with all four points tonight. But the reality of their blindness. First of all, let's notice that they are indeed in darkness. Listen to what it says in Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 8. He says, For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord. Walk as children of light And so sometimes we get the idea that um that that these uh that that people in far-off lands without Christ and even those around us uh that they uh you know that they're just um uh This it's it's just uh they're just lost, but they actually uh make good sense. Can I tell you? No, they don't I mean if you want to uh something that'll frustrate you is just start to listen to liberal-minded people that have no concern about what the Word of God says and some of the silly arguments that they come up with And I mean they just um well let me put it this way. You have noticed no doubt that when somebody gets saved That there is kind of a lag of time that takes place. They get saved, all right, they they receive the light, but they still don't think right until they sit under the preaching of the Word of God. Amen And this is what it's talking about in Romans chapter 12, when he talks about the renewing of the mind. And what takes place is that the word of God has an effect upon the way we think. And so it ought to be. This is why, ladies and gentlemen, the m the world mistakenly looks at what takes place inside this church, and they say those people in there are being brainwashed No, you're not being brainwashed. You're being given the tools to be able to think clearly and to align your thinking, align your thoughts with thus saith the Lord. And so understand that these people really are bl are are in darkness. Not only that, but they're blind. Listen to 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 4. He says, In whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ who is the image of God should shine upon them. And so not only are the lost people in darkness, but they are indeed blind to the things of the Lord. Uh I just share with you one little uh fun uh it's kind of funny to me. I don't know whether you'll find it humorous or not, but uh we told you about that little church up in the Nuvik uh Northwest Territory And how that their faith promise is about seventy-five thousand dollars a year. They've been doing it probably for f fifteen years at least now, huh? And it's always about the same as it fluctuates up and down a few thousand dollars every year But there's a you know, it's a small town, okay, only thirty five hundred people in the town. And um it's kind of the hub of the area. And so um In a small town like that, word travels pretty fast, you know. And even though uh we do uh up there just like we did this morning Pastor made a thing and I'm glad he did that because I was going to if he didn't. When he told our visitors, we don't do this every week and that this is not for visitors, this is for our church people. And what I normally tell say is I say that that this is a special day because this is the day in which we challenge ourselves as a church. For what we're going to do for the coming year for missions if it's the annual mission conference you see. And today obviously is a little bit different But we'll have some visitors come in during that during that mission conference. It usually runs Wednesday through Sunday. And uh so there'll be some visitors drift in and drift out And pretty soon, uh, and by the way, uh regardless of what you think, Eskimo people or Inuit people is what we're supposed to call them now, they're not dumb people. They're very sharp actually And so they catch on to pretty quick what's going on there. And so the word around town is you probably don't want to go to that Baptist church. It costs lots of money to go there And so, of course, it's what is in view there is not their tithe so much as their faith-promised commitment. And so uh it's uh it's a uh an interesting thing how that the darkened mind, how that the blinded mind looks at us and thinks we're crazy. You give all your money away. What kind of sense is that? You work hard for it and then you just give it away? And um so uh We actually have a tax preparer up there. What do we call them here? Tax preparers? Guys that help you with your income tax. You know, like HR Bloch, but Anyway, he's just an individual guy. And he has repeatedly told our people that go to him to get uh help with their taxes, you're given too much money. Way too much money. You shouldn't be doing that And so they said, that's what I gave, fill it out, turn it in. I'm not changing. And uh so they've got a c uh the the the people there, the church people there, have a great testimony around town as being totally nuts And uh so uh but yet they know that they they understand the truth of the gospel even though they're they're uh uh they're they're blind to it and uh they live in darkness. Thirdly They think the gospel foolish. And listen to 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 18. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish, what, class? Foolishness. But unto us which are saved it is the power of God. And not only that, but they prefer their unrighteousness. Second Thessalonians chapter two and verse twelve says this. That they might all be damned who obey who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness And so not only are they darkened, not only are their eyes darkened, their eyes are blind, they think that the gospel is foolishness, but they like it that way. They have pleasure in unrighteousness. They don't want to change. And so that's why, ladies and gentlemen, that the gospel is such a powerful thing. It must be powerful. in order to change the the the the darkened mind. So let's think about the reality of their blindness. But secondly, let's think about something else. The readiness of the Trinity Reality of the blindness, but the re uh the re the readiness of the Trinity. And let me um let me just read here what it says in Acts chapter twenty-eight again. Um I mean uh twenty-six again, verse eighteen. He says to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light. From the power of Satan unto God, that they might receive the forgiveness of sins and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. And so what that's talking about there is, and we should know this, that the Father, we're talking about the Trinity now, the readiness of the Trinity to save, that the Heavenly Father is ready to forgive It says in Acts chapter 26 and verse 18, that they may receive the forgiveness of sins. One of the things that I think, one of the problems that I think that we have fallen into in America is, and I believe that it's the influence of modernism or liberalism upon the message of salvation And it is that we have forgotten to preach the wrath of God. And I'm sure you are aware of this, that in days gone by that the old uh Billy Sunday and uh uh and so on and so forth, those guys would rear back and they'd let her fly and I mean there were people that would tremble in their chairs because they were facing the wrath of God. It is said that when Jonathan Edwards preached sinners in the hands of an angry God and they tell me he was not a Baptist, of course, he was a congregationalist And congregationalists actually persecuted Baptists. But um they said that he uh he was a great orator, but he spoke in a monotone But the power of God was so upon his message that he would repeatedly have to stop in during the message and settle the crowd down. So exercised were they about their lost condition before an angry God. And somehow we've lost that. Suffice it to say tonight that the lost people of this world, they have offended, they have deeply offended the holiness of God. And as a result, they are in big, deep, dark trouble with a holy God. But we see here in this verse that the Father is ready to save or ready to forgive We see secondly Christ is ready to save. Hebrews 7, verse 25 says, wherefore he is able to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him. So we see there the first person of the Trinity is ready to forgive. We see the second person of the Trinity is ready to save. And we see the third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit, is ready to renew. Titus chapter 3 and verse 5, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us by the washing and regeneration and renewing of the Holy Ghost. So what we see here is that not only is the Trinity active in salvation, but the Trinity actually is active in the gospel. Now the gospel is not the same as salvation. One of them is subjective, the other is objective. Okay, one is the action, the other is a result of the action, in other words. And so the point being that the Trinity, that we see the readiness of the Trinity concerning opening their eyes. Thirdly, we see the results of the message that's preached. And I'll just put it this way, that there are three reactions or three results that come when the gospel is preached. What we see in some cases when the gospel is preached is like we see in Acts chapter 7 where Stephen was preaching. You remember that? And the Bible says that when he finished, well it says this, in verse 54, it says, when they heard these things, they were cut to the heart. That's the conviction of the Holy Spirit But when they were cut to the heart they gnashed on him with their teeth. The word gnashed there means to uh to grind or to grate the teeth. They weren't just biting him, just nipping at his heels like a you know, like a pesky dog or something, they were grinding upon Stephen because they were so angry with him. So one of the first uh uh results of the message can be conviction But it ends in anger. And of course they ended up stoning Stephen, the first martyr that we read about there in the book of Acts But secondly, sometimes, and this is what we see taking place here with King Agrippa, we see conviction, but delay. Don't we? And what took place with uh with uh Agrippa was in verse twenty-five, it says this. It says But he, Agrippa speaking now, he said, I am not mad, most noble fascists, or Paul is speaking, um wrong verse here, I think. Let me see, where does it say? Oh, okay, back up to oh, verse verse 24. I'm chapter 24. We're not dealing with Agrippa now, we're dealing with uh Felix In chapter 24 and verse 25, it says, And as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, Felix trembled. And he's trembling because of the conviction of the Holy Spirit again. And he says, he answers, Go thy way for this time, and when I have a convenient season, now look at this, I will hear thee. You get that? When I have a convenient time, a convenient season, I'll hear thee. And my question is, oh yeah? Who says so? The scriptures say, behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. Do you realize that when somebody hears the gospel, they have no guarantee they'll ever have another opportunity to be saved? And so sometimes the gospel ends up with conviction and anger, but oftentimes it ends up with conviction and delay And actually in some cases that may be okay because it is almost always better for somebody to think this thing through And to make a decision for Christ based upon facts that have come to their knowledge. If we simply work up their emotions, but don't reach their intellect, we very likely may get a profession of faith, but not a possession by the by the Lord Jesus But the third way, and of course is the best way, is not conviction and then anger or conviction and delay, but conviction and conversion. Amen? And it says in Acts chapter 8, verses 35 through 37, Philip opened his mouth. This is where Philip is caught away from that great revival meeting that's going on in Jerusalem. He's caught away down into the desert. And as he's down there, he I don't know whether he understands why he's there or not, but he notices his chariot bumping along. And he climbs up into the chariot and he finds there a eunuch of Candace, the queen of Ethiopia, returning. He'd been up to Jerusalem to worship. Probably heard some things about the gospel or about Jesus up there. And now he's going home. And Paul sees where he's reading. He's reading from the book of Isaiah And he says to the eunuch, he says, understandest thou what thou readest. And I love this part. Bless your heart. If you don't get anything else tonight, I hope you'll get this. He says, Understandest thou what thou readest. And the eunuch said, How can I except some man should help me? It doesn't say some angel. It doesn't say some spirit. It doesn't even say how can I except God should help me. He says some man should help me. Doesn't that nail it down for our participation, the fact that we're to be involved in getting the gospel to a lost and dying world? And so he says, how can I accept some man should guide me? And of course the story goes on then, and it says that scripture uh the scripture says That Philip opened his mouth and began at the same scripture and preached unto him Jesus. And um So they're going along and the narrative of the story says that they come to this large body of water. It's not a glass of water, a bowl of water, or some little tub or a pitcher of water But it's a large body of water. And the eunuch says, see, here is much water. What does hinder me to be baptized? You all know this. This is old, this is Sunday school stuff. What does hinder me to be baptized? And Philip says, if thou believest with all thy heart, thou mayest. And the eunuch makes a statement that doesn't seem To us who have analyzed this salvation and gospel thing down to the nitty-gritty But it is a it is a it's an answer that reveals much about this man's uh understanding He said, if thou believest while thou heart thou mayest. He answered and said, I believe that Jesus is the Son of God. Now, as this fellow, as as this eunuch is going along, and he reads in the scriptures, as the sheep before shears is dumb. He says to Philip, who's this guy talking about? Is he talking about himself or someone else? And he began at the same scripture, preached unto him Jesus. The eunuch understands it, and he says, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Now look at it. He didn't say, I believe Jesus Christ was the Son of God. That's an important decision uh distinction to be made. Because Christ, when he died upon the cross, did not pass into oblivion. He was yet alive. He rose from the grave and a little while later ascended into heaven where he ever lives and makes intercession for us. Amen. Did you ever find it uh I found it interesting. By the way, um you all know that uh Fidel Castro just passed away a week or so ago. Um He is the late Fidel Castro. But you never hear of Jesus being spoken of as the late Jesus Christ. Isn't that interesting? You know why? Because he's alive. Amen? By the way, he was never late for anything in his life. Uh different kind of late. All right. But the point being that uh the eunuch understood the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that's the point to be made. And then we're going to close with this thought The resolve of the messenger. And Acts chapter 26 and verse 19, when Paul, we're back to Agrippa now, and Paul says to Agrippa, he says, When this happened on the road to Damascus, And I was struck down by this bright light from heaven, and I had this conversation with the Lord, and the Lord told me I was going to be a missionary and I was going to, you know, I'm going to uh turn turn people from light to darkness, uh from darkness to light and all of this. He says, I was not disobedient. And I always want to talk to us a little bit in closing about the resolve of the missionary. and the resolve indeed of missionaries at large, and the determination and the grit that almost all of them possess It's quite amazing. Your testimonies tonight blessed my heart. And I thought, I hope I can remember to bring that back into the message tonight. because of the determination and the grit that the missionaries serve on the foreign fields with. Oftentimes greatly dis great discouragement comes to them. And I appreciated what what was said tonight as well about God doing great things in other parts of the world that we don't even know about. But can I tell you this? It's not always like that. Sometimes, and in uh the history of missions, missionaries have gone for years and years and years before they've seen a convert. And yet they stayed there. There was one missionary who went 30 years before he had one convert. Another one, six, another one, seven, another eleven, another fifteen. And that's the history of missions. Why? Because of the darkness of their eyes. They need to have their eyes opened But in the determining factor of seeing that come to pass, this idea of the resolve of the missionaries of the messenger comes in. I was not disobedient. We'll say this about the Apostle Paul, his readiness. Romans chapter 1 and verse 15. He says, For as much as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also. So he was ready. We see something about the heaviness of his heart for the lost. In Romans chapter 9, verses 1 through 3, he talks about that. But he talks about the the need to be And he cautioned his uh his young proteges about this, about the need to beware of distractions. And you know what pops into my mind when I think of distractions And the focus that missionaries have to have. And by the way, church, the focus that you must have, and the focus that this church must have for missions, you must not be distracted from that. And what pops into my mind a biblical example of distraction that actually didn't take place is Nehemiah. Nehemiah was in captivity, you remember. And uh Ezra goes back and so on and so forth, but Nehemiah gets back there. And actually what he was doing, according to San Ballot and the leadership that was left there behind by Nebuchadnezzar, what they're doing actually is illegal. And yet they pressed on to do it. And so Sam Valet decides that he's going to he's just gonna he's just gonna get ne uh uh Nehemiah away from here and he's gonna dismantle this whole thing and all this will come to naught. And so he sends him a letter, writes him a letter. It's a letter of invitation. He says, come on down here, let's have a little conflab Let's talk about this. You remember Nehemiah's response? He said, I'm doing a great work for God. I cannot come down. And listen, ladies and gentlemen, when the devil perches on your ear during this next six months of your faith promise year and whispers to you, Well, so-and-so has this. Why can't I have it? I want you to understand you must not be distracted from the job of reaching the world with the Lord Jesus Christ. We must not. Then we talk about, so there's this his his his heaviness, Paul's heaviness about that, but then his preciseness is it in it How shall they Romans uh Romans chapter 10, how shall they call on him, in whom they have not heard? How shall they believe on him? How shall they hear without a preacher And the fact of the matter is, ladies and gentlemen, unless this church and churches just like this church around this country take it upon themselves to see that those people in far-off places hear the Word of God. Do you realize this? They cannot be saved? And the whole idea behind this is to open their eyes. And so what is your resolve like when it comes to fulfilling this year's faith promise commitment? What is your resolve like? Is it strong resolve? Or is it just kind of wishy-washy resolve that kind of, you know, goes with the flow and with whatever comes, well we'll see what happens. We'll see how the year goes and we'll see about this and we'll see about that. Can I tell you that our resolve must be strong And if it's not strong, we must strengthen our resolve. Let me tell you about a missionary from mission uh from his the history of missions. I don't know whether you ever heard of him or not, but this man had some resolve Well David Brainerd had some resolve. We talked about him this morning. Have any anybody in here ever heard about the missionary by the name of James Chalmers? Okay? He was called the Great Heart of New Guinea. And um James Chalmers, he was born in Scotland in the year 1841. And he developed a love for the sea and for boats early in life. At the age of eighteen, he and a gang of ruffians uh that he led, by the way, broke into a meeting house determined to break up the evangelistic meetings, but he got saved instead. Don't you just love the Lord in the way that he's gotta have a sense of humor, doesn't he? Anyway, James Chalmers gets saved as he's intending on busting up this meeting. But James Chalmers immediately upon his conversion became a Sunday school teacher and began to preach He uh felt an urge, even as an unsaved man, uh teenager, younger teenager, to be a missionary in the South Pacific Islands and the cannibals to the cannibals that lived there. Well, he studied theology for two years and elementary medicine for one year, and he and his wife left England in January of 1866. He's in the will of God. What could possibly go wrong, right? Well, he's shipwrecked on the way to the South Seas. He's rescued by a pirate by the name of Bully Hayes, who I think was a slave trader as well. And uh this was uh and only and after sixteen months at sea with Bully Hayes, the pirate, uh after leaving England, he's put ashore And um he uh spends ten years then on an island that already had missionaries, uh, but he was not satisfied with doing that And so he had a heart for um New Guinea. And he actually reached New Guinea in the year 1877. For 24 years, Chalmers faithfully labored among the savages there, experiencing many hair-raising close calls. In the closing years of the 19th century, which will be the late 1800s, of course, Chalmers baptized in one day 136 adults. And you would wonder what else could this guy want? I mean, and baptize a hundred and thirty-six adults in one day, and yet He his heart wasn't satisfied. And he had it actually in his heart to open a new area to the gospel called the Fly River Region. Well, it's important we re- that you remember the Fly River region. Mrs. Chalmers died in the year 1900. And she left it, she was uh wealthy, but she left a bequeathment uh which she designated should be per that should purchase a whale boat to be used in the opening of the Fly River area for Christ. And so in April of 1901, Chalmer set sail for the Fly River region. They anchored offshore off an island in a river called the Goroboy I uh River and uh where the mission vessel was immediately forcibly seized by warriors who surrounded them in canoes. Well, Chalmers and a young man who had just arrived from England, a man by the name of Oliver Tompkins, they went ashore with the locals in the canoes. A few days later, the Christian world was stunned by a cable gram stating that James Chalmers and his young colleague had been killed and eaten by the Fly River cannibals. And this is an epilogue to this, but as shocking as that seems to us today, James Chalmers And Oliver Tompkins were said to have joined, now listen to my language here, the list of what was then known as the unreturning brave. Meaning that there were others who had gone off in the quest for the souls of men, who for one reason or another had never returned. The circumstances of their demise being known only to God in heaven. Resolve, Christian friend? Resolve member of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I say to you That we have an opportunity to align ourselves with some of the greatest people that have ever lived upon the face of the world. that we're like an old bulldog that gotta get a hold of a guy by the seat of the pants and won't let go. The resolve was so strong that even though they knew that they were placing their life in danger, yet they did it because it was right to do. Can we not be involved in something like that? God help us to see that He has given us a wonderful, wonderful opportunity. Now listen again to my language. To partner with him. The Ethiopian eunuch said, How can I accept some man should guide me? And ladies and gentlemen, if we don't do our part, let me say this to you: I am absolutely certain that God will not do it for us. He won't. That's why the Ethiopian eunuch understood it was going to take a man. The fact of the matter is that God has placed the care of the gospel into our trust. And we must see to it that those who need their eyes opened hear the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Pastor, would you come, please? Thank you. Appreciate your attention tonight. Let's bow our heads I know the Lord is speaking to our heart all day long. Maybe tonight, as we often do, just finish out the Lord's day at an old-fashioned altar and say, Lord, take me. Lord, give me that resolve, give me that faith that produces the resolve to not quit on God, not quit on reaching this world, just giving myself continually, when it's hard, when it's easy. when it's uh uh going as smooth and when it's rough. Just gonna stay at it. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless our invitation. So important. Have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Let's piano