Coming to a new passage, uh uh a new subject is being addressed in James' letter to these believers. He's been talking before about humility about humbling ourselves before the Lord. God giveth grace to the humble. We resisteth the proud. Now he changes subjects and he addresses a new subject here. It's kind of interesting. James chapter 4 begins with the subject of them being at war with God. And then he ends the chapter with them being in the will of God. And I thought of this. When we are out of the will of God, we usually end up being at war with God. We want to have our way and we want to do things our way. When we submit to the will of God, then we find ourselves at peace with God. And so I thought that was interesting how the chapter begins and how it ends. But now he's facing, now in this passage, he's teaching us how to face the future, how to plan for the future. Did you notice here he says where he says, Go to ye ne uh ye that go to now, ye that say today or tomorrow we will go into such a city, continue there a year, buy and sell, and get gay Whereas you know not what shall be in the morrow, for what is your life? Then verse fifteen he says, You ought to say, If the Lord will, we will live and do this or that. He's talking about facing the future. He's talking about dealing with the future. Now I want to caution us right up front. God is not telling us here, and we'll elaborate on this, God is not telling us here that we should not plan for the future. It's not telling us we should not make plans. It's not telling us we should not get a calendar and work out a schedule for the coming year. He's not saying that at all. We ought to plan for the future. We ought to have a life insurance put aside. We ought to put money up for future things. He's not saying we ought not to do that, but what he is telling us is how we should plan for the future. How to go about that, the type of m mindset to have as we make our plans for the future. Mankind is obsessed with the future We're constantly trying to predict the future. You have astrologists are out there and you can people read their horoscope in the newspaper and try and figure out what that day holds and what I should or shouldn't do for this day. I'll be very frank with you. My opinion is horoscopes are of the devil, to be very honest with you. The Bible is very, very clear about that. We ought not to look to the stars or uh anything like that to determine our future and whatnot. So be very, very careful about that. But people want to know what the future holds. And sometimes they'll look to astrology and those types of things. Sometimes they'll look to dreams for the future and think that God is telling them stuff about the future through dreams. Uh sometimes it's through divination. Um uh psychics will make millions of dollars off of people in deceiving them into thinking they can tell you what the future is. Divination and all these types of things where people want to know what the future is. Man is obsessed with this They try to predict the future. They try to govern the future. Try to uh uh manipulate what's going to happen in the future and set things up and put things in place So that they can uh cash in on it someday in the future. Um that's what he's addressing here in our sub in our passage. Uh how to deal with the future, how to face the future. Let me give you a few thoughts here real quick. Number one I want us to notice in this passage the faulty presumption they had about the future. The faulty presumption. Look with me again at verse number 13. Go to now, ye that say, today or tomorrow, we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain. He's talking about they had a faulty presumption about the future. I'll explain what I mean here. But look at that phrase go to now. That's an interesting Phrase, what does he mean, go to now? It's like that has this idea. It's kind of like he's saying, come on, guys Um it's a sarcastic statement really. He's saying, go to now, ye that say this. It's kind of like he's saying, now don't be ridiculous I put it this way. If somebody says something that's just ridiculous, I'll say something like this. Oh for Pete's sake. Anybody ever say that? Oh, oh for crying out loud. What are you talking about? The kids say they do something, they go, Really? I say, yeah, really. Uh or or or it it's something like this. Seriously? And so that's kind of what James is saying to these people. Um they're uh they're they're um they're they're saying tomorrow we're gonna go to such a city, we're gonna continue there a year, we're gonna buy and sell, we're gonna get this And we got it all laid out. We know exactly what we're going to do. We know exactly where we're going to go. We know exactly how it's all going to turn out. And James is saying, really? That's what the go-to now is. That's what that means. And so he says, listen, you're making they were making a two-fold mistake here. They were presuming some things that would be in place, and they were mistaken in two areas. Number one, their first mistake was this. They left God out of their planning. Look at verse 13 very, very carefully. Do you see anywhere in that verse where these people he's addressing are planning God into their future at all? No reference to God at all. No reference to prayer whatsoever. No reference to seeking God's direction or God's will and his word. God is completely left out of the picture. Here's their problem. They thought they knew enough about the future that they could plan it without God. No mention of God at all. Now, we know from previous passages in this book that James is addressing believers. He's addressing saved people. And here you have saved people who are planning their future and they have completely left God out of their plans. They've completely left the Lord at it. They are operating in a very real way, these people that James is writing to, and he's incredulous. Really, guys? You're saved, you're children of God, and you're planning your future, and you're completely leaving God out of it. You are planning no differently than what an atheist would plan An atheist doesn't have God in his thoughts at all. An atheist lays out his future, and uh these guys are operating no differently. That an atheist would. They're not factoring God into it all. Now, Psalms 14, verse 1 tells us that an atheist is a fool. Bible says the fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. So an atheist is a fool. And by the way, that phrase the fool hath said in his heart That phrase in his heart has this idea, and it ties in to our passage, has this idea. A fool has said, in his thinking. In his planning, in his purposes. All of these things come from the heart. My thoughts, my plans, my purposes. All of that is a result of the heart. So he's saying the fool hath said in his heart, in his planning, in his purposes, in his thinking, there is no God. God is completely excluded from his planning at all. So an atheist is a fool. But here you have Christians who are acting just as foolish as the atheists. They're not saying there's no God, but they're planning, they're living their lives as if God was not a factor. They're trying to live their life independent of God. I'm here to tell you, any life lived independent from God is doomed to failure. And when a child of God, a saved person tries to live their life, and God is not a factor in their life, God is not an issue in their plans, in their in their lifestyle, and all they're doing. I'm telling you, they are acting foolishly. And so one of their big problems was is they didn't factor God into their plans. They presumed to know what was going to happen. They presumed that they could uh uh plan make all these plans and got need God not be a factor. Their problem was not a defiance of God. They were not raising their fists and saying, God It's not what they were doing. They weren't defying God. They were just doing this. They were just disregarding God. God's not a thought. God's not a factor. I'm just going to do my thing. I'm going to go to this city. I'm going to continue there a year. I'm going to buy and sell, and I'm going to get gain. And God never entered their thinking. He was not a factor. So one of their Problems. One of the faults here with this presumption was is uh they did not factor God into their planning. The second fault that they had here is that they assumed That they could control their future. They assume that I can, I know, I'm going to plan, I'm going to do this, that, and the other. We will go We will continue. We will buy and sell. We will get gain. They had in the back of their minds, they began with the assumption that we can control what the future will be We can control how this is going to turn out. We can control all of these things. I'm afraid too often we think, we assume we have more control over our lives than what we really do. We don't have as much control in our lives as we think we do. It's a little phrase that's used throughout the Bible. And uh anytime I read that it Caused me to stop and think for a little bit. This little phrase is this. And there was a day. And if you'll pay attention when you read through the Bible, whenever that phrase comes up And there was a day, something dramatic, unexpected, happened in that person's life. I was reading earlier today in the book of Job. And uh in the first part, it talks about what a great man Job was, and he was just and righteous and perfect in all his ways, and the Bible goes on, and God praises him. And then there's a little statement, and there was a day And Job's world was turned upside down. And there was a day. And there was a day. I'm telling you, you and I have no control over what's going to happen tomorrow. Things could take place that we absolutely do not anticipate. I was thinking about, uh how many people recognize this name? Wicked Haman Anybody recognize Wicked Haman and the book of Esther? And he uh got the king to make a decree that all the Jews would be killed, and he had it all planned out on a certain day The soldiers were going to go through the land and they would slaughter the Jews and there would be no more Jews. And he built a uh gallows there for Mordecai that he was going to kill this man that would not bow down to him. And basically you know the story. And lo and behold, here the king's wife, uh Esther, is a Jew herself, unknown to Naaman. And uh, and uh lo and behold, the gallows that he prepared to hang Mordecai on, he ended up hanging from himself. There was a day. There was a day. He thought he had control of the future. He thought he knew what tomorrow held. He thought he knew how this whole thing was going to play out, and he was dead wrong. Dead wrong. And so he addresses these folks here in the book of James and he says, go to. You really seriously? You guys say this, I'm gonna do this and do that and go there, and this is how it's all gonna work out You don't have as much control over tomorrow as what you think you do. You don't have as much control over this coming year as you and I think we do. Now, we do have control over the decisions we make You and I have a free will. I can decide to trust God or I can decide to trust myself. I can decide to do this or not do that. I can decide to do right or I can decide to do wrong We do have control over the decisions we make, but we do not have control over the consequences of those decisions. And so it behooves us to understand my control over my life is very, very limited. And I have no control over the future. So they made some presumptions. They presumed to make their plans and plan their life out and leave God out of it. You can go ahead and do that if you want, but I'm here to tell you it's not going to end good. We are not designed to live independent of God. God designed us to need Him. And so they planned their life, they planned their future without God, independent of God. And then they assumed that they had some sort of control over what was going to take place. Now, I want to remind you, their mistake was not that they planned for the future. That was fine. Proverbs tells us many times we should It's not that they planned for the future, it was how they planned for the future that was wrong, assuming that they had control. The first thing I notice here, first of all, is that they had their faulty presumption. The second thing I want us to notice here is our problem concerning the future. And I get that from verse number 14 Notice verse 14 with me. He goes, Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your light that is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away There are some things we just do not know. Number one, we do not know what's going to happen tomorrow. We don't know that. How many people are glad you heard that statement? You say, duh, preacher, we know that. We do know that, but we don't act that way. Take your Bible if you would. You got Proverbs 27? Turn back there with me. Keep your place in James. Come back to Proverbs 27. And notice verse number one. In fact, I would recommend if you don't have a study Bible, put in the margin of your Bible beside James chapter 4, verse 14, put Proverbs 27:1 And in Proverbs 27, one, you could write in the margin James 4. 14. These two verses tie together beautifully. Proverbs 27, look at verse number 1. Boast not thyself of tomorrow. Why not? For what? Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Boast not thyself of tomorrow. For thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. That phrase nowest know thou knowest not, that phrase knowest not has this idea. It hasn't been revealed to you You and I think we know what's going to happen tomorrow. We've got plans and we've got it laid out. We anticipate this, that, and the other. But the fact of the matter is, we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. God has not shown that to us. We can't be certain of anything. How many folks here, how many folks here have somebody that's unsaved and you are praying diligently for that unsaved person? How many people testify to that How many folks you've been praying a long time for that unsaved person? Can I suggest something to you? We don't know. They may get saved tomorrow. That could very well happen. Um I think I can speak uh for my dad on this, but when I came and told my dad I got saved a few days after that Monday night He had no anticipation. You had no idea what God was doing in my heart. And I showed up and said, Dad, guess what? I accepted Jesus as my Savior. I had to get smelling salts and bring them to. And uh but he had no idea that was coming. I'm telling you, we're praying for someone to be saved. We have no idea what God's doing in their heart. We have no idea Uh what got I can preach louder than any kid, I'll tell you that right now. I've been doing this a long time. So uh you just zero in up here and uh we'll try and preach over top the baby. But you have no idea what God's doing in that person's heart. You say, oh, that one I'm praying for, their heart is so hard and they don't care, and uh there's no evidence whatsoever. You have no idea what's going on inside their heart. Tomorrow you made a foot get a phone call. Hey, guess what? I accepted Jesus as my Savior. How many folks have some other area, something, some need you've been praying for a long time, some situation you're asking God to work on? Anybody like that you've been praying a long time? You know what? Tomorrow that thing may turn around Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Now we often, and I know I often think, well, you don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. You might die. Hey, you know, something good might happen tomorrow. Oh, you don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. You might have a wreck, be paralyzed the rest of your life. Yeah, that's true. Or you might uh something good might happen. God may answer that prayer, God may change that situation, you may get that phone call. So the the point I'm trying to make and the point the Bible says here, whereas ye know not what shall be on the mar, you don't know what's going to happen. That new job may open up That prayer might be answered. That soul might be saved. So as we finish out 2015 and go into your 2016, don't you quit praying. You keep praying. Maybe this year is the year that soul is saved and that life is turned around. Maybe this is the year where that need is met and that situation is transformed. We don't know. And so the problem concerning the future, one, is a very obvious problem. We don't know what's going to happen in the future. It's unpredictable. It's not been revealed to us. The second problem we have concerning the future is we don't know how long we have to live Look with me again at verse number 14 in James chapter 4. Whereas ye know not what shall be on tomorrow. You don't know what's going to happen. And then he says, this: for what is your life? It is even a what? A vapor that appeareth for a little time, then vanisheth away. Um how many people ever heard your parents or your grandparents say this? Man, time goes faster the older you get. How many people ever heard somebody say that? How many people you're starting to say that yourself It's true. And the fact of the matter is, none of us know how long we have to live. The year 2016, I don't want to be morbid, but it's a very real very real possibility. The year 2016 may be the year that I go home to be with the Lord. Maybe the year you go home to be with the Lord. May go out into eternity. I hope you know the Lord Jesus, your Savior. If you're here tonight and you don't know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, you're not 100% sure that your sins are forgiven. That's the most important thing in life, is right now make sure you trust Christ and get your salvation settled because we don't know how long we have to live. My dad said this years ago, and it stuck in my mind. He says, when you put your shoes in the morning, you never who never know who may take them off that night. Could be the Undertaker. Could be the somebody at the hospital. We don't know. And so the problem we have in facing the future, one is we don't know what the future holds, and two, we don't know how long we're going to live. Our life is but a vapor. You breathe Breathe out in the wintertime, or in the wintertime when it's cold, you breathe out and that little mist is there, that little vapor is there, and it just vanishes. Just vanishes. I don't want, again, I don't want us to be morbid. I don't want to be morbid about this, but we need to keep in our minds the fact that life is very, very fragile. And death is almost always unexpected. One of the things when I was chaplain with hospice for a period of time and what a tremendous privilege to visit with folks. Now my responsibility, all it was, was if they had a patient that was with hospice that um uh was terminally ill, they were determined they had six months or less to live. If that person did not have a pastor, had no spiritual input, and they were interested, they would give their name to me and I would go visit these dear folks And I was able to talk to them. One of the conditions when they first approached me about helping them with this, I said, the can conditions are this. One I can tell them whatever I believe the Bible teaches. They said, that's fine. I said, two, I don't be involved with any ecumenical type stuff. They said, no, you don't have to do any of that All we want you to do is when folks are dying and they don't have a pastor, they don't have any type of church or anything, that you go in there and help them. I said, I can do that And one of the things I would try and communicate, and I learned in working with these dear folks, is that God was being very gracious to them In that they knew a bit ahead of time that their life expectancy was a limited time. And this is what I'm trying to say is they had the opportunity to make things right with God before they passed away. Now that doesn't always happen. In fact, very seldom. Often death comes, and we're not prepared. Often death comes. We talked about procrastination. I wonder how many people die and this is a horrible thought, but I wonder how many people die and end up in hell that we're going to get saved someday That we're going to trust Christ someday, and someday never came. Fact is, you and I don't know how long we're going to live. Uh somebody last week came up, I think it was Melissa, came up and said About somebody that died suddenly of a heart attack. They were 57 years old. Good night. That's getting in my range there a little bit. You never know. You never know. I have a rifle that I use for deer hunting a little bit and uh I got it when I was 18 years old. It was advertised in a paper and I forget how I came across it, but it was advertised, and uh I went and and here was a widow lady was selling the gun. It was her husband's gun. That deer season, he had gone out in the morning, had overslept a little bit, if I have the story correct, and it was a little dusky when he was going up into the woods. It was later than he should have been. He should have been in before daylight, but he was going up right at daybreak. And he's making his way up. Some other guy up in the woods. It's all movement. Wasn't sure of his target, thought it was a deer, and shot and killed the guy dropped on the spot. Now the wife was selling the gun I've looked at that gun many times and I thought, you know, that morning, when that fella got up in the morning and pulled his boots on, he had no idea That that would be his last day on planet Earth. What is your life? It's but a vapor. Peers for a little while, then it's gone. You know what the problem is with the future? You know what the problem is planning the future without factoring God in? One is I don't know what the future holds. I have no idea what's going to happen. And two, I don't know how long I'm going to live. I might not be here next year this time. Notice what they said. We're going to go to this city. We're going to continue there a year, buy and sell and get gain. In fact the matter is they might never make it to that city. They completely factored God out of the picture. So our problem concerning the future, as I said, is we don't know what's going to happen. And we don't know how long we have to live. Now what are some biblical principles concerning the future? You say, okay, preacher I don't want to leave God out of the picture. I want to plan for my future, and I understand I don't know what's going to happen, and I don't know how long I'm going to live. So how do I approach the future? How do I do that? He tells us here in verse number 15 He says, For that ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this Or that. If the Lord will. Now what's he telling us? I'm just going to be real brief. I'm going to give you what I believe he's telling us here. Number one, I think we need to recognize God's sovereignty. God is in control. If the Lord will. Now go ahead and make plans. We've got a church calendar. We worked pretty hard on it and put a vested a good bit of time. putting a church calendar and scheduling revivals and all of this. But we need to understand that God is sovereign. And what we have all planned out may not fit into the will of our sovereign God. We understand that. We are submissive to that. We recognize that God is God, not me. And so when we make our plans and we do all that, we always keep in the forefront of our mind, God is overall, God is sovereign, God is in control, He ultimately will decide What happens and what does not happen. So I need to factor that in. And number two, I need to readjust myself to God's authority. I need to get to the point in my Christian life where I am no longer calling the shots, but God is. God is the highest authority. If the Lord will, we will do this, that, and the other. My advice, I'm going to leave you with this. Threefold advice as we go into a new year. Some of you, I'm not going to see you until next year. That's five days, you know, but But let me give you some advice as we go into 2016 as far as this coming year is concerned. Three things I think we ought to do. Maybe you want to jot these down. Number one, I just got three words. They all start with C. Number one, confession I think we ought to do everything we can to finish out two thousand sixteen and uh two thousand fifteen and go into two thousand sixteen with our hearts as pure and as clean and everything right between God and I and between my brothers and sisters in Christ, and do everything I can to get things right with God and get things right with my brothers and sisters in Christ If there is sin there, if there is disobedience, if there's something in my life that's out of tune with God, I ought to tonight really make that right with God. And just complean with God and say, God, this is not right in my life. God, I am not right with this brother. I am not right with this sister. I am not right with my family member or whatever, and I want to make things perfectly right with God. I'm going to confess my sin and forsake it. And I'm going to claim God's forgiveness and go into the future with a clean, pure heart So number one, confession. Number two, there ought to be consecration. Now what does consecration mean? What do we mean by that? Somebody, what's that word? That's a big religious word. Consecration simply means this, to separate myself to the Lord. It's this idea, you know, I'm just going to dedicate myself to live for the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to be distinctively Christian in everything I do. And I'm just going to dedicate myself to the Lord. I love Romans chapter 12, verse 1 and 2. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies. A living sacrifice, wholly, accept them, Lord, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. They may prove was that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Just consecrate myself, Lord. Lord, 2016, I want to live for you. I want my life to be lived for the glory of God and for the Lord Jesus Christ. So, number one, confession. Number two, consecration. And in number three, here's the third C. Concentration. Concentration. And what I mean by that is this. Let's just concentrate on the will of God for our lives, and the will of God is revealed to us through the Word of God. And let's as Christians make God's word the focus of our concentration in 2016. I'm going to get into the Word of God. I'm going to read it. I'm going to memorize it. I'm going to study it. And I wanted to get into the very core of my being and let it determine what kind of person I am and dedicating ourselves to meditate and concentrate on the Word of God. Amen? Does this make sense? So number one, let's not presume let's not be presumptuous about the future. Let's not do that. We're not going to leave God out. We're going to understand God is in control. God is sovereign. I need Him to lead me and direct me in this coming year. I want to get things right, thoroughly right with God. I want to uh dedicate myself to the Lord and focus on the Word of God and live this coming year for God's glory. Let's pray together. Father in heaven. I ask, Lord, you'd help us to face the future with a biblical perspective, with a spiritual perspective And I pray you'd help us this coming year to live for your glory. And whatever your will is, whatever you allow into our lives, we'll trust you, Lord, and we'll let you lead us and direct us. With our heads bowed and eyes