Again, I appreciate everyone that helped during the missions conference. Wow, I don't think we've ever had so many people involved in so many different ways. You know those little globes that we gave out? We what was it, four weeks ahead? I don't think it was six weeks. It was kind of a last minute thing. Those things brought in just right at $1,000 to give to the missionaries. Isn't that amazing thing? Just everybody putting some coinage in there And uh that took off, and we had folks aren't even members, folks that just attend Sunday mornings sometimes, packing them out and bringing them in. So uh we're gonna do that again next year. That was a blessing And uh really helped our missionaries tremendously and and I think they really had a good time. So and also I want to mention, appreciate your prayers yesterday for the funeral service for Brother Barron's. I still Still doesn't register in my mind that he's with the Lord in heaven. But uh the service itself was a beautiful service, Brother Mike Edwards preached And um I had a small part, was able to share a little bit. There was three other preachers I think uh were able to talk uh about them a little bit and just the neato thing, the weather is beautiful Uh the huge cemetery was buried in there outside of uh Downingtown, Pennsylvania. And um uh it was something, it was really neat. The trees were in full bloom, whatever kind of trees they were Some kind of they're blooming trees. And uh the petals were just falling like snow the whole time. Beside our car, it must have been three inches deep of just these petals And it was just a neat setting. I told Kathy the trees are crying and uh with them gone and and uh then when we were finishing up leave it started raining and uh just everything went well. So pray for the family and um Well he'll be sorely messed. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 and verse 15. I really wanted to finish up these last three verses, but the other week I was looking at it and studying it, and uh one word caught my attention. And uh I want to just talk about that one word. Verse 15, it says, Therefore, brethren, stand fast, and listen to this next statement he makes. He says, and hold their traditions. Which ye have been taught, whether by word or are epistle. Let's pray and we'll talk about that. Father in heaven, bless our study now of your word in this one particular uh subject. I pray that um you'd help us to understand it and and how it applies to our lives. Fill me, I ask, dear Lord, with your Holy Spirit, and help us be a strong church, strong believers, and be folks that you'd be able to use us for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Before I get to the word tradition today, I want us to look at that other word. We're going to get right into the meat of this verse. That word steadfast, that's a good word. Steadfast. Uh it's in our memory verse for this month. Be ye steadfast, unmovable. How would you define, if somebody had no idea about the Bible or anything, how would you define to them what the term steadfast means? How would you explain that? What's that? Unmovable? Alright, that would be good. You have a rock that's steadfast. Anyone else? Hold hold fast, okay? Is that what you said, Carolyn? Hold fast. Anyone else? Stick to it? Stand firm? Stubborn, yeah, that would that would apply in a lot of cases here. Um Sure, these are all uh you get the idea here. The word itself means this, and it all this all ties in. Means to persevere at something. To persist. One of the definitions I came across was to hold your ground. And I like this one, not quitting. Being steadfast does not mean you're not doing something, but what you are doing, stay at that. Don't quit. Hold fast to it. Um we were talking, my wife and I w talk a lot and um she talks more than I do I think. But um We discuss different things and uh and uh stuff like that. We were talking about people quitting and about quitting and see if you agree with me on this idea But you introduce something in a church or something and it's new and it's exciting and people get all excited about it and boy they're they're all on board and everybody's excited and they're going at it But after a while, the novelty wears off. You know what I mean by that? The novelty wears off, and what happens? When the novelty wears off, what do people do? They quit. They don't show up. A classic example, and I'm not rebuking or anything, I'm just saying this is the way it is. It's been in every church, everywhere I've ever been, uh, except this one. It's up here. But um uh you have a building project or whatever and you say, oh we're gonna do that ourselves. And the first day of the project you have ninety-five guys show up. You don't get it done, and after a while you see that thing's going to take maybe a couple weeks or a couple months. And what happens as time goes by, what happens to the crowds coming out to help with it They get smaller and smaller until there's about three guys and they end up doing just about all the work. That's just human nature. Um and other things. Uh you think of things we've done here over the years, and and I think our church is acceptable. But uh you know what that is? That's not being steadfast. If something if if If God is leading a church to do something, it's biblical, it's focused on the gospel, it's scriptural in all its area, and maybe a new endeavor you're starting. If that thing is of God and if it's grounded on scripture, we ought to be steadfast at that. In other words, when the novelty wears off Because it is right, because it is scriptural, we need to keep doing it, stay involved and stay at it, be steadfast at that Because it's the right thing. You follow what I'm saying? And so what is it when somebody the novelty wears off and they quit? What is that? And I suggest to you that's really selfishness on the part of the one that's not being steadfast. And this is why I say that. As long as it's exciting to me, as long as it's fun, as long as it's thrilling and new, I'm all for it. But when the thrill is gone and when it's not exciting to me anymore, then I lose interest and I move on to something else. Follow what I'm saying? And it's really me focused. It's is it bring pleasure to me? Is it exciting to me? Is it n is it fun for me? And when that wears off, then I'm off looking for something else that's novel. And that's what he's telling the church here at Corinth. He's saying, listen, don't be that way. You've got some good things, you've got some right things going. Remember we were talking before they had persecution coming in on that And they were getting discouraged. And he's saying, listen, stay at this. I know it's hard. I know you're thinking I spoke today to a um chapel service up at Faith Baptist in Morgantown. And there's probably thirty-five or forty kids, high school kids. And uh I spoke to and I said, you're in a unique situation for America. I said, you're a generation coming onto the scene. where Christianity is really being hotly opposed by our country. I said, you're growing up as Christians in a country Not like when I was young where for the most part Christianity was accepted as part of our culture, even though not everybody was safe. I said, you're now where you're outside the loop And if you're gonna have any influence in this world for Christ, if you're gonna be able to live the Christian life, you're gonna have to be steadfast You're gonna have to just go at it because it's right and have a little backbone. So that's what he's telling the church here. Be steadfast. Then he makes this statement. And this is what kind of caught me. Therefore, brethren, stand fast, steadfast, stand fast, and hold the traditions which ye have been taught. Now, the word traditions, let's see if you respond to this the way I do in my mind, in a biblical religious sense. Do traditions have a positive or a negative connotation in your mind? Tradition. Positive, really. Anybody else? No. Well, eh my wife's riding the fence saying both. I'll be honest with you, when I saw that word traditions, my response to the word traditions is negative I think that's not a good thing. And I'll show I'll explain to you why in a little bit because one of the reasons is I'm more biblical in my thinking than others are. But um Uh yeah. But um in my mind, in as far as uh religion and all of that is concerned, to me it had it has negative connotations. And I'm really surprised. I thought everybody would agree with me. I'm surprised that that many people are wrong. And um uh but uh so bear with me, alright? Uh I so I'm looking at this and it says and look what he says, it says hold faster traditions. What you have been taught. I thought, traditions, that's not good. Um and so here's a situation where in in for in my case particularly, we've got to look at the meaning of the word. We're going to look at the context of the passage, and then we're going to look at other passages. We're going to come and find out what he's talking about. In my mind, this seems to contradict other teaching in Scripture. And so the word itself, the word tradition simply means that the strict definition of it simply means To hand down from one generation to the next something, whether it's a ritual or uh some belief or whatever, to hand down whether whether verbally or in written form uh from one to next. In its most strictest term In this most strict term, it simply means to deliver from one to another. And so the meaning of itself, there's no negative or positive connotations in itself. There's nothing wrong with taking uh uh something and passing it on to someone else from one generation to another and so um the word implies that traditions in and of themselves there's nothing wrong with them what is the context here Well the context is Paul is writing to believers in Thessalonica. And Paul, the context is a positive context. telling them, it's very obvious in the verse, that this is a good thing they should do, that these traditions that he's talking about are something they should hold on to, something that they should be sure they don't let them slip away And so the context is a positive thing. Now, when we take that idea of traditions and we look at other passages in scripture, there we come up with uh some conflicting teaching, and I'll try and explain that. First of all, here's my outline, very simple, talking about traditions. Number one, there are traditions that are harmless. There are harmless traditions. Most of us have them in our lives. What would what is a tradition that a lot of people have in their families? Christmas. Celebrating Christmas. And opening presence and all that, that is something that has been handed down from one tradition, from one generation to the next And uh it's not in scripture. There's no scriptural command to do that. It's simply, I consider, a harmless tradition. In fact, I think in a lot of ways it's a healthy tradition. for families to get together. We started, I told you this before, but I tried very diligently to establish a tradition for our family at Christmas And I wanted to pass on to my children and their children and my children's children's children for generations and generations to come. And the tradition was, my wife says I'm a cheapskate, but the tradition was we were going to go out on Christmas Eve. and buy a tree, and we would spend Christmas Eve decorating the tree. And I thought that was a nice thing to do Christmas Eve, that would be Make Christmas Day special. How many people think that that's a nice tradition to start? Five people. How many people think that's a terrible tradition? That vote doesn't count. So we're in Colorado and I explained this in depth and all this and Kathy saying, that's dumb, we're not gonna do that. And I said, yes we are. So being a submissive woman, she is Sometimes uh went along with it. And so Christmas Eve in Boulder, Colorado, we're as broke as you can get. We don't have nothing. We're living in this little tiny apartment, the two boys And I said, alright, we're starting the tradition, I'm going to go out and get the Christmas tree. So we all file in the car in the little sunk hands, and uh we go out looking for a Christmas tree. You know the dumb thing about that is like Christmas Eve they're all sold. There wasn't no we went through for hours, no Christmas trees anywhere in Denver, Boulder, all over. There weren't any Christmas trees. I said, hmm. And Kathy's just smirking the whole time. And so we had this one little plant, I don't even know what it was, a dwarf plant. And uh that became our Christmas. Did you ever see Charlie Brown's Christmas? Did you ever see his Christmas tree? That was ours. So that was a short-lived tradition. Uh but traditions are good. Birthdays. Sometimes you have traditions. Kathy, uh, when the boys were small, we started this tradition. We'll see if it carries on. But she would make uh pancakes in funny shapes Didn't you? Birthday for their birthday morning they'd come out and there'd be pancakes in all these different shapes of uh winning the poo and all And so that was kind of a tradition. So there's traditions we do for Christmas, for birthday, uh birthday thing. Uh up at the hunting camp we went up to, there was traditions. If you shot and missed a deer Cut their shirt tail off. Anybody ever heard of that? It's just uh of course um we won't talk about that. But um but these are these are good things. There's nothing wrong with that. I think it's good. I think we live in a world today we're getting away from a lot of traditions. And what I'm afraid that happens is we lose touch with our Forefathers and a lot of things that have been precious, important. A lot of these traditions sometimes have begun because of something very important It's to be remembered. So traditions in and of themselves, there's a lot out there that are harmless. Um uh And sometimes even healthy. But there are, this is what I'm wanting to get to, this is what threw me a little. There are some un, what did I call them? Unholy traditions And Jesus addressed that. Keep your place here. We're going to come back to this because we're going to end on the last part of this verse, but go with me to Matthew chapter 15 real quick. Matthew fifteen. If you take your um online bible or some computer bible and you put in there uh you uh put a Search in there for the word tradition or traditions and where it's used in the Bible and your concordance, these passages come up. And I'll tell you this, the word tradition used in the Bible, and this is why I'm convinced I was so right at the beginning, the word tradition in the Bible is is condemned in Scripture more than it's praised. And notice here in Matthew chapter 15, look with me at verse number one. We're going to read a good number of verses here to get the whole situation, what's happening. Says in verse 1, Matthew 15, then came to Jesus scribes and Pharisees, questioning good guys or bad guys. These guys are out to take just to criticize them. Alright? So which were of Jerusalem say, here they are, they're criticizing. Why do thy disciples transgress the what? Tradition of the elders, for they wash not their hands when they eat bread. But he answered and said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition? So what is the conflict going on here? Conflict between what and what? Traditions and Well, what did Jesus say? They came and said, Why do you break the traditions? And Jesus says, Oh yeah, well, why do you break the commands? The conflict here is between their traditions and God's commands. So we have the we have the the conflict established right at the beginning. So the rest of what takes place here is a back and forth. Over is it traditions that should have priority, or is it the commands of God that should have priority? So let's keep that in mind. Why do you, verse 3, also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition? For God commanded, saying, honor thy father and the mother, and he that curseth father or mother, let him die to death. But ye say, whoever shall say to his father or his mother, It is a gift by wheresoever thou mightest be profited by me. And honor not his father or his mother, he shall be free. Look at this. Thus ye have made the what? Commandment of God of none effect by your tradition. Ye hypocrites Well did Isaiah prophesy of you say, The people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth and honoreth me with their lips, but their what? Heart is far from me. Now look at this. But in vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. See what he's saying? They're coming. What did the Pharisees do? What were the Pharisees doing with their traditions? They were exalting their traditions above the commands of God. And if the tradition conflicted with the Word of God, they remain loyal to their tradition rather than the command of God. And that is unholy. Anytime anything in our lives replaces God's word as a priority, it is unholy. Even if it's something good. Question, was washing their hands before they ate bread, is that a good thing? Sure, there's nothing wrong with that. But they had exalted that to a ritualistic Degree where later on you can have kids just smouting off to their parents and running the show in the home and and totally disobedient and they said, Well that's okay, but you need to make sure you wash your hands before you eat bread. See what we're saying here? And so these are unholy traditions. Come over to Mark with us again with me. And Mark chapter 7. And verse number one, here is a very the same situation, but we get a little different take on it. It's worded a little differently. Mark seven, verse one. Then came together unto him the Pharisees and certain of the scribes which came from Jerusalem. And when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defile, that is to say, unwashed in hands, they found fault. For the Pharisees and all the Jews, except they wash their hands often, eat not, holding the tradition of the elders. And when they came from the market, except they wash, they eat not. Many other things there be, which they have received to hold, is the washing of cups and pots and brazen vessels and of tables. Let me just uh inject here, my wife, my wife, my mom, uh, for years, uh, when we were growing up, she cleaned houses. I know there's some ladies in the church do that. She would clean houses for wealthy people and whatnot And one of the homes she cleaned for years was a somewhat orthodox Jewish family And in the kitchen, they had a certain section of the kitchen with pots and pans and utensils that she was not allowed to even open the drawer the doors of the cabinet to go in there because my mom being a gentile was not allowed to wash those dishes or touch them or have anything to do with them. They were, I think they call it kosher And so that's the idea here. It's a very ritualistic thing. They were very nice to mom. They were great. Oh, except in this one area, she was not allowed to have anything to do with it. That is the idea here. Those things had to be washed in a certain way by certain people. It was a tradition. And so that's what they're referencing here. Now let's read on. Then the Pharisees, verse 5, asked him, the scribes asked him, Why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the elders? But he prayed with unwashing hands. He answered and said of them, Well hath Isaiah prophesied of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. There is the root of the problem And we'll bring bring that in here in a bit. Howbeit in vain do they worship me? What does it mean in vain? If they're worshiping him in vain. To none effect. To none effect. Okay. Uh yeah, exactly. And the uh the context here, the word vain, uh simply means It's not that there's no result in which there isn't, but he's saying here, you're just putting on a shove. There's no substance to it, your worship There's nothing behind it. It's just an outward, external ritual you're going through. And there's nothing from the heart. There's nothing real. There's no substance to it. So, see where we're going with this? Now look, howbeit in vain do they worship me teaching for doctrines, the commandments of men? For laying aside the commandment of God, ye hold her traditions of men as the washing of pots and cups and many other things Uh you like things you do. And he said unto them, Fullwell ye reject the commandment of God that ye may keep your own tradition And then he goes down about honoring your father and mother. Look at verse 13. Making the word of God of none effect through your tradition. So here we have Jesus is addressing unholy traditions. In other words, things that are not necessarily wrong in and of themselves. In fact, in and of themselves, they would be good. But they had devolved into simply external ceremonies with no meaning, no purpose, no substance behind it, and it had replaced the Word of God for them. You follow what he's saying? Now, I've contended for years that we as independent Baptists can very easily fall into that same trap, or I should say, that same way of thinking Where we get the where we do good things, right things, but we simply do it out of what? Tradition Uh for instance, is it right to attend church? Sure, you are here tonight. Wednesday night, good night. That's uh exceptional, you know. come to church on a Wednesday night. But can you see, could you see where going to church church attendance would become an unholy tradition If all I'm doing is just going through the motions and thinking that by setting in there and enduring that sermon, enduring all that, somehow that is making me right with God, somehow that is making me acceptable to God. You see what I'm saying? Where that becomes an unholy tradition. Lord's Supper. Now here's an extreme example of that, but the Catholic Church has taken the Lord's Supper To such an extreme and such an unscriptural tradition that it is so far from what the Bible teaches that it is, that uh it's absolutely unholy. Now, we don't believe that the grape juice turns to blood of Christ. We don't believe that little bread, piece of bread, is literally the body of Christ being recrucified. But Can you see where maybe somebody just goes through that thing and just does it? And it's just something like brushing your teeth in a mortgage or just something you go through that has absolutely no meaning or whatever? Can you see where that would become a tradition? And with our lips we worship him, but our hearts far from him. That's why I try when we do Lord's Supper, I try very hard to get folks take this thing seriously. Stop and search our hearts. And over the years it's happened, and you know, it's just human nature, but it's happened where folks are taking Lord's Supper and they're texting in one hand and taking the Lord's Supper and the other and they're horsing around and joking and and just going on. And uh what is it? It's just a ritual they're going through. It's just a tradition they're going through that means nothing to them And that's what God Jesus is condemning here. And by the way, some traditions in churches are meaningless. Uh for instance, um we and I don't know why we do it, uh it's just they've done it since November, but putting a cloth over top of the Lord's Supper. thing. Anybody ever notice we do that? Do you know why we do that? We don't know why we do it. I found out why we do it, right? Kind of touching on it for a centimeter. You know why? Because years ago, when they put the bread and the juice out, it would be hot out and it wasn't air conditioning and all that, and they put that to keep the flying stuff all of it For sanitary purposes. Now we've got very expensive lids we put on there and and uh all these things. And but we still put that cloth over the top There's nothing wrong with it. I mean it's nice, I guess. I would use a loop cloth or something, but uh uh but th it's just a tradition. I was reading about one gal. Uh uh she got married and they were growing for years when they had roasts, she would cut the ends off the roast. And um her husband said, Why do you do that? Because mama always did And um first time she got talking to Mama. She goes, Mama, by the way, why do we cut the ends off the ropes? Mama said, I don't know why you do it, but I did it because the pot was too small. And um You know? So Jesus here, even a good thing can become unhealthy. A good tradition can become unhealthy. When it has the wrong purpose or it has no purpose at all. When we simply go through the motions and think doing that is pleasing God. Well, I gotta go to church God will be mad if I don't go to church. That's an empty tradition. Now what is the solution to that? Well, then you shouldn't go to church. No Not the solution. The solution is what? Get your heart right with God. Uh I told the story of the Seventh-day Adventist guys. Remember we were witnessing and they asked why we read the Bible and I And many, I said about being saved by grace, and it's not the things we do that save us. Man, he threw that Bible down. Why should I bother reading my Bible then if uh if I can't lose my salvation You know what Bible reading to him was? It was a tradition. Yeah, he had to do it. Well I gotta do this because God won't accept me if I don't. I don't know why you do it, but I do it because I love the author and the books of blessings and And completely different. The solution isn't for him quit reading the Bible. Solution is him for the love of the Lord. And understand what the Bible reading is all about. See what I'm saying? And um uh so he well I'm not gonna give my play faith promise. The Bible says God loveth a cheerful giver, and I'm not just gonna do it because if I don't want to. Um that's not the right solution. The right solution is get cheerful about it. Amen? And uh man alive, if it it'll If uh if it was don't give it. If you're not cheerful about it, don't give it. I'm gonna give it a lot of times maybe. I don't know. But I want to be cheerful. Lord, you've told me I'm blessed that. And so anyway, traditions. Now what about holy traditions? That comes back to our passage. Come back here and I'll finish this up. We got harmless traditions, need fun little things we do. By the way, what what would my how do you think my wife's attitude would be if at night before we go to bed uh I reach overnight. I like with brother uh Ross Rose and the other. But I reach over and kiss her little cheek and come on No, she wants me to kiss her wife. Because I like kissing. Um I love her. And I want to express her. And that's the way the Lord is. And that's what we're talking about. What are holy traditions? Now look what he says here. Therefore, brethren, stand fast. Hold your traditions. Ah, but he qualifies it. Which ye have been what? Taught, whether by word or are epistle. You know what he's saying here? The context, he's been talking about the second coming, he's been talking about their witness. What he's saying here is the doctrines and the precepts that we have passed on to you, you hold on to them. Those truths, those principles that our scripture teaches that come from God, don't lose them Hold on to them. Notice the last part of verse 15, whether by word or our epistle. I don't think I'm stretching it. By suggesting that he's talking about things that are based on the Word of God. He says, we've written to you an epistle, of course, his is inspired here. Go on to it's the Word of God. And he says, those things that the Bible teaches we need to hold on to. We are a fundamental church. What does that mean? The fundamentals of faith, the basics of Christianity, what you cannot do without and still have Christianity. You have to have these fundamentals. There's about eight or so that we hold to Those are traditions that have been passed on to us from the Word of God that we are to hold to. Listen, our doctrinal statement is not up for uh revision. Follow what I'm saying? It's based on the word of God. We hold on to that. We hold fast to that. Now we've uh uh fine-tuned it a little bit, I guess you'd say. We added some statements recently that we've not had in there before, but we're not changing what we believe about the Bible. We're not changing about the virgin birth, the blood atonement, these types of things. These are, in this context, that's what he's talking about, traditions that have been passed on, doctrines and principles. The preaching of the Word of God, principles for Christian living. Um we live in a day and age where there's a lot of changes going on inside churches. Do you agree with me on that? The mode of worship on the Convictions and standards that have been held to for years. And the reason behind it, I've talked to some of these guys and I've read their arguments for it, and the reason behind a lot of it is Well, it was just dead and dry and dusty. Our practice, our worship, and all of that. Therefore, we needed to spice it up. We needed some life in it. And they abandon the traditions and they've injected worldliness for the sake of livening things up. I agree with them with the dusty dryness of a lot that goes on in fundamental churches, but I don't agree with the solution. The solution isn't abandoning the traditions, the doctrines, the principles that have been taught and passed down to us. The answer is getting the Spirit of God back into that And that is where life is. That's where spiritual life is, in the presence of God, the presence of the Holy Spirit. And so He's totally telling them here, you hold on For those truths of Scripture, don't abandon them, those convictions, those standards, those principles that have been taught down from the Word of God. Hold on to that. And uh and then other places, but keep it alive and keep close to the Lord. I think another good example is singing of the hymns. These are great Bible-based solid hymns. And um uh you know, and and God has blessed them. And it's can you see where we just sit there and just sing those words and it means nothing to us? And you see where that happens? Sure. Our mind's 10,000 miles away, we're thinking about everything else, and we're just we sung it enough. The solution isn't abandoning the hymns. The solution is let's getting back close to the Lord and saying See what I'm saying? And so that's what he's talking about here. And so let's ask God to not let us get in a rut. Let's ask God to stay alive and a fire for God all the while holding on. to the tradition of scripture. Bible reading, church and all that. We gotta keep it alive. Amen for some reason sense let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, not to become dry and dusty. Our worship but our walk with you. How about us So stay alive, stay active, stay focused on you. I do pray that you would inject invites into our church on a regular basis. The old psalmist said, and what is with fresh oil, dear God, as we hold the word of God. I had to bow her eyes and closed. Some of them would say, Pastor Uh I can see where my daily Bible reading, my church attendance, my Christian living, I can see where it would get kind of tradition-y, kinda empty and me and you'd say, Pajor, pray with me. I wanted to stay alive I want to stay real and stay uh spirit-filled. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me on that. Anybody like that uplift his hand? Sure. That's been my prayers. I prepared this. Or don't let us get dry on this day. Father, bless us, I ask, and help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Maybe you want to be on an old-fashioned one and say, God, just put that light back in there for me. God, just uh ignite my prayer reading, my Bible reading, my prayer. Make it alive again, or don't let it become stale. Maybe we can go you and