First Samuel chapter number sixteen. We began last week our study in the life of David. And uh I'm really looking forward to this and um as I'm studying and preparing there's just so many things that I want to throw in and uh cover, even just in in laying some groundwork that um I got looking at tonight's message and um we'll see how it goes. It's just kind of a whole lot of thoughts and observations. I put it together. What I want to do tonight is before we really buckle down and start looking I want to back up just a little bit and look at a fellow that was a key a player in David becoming king, and that is Samuel And uh 1 Samuel chapter 16, I know we read these verses. I want to read down through verse 13. I know we read these last week. I want to read them again. And I'm just going to kind of share a scattering of thoughts here a little bit. I'm going to try and bring it all together and then make a few statements about Samuel that I think might be helpful. But uh 1 Samuel chapter 16, verse number 1, the Bible says, And the Lord said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? Fell thine horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse to the Bethlehemite, for I have provided me a king among his sons. And Samuel said, How can I go? If Saul hear it, he will kill me. And the Lord said, Take an Epher with thee and say, I am come to sacrifice to the Lord. And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do. And thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee. And Samuel did that which the Lord spake, and came to Bethlehem. And the elders of the town trembled at his coming and said, Comest thou peaceably. I think the elders there, the folks knew that there was trouble brewing with Saul, and Samuel was uh visibly upset. We're going to notice that here in a little bit And so they're not sure what's happening. So I believe that's why they ask that question. Are you coming peaceably? What's going on? And so uh then he responds, and um he said verse five, and he said, peaceably I'm come to sacrifice unto the Lord. Sanctify yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons and called them to the sacrifice. And it came to pass when they were come that he looked on Eliab and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him. But the Lord said unto Samuel, look not on his countenance or on the height of his statute, because I have refused him. For the Lord seeth not as man seeth, for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the what And Jesse called Abinadab, made him pass before Samuel, and he said, Neither hath the Lord chosen this. Then Jesse made Shema to pass by, and he said, Neither hath the Lord chosen this Again, Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel, and Samuel said unto Jesse, The Lord hath not chosen these. Samuel said unto Jesse, Are here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and behold, he keepeth the sheep. Samuel said unto Jesse, send and fetch him, for we will not sit. Till he come hither. Let's pray. Father, I ask you bless now our study of your word. I pray that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew, yield my will. I pray we learned from this uh event here, the anointing of David to be king, and Saul's role in that, and what that means to us, and how we can apply it to our lives. So uh please speak to us and and And uh speak through me is my constant prayer, Lord, uh, to our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Have you noticed that mankind likes heroes? Has anybody ever noticed that Man, we love heroes. Mankind likes to exalt those who rise up above others. Maybe uh because of uh great courage sometimes. They spl they display maybe some real extraordinary wisdom. Say, boy, this guy's really smart. We'll lift him up and be a hero. Um in fact the world has the big thing now is and Uh uh I I don't know. I don't like it a whole lot, but a big thing now is superheroes. Superheroes. All the movies and books and everything is superheroes. Everybody is these superheroes. Man loves heroes We love to find somebody that maybe is stronger than the others, and boy, we'll lift them up and exalt them as a hero or leadership. We got heroes Sports heroes, we've got movie star heroes. We've got heroes all over the place I think it says a lot about us as a society, the type of people we exalt as heroes will say a whole lot about where we're at as a society morally and spiritually The types of people we exalt. Um, and even as individuals, the people that we think highly of, the people that we lift up will tell us a whole lot about ourselves, about what we admire, about what we uh look up to and what we exalt. And even as Christians, uh we tend to exalt our own heroes Now, I'm not convinced it's necessarily completely bad across the board. The Bible says that we are to honor those to whom honor is due. But even as Christians, we tend to uh have people that we exalt and we lift up. I know when I was in Bible college there for a while This was back a long time ago. But there for a while there some of the somebody in the school had gotten hold of these gigantic posters of preachers. I mean they were black and white and they were just huge. Do you ever uh anybody here b maybe years ago? Before you got saved you had big posters of like musicians and anybody know what I'm talking about the big posters they put up Well they had big posters that it was all preachers independent fundamental I had uh so I got a whole bunch of these And I had them up all around my apartment and uh Billy Sunday and John R. Rice and Jack Hiles and Lee Robertson and uh had one of Spurgeon was my favorite, I had this big, and just put them up there. And the reason they did that was I thought highly of these men. And uh they were used of God in great ways, and they got to be uh uh somewhat of uh heroes to me The other thing we did was we'd get, and there's nothing wrong with this, so don't misunderstand what I'm saying, but we'd get preachers to sign our Bibles. And even here, and I'm not against that. I think it's great. Little kids get preachers to sign their Bibles. I think that's a neat thing But um but man we went after it. I had a Bible uh early on in my uh college years um that I had a Bible signed by all these great preachers, Lester Rolly, all these guys. There must have been fifty or sixty signatures. They'd come through Temple there and I'd get all their signatures and um uh Harold Seitler and Bob Gray and all these guys and I just loved that Bible. Man I had all these signatures. It's going to be worth millions someday, you know And uh one day, uh this was later on, I had it for years, and and uh one day we're coming back on the bus, uh we had the bus route and I was coming back, I was looking for my stuff, and this is gonna be hard for you to believe, but I couldn't find my Bible And uh I was looking everywhere, where did I put that Bible? And Kathy was writing this before we were married. She said, uh I said, I can't find my Bible. I had it right here. She goes, oh, I gave it to one of the bus kids. They got saved, and they didn't have a Bible, so I gave them your Bible. That had all my signatures in, you know, years worth of signatures. And um, you know, and it's always like, oh that's okay, sweetheart. Why don't you give them your Bible? Oh, we'll get it back next week. It's no problem. We'll just trade it out when she brings it next week. We never saw that kid again. 35 years I've been hunting that kid down to try and find my Bible. So we get their signatures, and we do those and we as Christians have a tendency to exalt people. And, you know, to some extent, I'm not suggesting it's completely wrong. I think we need to be careful about that. Um Are there heroes in the Bible? I have some men that I especially admire in Scripture. One of them is David David is the only person in all of history, only man in all of history that it has been said about him, he is a man after God's own heart. God never said that about anybody else. Now that makes him stand apart. Would you agree with me? I got studying a little bit. I found that David Is mentioned in the New Testament more by name than any other Old Testament character More than Moses, more than Noah, more than any other Old Testament character, David is mentioned by name in the New Testament. I don't know about you, but that tells me something about the caliber of man. That David was. So I would consider David to be a hero. But the thing we find out, and you've heard this said before, we understand this, the Bible never flatters its heroes The Bible doesn't flatter David. He makes some tremendous statements. He's referenced quite a bit. But David's faults and failures, his flaws, are not glossed over. They're not ignored. And God very honestly and very bluntly in some cases records down for us Not just the great characteristics, the outstanding characteristics of these great men and women in Scripture, but he also records for us their flaws. And their shortcomings. And I think that's by design. Number one, God is honest. I think people are glad God's honest. God is honest. He is true. And so he's going to tell the truth. He's not going to gloss over anything. But I think there's another purpose that they're specifically recorded for us, and that is this God teaches us that he uses ordinary people in extraordinary ways so that he gets the glory. I was reading in my devotions the other day in 2 Corinthians, and Paul says, not that we are sufficient of ourselves. But our sufficiency is of Christ. And I got looking up that word sufficient, and it comes from the same word that our word incompetent comes from. And the Apostle Paul, a great man by anybody's standards, says not that I am sufficient of myself, and he's in effect saying this: I'm not competent to do What God is instructing me and calling me to do. Now if Paul says he's incompetent, where does that put me? But my competency, my sufficiency is not in myself, it's in Christ. Christ And I think as we look at the life of David here and others, we go through, we're going to see serious, serious flaws. We're going to see their humanity come blinding through. And we need to remember that God uses fallen man in extraordinary ways sometimes, not so that man gets the glory so much, but so that Christ gets it so the glory so that God gets the glory. We see that all through here. Noah, how many people agree with me? Noah was an extraordinary man. Ain't a lot, hundred and some years he's preaching the gospel, nobody gets saved other than his immediate family. How many preachers do you know would preach ten years with nobody get saved and not get discouraged and maybe not give up But he goes on, he preaches and preaches and preaches, and you know, the implication is he's a laughing stock of the world. And he does something that makes absolutely no sense, but God told him to do it, and he does it, and lo and behold, God used him in a phenomenal way. And no sooner does he get off the ark and Noah fails completely. And here we have that glaring humanity. His humanity is glaring at us. And I don't know about you, but sometimes I look and I think, man, I wish God hadn't put that in there. I wish that wasn't there to stain Noah's testimony, but it's there. He's a man of like passions. Jacob How many people agree with me? Jacob had issues. Jacob had serious issues. He had uh uh you know lying, conniving, sneaking, dishonest I mean, Jacob, you look at him. But here's an amazing thing about Jacob. Over and over and over, God identifies himself as the God of Jacob. I don't know, if I was God, I don't know that I'd want to identify myself with that guy so much. But God loved him and God used him in amazing ways, so that, not so that Jacob would get the glory, but so that what? God would get the glory. The God of Jacob, the God of Jacob, the God of Jacob. I can see God saying the God of Moses, you know, the God of some somebody that maybe had a little better testimony than Jacob did, but God loved Jacob Joseph was an amazing man. And we don't have a lot of flaws of Joseph recorded. I see early on in the life of Joseph, I see a little bit of pride and bragging. to his brothers when he's young, but uh I think uh God dealt with that pretty thoroughly and humbled them Moses had his it issues. Anybody think of uh some of the flaws maybe in Moses' life? Temper, that's the one that gets me every time I read through there and say, man, I mean this guy had a horrible temper And um Aaron knew it. And the people of Israel knew it. And they're like, yikes, Moses is going to get mad. And he did. And it cost him dearly. Never is able to enter the promised land because of his temper, because of his anger. So Moses was a great man. God doesn't whitewash faults and failures. I don't know about you. What about Samson? You know, Samson, it's said of him as much, if not more, than any other Old Testament character, it's said of him that the Spirit of God came upon him. The Spirit of God came upon him, the Spirit of God came upon him. Wow, that's a great thing to be said about a person. But Samson had his issues. He liked his women. And man alive, it cost him his eyesight, cost him his freedom, cost of them his testimony, it cost him his ministry But God used them in amazing, amazing ways. Samson. And by the way, while we're talking about Samson a little bit, I do not believe I was reading one commentary about Samson and And he says, I like Samson, the commentator was saying, I like Samson. He had huge muscles and big, broad shoulders and long, beautiful, flowing hair. Um he had the long flowing hair, but I'm not convinced Samson had big muscles and big broad shoulder. I don't think he looked like me at all, is what I'm trying to say. Um Why are you laughing? But um I think he just looked like an ordinary guy. In fact, he may have looked like a little bit of a nerd, maybe. Because all the Philistines, every time they saw him, they said, where in the world is this guy getting his strength at? If he had big, strong muscles and everything, they'd say, oh, obviously, look, the guy's incredible. He's ripped. But they'd say, where does he get his strength at? His strength was in the Lord. And God used a man with serious flaws. Now, are we suggesting that we should excuse or justify the flaws? No God never does, and every one of these guys pay dearly for their failures and their sins. So we're not glossing sin. We're not suggesting it doesn't matter. But uh what I am saying is this, and I'm trying to s set the stage here a little bit, God uses flawed humanity because that's all he has All he has is sinners to work with. And so we see these guys. I thought of Esther, and you could just go on down the list of great men and women in the Bible Another one that I would consider a hero of sorts in my mind anyway is David. Another one is Samuel. I like Samuel a lot. I look forward to the day in heaven when I get to meet Samuel. That's going to be an amazing day. To be able to talk to this man who God used in significant ways. I believe Samuel was one of, maybe not the, or at least one of the Israel's greatest prophets, without a doubt. He played a vital role in the history of Israel. I believe he's one of Israel's most important prophets. in uh the timing of his ministry and the various aspects of his ministry. And he is, as I said, one of my favorite prophets. I enjoy reading when I get in my devotions. I enjoy getting to where Samuel is given to Hannah in a miraculous answer to prayer and how she lends Samuel to the Lord and how God, even as a small child, God's hand is on Samuel and how he raised up and and uh stands for God even when everything around him is compromising and doing wrong as a young man and then God used him in a mighty way To judge Israel and to deal with the first kings of Israel. So he's a key person in Israel's history. He's a key person in the rise of King Saul. But he's also a key player in the fall of King Saul. And he's a key player, and this is what brings him into our attention in our study, he's a key person in David becoming king. And so I want to take at least tonight and look for a few minutes at Kings uh at Samuel the prophet. Because he played such a key role in David becoming king. Saul, uh Samuel ministered during a very difficult period of time. in the nation of Israel. They had been under the judges and they went through those cycles. Did you ever read the book of Judges and boy they're doing great and they're right with God and God's blessing them And then they get complacent and they get uh lazy and they get spiritually lazy. Next thing you know, they're hobnobbing with the pa uh the enemies of God and the pagan Next thing you know, you're living like the pagans. Then they're under the judgment of God for forsaking the Lord. Then they cry out to God and God sends a judge, a deliverer, a judge And they get right with God and they do good for a while and they're living for God and they're serving God, then they get complacent a little bit, then they get spiritually lazy. They start running with the wrong crowd and uh then they start living like the wrong crowd and then uh God judges them and things fall apart and then they cry out to God and God sends a judge and a deliverer, and man they get right with God and they're doing right with God. And uh you got the picture. Just goes round and round and round. And then Samuel shows up on the scene and things change. And so he's at a very difficult period of time. And Israel, though they went through this cycle, they're at a point where they're on the downward spiral. One fellow put it this way, Israel was drifting from God. And that's true. You read back leading up to Samuel. They're getting farther and farther and farther from God. And then King Saul becomes king. We'll look at that here in a minute. Saul becomes king of Israel, and that drift away from God is accelerated. He does good for a little while, but he gets proud, and then Saul begins to deteriorate, and he takes Israel even farther down with them. When I was under Dr. Lee Robertson, he used to say repeatedly, he'd make this statement. We had a class. I was able to get in the last time he taught this class. It was a leadership class, him and the assistant uh Jared Faulkner taught it, and he would say to the preacher boys in that class, about 400 of us, he would say, he would say, everything rises and falls on leadership. And he repeated that over and over and over, and he became very well known for that statement. And that is very, very true. The influence of leadership on a nation On a community, in a church, in a family, is powerful. And so King Saul becomes king, and Samuel's ministering during this whole period of time. And Saul, like we said, does very well for a little while. And then he begins to deteriorate, and as the leader, a significant influence in the nation, He begins to take the nation with him, and it's a downward spiral. Two things about King Saul and King David. King Saul was chosen by the people. Turn with me if you would back to 1 Samuel chapter 8. Now keep your place here. We're going to end up here. But 1 Samuel chapter 8. And this is just talking a little bit this evening, and I wanted to give a little background to David becoming king. But the people chose King Saul. Chapter 8, 1 Samuel, and verse number 6. But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, they, the people of Israel, Said were telling Samuel, give us a king to judge us. So what what did that do to Samuel when the people started saying, We want a king, we want a king? It did what? What's it say there? This pleased them. This upset Samuel. Uh Israel's going around It it sounds, if you read this and use your imagination a little bit, it sounds a little bit like a little kid. Everybody else has a king. I mean they're saying this. All the other nations have kings. Why can't we have a king? Your child ever come in. All the other kids got a Nintendo. Or whatever. I don't care if the other kids jumped off a bridge, would you jump off a bridge? You ever say that to them Everybody else has one. And that's exactly what Israel's doing. We want a king, we want a king. And Samuel's like, you kids are driving me nuts And look what Samuel did. The end of verse 6. And Samuel prayed unto the Lord. Now look what the Lord says. And the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee. I tell you, that's a scary statement. Maybe we get in our heads sometimes, boy, it'd be nice if God would say, all right, anything you want, you're going to have. I tell you, if God says that, that would be scary. You know what I've found out in my life? Sometimes I've wanted things that weren't very good for me. And God, in his wisdom and his compassion and love for me, has kept them from me and did not give me what I wanted. But here God says to Israel, Alright, you want one? Let them have it. Yikes For they have not rejected thee, Samuel, but they have rejected me. This is the Lord talking, that I should not reign over them. Now use your imagination here a little bit. Here's Israel and they're out with some of the Philistines or the Ammonites or maybe they're with the uh uh um Zebulites or maybe the Mennonites and they're with a I'm kidding, I always say that. Uh I'm just joking. But um and they say uh oh we got a new king, he's really awesome and he's got all this cool stuff and our king, we love our king And uh the Israel and they say, What's your king like? And Israel says, um, well, you can't see our king. What Our king's God. Well, where's his palace? Well, you know, he's got a temple and all. Mean you don't have a king like us? No. And they're embarrassed of the fact that they don't have a king like the others. That's the way I'm picturing it. Maybe I'm reading a little much into it. But God says, listen, they haven't rejected you, Samuel. I'm their king. And the problem is they don't want me ruling over them, they want a man. And so don't take this personally, is what God's telling them. Verse 8, according to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even unto this day wherewith they have forsaken me and served other gods so ought they also do unto thee. Now therefore, hearken unto their voice, howbeit, yet protest solemnly unto them, and show them the manner of the king that shall reign over them Then from verse 10 down through verse number 17, he gives a list, he lists what this king's going to be like Now we won't take time to go through there, other than that I want to point out one statement that's repeated all through here. Look in the middle of verse 11. He will take your sons And then come over to verse number 13. He will take your daughters. Verse 14, he will take your fields. Verse number 15, he will take the tenth of your seed. Number 16, he will take your men's servants. Verse 17, he will take the tenth of your sheep. Did you catch that phrase? He will take, he will take, he will take, he will take. I wrote down he must be a Democrat Sorry. Then look at verse eighteen. He's talking to Israel. And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king, which, look at this next statement, ye have chosen you. And the Lord will not hear you in that day. Let me ask you a question. I want to try and make you think a little bit here. I don't know if I'm going to get even get to my message. I'll try and make you think a little bit here. Was it God's will that Saul be the king of Israel? Yes or no? Was it God's will? No. God said very clearly here. I'm your king. I'm your king. It was not God's will that King Saul be king of Israel. God allowed it. God permitted it, but it was not God's will. Can I bring that up into our day and age? And I'm just throwing this out there just to try and make us think a little bit Just because someone gets elected to office, does that mean it's God's will that that person be in office Sometimes we say this after election. Well, you know, it's the man God wanted in there. Obviously, God's in control. It's the man God wanted. That's not necessarily the case. Is God sovereign? Yes. As Americans, does he let us choose our elected officials? Yes. Does that mean it's necessarily that person be his will in that position? No. And I think here's a classic example of that. Now, I'm not suggesting God isn't sovereign, God isn't in control, he allows it, God can take the worst of politicians and bring some good out of it somehow But nevertheless, don't say that. And in my opinion, we shouldn't say, well, it's just God's will that this person be our governor. It's just God's will, this person be our mayor. It must be God's will or it wouldn't have happened. Just because it happened doesn't mean it's God's will. We see that here in King Saul. And so, let me read on here. And nevertheless, verse 19, the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel. And they said, nay, but we will have a king over us. That we, look at this, this is what I was saying before, that we also may be like all the nations. Everyone else has a king, but we don't, and that our king may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of the Lord. And the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye, every man, into his city. People wanted to be like others. They wanted to be popular. They wanted to fit in. I tell you, whenever fitting in with the crowd means disobeying God, there's nothing but trouble coming. And I tell you, we just see it so often, I've seen it so many times over the years, where somebody becomes more concerned about what others think about me than we do about what God says about me And that's trouble every single time. Every single time. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, our responsibility is not to be popular in Oakland. Our responsibility is to obey God. Now, we don't want to deliberately be rude. We don't want to deliberately offend people. We want to be as gracious and kind and compassionate as we possibly can. But number one priority is pleasing the Lord. Not sitting in with the crowd. Didn't take me long after I was here to realize I'm never being elected the citizen of the year of Garrett County. It's not going to happen. But I sure would like to hear God say, Well done, a good and faithful servant. And so the people wanted to be like others. They wanted to fit in, they wanted to be accepted. But when fitting in with crowds means disobeying God, we're heading for trouble, and Israel was no different. I want to throw a caution out here. We're in great danger when we start demanding our own way. There's a great danger for that, and that is this. We may get it. May get it. I want you to turn with me. I want to show you a verse for this in Psalms chapter 106. Psalms 106. Psalms one hundred six and verse number fifteen. Speaking of Israel. And this is the pattern of their behavior. Verse, Psalms 106, verse 15. And he gave them their requests. He gave them their requests. But what happened? He sent what? Leanness unto their souls. They got what they want. But their souls were empty. Spiritually, they dried up. And I tell you, I've seen it. How many of us have ever demanded our own way, insisted it has to be my way? I get what I want. I get what I want After we get it, we think, man, I wish I hadn't done that. Can I get a witness? The way Israel is, that's the way we are. And so they demanded, so Israel chose Saul That was their people, the people chose him, but David is a different story. God chose David Now come back to chapter 16. I won't reread it, but verses 1 through 13, and I ended a little early in our scripture reading, but uh verses one through thirteen is where God is selecting Um the king. Did you notice Jesse kept bringing certain of his boys out? And Jesse's thinking, Jesse's trying to decide who the king is. One of my boys is going to be king Surely it's this one. Here you go, anoint him. He says, nope. Huh. Okay, this one. Nope. This one? Nope. This one, this one, this one, this one, this one. Nope, nope, no, no, no, And I'm thinking, now the Bible's not saying this, I'm speculating, I'm using Leatherman imagination here, but I'm thinking uh Jesse's like, there ain't no way he's picking David. He's just a kid He's always out there on his own. The kid sings drives me nuts. And uh, you know. And you get the impression there reading, and I pointed out this week, you get the impression there, it's like Jesse is not David, not David Lo and behold, it's not who the people chose, it was who God chose. And so David is um God chose David to be the king. And Samuel is in this, is leading, is leading through this transition. He is the key player. King Saul is off, he's been rejected. Samuel had the responsibility to tell King Saul, God's rejected you, you're going to lose the kingdom. Now he has the responsibility of being the conduit through God choosing the new king, David And uh he's leading through this transition. And that's really what my thought was. I got a couple minutes, so I hope you'll bear with me. But my thought was through this. This is an important transition time in the nation of Israel They're drifting away from God under the influence of King Saul, and uh he's having a tremendous negative influence on the nation. God rejects him. Now there's this transition over from the people's king. to God's key. And under David, this nation is going to change. The direction is going to change. Now they're going to get stronger spiritually. They're going to come closer to the Lord. They still have their issues. But they're much, much more what God intended them to be under the leadership of King David. And saw Samuel He's a key factor in this transition period, in this changing period. How many people would agree with me? Our nation has gone through a change. And it's not good. Well, take that and reverse it under the reign of King David. And Samuel is a key factor. Change, change, change. Life is made up of change. You can't help it. Say, bless God, I'm never changing. Well then you're going to die. The only thing that doesn't change is a dead something dead. Life is made up of change. How many people look different now than you did 20 years ago? I think personally I look better now, but anyway. We change. It's inevitable. In fact, salvation, there's been a great, great change, change since I've been doing. So salvation is change. How many people your life was changed after you got saved? Sure. So change in and of itself is not necessarily bad I often say it this way, I'm not against change, I'm just strongly resistant to it. I don't want to change unless I have to. I don't want things to change unless I'm confident it's good and it's right. But things change, and the nation of Israel is changing. Christian growth requires change The change of leadership in the nation of Israel, the change of direction in the nation of Israel, it was a very difficult time, and it's a very dangerous time. When something is changing, we have to be very, very careful. Right? If there's a change in leadership of a church, if there's change in a job, if there's change in where a person lives from one place to another, they move to another place. It can be hard, but it also can be very, very dangerous. We have to care be careful because Satan will often take change and jump in there and take that change in a different direction than what God intends for it to be. You follow what I'm trying to say? And so uh it's a very difficult thing. And I see s uh Samuel struggling with this change. Now I'm out of time, but let me give you my thoughts here real quick. That was the introduction. Not really, but here's what I want you to notice about Samuel and real quickly. The one he agonized over saw. In chapter 15, verse 34, notice what he says. And Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went up into his house to give you. And Samuel came no more to see Saul. until the day of his death. Samuel separated himself from Saul. Listen, and this is a whole nother subject. Sometimes we got to get away from people who are toxic. Sometimes that friend or that influencer, that coworker, or that neighbor, or maybe that family member, is dragging us down and taking us away from God. There's one of the most neglected doctrines in the Bible is the doctrine of separation. Where I've got to stay away from negative influence. And so Samuel Follows scriptural principle, have to separate from King Saul. He is going the opposite direction of what God wants. So he separates himself. But nevertheless, Samuel mourned for Saul. That hurt Samuel deeply. I'm convinced Samuel loved King Saul very, very much. And for him to see Saul go the direction he was going broke his heart. I mean, he was agonizing over this thing. And sometimes it is a dip sometimes difficult decisions need to be made. One of the things pastoring is you see people get saved and you see changes start taking place in their life and God leading them in direction. And inevitably, particularly an older person getting saved in their adult years, you don't see it maybe so much with the children, but in their adult years, a person will get saved And they've had a lifestyle, maybe an ungodly lifestyle or unbiblical lifestyle, and they get saved and God transforms them and puts new desires in their heart and a new direction in their life And they see these changes taking place, and I've seen inevitably they get to a point where they have to make a decision whether I'm going to go on for God or I'm going to hold on to something that God's trying to take out of my life. You follow what I'm trying to say? And it becomes a crises. And say, and I see it as pastor, and I work with them, I see him, and here they are. What are they going to do? That's a tough decision. They got to make this decision. Am I going to go on for God and make this break with the whole old life? Or am I going to hold on to that and it'll drag me down and keep me from being what God wants me to be? I think that's where Samuel was Here's a transition. God's turning this nation around. God's getting this nation going a different direction. And Samuel loves Saul very much. And his heart is broken. over what's what direction Saul's going. And God has rejected him. What are you going to do, Samuel? Going to hold on to the past, hold on to that which is wrong, hold on to that which is not part of the what God's leading Or are you going to let go and go on? And Samuel, I think, was at a crisis for himself. And thank God he made the right decision. And he trusted the Lord and went on. I notice in verse 16 Samuel's anxiety over the whole situation. He says, all right, I'm going to send you down there and get a new king. And you can tell Samuel's struggling. Well, what am I going to do? If I go down there, Saul finds out he's going to kill me. What do I do? That's the only place I see in the life of Samuel where he didn't know what to do He didn't know how to respond. What do I do? What do I do? God told him, and to his credit, and that's my third thought, is that Samuel is very attentive to the Lord's assignment. He let go of the past. He let go of that from the old life. He let go of that which God rejected, and he trusted the Lord, and he gave close attention to what God was doing, because God was changing things. Now what do we do when things are changing in our life? What do we do when we get to that point where God's wanting to lead me on to a higher plane, so to speak, or God's wanting me to go forward and I'm struggling with something maybe from the old life or something in the world that has a that's maybe been dear to me or whatever and I'm struggling with that and I say, all right, I'm gonna make the break. I'm gonna go all out for Christ. I'm gonna put it all on the altar. What do I do? I I've noticed three things. I put down listen to what God's saying. God's bringing change into my life. If God's bringing something different in my life, I need to be very, very careful that I listen to what God is saying. Because there's going to be lots of voices out there telling me all kinds of advice. Do you notice that? Everybody's got advice. And I need to pay very close attention. If there is something taking place that does not line up with what God is saying, I want nothing to do with it. Right? So Samuel listened very, very carefully to what the Lord said. Do this, do this, do this. And Samuel listened very carefully. The second thing I noticed, he did exactly what the Lord instructed. A lot of people in the Bible got in trouble. They heard what God said, and they did what God said, but they did it their way. Right? Remember when David later on he brings the ark in? That was a good thing, bring the ark in, but he didn't do it the way God said. He put it on a new cart. Solomon, or Solomon, Samuel to his credit Heard what God said, and he was very careful to do exactly what God said. And then the third thing I put down under this was Samuel persisted. In what the Lord said. The first man uh the first boy that Jesse brought out, uh nope, that's not him. Sam could have said, Well, we messed up here and just went on. Nope Somebody, God's got one here somewhere. God's got his keep man here somewhere. Keep on bringing them, keep on bringing them until we find the one God has. When God's leading us and God's directing us and God's molding us and helping us grow, turning us from where we used to be into what we should be and changing the direction We need to find out what God says, do it exactly, and then just stay at it, stay at it, stay at it, stay at it. One thing I appreciate so much about Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church in 19 93 was a rough year. 92, 93. Just was that little period of time. But there was a handful of people that said, we don't believe God's done yet. They prayed and they prayed and they prayed and they sought the Lord. And God intervened. And listen, I I was just happened to be a player in it. I just had a role in it. God did it. And God changed things, changed the direction, turned it around, and gone that way. But the important thing was there's a handful of folks that listened to what the Lord said. Dr. Don Williams, key player in all this. Listen to what God said. Follow God's instruction and just held out, held out, held out until God turned that thing around And I see that in the nation of Israel. Amazing way. Alright? I got all stirred up studying this. Man, there's a lot of stuff here. I don't know if it meant anything to anybody else, but it meant a lot to me. So changes, you know, it's part of life growing up. There was a day, believe it or not, when I had hair. It fell out and I had to deal I had to deal with it And um I listened to what the Lord said, and he said, that's all right, Elijah didn't have hair either. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us and bless us as you lead in our lives and you change us and mold us and make us into the image of Christ. Help us, Lord, to be able to discern that which needs to go, that which we need to let go of. And Lord, help us to hear your voice very carefully and then not quit, just press on forward for Christ. And keep growing, keep trusting you and keep yielding ourselves to you. And let you mold us and make us into what we ought to be. I thank you for Samuel. I thank you for his testimony and how you used him in that important time in the life of Israel. I pray you'd help us. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's somebody, and I don't know, between you and the Lord. Somebody would say, you know, there's some areas in my life I know God's really dealing with, and to be very honest, it's kind of difficult to let go. It's kind of difficult to Allow that change to take place in my life. But I want to trust God. I want God to have His way. And I want my life to have God's blessing and be in the very perfect will of God But you'd say, preacher, there's some tough decisions there in my Christian life, young or old. You'd say, pray with me. I know the Lord's dealing with my heart. Would there happen to be anybody like that? I know there's some things there that uh God's dealing with my heart about about going forward. God bless you, a number of hands. How about it? Any others? There's some areas there. I wonder if there's some would say, preacher, you know I never really thought of it much, but I need to pay close attention to what God is saying to me. And getting in that Bible on a daily basis, reading the Word of God, letting God lead me and direct me, just like He did Samuel, is so important. Letting the Lord speak to my heart and show me and lead me from his word. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, I need to pay more attention in my daily Bible reading. I need to give an ear to the Lord and let him lead me and direct me. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you, hands all around. I just hate to look at the life of Samuel and not make some sort of decision to go forward. Not make some sort of decision. So uh be what God wants me be. So Father bless us now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.