God in his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Take therefore no thought for the morrow for the morrow For the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. I've titled the message a little different than what I had in the bulletin, but I've entitled it Take Taking on what we started last week, the idea of transferring our faith off of one thing, taking our faith off of one thing. and putting it on something else. Let's pray. And um we'll we'll look at this here. Father in heaven, I ask now you bless our study of your word I pray that you would help me and all of us to put aside the cares of the week and the schedules and the issues that we're dealing with. I pray you'd help us to uh I pray that you would open our hearts and minds and we would be able to receive what you have for us here. I pray, Father, that uh you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I'd present my body anew and yield my will to you and ask that you would speak through me and uh help us now to make good decisions in light of the truths that we're about to see here. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Of course Jesus is addressing the disciples. We understand that. It's not a evangelistic message He is nowhere in this message telling people how to get saved. He does in chapter 7, for a brief section, address salvation, but it's not an evangelistic message. And in this portion of the chapter six, the very middle of his sermon, he's addressing the subject of materialism. You notice we've been talking a lot about that on Wednesday night. He's been uh going through here. I'm going to turn this on There we go. And he's been addressing materialism, and particularly in verses 19 through 24, if you remember, he addresses the idea of working towards material gain In other words, I'm just giving my whole life, my whole purpose is to uh enjoy material things and get material things and just uh enjoy physical pleasures and have stuff and enjoy things. All the temporal aspects of life living for that. And he challenges the the disciples and you and I who claim to be followers of Jesus Christ, he challenges us Do not live for material gain. It's not why we live. It's not our purpose. It's not our goal in life, is to get more stuff and enjoy more pleasures. So he challenges that, says, rather lay it up for in heaven. And then the second part, verse twenty-five down through the end of the chapter, he addresses the matter of not working for material gain, but worrying about material supplies. What am I going to eat? What are we going to uh where are we going to live? What clothes am I going to have to wear? And being caught up in that type of thing, giving thought to that, getting so distracted with it, consumed by it And should we come to verse 30? And we touched on this last week. We kind of introduced it. At the end of verse 30, I believe he touches on the root problem. of materialism. And even I think it goes back into the beginning of the chapter where he's talking about hypocrisy I think the last part of verse 30 addresses the root problem that produces hypocrisy and produces materialism. And notice what he says here, O ye of, what's the last two words? Little faith. I think there he is touching on the whole issue. Now remember we pointed out, and I went to fairly great lengths last week to point out, he doesn't say, Oh, ye have no faith They have faith. All men have faith. Everybody has faith. It's not a question whether I have faith or not. It's a question of what am I putting my faith into. What am I placing my faith on? What it's not that I don't trust anything, I do. Either I I might trust my own understanding I might lean on my own understanding. I might be trusting in my bank account. I might be trusting on rich Uncle Um Arnold or whatever. I'm trusting in something. The Lord's saying the challenge for the disciples here, these are saved people committed to live for the Lord, but they were taking some of their faith And placing it not on the Lord, but on material things, and it was causing them to be very, very anxious. I believe the root of all the problems in our Christian life has to do with our faith Or lack thereof. If you read Hebrews very carefully, Israel's problem in the wilderness was their unbelief They wouldn't trust God. They wouldn't take their faith and put it in God, but they put their faith in uh the uh the um uh spies that came back. We touched on that Sunday They put their faith in material things and they didn't trust God and they ended up wandering in the wilderness. I what I'm saying is this I believe the root of all of our problems in our Christian life, the root of all our struggles in our Christian life Is uh is our lack of faith in God and leaning on our own understanding and trusting ourselves. Now I m I made that statement very carefully on purpose. I didn't say that all our trials Are the result of a lack of faith. You can have the greatest faith in God of anyone that ever lived. You're still going to face trials. I was helping somebody about a month ago and they kept saying this to me. They said, uh, things, why is this happening? Well I'm trying to do right. I'm trying to I'm trying to live for God. Why is this happening? I'm trying to do this And I can't answer the and I can't give the answer to the question why all the time, very seldom actually But trials have nothing to do with whether I'm doing right or not. Trials have nothing to do with whether I'm having faith in God or not. Trials come to the men and women of the greatest faith. You read through the Bible And now sometimes we can bring more trials on our w what's uh John Wayne said, life is tough and it's even tougher if you're stupid. And um That's a lot of truth in that statement. And uh sometimes we can make things worse. But my point is this. I think the root of our struggles are Our problems, our worry, our anxiety, the root of all of that is our faith. I believe a Christian with little faith in God can be saved It doesn't take a lot of faith, but I just take a little bit of my faith and I put it in Christ in Christ alone and God will save me. That's not the point. But as a Christian, as a saved person, once I'm saved, a child of God If I don't learn to put a lot of faith in God for all areas of my life, I'm going to be very limited in my influence on the world. It's going to be hard to convince other people that they need Jesus Christ as their Savior to save them from sin and hell if they can't see Jesus Christ helping me living here and now. Follow what I'm saying? And so if my faith in God for the material aspects of life and living out the Christian life, if my faith in God for that is limited, My influence on the world of the lost is going to be limited on unsaved people. Um if my faith is as a Christian, if I have little faith in God, there's going to be little victory in my life I'm going to have struggles in different areas. There'll be a little bit of, there'll be very little joy. So a lot of our problems, our struggles, our or lack of victory. What is um is it 1 John where it says, and this and faith is the victory that overcometh the world? So if my faith is not in God, then I'm going to struggle with having victory in my Christian life. So verse 30, the problem Faith. Let's look at verse 30 again. Wherefore, if God clothes the grass of the field, which today is tomorrow's cast from the oven, shall ye not much more clothe ye? O ye of little faith. So there the Lord Jesus is pointing out the problem. Ye of little faith. How many people would be frustrated with a doctor that told you what was wrong with you but didn't tell you how to get better? Anybody be frustrated with that? Mark Heinbaugh goes to the doctor Saturday, he goes, oh, you've got strep real bad. What do I do, Doc? I don't know. Go figure it out yourself. I won't go back to that doctor. Oh, you got high blood pressure. Oh no, doc, what do I do? I don't know, that's your problem. Well the Lord points out the problem here, he says, Oh ye a little faith He says, That's your problem, ye have little faith. But the Lord Jesus is a great physician And he doesn't leave us without a solution. So I think the next several verses he is telling us how to correct the problem. The problem is our faith is little. We've got faith in all these other things, and we're only we're only taking a little bit and putting in the Lord for these material needs. So he gives the solution. Notice he says there, uh, O ye of little faith. Verse 31, what's the first word in verse 31? Therefore, he goes, okay, because that's the case, here's the problem. All right, you've got strep throat. Therefore, I'm going to give you predazone. What was that? Was that what it was called? Predozone, I'm gonna give you a shot, I'm gonna hit you in the head, I'm gonna slap you around a little bit, I'm gonna do these things The Lord says, you're worrying, you're anxious about material needs, your food, pay your bill, all this stuff, you're all worried about all this stuff. Your problem is you Therefore, because that's the problem, here's what you need to do. And I think he gives us three truths here that we must put in place if we're going to be able To take the faith we have and transfer it from trusting in these material things and worrying about them and trusting in whatever and putting that trust into God. And say I'm going to take the faith I have, I'm going to transfer it over to God and trust Him to meet these needs, thus eliminating my worry, my anxiety, and all of that. So three truths. Let me give them to you as quickly as I can here. Number one, I notice this. And if you want to jot these down, I think they'd be helpful. Number one, realize, I must first of all realize that worry is a characteristic of unsaved people. Now stop and think about it. I'm a child of God. I've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. How many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen I've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. I would assume, for the most part anyway, you're here on Wednesday night because you've committed yourself to try and live for the Lord. You would consider yourself, and I would consider myself a disciple of Jesus Christ. I want to live by the principles of God's Word and by the teachings of Scripture I want to live for God. I want a life pleases God. I want to get the end of my life and hear the Lord say, Well done, Dennis Leatherman. You've been good, faithful servant. I would like to hear that. How many folks are with me on that? You'd like to hear that also And so we consider ourselves disciples of Christ, but we end up worrying about stuff, which is a form of materialism. We're not trusting God. We're trusting in us. And so I gotta take this faith and we'll put it in God and um and so that this worry is gone. And to do that I need to stop and think about it. Wait a minute. Anxiety, taking thought, worrying, that is a characteristic of unsaved people. You say, where do you get that? Look at look at the Bible here. Look at verse 32. He says, verse 31, he says, Therefore take no thought, then he comes back through, what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewith shall we be clothed? That's what he just addressed here in the previous verses. So he restates that. And then verse 32, he makes this statement. For after all these things do the Gentiles seek. Huh. Because don't take thought, don't be worried or anxious about material things. That's what the unsaved people do. They're worrying about all that stuff. By Gentiles, uh let me g have you give me some feedback here. Who who is he talking about? Uh Gentiles, I know what some you're gonna say, you're gonna say unsaved people because I just said that But who's he t who a little more specifically? Alright, maybe non-Jews would fit into them, which means what about them? If they're not a Jew, that means, at least in this context This is what uh unless they're not, of course. Um this what's that? Okay, it would fit that. This is what I'm getting now. I'll get you on the same wavelength I'm on, at least I'll try These are folks that do not know Jehovah. They don't know the true God. They're outside the family of God. They're outside the children of Israel. They don't have the Word of God. These are people that do not know God. In fact, they probably are very limited in their knowledge about God. They don't know the Word of God. They don't have the promises that a child that the Israelites would have. All these great promises in the Old Testament and you know Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. They didn't know those promises They didn't know what the true and living God was like. Then most likely they're worshiping little statues that are lifeless and meaningless. And their whole worship system is materialistic. And so he says, as my disciples, you need to realize when you take thought and you're worrying about stuff and you're all anxious about these material things You need to realize you are behaving, you are giving the behavioral characteristics of an unsafe person that doesn't even know God. And so he's trying to correct this problem of little faith. And so I think he's trying to make us and the congreg the the immediate uh congregation he's speaking to and you and I through scripture, he's trying to get us to stop and wait a minute. Well I'm all worried about this stuff and all worked up and distracted I'm behaving just like the Gentiles. That's what they do. People that don't know God, that don't have a Bible, don't have these great promises, don't have a heavenly father. I'm acting just like them. Listen, if there's anything ought to be true about the people of God, we ought to be distinct from the people of the world. If the Bible teaches anything, the children of God are different than the people of this world. We think differently. We rationalize differently. We see the world from a whole different perspective than the unsaved world does. We see right and wrong. In a whole different light than the unsaved world does. And so he's saying in this matter of Trusting and this matter of faith and in living my daily life or my daily needs, the everyday issues of life You and I need to have a whole different perspective on how our needs are met than what the unsaved world does. They worry about this stuff. It all worked and their whole life is lived. I I have I had a thing I meant to print out. I got it on my phone there. But it goes something like this. We get up early in the morning And uh we drive a car we owe a lot of money on uh for, um, and uh we put on clothes that we paid a lot of money for We leave our house empty all day to go to a job so we can make money to pay for the car to get us to the job, so we can wear clothes on the job, so we can work the job, so we can have a house that we're at least sits empty all day long while we're at the job. That pretty much covers life for an unsaved person. But a saved person, a child of God, who who knows eternity, knows that we're spiritual, eternal beings, that this world is just a temporary place, it's just temporary material things. We're not living for that. We're not all worked up about that. We don't see it the way the world sees it. We see this as we're passing through At the end of this life, when the appointed time comes, I go to be with my God and live with the Lord for all eternity. Of course, the unsaved are separated, lost for all eternity. And so he says, if your faith is little and you're worried about these things, because you have little faith, and therefore, because your faith is little, you need to keep this in mind. That you're behaving the way the unsaved people behave. They don't know what God is like. They don't know God's power. They don't know that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten. Oh, they might know about it, but they don't comprehend it. It doesn't mean anything to them And so they're worried and worked up and going through their daily life and worried about this, that, and the other. The Lord says, no, that's the way the unsaved. Generally, the unsaved people have a very bleak view of life. Generally, the unsaved people see life circumstances as, hey, it's just chaos. It just happens It's just there's no meaning to life. There's no purpose. That's an unsafe person. That's a person who is blind to the reality. Of God's plan and purpose for this world and for our lives as individuals. And he says, don't be that way. By thinking the way you're thinking and re-rationalizing the way you're rationalizing. You're thinking unsafe, thinking in darkness, in blindness. And as a child of God, we don't do that. As a Christian, we understand we have a God that loves us dearly. God that cares for us very deeply. And uh we don't want to be like the unsaved. I think for a lot of times, probably more often than we cared to admit we are Christian in theory, but when it comes to everyday practice, we're a lot like the atheists Oh in theory, oh yeah, I know God will take care of me, oh yeah, I know God loves me, oh yeah, I know God do that and the other, but then we worry and wring our hands and we're sick about this and what are we going to do here and we do all that Y'all are looking at me like you don't know what I'm talking about. Come on. And uh I've often said this, a lot of times we as Christians are a lot of a lot of times we're practicing atheists We believe this. I'm saying we're not saved. We don't believe in God. But when it comes to trusting God for the everyday practical needs, we act no different than the unsaved people do We function many times as the unsaved. And that's what the Lord is addressing. How we respond to the issues of life. Now, I like this statement. How you and I, as believers, respond, well even as if an unbeliever, how we respond to the issues of life is a great indicator of what we genuinely believe. Did you catch that? I claim to believe in God. I claim to trust God. Yes, God loves me. God is sovereign. God's in control. God cares for me. God has a plan. God protects me and takes care of me Get an unspected bill. Ah! What are we gonna do? Shhh! Throwing stuff on him! Alright? And uh that's an indicator of what I truly be. Do I really believe that God's going to take care of me? Do I really believe? I mean, genuinely, I'm trusting God to meet that need and take care of this situation and see me through this trial? Or is that just something I say? Is that just we sing, only trust him, oh is that just a song I sing? Or is it everyday life? And how I respond to these things that come up in everyday life is a powerful indicator to what I genuinely believe in my heart and life. Notice there verse 32 again. After all these things do the Gentiles, what's the next word? Seek. That word seek is an interesting word. It means this. To diligently pursue after. I mean this is what they're living for. This is my life, my house, my car, my clothes, my stuff, my things. That's what their life is consumed by. This is what they're diligently seeking after The Lord says, as a child of God, don't do that. It kind of relates back there to verse 19 where he says, Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and thieves break through and steal. So man, you're living for all this stuff, and just like that, it could be gone. Could be gone. That's what the Gentiles diligently pursue. The things of this world. Now, is he suggesting that we shouldn't worry about that? That it's wrong to have this stuff? He suggested we shouldn't worry about it, yes, but that we shouldn't give any attention to it? No We are to take care of our family. And if God blesses us, there's nothing wrong with having some things. But it's not what we pursue as a life's pursuit. Follow what I'm saying And so I if my faith, if if I'm just putting a little bit of the faith I have, and I'm just putting a little bit of it in God to meet my needs and take care of my daily life issues, if I'm just doing a little bit of that, the Lord says, that's your problem. You need to get a lot of faith in me for these things. Just like you're trusting me to save your soul, just like you're trusting me to forgive all your sins, just like you're trusting me to get you to heaven. You need to trust me to provide and take care and see you through these issues. And if you don't, then remember this, you're just no different in your behavior than the Gentiles are, than the unsaved So too often we as Christians have a biblical view of salvation but a worldly view of provisions. So, oh yeah, I'm trusting God. Are you worried about dying going to hell? Not one bit. I'm trusting God Completely. I know I'm safe. I know whom I have believed in, and I'm persuaded that He is able to keep that uh uh what I've committed unto Him against that day. You believe God's gonna help you pay that bill off? Huh? Uh I hope so. Uh I think he will. Uh oh no, I can't sleep at night. We need to have that same confidence. In God's spiritual aspects and put that into the material aspects. So here's a question. How do I respond to material difficulties? How to respond to the needs that arise and the physical, everyday life issues that come up. Do I respond the way the unsaved people do? Or do I respond the way a child of God does, who has a heavenly father who cares for me deeply and has promised over and over and over again to take care of me and help me. Do I place as much faith in God for my material needs as I do my spiritual needs? And so, all right, preacher, all right, I see it, God's saying Uh it's a little faith and I worry about this stuff and um uh I need to take more faith and put it in these uh in God for these issues. than what I'm doing. Alright. If I uh to do that, I need to remember by worrying, getting all sick and upset, I'm acting like the unsaved. Let me give you a second Truth that helps us get more faith in God for these things. Remember, God knows all my needs. By worrying and getting anxious, I'm just acting just like the unsaved. I'm behaving the way the unsaved do. Number two I remember God knows all my needs. Look at verse 32, the second half of the verse. First, he says, after all these things do the Gentiles seek, diligently pursue after it. For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. That word knoweth there has this idea, to have a thorough awareness of. To have a complete understanding of, hey, I got news for you. God knows everything that you and I need. God knows every situation you and I are facing. God knows every trial we are going through. God knows everything that scares us to death. God knows all about it. He already knows that we have need of that. And the great thing is, all through this chapter, he keeps referring to God as our Father. Your father, your father, your father, our father, which art in heaven. My dad just went home today. He comes down here. I figured something out. Dad doesn't come down here to see me He comes down here to go bowling on Tuesdays with the senior citizens. He loves that. He got home about three this afternoon. He called me up. And just told me he got home all right. So well how was the trip? Good. And he says, well I was real I said I really enjoyed having you come down, Dad. We really enjoy he goes he said yeah I really like coming down there and going bowling I said bowling. And uh he gives you and he must have mentioned bowling four times in a five minute conversation. I'm trying to remember what my why I'm talking about my dad. Our father And Jesus says, listen, here's your problem. You've got little faith. When you get all worked up, you're acting just like the unsaved. So let that motivate you to trust me more. We don't want to be acting like the unsaved. So number two, remember that your father in heaven knows everything you need. You know, when I was growing up, my daddy works two, sometimes three jobs. Drove truck during the day. This is early on. He drove truck during the day. He drove a taxi cab at night till midnight. And then weekends um he did something else. I don't remember what it was You know what Daddy was doing? He knew his kids had needs. And he wanted to make sure those needs were met. And whatever it took, he was willing to do it to meet the needs of his kids. Now we have a heavenly father. That understands our needs a thousand times more than my daddy understood my needs. And if an earthly father He's willing to do whatever it takes to take care of his earthly children. How much more do you think our Heavenly Father will do what He knows we need done for us? And so if we keep that in mind, God knows everything about my needs. Nothing happens to me that God is not thoroughly aware of. I think of it this way, I am never outside the awareness of God. I'm never outside the complete, total awareness and understanding of God. As hard as we may try sometimes. We cannot get outside of the awareness of God. Let me show you a couple of verses. Well, then before we get to that, look here again, he says The last part of verse 32. For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all things. I read my mornings in my Bible. God knows. I think that is one of the most blessed passages of script in all scripture. Now there's a lot of blessed passages of scripture But the fact that God knows what I need before I'm even aw before I even know about it. How many of you let's it's just us, so let's just That let's just be honest. How many folks here ever got hit broadside by something? A need came up, something came up, you never saw it coming, boom, all sudden. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? Whoa! Oh yikes Hey, I got news for you. God knew that thing was coming in the mail six months ago. God knew that need was coming up long time ago. And so God knows all about it. God's completely aware of it. I will never be in any situation that God is not thoroughly aware of and deeply concerned about. I'll never have any kind of need that God is not aware of. Now, I want you to turn with me, if you would, to the book of Hebrews, two neat, neat verses. Book of Hebrews, towards the back of your New Testament. Hebrews chapter 4. I highly recommend underscoring or highlighting this verse in one way or another. Hebrews chapter 4 And verse number 13. Of course, verse 12 is that classic verse. Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit. joints of marrow and is a certain of the thoughts and intents of the hearts. Then he makes this statement in verse number 13. Neither is there any creature. How many folks agree that would include you and me? We got some creatures here tonight. Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight But all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. Would you agree with me? That's teaching us nothing's hidden from God. I put in the margin of my Bible, omniscient. God sees and knows everything. Come over, if you would, to chapter 13 and verse number 5. Another great verse. We used to teach this to the children when I was in child evangelism. Hebrews 13, last chapter of the book of Hebrews. Verse number five, let your conversation be without covetousness. I can see how that would fit into materialism a little bit. Want this stuff, gimming for this stuff And look what he says, be content with such things as you have. How can I do that? He explains. For he has said, look at this. I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee, so that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper. Say, how can I get more faith in God for the physical aspects of life? I got my salvation settled, my spiritual walk with God, I understand that's by faith, not by sight. But man, this material stuff. I struggle with that, paying the bills and fixing this and all of that. How do I get that? Well, remember, getting all worried and worked up about it. That's what unsaved people do. No reason to. We got a God in heaven. And this God in heaven, I need to remember He's never pleased me. He knows every need I have. He's fully aware of my situation. I think if we fully grasp this statement that God is constantly aware of us Totally concerned about our needs, we can live a life of confidence. We can have peace in our heart and not get worried. Oh no, this came up. All right. Alright, what do the unsay do? They get all worked up, they get worried, stay up all night, they get sick. I'm not going to do that. I'm a child of God. And I'm going to remember that God's already aware of this God has promised he would never leave me nor forsake me. This openness, God sees this, God knows this. He's my father. I don't have to get worried. And let me give you the third truth I think he gives here to help us back in Matthew chapter six is we need to refocus Our prior uh let me state it correctly, we need to refocus on prioritizing my relationship with God Refocus on prioritizing my relationship with God. There's a $65 million word. What do you mean by prioritizing something? We're making it a priority It's becoming very important. I'm moving it up the priority list. Look at verse 33 of Matthew 6. But C E First, the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Move that up to the top of the priority list and all these things that you have up there now, all these things Shall be added unto you. Get that relationship with God, your walk with God, your seeking the righteousness of God rather than seeking the things of the world. In fact, look at this. I thought this was interesting. Verse 32 For after all these things do the Gentiles seek. I circled that, I drew a line down to verse 33. But seek ye first. He's contrasting here The Gentiles, the unsaved, man, they're all gung-ho out of just temporary, meaningless stuff that's not going to exist in a hundred years from now. They're investing their whole life in that Don't you do that. You seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. In other words, I think the Lord is saying this, and this is my version, but of Listen, if you want to worry about something, if you're going to worry about something, if you're going to seek after something, don't make it this temporary stuff. Make it your relationship with me. You're going to be concerned if it's going to get to you. Don't make it be meaningless material things. Be concerned, worry about it, so to speak, your walk with me, and make that a high priority. The unsaved life consists of material pursuits. Food, houses, clothing. Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die. That's the world. Food, clothing, houses, eat, drink, be merry. You're just gonna die. Live for today You don't know when you're going to die. You might as well just do everything you want today. Just live it up. Go for the gusto. Just do it. That's the whole world's motto. Just go after it. Lord says, no, no, no. Get your walk with me. Get that priority right. I've had people say to me, oh preacher, I and and I'm this isn't a message on tithing, I'm just trying to illustrate something here. People say, Oh preacher, I can't tithe I can't afford to tithe. I've got other bills. You know what that means? You know what that let me translate that. That's code for I can't afford to tithe because then I won't be able to buy a four-wheeler Won't be able to make payments on my four-wheeler if I tithe. And if I tithe, I won't be able to live in a 16-room, eight-bathroom house 16 bedroom, 8 bathroom house if I tithed. I couldn't afford to tithe and make payments on a house like that. Oh, if I can't afford to tithe, I can't I can't tithe and pay my boat bill at the same time. Now listen, there's nothing wrong with having a house that has 16 bedrooms and 82 bathrooms or whatever. Nothing wrong with having a four-wheeler, there's nothing wrong with having a boat, nothing wrong with having $12,000 dress if you can afford it. I'm wrong with them in and of itself. But it is wrong if those things replace my relationship with God. If I have to disobey God to enjoy those things, then I'm not seeking first. The kingdom of God and his righteousness. And the Lord's saying, get your priorities right. You and I are first and foremost spiritual beings. God created Adam a living soul, not a living body, soul So we are first and foremost spiritual beings. The material is simply the housing. All this here is simply for us to, for our soul to exist in this world. So he says, get the spiritual aspect right. The reason a lot of people are worried sick and their life is miserable and they're so unhappy. So taking the faith that they put in Christ for salvation, they're only taking a little bit of that and putting it for living everyday life. And they give so much thought to this stuff. I would say a lot of us, and I know I'm repeating this over and over, but the whole section, the Lord's repeating it over and over. I would say a lot of us here don't lay in bed at night and worry about whether we're saved or not. I hope not. If we do, we need to settle that Why? Because we're trusting God completely in that matter. I've I have that settled. I know God is faithful. He saved me. But then we turn around and worry about the temporary material things And we ought to be just as confident that God's going to take care of us physically as we are that he's going to take care of us spiritually. And the way I develop that confidence, that greater faith, is remember, that's the way people that don't even have any faith in God, don't even know God, they worry and get all worked up. I need to remember that God's fully aware of what my needs are. He's my Father. He knows what they are. And I need to re-prioritize my relationship with the Lord. Seek first His kingdom. And his righteousness. That means I've got to walk with God. I need to spend time with him. I need to get to know him. I found that the more I the more I try to live a holy life, the stronger my faith gets. Because I understand God, I'm closer to Him, my faith gets stronger, and I can trust Him for more things. But I neglect my walk with God, I neglect my devotions, I neck neglect church attendance, I allow sin to creep in my life. My faith gets weaker and weaker and I find myself worrying about stuff, worrying about stuff. So we've got to get that priority back. Does that make sense? I think if I end with anything, I'll end with this statement. If you're going to worry about something Worry about your walk with God. Let everything else take care of itself. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to teach us to trust you in every single aspect of life, not just our spiritual end. And I pray that You would just bring these statements that you gave us, these verses, bring them to mind throughout the week. And when we get broadside and something comes up that we really didn't anticipate and we start to give thought I pray you'd remind us what the unsaved, how they deal with it. Remind us that you're aware. Remind us to get close to you. And um prioritize that relationship. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How am I going to say, preacher, at least one of those three areas God has touched my heart about? Now it's between you and God But you say one of those three steps that the Lord gave us here, the Holy Spirit of God has touched my heart about, and I want to give some attention to that. Um and I I want the Lord to help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? One of these three areas. I tell you, God challenged me in preparing this. She surely did. A lot of hands around. We can't really do the altar invitation like we normally do without the piano, but maybe uh just here as I close in prayer, maybe make that seat of the altar for yourself And just bring that, whatever the Lord spoke to your heart about, bring that to the Lord. And say, God, here it is. I really need your help in this area. I want to be a clear testimony of Not not think and function like the way the unsaved do. And Lord remind me, you see this and you know. And God help me to put my walk with you a higher priority. And uh so that my faith can be stronger in these areas. Father, you know our hearts. And this old life, material stuff, just consumes us sometimes, and that thinking consumes us I pray you'd help us break out of that and live above this old world and the cares of this world. And we would just trust you completely and follow your directions. And Lord, we believe your promises that you'll take care of us. So help us, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen.