1 Samuel chapter 23. I'm going to read a about ten or eleven verses tonight. We're going to try and finish out this last uh half of this chapter and uh and pick up here things will get real interesting here in the coming weeks as we get into chapter twenty-four, twenty-five, and twenty-six, Eric. Some interesting things happen. But I think there's some truths here. Let me get my mic on, Jamie. Think I'm up. Good. All right. Verse 19, 1 Samuel chapter 23, the Bible says this. Then came up the Ziphites They came to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in the strongholds in the wood, in the hill of Hec of Hill of Hakila Which is on the south of Jeshimon. Now therefore, O king, come down, according to all the desire of thy soul, to come down, and our part shall be to what? Deliver him. Who's him? David. It should be our part to deliver him, David, into the king's hands. What are these Ziphites doing? What do you think? What what are they doing here? They're plotting, they're betraying David. They're saying, hey, we know where he's at. When we were in grade school, we called people like this tattletails. Right? I know where he's at. He's hiding. Now, uh verse 21. And Saul said, Blessed be ye of the Lord, for you have come ye have compassion on me. Go, I pray you, prepare yet, and know and see his place where his haunt is, and who has seen him there, for it is told me that he dealeth very subtly See therefore and take knowledge of all the lurking places where he hideth himself, and come ye again to me with certainty and I will go with you, and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out through I will search out throughout all the thousands of Judah. And they, the Ziphites, arose and went to Zip before Saul. But David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of Sheshimon. Saul also and his men went to seek him. And they told David, behold, he come down unto a rock and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul went on his on and Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain And David made haste to get away for fear of Saul. For Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them. Looks pretty bad, doesn't it? He's surrounded. Now look at verse 27. I like that first word in verse 27. But ah, it looks bad, but There came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee and come, for the Philistines have invaded the land. Wherefore Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went against the Philistines, therefore they called that place Here we go. Silaham Ma Lakath. And David went up from thence and dwelt in the strongholds of Engadai. Something on the timing there, huh, when the Philistines showed up. Right at the right time. I've titled this section here and our lesson for this message from this is Treachery. Treachery. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now or study this passage. And Lord, it's just uh your words so fascinating in these historical accounts here and the uh principles that are taught and how they apply to our lives. We just need you to teach us, Lord, and help us to learn from this. I yield my will to you and I present my body anew and I pray with all my heart, Lord. That you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and uh you speak through me. You be the teacher and preacher tonight, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. How many people recognize the name? Booker T. Washington. Booker T, what a great man he was. He was a genius. And um uh a great leader back and before the civil rights movement actually came about. He was a tremendous leader there. He's very tactful Very wise, very had a lot of practical common sense about him on how to solve a lot of the problems in America. He made a tremendous statement Booker T. Robertson, Washington, said this. Success is not measured by the position that is attained. but rather by the obstacles that are overcome in reaching that position. Follow what he's saying? Success isn't necessarily having a certain position or holding a title or being in a certain position. Some people get positions simply because they're born into a certain family and there's place there, not because they've earned it or deserved it or accomplished anything to be in there. They simply were born with what do you s what is it called a spoon in their uh a silver spoon in their mouth They just happened to be at the right place, right time, and they were able to go in. They didn't really do anything to accomplish it. And what Booker T. Roberts is saying, that's not necessarily success, just because I hold a position or I'm in a certain uh uh uh playing a certain role. Success is what I've done to overcome, what obstacles I've overcome on the route to that, and then earning that I got thinking about that statement, and if that is true, and it no doubt is, then David, we can say is certainly a successful man Because his road from when he is anointed to be king as a young boy, teenage boy, until when he eventually gets to the throne and he actually fills that position It is one obstacle after another after another after another after another. And it is almost relentless We see this during this about ten years of his time from the anointing to sitting on the throne And just overcoming. I I listed down here some of the over uh some of the obstacles David needed to face and deal with To get to that position. And probably a lot of us, you know, wherever we're at in life, we could look back and see different obstacles that the Lord allowed in our life and that He helped us through and He enabled us to deal with But I put a few down that David, that we've already looked at. I put this one down. One is overcoming physical enemies. What I was thinking about there is going all the way back to Goliath when he showed up to bring some snacks for his brothers who were in the military. He shows up, and it just so happens Goliath is out there right when David shows up and blaspheming God and making his challenge. And uh David steps out, remember, he steps out in faith and uh un unwavering faith, and he takes on Goliath, kills him, and brings about this great victory. So that was one how many people agree? Uh Nine foot, nine inch giant would be a bit of an obstacle. Yes. Heavily armed. So he overcomes that. Wow. Pretty impressive. Then he needs to, and he's still in the process of this, but he's dealing with and having to overcome a legitimate fear of Saul. Saul gets jealous Saul's turning on David, and I'll tell you this, Saul is not someone to trifle with We talk about the prowess of David and the and his his skills as a soldier, as an a as a combat soldier. David was unmatched. But I'm telling you, King Saul was nobody to trifle with either. He was a uh a powerful and a very effective warrior in and of himself And so it wasn't some trivial little thing to have Saul after you. And then, of course, the entire Israeli army pursuing you. So that's another obstacle David's dealing with. That he will find eventually overcome. Then, this is perhaps the greatest obstacle you face. David is dealing with a wavering faith of his own. His own faith begins to get shaken. And we've seen that here a little bit ago, where he starts to doubt and he starts leaning on his own understanding rather than trusting the Lord. Later on, we're going to see that again, even more significantly, where he leans on his own understanding and he makes what I consider to be a horrendous decision. We'll see that here in a few weeks. But um struggling with his faith, his faith is wavering. I'll tell you, in the Christian life, we need to understand this Uh some of y some of y'all have been some of us have been saved long enough we know this sometimes our faith gets shaken sometimes. Right or wrong. I know first got saved, bless God Well you go on for a while and things happen and different things take place and sometimes that faith that faith in God begins to waver and it's not as strong as we thought it was and it shakes a little bit Sometimes we maybe even start to question, you know, how strong is my faith? And uh I tell you, that's an important issue And and it's c it happens at some point in the Christian life, and it must be faced, and that doubts, that wavering faith must be conquered. If I'm going to go on and be strong for the Lord. And so David faced that. We noticed this. We're going to see it here again tonight. David faced the failure of others. Uh back there the um the old Kilahites when they betrayed David in the tournament. Now you got these Ziphites And um he has to deal that. And all through and actually even once he's on the throne, he still has to deal with people that betray him. People that fail him, people that treat him unjustly, one of them particularly we'll see eventually is in his own family. His own son turns against him And he has to face that, people that fail him and oppose him. And then perhaps the hardest one he has to deal with is personal flaws. And personal shortcomings, where David fails himself. And we see that much later on in his life where uh and he has to face that. I'll tell you, Psalm 51 is a tremendous chapter of the Bible Where David had failed God completely, but he thoroughly repented. He comes back to God in humility and confession and repentance And he writes Psalm 51, under the inspiration of God, it's a powerful thing. So what I'm trying to say is this. Booker T. Washington said that success isn't just being in the position, success needs to take into account the obstacles that are overcome in uh in reaching that position and attaining that position. And what I'm what I'm suggesting to you is what Booker T Washington said about life is true in the Christian realm also. The Christian realm also. This is this is this is the way Christian life is not. Christian life doesn't work this way. Uh most of us here have been saved long enough, or you're gonna agree with me here in just a moment. The Christian life is not just one smooth uneventful trans uh uh uh progression from point A where I get saved to Point B where I go to meet the Lord and I'm everything the Lord wants me to be and my faith and my Christian life is everything wants to be. It's not this smooth, uneventful, uh straight, even line of uh of uh of uh progression. Everybody know what I'm talking about? If you want to look at that uh that chart in the back there with our building fund. That is not the way the Christian life goes, just a straight line up there like that. Now, uh if you want and you give enough, that thing will be filled up Sunday if you would, but uh We're not talking about that. This is more what the Christian life is like. See if see if you can relate to this or not. You get saved. Yes, this is incredible. This is amazing. And you go, and then there's a dip And then there's a up, and then there's a dip, and then there's way up there, then it's that, then it's kind of like three steps forward, two steps back. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sometimes it's uh two steps forward, three steps back in the Christian life and it's just I drew a line in my notes here and it goes like this. Point A, point B, it goes like this. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That is the way the Christian life is. There's ups and downs, there's successes, there's failures, there's smooth sailings, and there's storms. And here's the thing. And David is learning this for him to be effective as a man of God to lead the people of God He's learning he has to be able to deal with all of these different situations that come up in life. Successes and failures, times uh mountaintops and valleys, smooth sailing and storms. And so he's learning this, he's learning this Now, let's come back to our text. You remember verse 16, 17, and 18, somebody showed up in David's camp. Who was it? Jonathan, friend or foe. Would you say Jonathan showing up apparently unexpected in David's camp and all that he had to pull off to do that, make that happen Would you say that would be a mountaintop experience for David or a valley? There's no doubt. That's mountaintop. There's no doubt in my mind. David was ecstatic. Have Jonathan show up. And then for Jonathan to say the things that he said, say, hey, listen, I'm for you. You're going to be alright. God's anointed you. You're going to be king. David, don't you forget, you will be king. God said it And I'm going to be your assistant. I'm going to work right there with you. And my father knows that. He's not going to be able to touch you. And I would imagine when Jonathan, they probably hugged and wept and prayed. Jonathan leaves. And I can think David's sitting there saying, oh boy, praise the Lord. God's good. Then the very next day, apparently, or a short time after, these old Ziphites turn on him. Anybody ever make this statement? If it's not one thing, it's something else. I'm studying this and I thought, poor David. He's from this mountaintop thing and within a day perhaps or a few days Boom, the whole world's turned against him. Jonathan's gone, and he's got these guys here turning them uh turning on. Immediately afterward, another issue comes out. If it's not one thing It's something else. Let me give you a little outline here real quick of this passage I read and try and see if it applies to our lives in any. Well first thing I put down, and I'm I'm using some words here for my uh outline to uh I'll have to explain what I mean by them a little bit. But my first point is this. I want us to notice the infidelity of the Ziphites The infidelity of the Zipites. Now let me explain these Ziphites here a little bit. And then I'll say why I use the word infidelity. The Ziphites How many people know anybody named Mr. and Mrs. Ziphite? Me either. Well, apparently, back in the day, it was a very well-known family. They in fact had a city named after them. The city of Zif was named. They weren't identified as Ziphites because they were from the city of Zif. The city of Zif was named the city of Zif, because the Zipites lived there. Alright? You follow what I'm saying? So that's significant. You have a town named after your family. Pretty soon. So they were very well known. They were, you know, apparently at some point a highly respected family. But here's the important thing. They were of the tribe of Judah They were of that family. They were a household of family within the tribe of Judah. Does anyone know why that might be significant in their dealings with David? That they would be from the tribe of Judah, the family of Judah, offspring of the Judah, and why would that be significant in their treatment of David? Anybody take a guess? Anybody want to guess what tribe David was from? Judah! In other words, they are, in at least distant ways, their kin. This is flesh and blood. These are these are they're of the same tribe. This is kin to David. So that I think is significant in the fact of how they treated David, what they did here. Now this area zip where they're at, if you come back up to verse number 14 It says that David abode in the wilderness in strongholds and remained in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. So that's how they You know, he gets back with them and that sets up this what the events of verse 19 and all. This w this wilderness of Zeth is was a the uh what I understand in studying it, it was a very desolate wilderness. Just nothing there, mountains and brush. You ever see pictures of Israel, the out in the wilderness there, and just like almost desert. Anybody know see pictures of that? Some of you might have been over there Some of you might be going there sometime, not too long from now. And uh, but uh uh it's just desolate. And so he's out there And this is where he's hiding out. And also, just by trivia here, it's right by the Dead Sea. So he's in a wilderness area. He's out away. These Zephites are living out there And they're kin to David. Now I said the infidelity of the Zephites. Now, why would I use that word? What does infidelity mean? The word itself. How would you define it? To be unfaithful. The word itself means to be unfaithful. It means to be disloyal. It means a breach of trust. One definition I was looking up was this: to be disloyal to one that I am obligated to. Now I'm suggesting I use this term for the Ziphites for two reasons. Number one, they were disrespectful To one of their kin, David. They were disrespectful. Look here. It says, Then came the Ziphites to Saul, to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in the strongholds in the wood, in the hill of that town, that place there, which is on the south of that other place there? Now, therefore, O king, come down according to all thy desire of the soul to come down, and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand. David wasn't just kin to these folks, but David was a good man They're betraying, now think this, try try and think this, see this the way I'm seeing it. They're betraying a good man to an evil man. And you'll never convince me that the nation of Israel did not know what Saul was morally and spiritually by this point. You'll never convince me. You go back before David even showed up with Goliath there and some of the stuff Saul was doing with Samuel and things. We'll look here in a minute. David was a good man. David had provided brave and loyal leadership for the nation of Israel. And everybody knew that. Remember when he came back from defeating the Philistines? That all the women sang, David has slain Saul has slain his thousand. David has they knew what kind of leader he was. They knew the bravery he had displayed. They knew the loyalty that he had given to King Saul. If he wanted to take out Saul, he could have a long time ago. You'll never convince me that people didn't know that And they're betraying a good man. A good man. He was innocent of any wrongdoing. Nobody had anything they could lay at David's feet. Nobody had any blame they could lay at David's feet. And he had been respectful the whole time. Listen, I want to say this. You and I live for God. We try our best to live for God. And you're at work, and you tell the truth. And you don't cuss, you're honest in your dealings, and you work hard, you put eight hours in for an eight-hour paycheck, and uh you have character, and you treat people with respect. I'm saying this, people notice that. Right or wrong. I was just talking to somebody, who was it? Just the uh last couple days and they said oh uh it's one of the guys, uh Stu was talking Sunday night And he says, you know, he says I don't get on a hobby horse at work, I try and work and do my stuff. And there was a guy there he was talking about and he said I noticed something that when I first showed up he'd just cuss everywhere and cuss everywhere all kinds of filthy language But he said, after I'd been there a little while I noticed something. When he got around me, he quit cussing. I never said a word to him, I never you know, never rebuked him, never tried to make myself better than anybody else. Um and uh he says, but somehow he got in his head that he shouldn't be cussing around me. Now Stu wasn't bragging on himself, he was just making observation. And what I'm trying to say is this, people notice when we do right. We don't have to blow our own horn. We don't have to tell folks how great we are and how holy we are and you know stuff like that. And I what what I'm trying to say is The nation knew what David was. They could see it. They they could they heard the stories. They knew what was going on. So when the Ziphites David's there. They find out he's in their territory, in their area, and they go running to King Saul and they say, Saul, he's here. We know where he's at. Come and get him if you want. They knew exactly that they were handing a good man in, a respectful man, a brave, loyal leader. They knew exactly they were handing them over. I call that treachery. I call that unfaithfulness, distrust on their part. Now, who were they handing David to? They were handing him over to Saul. What do we know about Saul? Well, I put this down. He provided Cowardly and selfish leadership. Remember when Goliath showed up on the battlefield, I defy the nations of Israel And King Saul saying, Come on, fellas, we're gonna trust God. We can take these people in the name of the Lord. Right? No It says they were terrified. And the commander-in-chief was terrified, was scared to death to go out against this guy. And um don't don't tell me the pe people of Israel, the nation of Israel, didn't that wasn't in the back of their minds. This little guy went out there and uh in the name of God defeated Goliath and our our king was taken in his boots back in the tent I'm telling you, I'm just saying, people weren't stupid. They saw that. He had provided cowardly and selfish leadership. He was guilty of attempted murder, ongoing. He's trying to murder an innocent man. I put this down. He was disrespectful. Now it'd be a fascinating study, just a little survey of the life of King Saul. But you go back to chapters, I think it's 17, 18, somewhere there, 1 Samuel, and you find King Saul lying To the prophet Samuel. Lying to the man of God, the prophet. Now listen, you lie to folks and fool people, and I'll tell you one thing: you ain't gonna fool an Old Testament prophet He's got God on his side. You know, he's the oracle of God. He's speaking for God. And King Saul has so little respect for the prophet of God that he lies to him. I don't know how you feel about this, but to me, one of the most disrespectful things somebody can do to somebody is lie to them. You don't have enough respect for me to tell me the truth And King Saul is lying to the prophet of God. People knew that. He was guilty. He was disrespectful to the prophet Samuel. He was disrespectful to David. He was disrespectful to his own son Jonathan. Remember back when he threw the javelin when Jonathan spoke up for David and said, Dad, listen, he's not doing what you say you're doing. And Saul goes off on him. And is screaming at his son and calling him horrible names. He's accused him of being a sodomite. And he throws a javelin at him and tries to kill his own son. How many people agree with me? If somebody calls you a sodomite and throws a javelin at you, that's a little disrespectful. Yeah. I mean we're trying to get the character of King Saul. What was what kind of man was he? And this is what we've seen so far. He was disrespectful to his wife. Remember when he's going off on Jonathan? And he made some statements about Jonathan's mother, who would happen to be Saul's wife, and he accused her of being what? Anybody remember? Accused her of being a harlot. He basically said, you're probably not even my son. I don't know if you agree with the husband calls his wife a harlot and says stuff like that. It's not very respectful to the wife. No. And so this is the kind of man that that they're handing David over to He's disrespectful to the nation. He's taking he's taking the young men of the nation of Israel who have g who are been called into battle to defend the country and he is using them for his own personal vendetta and risking their lives So that he can get back at David for this imaginary threat that David is to him. How many people agree with me? That's pretty disrespectful Put these men's lives in danger just for his own wicked vendetta. And so so here's what I'm getting at. The infidelity of the Ziphites in that they were so disrespectful that they took this good man David and they are willing to turn him over what I'm convinced to this King Saul knowing exactly what kind of man he was and exactly what he was going to do to a good man. The Zipite sided with a bad man over a good man. You know what I found out? We live in a fallen world. And we live in a world that sides with the bad men over the good men. When the world wants to put on a show and honor people and praise people and honor people, they'll They'll pull put the red carpet out and turn the lights on and they'll have golden awards and they'll have all this stuff and praise and accolades and praise. They get the preachers that love God and the dear Christian ladies that give their lives to help others every time, right? No they don't. They put it on what are the shows? I don't even know what they're called, the the uh The Grammys, Emmys, Bertha's, Grammys Academy Awards. They put on those big shows. If you'll stop and r and study the lives of those people they're honoring and the shows they produce And the music they produce, it is the most ungodly, unscriptural, worldly, wicked stuff you can come up with. That's who the world honors. And in the media and all that, if they're going to trash somebody and make fun of somebody and ridicule somebody and threaten somebody, what kind of people is it? Without fail, it's the Christians, it's the people that love God, that want to do right. It's the ones that speak up against immorality The ones that speak up against ungodliness and try and call people back to righteousness without fail, they're the ones the world turns on. So what was happening to David, what the Ziphites were doing to David, and betraying him over to this ungodly man, the world's been doing that to God's people since the day one. Since day one. Um the wrong is defended and praised, and the right People that are right, those that do right are denied and betrayed every time. Um when I and when I was studying this An event came back to mind I had forgotten about for years and years and years. I used to use it as an illustration when I was youth pastor a little bit, but it happened when I was in junior high school. I wasn't saved at the time And uh I don't think they even have junior high schools now, do they? They uh they have um middle school. Junior high school used to be seventh, eighth, and ninth grade. Anyone remember back before they had electric and they had those things and Was junior high school, I think it was seventh grade, maybe eighth grade, might have been ninth grade, but I know it was junior high school, junior high. And uh we were there and there was a class and there was a fellow that was in my grade, he was going through, and um his name was Raymond, and I can't remember his last name to save my life, but I don't remember his last name But just a good Christian boy. Everybody, he was outspoken. He had his Bible. He'd bring his Bible to church. He wasn't braggadocious, but he was just a solid Christian. He had a good testament. Remember one day it was study or hall or something, I don't know what was going on, but you had the rows and you had the desks and everything, and somebody, I don't remember all the details, but somebody in the front row was trying to pass a pack of cigarettes. to somebody in the back row. And so they're hiding it from the teacher. I'm sitting, Raymond's beside me, I'm sitting here, and he's in the row that they're passing the cigarette pack of cigarettes back. And so I'm kind of watching this, just you know, whatever, it doesn't have nothing to do with me. And it passed it to that guy, sh you know, they're passing it, and the one behind is reaching up. All right. And it got to Raven And they passed it back to Raymond. Raymond just sat there. Hey, Raymond. Finally he had to say, I ain't touching them. I'm not doing it. He just sat there. Oh brother, are you talking about lighting the fire? Before that was done, just about that whole class was jumping all over Raymond, giving him fits, calling him names saying the most horrible stuff about him. I sat there, I wasn't saved. I didn't, and here's the thing that I'm ashamed of. I didn't say I didn't speak up for Raymond I just didn't say nothing. I just sit there. And the back of my mind, to this day I still remember, the back of my mind, I thought, this isn't right. Why is the one kid that does right is being trashed and ridiculed and mocked and treated so badly? And everybody that did wrong, they're the ones that are that are that are the hot shots. Follow what I'm saying? And to his credit, he never did. I mean, you talk about being hated They hated Raymond. I don't know whatever happened to him. We went off and I don't I don't know whatever happened to Raymond. But that stuck in my mind for all these years And I thought about that. These old Ziphites, they're not standing up for Raman. They're not standing up for David. They're handing them over to a bad guy. And uh so the infidelity, the unfaithfulness, they should have stood by David. They should have protected him and helped them. Uh I put down that they were in the infidelity of the Ziphites, not only because they're disrespectful David, But their disloyalty to David. They should have been loyal to him. They were the same tribe. This is family. This is flesh and blood. Here's the thing, their loyalty was good up to the point where it cost them something. They were more worried about what King Saul would do, they're standing in Saul's eyes, than they were about doing right by David, their own flesh and blood. And here's the tragedy, and maybe more of us are guilty of this than we'd want to admit, but sometimes we're more concerned about standing good in the world's eyes than we are standing up for the Lord Jesus Christ and what's right. And if I take my Bible to work, if I bow my head at lunch, the world will think I'm something. If I speak up for the Lord, if somebody takes God's name in vain, and I speak up for that, man, they'll think I'm a nut. And so the Ziphites, I think, were more concerned about what Saul thought about them. Than what uh than what than doing right. Here's what I thought about this. Contrast Jonathan with the Ziphites Boy, you talk about a contrast. Jonathan stood up for David in front of his father. David's innocent. He did nothing wrong. You're wrong, Daddy. You're trying to kill an innocent good man. Father throws a javelin at him. Jonathan has to sneak out and find his way, find David, he encourages him, David's going to be good. And then you contrast that with the Ziphite's treatment. And man, it's as different as night and day. And so we have the infidelity of the Zipites. Let me quickly give you the last here. That was the longest point of them all. Then here's a I like I always tell you this, I like to use big words every now and then so you know how educated I are. And uh I are, yeah. Here's a big one. The insidiousness of King Saul. Now he had the infidelity of the Ziphites. They were not loyal. They were traitors. They were treacherous. And now we have King Saul and the insidiousness of King Saul. Anyone want to take a shot? If nothing else, you can leave tonight and say, I learned a new word tonight. Insidiousness. Anybody want to take a shot? What does it mean if somebody is insidious? Sinister is close. What? Sa y you googled it. Um I know how this works. There's a bunch of phones out there. Insidious means simply, if you're going to boil it down, it simply means this deceitful. In fact, insidious would have the idea of being dangerously deceitful. It's one thing to be deceitful, you just fool people. It's another thing to fool them to accomplish something wrong And so Saul was an insidious man. He was deceitful. Uh look here at verse number um uh twenty-one. Now I I I like to read stuff out loud to myself and uh and just kind of put inflections in there and try and get the intent of what's happening here. But listen just kind of listen in your mind, picture in your mind Saul saying what he says here. All right, they come uh the Ziphites show up. Saul, we got David, he's down here. Come on down. If you want him, come and get him Look what Saul says. Blessed be ye of the Lord, for ye have compassion on me. What does that sound like? Oh, he's so pious. Oh, Lord has been so good. You guys are just blessed of the Lord. You're just angels. Oh, you're wonderful people. And you've had compassion on me. What does that sound like? That's the very deceitful. You know why he's being here oh you've had to oh poor me, pity for me And you're going to see that in Saul's life. He's constantly being pitied, wanting to be pitied. Poor me, poor, poor, pitiful me. Oh me. And so he's being very, very deceitful here. He's talking pious words. He's putting on this pious show. But what's he covering up? Covering up a very wicked heart to kill an innocent man. And he's playing these zipites. Oh, you're just blessed of God. I tell ya, my s my skin crawls every time I read about King Saul talking about God blessing. Back in 1 Samuel 15. Would you turn back there real quickly with me? Come back to 1 Samuel 15. This is where him and the prophet Samuel are going round and round. And um 1 Samuel 15. Look at verse 22. God had told King Saul to kill the Amalekites and slay them and Agar, Agar, Agar, Agar, the king there, kill them, kill everything. They're wicked, they're wicked, kill them all. And does King Saul kill them all? No. He spares the best of the flocks. He keeps the king. And so Samuel confronts him. And look at verse 22. He says, And Samuel said to King Saul, Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Look at this next statement. Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. Now verse 23 cuts to it For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry Look at this. This is the prophet of God speaking to King Saul. Because thou hast rejected what? The word of the Lord. He hath also rejected thee from being king. Now, comes some time later, here's a man that has rejected the word of the Lord. I mean, flat-out rebellion said no to God. I reject what you're saying to me. And now he's over here saying, oh, ye are blessed of the Lord. I'm telling you, he is a dishonest Deceitful man. He has rejected God's authority over him. Now he's claiming God's blessing upon attempted murder. This is all murder. And he's saying, oh, you're blessed of the Lord. I'll tell you what I thought of. Um you know, whatever you uh A couple weeks ago, a reporter asked the Speaker of the House, Nancy Peloski, if she hated the president. I don't know if you saw that in the news. And she stopped and went off on that reporter. And she said she was very offended that anybody would suggest that she hated anyone, that she was a good Catholic. She prayed. She believed in God She loved everybody, and she was highly offended that somebody would suggest that she hated the president of all people. But if you just go back a couple weeks and she is speaking boldly about aborting children up until the moment of birth. Now I don't know about you, but there's something phony about someone that's offended because you say you hate someone, but yet can turn around and kill a child the moment it's born, comes out of its mother's womb. Dismember it and sell the parts And defend that. That's baloney. That is insidious. Now I'm not trying to pick on her. There's a whole city full of folk like that. I'm just using her for an illustration. There's a heap of them down there. Anywhere you go, really. But that's what Saul is doing. And we need to be very, very careful that we try to use God to justify or cover up our own wicked intentions. And people do it all the time. People do it all the time. Put on this insidiously pious language, and yet underneath is poison. And then notice the la thirdly, verse 24 through 26, the elusiveness of David. Now we've seen David doing this. We're going to see a little more. He is skilled. He knows how to handle himself, but this time he's outnumbered. Saul has him outnumbered. He's been betrayed. He's down here in the wilderness of Zip. As far as he knows, he's safe. He's secure. Jonathan's just assured him. He's going to be king. And all of a sudden Saul starts showing up. And I'm sure David has his spies out there. And all of a sudden Saul and his men are showing up. And if you notice there, it said they had David encompassed. They're coming around and they've got them surrounded and King Saul has David right where he wants him. He has his military out. David's surrounded, and this is the way I picture it. King Saul is tightening the noose. on David. I mean he has them. This is it. So good. David's done. In Saul's mind, finally he'll be dead by morning. This is one of the several situations that David found himself that it seemed like all was lost. You know what? Part of our growing in faith. Part of our growing in faith is God allowing us to get in situations that appear humanly hopeless. And then God stepping in and saying, what you can't do, I can't do. And the hopeless situation that appear that situation appears hopeless humanly speaking As long as God is alive, as long as God is on the throne, as long as God is who he is, and he always has been, always will be, I can take that situation and on a dime turn that thing around. It's amazing. It's amazing what God can do in a very brief period of time. What God can do in a very brief period of time. So David, he's elusive out there, but But King Saul has them, and my last thought, verse 27 to 29, is the intervention of God. And I love this. Look at verse 27. I highlight it here when I read it. Verse 27, let me get there. But there came a messenger unto Saul saying Hasty and come, for the Philistines have invaded the land. I mean, they're not just threatening, they're crossing the borders, they're coming in, they're s they're uh uh burning down houses. I mean, they're in the land They've invaded. Does Saul have any choice? He don't have any choice. He's got to go deal with this. And so verse 29, wherefore Saul returned from pursuing after David and went against the Philistines. I mean, he had the news. He was there. They were ready to pull the handle and drop the floor out. David's hung. He's done. And the timing on this is incredible. And all of a sudden the Philistines showed up. I put this the timing of God's invention, right in the nick of time. I don't know. I I used to like to read Louis Lemoore books. Dad and I were talking about it yesterday. I'd like to watch these Westerns. You never notice them in any of them. Everything is hopeless. The bad guys have taken over everything. They've gotten the ranch They've uh the the poor damsel is locked up in jail. There's no hope. The bad guys are gonna win, and at the last minute the good guys all show up, the cavalry shows up up and saves the day. Anybody ever gunsmoke, yes. And uh but this isn't a fiction, this is real life. And God shows up just in the nick of time, just when everything looked like it was hopeless. I think God let it get to that point so that in everybody's mind it was very, very clear God's in control. Do you ever have those moments? Do you ever have those situations where it's like, man? And then boom! And you can only say this, God did that. That was God. That's what's happening here. That's what God's showing David. So the timing of this intervention, I thought this was interesting, real quick: the type of intervention, verse 28: the Philistines. And so Saul returned from pursuing after David and went again. These Philistines keep showing up. And the interesting thing is, God keeps using them. To promote David. Remember back the Philistines were uh with Goliath, and it was the Philistines that God used to exalt David and put him in the position where he was. David defeated Goliath and defeated the Philistines. Ah, the Philistines. Now God uses the Philistines to save David's life. I'm telling you, God can use this old world, God can use this world's evil intentions, and yet still work around his perfect will. And work good out. Matthew Henry, great commentator, said this: the wisdom of God is never at a loss for ways and means to preserve his people. In other words, God can use you. You're never going to figure out all the ways that God can use to help us and advance us. God will not be limited by circumstances. We had um years ago, I don't know if anybody remembers, years ago on channel three on the local cable, it was a community access channel. Does anybody have community events and stuff on there? Anybody remember that? And uh there's a reunion. The uh Schwarzenegger reunion is Saturday and uh there's a Turkey dinner on Sunday at this church. Remember that? They hit all these little things. I got saw that one day and I thought, hmm, I wonder if we could put something about the church on there. I went and checked it out. It was three dollars to have one screen. That played through so many times an hour. So we put up a little thing. I said, here, three bucks, and they put our little church on there. And I got thinking about it I thought we could put some verses on there. So I got two screens at six dollars a month. We put the church and then we put a Bible verse. And then I thought we could put the plan of salvation. We'll put Romans robe, one right after another And before it was said and done, we had about 12 of those screens right in a row for 36 bucks a month. We had a visitor come to church and um He said, uh, you guys got your own channel here, huh, for your church? I said, no, what are you talking about? He goes, well, I don't know, channel three, it was just one screen there the whole time. So I went home and checked it out. And here it had broken, there was some glitch, and it was stuck on our channel 24-7 for about a week or two I have no idea how how it affected anybody, but uh God can do stuff like that. Um I'll end with this. A fellow by the name of Slim Cornett He was a pastor down in Mississippi, out in the sticks of Mississippi. I mean out in the sticks. And he had a guy in his church that worked at the local county airport. This little airport is out smaller than ours from my impression. Just a little airport, little planes land and stuff. And uh he took him out there and it was night after church one night. He said, I want to show you the airport out there. It's okay And they got looking around. Everything was dark. You know, they just you'd call in when you wanted to land or whatever. And um everything was dark, and he was shown around and said, Well tell you what, let me turn the lights on And so he went and hit a switch and all the runway lights lit up. Just a little airport there and all the runway lights lit up. He goes, Wow, that's pretty He goes, Yeah, and we got a searchlight up there. He flipped that and all of a sudden that searchlight went on. Shh shh And they're looking at and explaining the different stuff and out of nowhere, mmm the stuff. So where'd that thing come from? And outstepped a fellow, and some of us know this, he'd be a little different camp than we are, but a fellow by the name of Franklin Graham, son of Billy Graham, steps out of the airplane and a pilot They said, what in the world's going on? And they were all frazzled. And they said, You wouldn't believe it. He says, we were flying back to Texas From Alabama somewhere or Georgia, we're flying back to Texas and all the electrical work and the plane went out He said we had no radio, we had no lights, we had nothing, we didn't know what to do, everything's pitch black. And they said we asked Lord help us, what are we going to do? And they said out of nowhere these runway lights came up below us. And they said, Praise the Lord. And they landed there. That's a documented event. I assume. I have no reason to doubt that that happened. What I'm trying to say is this, just like David, it can seem like the lights are all out. It can seem like we're going down for the last time. And God can turn those lights on and open that thing up and turn that whole thing around. And our job is just trust him Our job is just to keep doing right. Our job is to keep trusting the Lord. Keep following his instructions. Live by his word. Be a witness And God will take care of us. Amen. Father in heaven, please bless now and help us to learn from this. I pray your Holy Spirit would apply this to our lives. Some of us are in situations that seem awfully dark, seems like the noose is tightening around our neck. But Lord, we know you're in control and we want to trust you. We want to do right and have faith in you. And I just ask you would help us. Our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I need the Lord to help me. I got a situation. I really need the Lord to help me. Any like that? Maybe you're not out in the wilderness somewhere, but you got something you need, God, to help you. Any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you Hands around. Let's just trust the Lord in that thing. Father, bless our invitation. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. James playing the invitation hymn. If you need to, you like to come hit an old