That is a good old song, the unclouded day. Hebrews chapter 11 We're glad that Sam Thomas made it back home. He was down south. He was in uh, I'm not sure if I have this correct, but it was a Air Force, Navy training camp type thing for potential pilots in the US military. Sam Thomas, isn't that something? And so he gets trained, gets that, we'll hire him on staff here. It'll be our staff airline pilot and uh he can fly us around but uh pretty neat pictures you ought to check it out pretty neat thing that uh Sam I was able to do this past week. Uh Hebrews chapter eleven. How many folks, now be honest, we're in church, so don't lie. Uh how many folks complained about the heat this week Come on now. Confession time. Complained about the heat this week. You know what I've been doing this week? I've been getting out pictures of last winter and the winter before. And looking at them, and uh just keep that in mind. We are not far away. Uh there is a preacher. How many people know what a circuit riding preacher is? You know, they used to have a bunch of churches and they'd make their circuit. Years ago in North Dakota And uh this guy, he was an old guy, and he'd go around, and the church members were amazed that he could always find something positive, no matter what happened, what was going on, he'd have something positive about it. Well it was one Sunday morning. uh in gen in in December and uh he was making his way to the church in North Dakota, December, it is bitter cold. He got there an hour late because the snow drifts were so high, and uh everyone's saying there is no way in the world uh the preacher is going to have anything positive to say about this. It's bitter cold. snowstorm, drifts, late, uh, everybody's miserable. And so he got there and he began the service, and this is what he prayed. Gracious Lord, we thank you that all days are not like today. So uh we praise the Lord for uh not all days are like uh some of the bad days we've had. I thought that was funnier than what you left, but uh I thought it was pretty good. Hebrews chapter 11. I want you to notice with me verse number 31. We're in the midst of our Summer of Faith sermon series And uh we've been preaching on faith and different instances of faith expressed throughout the Bible. And today we're going to look at this woman by the name of Rahab Look at verse 31. By faith, the harlot, Rahab, perish not with them that believe not. When she had received the spies with peace. I've entitled the message, Triumphant Faith. Triumphant Faith. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father. Thank you for good service this morning and thank you for the music. The song special was a blessing, the choir. Lord, we've had a good Sunday school hour, and the fellowship has been sweet. Lord, I just pray now that you would calm our hearts. Lord, help us to push out the thoughts and concerns of the coming week and cares of this life and other things going on. and open our hearts and minds to your word and your will for us as individuals. I yield my body and my will to you, Lord. Present my body. I ask you'd fill me again this hour With your Holy Spirit, I pray you would be our preacher. I pray that you would speak through me, apply the Word of God. Lord, we have a lot of different circumstances. We come from innumerable different backgrounds. Only you can take these truths and make them fit into our lives the way they need to. So please do that this hour, I pray, Lord, and have your way. Help us to be submissive and yield it. To your leadership. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. You're probably familiar. The book of Hebrews, chapter 11, has been called by many God's Hall of Fame As that's listed down through here, these great men and women of the Bible. I like the term that's often been used for it. Rather than God's Hall of Fame, I like the term God's Hall of Faith And you'll find that little phrase throughout the chapter, throughout chapter 11, by faith, by faith, by faith, through faith. Through faith. In fact, I took a red pen and a yellow highlighter, and I went through the entire chapter and I circled and highlighted that phrase by faith or through faith, as every time it's used in this chapter, and uh it's uh uh several dozen times it's used through here. Um is a lengthy list Of men and women who, through simple faith in God, saw God do some extraordinary things in their life. Just everyday people. If you look at this less carefully, you find folks from all categories of society. You have in Moses the son, the adopted son of a Pharaoh. You have a farmer. You have a wealthy businessman. You have a prophet. You have peasants. You have a prostitute who exercised faith in God, just simple faith And God did amazing things in their lives and through their lives. Now, as I got studying this, and I never really gave this thought before, at least not thoroughly. I got looking at this and I examined what the Bible said about these individual people's faith. What did it say about their faith? And I found something. Nowhere in this tremendous list does God say anything about their faith being anything extraordinary. It doesn't talk about the greatness of their faith. The list here does not deal with the strength of their faith or how much faith they had. It just simply says they exercised faith. Doesn't say it was great faith or small faith. Doesn't say it was strong faith or weak faith Doesn't say anything about it being extraordinary faith. Just somebody taking God at his word, believing him, and trusting God. And God did amazing things. Again, nowhere here is there faith spoken of as anything extraordinary. It was just simple faith in an extraordinary God. That brought great triumph in their lives. We go down through this list, we find that through faith, some of these folks had triumph over death. Dead were brought back to life. I think of Enoch, who by faith was no more. God took him. You find they uh through faith they triumphed over physical weaknesses Sarah, in her old age, giving birth to a child. They overcame apparent insanity. You say, where in the world in the book of Hebrews do you find apparent insanity? I thought of Abraham sacrificing his son. Now you think about that. You take it out of the context here and put it in some other context, and you have a man tying his son to an altar That's a that he's going to stab his son and burn his body to God, you'd say that guy's insane But nevertheless, he trusted God, he did what God said, and here we are today, thousands of years later, seeing God apply it to our life and teaching us to trust God. So there's nothing extraordinary about these people's faith. Just they have no more or stronger faith than what you and I do here in this service this morning. Just people of all walks of life who simply believed what God said And they saw God do amazing things. Now, in verse number 31, we have a triumph. We have a triumph of faith over a horrendous sin. Notice what the Bible does not say here in verse 31. By faith Rahab perish not with them that believe not. The Bible doesn't say that, does it? The Bible says, by faith the Harlot Rahat. Now why would God do that? Why would God attach to this woman's name The term harlot. You say, well, she was one. We read in Joshua, you go back there and find out in the city of Jericho. She was in that perfection. That's what she was. But God was complimenting her here. God's using her as an example for you and I, and he refers to her as a harlot. Why does he have to bring that up? Why does he have to point that out? Why is that a factor in her exercising faith in God? Well, to be a harlot, then, as it still is today To be a harlot is about as low as a person can go morally. You cannot get much lower on the scale of morality Than that of harlotry, whoredom, prostitution. Now Hollywood likes to glamorize it Huh? Rock and roll likes to uh celebrate that lifestyle, that mentality, that degradation. But in reality is it is a horrendous sin. It is a horrendous lifestyle It is, as I said, about as low as a person can go morally. Now, let me just inject this here. To be a whore monger is equally as low. Sometimes we'll stigmatize the woman in that profession, that horrendous profession, that perverse profession But the fellas that do business are just as low as that, morally. Huh? And so, God takes this woman, Rahab, who at one point in her life, for a period of time, was a harlot. And he attaches that title to her name here in the book of Hebrews. I want to suggest to you that one of the reasons, perhaps, that God did that. Was to illustrate to you and I that God, if we put our faith in God, He can save us from even the most horrendous decisions we have made in our lives God can save us from the lowest depths that a person can do and turn that life around and make something significant out of that person. I've had people say to me over the years, Preacher, I'd be saved, I would get saved, but you don't know how bad I've blown it You don't know how low I've gone. You don't know uh all that I've done. And uh I don't believe God would ever save somebody like me. Rahab is an illustration of the mercy and grace of God to save even the worst of souls and give them new life in Christ. Rahab the harlot is in God's Hall of Fame. God's Hall of Faith. She is used of God. to be an example for you and I how we can trust God and have faith in him and see him do some great things I'd like to suggest to you that the salvation, that the forgiveness of sins and the salvation of sin is a greater triumph than even that of being saved from physical ailment. It is greater to be saved from my sins and God's judgment on my sin than it is to be to be saved from the disease of cancer. To be saved in some horrendous car wreck. Suppose a person develops cancer, and as awful as that is, I'm not trying to l make light of it. But if a person develops cancer and they're miraculously healed and somehow uh God does a wonderful thing and they come back from that, but they never trust Christ as Savior and they die and go to hell. Wouldn't that still be a tragedy? How far better it would be to be saved from my sins and maybe die of that cancer and have eternal life with the Lord in heaven. I'm suggesting to you the salvation of a soul is a greater triumph than the healing of the body. You read through the Gospels and you find Jesus uh echoes that same sediment, I believe, when he said on a number of occasions He would say to a man who was sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. And the Pharisees would ridicule and say, Oh, who can forgive sins but God only? And Jesus says What is easier to say unto a man, thy sins are forgiven thee, or rise up and walk? So that ye may believe that the Son of God has power on earth to forgive sins. I say unto you, rise and walk again. And the man would be healed. You know what Jesus was saying? It takes more of the power of God, it takes more of the grace and goodness of God to save a sinner from their sins. than it is to heal a body from sickness. So here we have this woman named Rahab, identified as Rahab the harlot. Now, I got looking at this and studying down through here, and uh it began to dawn on me. This is a strange person to be using as an example. I don't know about you. I doubt that I would call upon someone such as this woman and have them stand up and say, All right, I want to show you somebody that God can use in your life. And I got looking through the Bible, and you know what I found out? I found that God often will use some very unappealing people. To teach us lessons about Himself. Sometimes God will use folks that the world would just cast away. That the world would say, oh, what a failure in life, what a disaster. And yet God will take that one and set them up and say, hey, let me show you what I can do with a life that will simply trust me. Keep your place here. We're going to look at this, but I want to illustrate this with scripture. If you would turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. I reference this passage often. It is one of the most encouraging passages that I find in the Bible, especially concerning my role in the ministry. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. And I'd like for you to turn there and see for yourself, verse 26. Paul was speaking under the inspiration of God. Hey Sam, can I get you to turn the monitors just a bit? I feel like I'm straining here a little. Paul is writing, of course, under the inspiration of God. He's expressing the people, he's illustrating here, explaining the types of people that God wants to use Now notice what he says in verse 26. For ye see your calling, brethren. The term brethren tells me he's talking to saved people. For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty men, not many what Noble. Would you agree with me? Rahab was not what you would call a noble woman. Right? Would you agree with me on that? She's a harlot. There's nothing noble about that. There's nothing, uh, boy, being an independent, fundamental, narrow-minded, hard-headed preacher, I'm really tempted to stop there and preach about that. There is nothing noble about immorality. There is nothing noble about fornication. About perversion and sensuality. There's nothing noble about that. It is a shame on the United States of America that they're taking porn stars and trying to make them some sort of role models. There's nothing noble about this lifestyle. And so God says, look what he says here. He says, For you see your calling, brethren, not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty. Not many noble are called, but God hath chosen what? The foolish things of the world God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. The base things of the world, the things which are despised. hath God chosen, yea, things which are not, to bring to naught things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. Look at verse 31. That according as it is written, he that gloryeth, let him glory. In the Lord. God says, Hey, there is nothing in Rahab of herself. There's nothing in and of herself that she has anything to glory in. She has no righteousness of her own, even in the world's moral standards, she has no righteousness of her own. She has nothing to proclaim herself. She has no works to offer. She has nothing. She has totally blown it. She has totally destroyed her life. There's not a mother in the world that would be proud of her daughter becoming what Rahab became Yet, God says, someone like that, if they will simply put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, I can do great things. I can do great things. God uses unpleasant people, unappealing people sometimes to illustrate and display his glory and his power and his grace. Hey, somebody comes walking through that door, and they don't look all that we think a Christian ought to look like. Let's just stop and remember what God is able to do in the life of a person. We drive down the street, and that guy's disheveled, and you say, oh, what a loser! You know what? That's the kind of person God specializes in transforming. So, God uses, sometimes uses unappealing people to reveal his grace and his power Now, what can God teach us? Come back here. What can God teach us from Rahab's faith? Our Summer of Faith series What can we learn about faith from this woman? Well, several things. Let me give them to you as quickly as I can. Number one, she had what I'm calling scriptural faith. She had scriptural faith. People, we live in a world where people put their faith in many strange things. We live in a world where people put their faith in all kinds of false gods. You don't uh Andrea goes over to India often. India has many strange and false gods. We're in Mongolia a number of years ago on a mission trip with Brother Keen, and uh Mongolia has some strange false god, Shintuism, and they play to the mountains and to the birds and the spirits And many strange things. We live in a world where people will put their faith into some strange things. For instance, faith in false gods. Sometimes people put their faith in I put it this way, fantastic imaginations. We lived in Boulder, Colorado for a few years working with the ministry there. And um I was uh we're at the ch uh training building, the church building there. I was intern pastor for a little bit, and we did our Bible time training and we had a church going on there. And um there's this fellow walking across the parking lot just as I happen to come walking out of the offices. And he's walking across there and he's a young man, probably college age, and he's got a skateboard and all these things And so I had some tracks in my pocketbooks. I said, hey, excuse me. Yeah. I went over and said, hey, I'd like to leave a little gospel track with you. And um I gotta get it out of my little gospel track pocket holder here And uh it's a little mini one. And uh I didn't do that then, but I just did now. And uh I said, hey, can I leave a gospel track with you? Tell you how you can know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven He goes, uh, yeah, sure. I said, do do you do you have that settled? Do you give that any thought at all about heaven and hell and where you're going to go when you die? He goes, Oh yeah, I know exactly where I'm going when you die when I die. I said, really? Where is that? Uh he said, I'm going to planet Garbanzo or something, I don't know, he came up with some name. I said, really? And uh my first thought was he's being a smart aleck And uh I said, really? And uh where's that at? And he started giving me coordinates in the universe. I thought, wait a minute, this guy's thought this through And he started telling me about this planet and all these things. And they did skateboarding on this planet. And he and he had this all thought out, and he had it all planned out that when he died, this is actually where our life came from and all this And uh, you know, I showed the guy's verses in the Bible. He stood there with me, went through the plan of salvation, I did everything I could, and when he walked away, he was still convinced he's going to Garbanzo Planet Faith in his imagination. Unshakable faith on something he just came up with. Isn't that tragic? I was watching the History Channel this week. Well, I think it was Wednesday night after church or one night this week, and they were talking about origins. I think it was a history channel. And they had a evolutionist They were talking about DNA and the makeup of DNA and the language of it, and I don't remember the statistics. It was a very small Statistic, we only understand if I want to I want to say 14% of the information in the DNA makeup and all of that. And this is what caught my attention This evolutionist said there is no way that the structure of a DNA strain, a DNA Thing. There's no way that that could just happen by chance. Now I'm quoting an evolutionist He said you have a better chance, it is more likely, that you would have a 747 after a tornado goes through a junkyard than you could have the DNA makeup happen no matter how many billions of years He said, it is statistically impossible for that to happen. I thought, wow, that guy sounds like a creationist. You know what his answer was? Millions of years ago, early in the evolutionary process, aliens visited the planet. And they injected into the genetic makeup of life this design. They designed it and they were reproducing themselves. And if you want to know what an alien looks like, he looks like you and I. We are the offspring of aliens millions of years ago Now my first thought was this, how in the world can you believe something as fanciful as that, but yet not believe the simple thing, God created what we are? Faith in fantastic imaginations. Faith in false gods. I put this one down. A lot of people have faith in just downright foolishness. Foolishness. In other words, and I'm talking about professing Christians here, people who put their faith People who have an unscriptural faith. In other words, faith in promises God never made. Trusting God for things that God never promised us. Um Anything outside of Scripture is an unstable basis for faith. You say, well, I believe God would do this. I believe I'm claiming that God will do this for me. Listen, if I don't have a scriptural promise, I have no basis to make that claim. You follow what I'm saying? There are folks claiming God's promise to make everybody rich. Problem is, God never promised to make everybody rich. That's not in the Bible. That's foolishness. Well, it's not God's will ever for a Christian to be sick. That is not scriptural. You won't find that in the Bible. That is a person putting their faith in foolishness. That is not a promise God has made. And so we need to be very careful when we're talking about having faith in God That my faith is scriptural faith. I'm trusting in things God has actually promised me. I'm holding on to things that God has actually said Not what I think he said, not what I would like for him to say, not what some crackbot preacher said that God said, but what God actually says. Scriptural faith. Um, oh God, it's never God's will for anyone to be sick. Show me that in the Bible. You can't find that. Look here in Hebrews chapter 11. Look at verse 32. We stopped reading at verse 31, Rahab the hard. Look at verse 32. And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell of Gideon and of Barak and of Samson and of Jephthah and of David also and Samuel and the prophet who through faith, look at this, subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions. quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. Ah, there's where those aliens come in. I just realized that. uh uh turned to flight the armies of the aliens, women received their life, uh uh their their dead raised to life again. You know what? I read that and I find that some people through faith Saw God prevail over sickness, death, and difficulty. So praise God for that. But it doesn't end there. Let's read on. Look at verse number 35, where I quit. And others, oh others, were what? Tortured, not accepting deliverance That they might obtain a better resurrection. Wait a minute. Through faith Come back up to verse number 33. Some people through faith were tortured. Because of their confidence that what God said was true. Because of their faith in the word and instructions of God They refused to let go. They refused to not trust Christ. They refused to go back. And this whole world tortured them because of their faith. Don't tell me it is never God's will for a Christian to go through difficulty and trials and heartaches, because here we have some people who, because of their faith, were tortured. And to say otherwise is unscriptural. Rahab had scriptural faith. It wasn't claiming promises that God never made. And when we trust God We believe, we understand, that that may mean God will deliver me from this difficulty, or it may mean that I have greater difficulties because of God. But nevertheless, I'm going to trust God. If I'm delivered, I'm going to trust God. If I'm tortured, I'm going to trust God. But let's read on. Now remember verse 33: who through faith they subdued all this stuff, they had triumph over it. Verse 35: others through faith were tortured. But look at verse 36. And others, here's another category, through faith had trial of cruel mockings. and scourgings. Yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonments. They were stoned. They were sawn asunder. They were tempted. They were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented. All because of their faith. If they said, no, I'm not going to do what God says. No, I'm not going to obey the Bible. They could have avoided some of that But because of their faith in God, because of their commitment to the Word of God, they paid a heavy price. It cost them dearly. In fact, it implies here that because of their faith they perished. The longer I study the Bible, the more I The more I became a Baptist, I guess you could say. My understanding of the scriptures and my understanding of the Baptist position, it's the closest thing to scriptures I can find I'm just being very honest with you. If I could find a doctrinal position closer to Scripture than what Baptist is, I would become whatever that is. My loyalty is to the scriptures I'm a Baptist because of that conviction that it's the closest to the scriptures. You follow what I'm saying? Now, here's what I'm getting at. Our Baptist forefathers have paid some horrendous prices because of their faith in God. They were burned at the stake. They were tortured. They went to foreign mission fields, buried wife after wife after wife, and died. because of the sicknesses of them being on a mission field trying to preach people for Christ. Their children died. John Bunyan, because of his faith in God and his commitment to the Word of God was imprisoned while his blind daughter stood outside the prison door begging him to repent on his trust in Christ and simply agree to Disobeyed God so he could get out and take care of her. He said, I'll not do it. Faith in God Does not mean, hey, if I think having faith in God means I'm going to get everything I want, I'm going to have everything I desire, that is unscriptural faith. Faith in God says I'm satisfied with what God provides. I'm going to trust and obey God regardless of what the consequences are. Faith in God must be scriptural. Rahab had scriptural faith. Second thing I notice about Rahab's faith, she had saving faith Saving faith. Look again at verse number 31. By faith, the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not. What was it that saved her from perishing when uh the the uh the Jew? There we go. Thank you. What was it that saved Rahab from perishing when the city of Jericho was overrun by the Jews and everyone was slaughtered except her and her family? What was it that saved her? Someone says the scarlet fridge she put down, is that what saved her? No. Her faith in what God said was so. Now we don't have time. You can go back and read the first couple chapters of Joshua, and you'll have the story of Rahab. And you'll find there, she makes statements like this. We've heard about the God of Israel. We've heard about his power over the nations. We heard about what he did in Egypt and delivering Israel. And based upon what she heard was true about the God of Israel, Jehovah, she believed in that God. and put her faith and trust in him, and her faith saved her from God's judgment on Jericho. Are you with me? Her faith in God. Her faith in God. Only God can save from the judgment of sin. Now, hang in here with me. I uh the Bible teaches we're all sinners. How many people are aware of that? We're all sinners. Alright. How many people will agree with me that at some point in your life you've sinned? Raise your hand. Alright, some of you sinned right there. You didn't raise your hand. We've all sinned. If I want to be in the presence of God, if I want to live, exist, live forever, have eternal life, and be with God, something's got to be done about my sin. I've got to have that taken care of. I need to have that dealt with so that I can be in the presence of God. God is holy. I can't enter the presence of God with unforgiven sin in my life. How do I how am I saved from God's judgment on my sin How do I get saved from? How do I escape that? How am I delivered from the judgment of God on the things I've already done wrong? Well, I'm here to tell you, I'm not trying to be rude or offensive, but I'm here to tell you, the Pope can't save you from your sin. He can't any more than I can. The waters of baptism cannot and will not take away your sin or my sin. If baptism washed away a person's sins, when we baptize the first person, I would want to get out of that baptistry as quick as possible because all those sins are in the water if it washed it away. I thought that was humorous, but um scratch that. Man, tough crowd this morning, Brian. Tough crowd. Baptism doesn't take my sins away. Not the Pope or any other religious leader can take my sins away. Uh, excuse me, I'm not trying to be unkind, I'm trying to be very honest with you. The priest downtown in his little confessional can't do a thing about your sins or my sins. In fact, on the other side of that little curtain, he's got his own sins he has to worry about. The Baptist Church can't take your sins or my sins away. Taking part in the Lord's Supper doesn't take your sins away. Giving your tithes and offerings doesn't take your sins away. There's only one person, there is only one being in existence that can save me from the judgment of my sin, and that is only God Himself. And so Rahab put her faith in God. She trusted that God would deliver her. That she would not perish in his judgment on the name on the city of Jericho, that he would save her from that judgment. She had saving faith. Only God can save a soul from hell. I cannot keep myself out of hell. You cannot keep yourself out of hell. Only God can do that. And I put it this way: my faith in God, in the person of Jesus Christ, activates the saving grace of God. God's the only one that can save anybody. God wants to save everybody. But He is He has set it up in such a way that I must exercise faith in him before so that his saving grace will be activated and then he will save me. Nobody goes to heaven against their will. God says, I want you to be saved. I'm not willing that any should bearish. I would that all came to repentance I've paid every price for your sin. I've done everything. I can take your sins away in an instant. But you've got to give the okay. You've got to trust me to do that. Saving faith. Saving faith. This Thursday, Lord willing, uh myself and three other men in the church are going to go up to Pittsburgh. We're going to fly to Washington. From Washington, we're going to fly Somewhere in the world. Frankfurt, Illinois. Germany. We're going to Germany? Good night. Um no, we're gonna fly from Washington to Frankfurt, Germany. From Frankfurt, Germany, we're gonna fly down to Almaty, Kazakhstan. And spend a few days on mission trip there. We get up to the airport. Somebody says, Pat says, I'm sorry, Dr. Browning says. You think that plane can actually get us to Frankfurt? Fly over the Atlantic Ocean? I said, yeah, I believe it can. He goes, yeah, me too. We're standing there at the door. There's the plane. Seats are all in there. Shh, engines running, pilots sitting up there. And we believe with all our heart that that plane can fly us to Frankfurt. Are we going to get there? During Naivar. Ah! I can stand there and believe that plane can do it till the moon come falls down. Right? But I ain't getting to Frankfurt until I do what? I gotta trust the plane. I gotta get in there and say, all right, I am trusting that this pilot and this hunk of machinery Can take me 35,000 feet in the air for ten hours, or however long it is. How long is it? Ten hours. And uh land safely in Frankfurt. The more I'm talking about this, the more nervous I'm getting But what is it that gets me what gets me to Frankfurt? The plane? Is it the plane getting me there? Yes, but no. It's my faith in the plane that is getting me there. Now, what are the chances that plane is actually going to make it? Pretty good, I hope. Like I said, I'm getting more nervous by the minute here. Shut up, preacher. Um it's a pretty good chance it's gonna make it. I'm glad I'm saved before I get on really, but Pretty good chance. Pretty good record. More people make it than don't. Praise the Lord for that. Now, what is it that gets me to heaven? Only God can get me to heaven. Right? I can't get I can't get myself to Frankfurt. I can't run down the the I can't run down the runway. It ain't gonna happen Hey, I can't fly myself to Frankfurt any more than I can get myself to heaven. Right? I can live good and try and do right and be honest and try, try, try and be religious and do this religious thing and that religious thing and all these things And it ain't gonna happen. I ain't getting there. Only God can get me to heaven. Only Jesus can get me to heaven. I'm the way, the truth, and the light. Jesus said, No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Now for sake of the context of the illustration, Jesus is the airplane. The heavenly airplane. Heaven's airways. Now I can stand here and say, yeah, I believe Jesus is the only way to be saved until I fall over dead and end up in hell. Simply believing that that's true doesn't get me to heaven. I've got to trust Jesus. I've got to put my hope, my destiny into his hands and trust that he's the one that's going to get me to heaven. That's called saving faith. We get on the plane, Pittsburgh we're in Washington, we're getting a plane, we're taking off. And I get this idea, boy, I gotta really hold on or I'm not gonna make it. And so I'm clinging desperately to the seat in front of me. Brother Jerry's in front of me. I'm hanging on to his face. Jerry says, let go! What are you doing? You've got to hang on or you're gonna lose it! He says, you idiot, just relax. You can hang on or you can fall asleep. It's the plane getting you there. It's not anything you're doing on the plane that determines whether you're gone or not. Follow what I'm saying? That's the way it is. Yeah, well I trusted Christ, but you better live it or you're gonna lose it. Knucklehead. It's G- I said that. I'm tempted to have the deacons fine me five dollars every time I say that. I'm tempted to. I'm not doing it. But um Listen, if Jesus is the one getting me to heaven, I just relax. Let him do it. You can hang on or hold out or fall asleep. It's Jesus getting you there. Well, you've got to flap your hands when you're in that plane there, you know, to help that plane get over. No, you don't. We say, well, you've got to live it or you'll never make it to heaven. It's not my lifestyle that gets me to heaven. It's Jesus that gets me to heaven. I put my faith in Jesus I I said this a little bit ago. The chances of that plane actually making it to Frankfurt are pretty good. Pretty good. The chances of Jesus getting me to heaven are 100%. Without fail. Absolutely sure. No question. He has a flawless record. Jesus never fails. Now I get on that, we get on that plane. We'll pick on Dave. He's not here. Dave Heat starts acting up. He gets a can of spray paint and he starts putting graffiti all over the inside of that airplane. Is that good or bad? That's bad. Is there going to be consequences? Is he still gonna make it to Frankfurt? Yeah, that thing's in the air, it's gone. Now when he gets there, he might regret doing that But he makes it there. A person get gets saved and do some naughty things after they're saved. But if Jesus is saving them, they're still going to get to heaven. Now, can I suggest to you they might regret it, not living for the Lord when they get there? They might regret some things they didn't do that they should have done on the way. But I'm still getting there. Jesus is my Savior. So Rahab had saving faith. God saved her from that city being perished because she trusted God. There was nothing with her, it was simply putting her faith, letting God do it. So she had scriptural faith, she had saving faith, she had singular faith. Say, what do you mean by that? As far as I can tell, it was her and her immediate family are the only ones that made it out of that city alive. Everyone else was killed. She, when she trusted God, she was not acting with the majority of people. When she believed Jehovah and put her hope and her confidence and did what God said, she was in the minority. Hey, and we live in a world. If we decide I'm going to have faith in God, I'm going to do what God says, I'm going to trust Him exclusively, don't expect to be citizen of the year. You're not going to be in the majority. That tells me, that to me is why church is so important, where we can get somewhere where people who do believe in God, who do trust God, are actually in the majority. She had singular faith. Simple to trust God. Let me put it this way. It's easy to trust God when everyone else is. But when you're the only one in your family that believes the Bible and has been born again, then it gets a bit of a challenge, doesn't it? When you're the only kid in your grade in school that actually wants to live for God and believes God's word is true and God has a plan for your life, it's not as easy. When you're the only one in the job that has a clean mouth and bows his head at lunch to pray and is trying to be a witness, it's a bit more of a challenge. Rahab, just think of her associates, her co-workers. What would they think of her faith in God? What would they have to say about it? Don't tell me Rahab didn't take some heat. Don't tell me she didn't stand out. She had singular faith. You may be uh it's simple to trust God, but it's not always easy. It's not always popular. You might be the only one in your family. You go to the family reunion and no one else believes in God like you. do. No one else is trusting God with their finances and their future. You may be the only one on the job really wants to do right You may be the only kid in school that keeps himself pure. You may be the only guy on the break at lunch that doesn't laugh at the nasty joke. It's called faith in God. It's singular. I put this down. You may be the only Christian in the church that wins souls. But it's not because of major, it's not majority rule, it's God ruling in my life. She had scriptural faith, she had saving faith, she had singular faith, she had steadfast faith. Day by day it went by, her faith was put to the test She had the promise of God and God's men that if she put that red scarlet line out, they would see it, and she would be saved from being destroyed with the rest of the city. And day after day after day went by, and no word from Israel, and no word, no more spies showed up, and no one came around. And there was no evidence that her faith was accomplishing anything. But she refused to doubt God. She held on to faith, she kept that red scarlet out. Then lo and behold, the day came, and the nation of Israel, the army of Israel, shows up, and she says, Here it is, it's coming down. I've been trusting God! And they march around the city and leave. Uh-huh. Maybe I was wrong. A2 comes, they come marching out. Alright, this is it! Same thing. Three days, four days, five days, six days. The way I got duped. This was a whole farce. It's nothing true But she didn't do that. She trusted God. God said that He would deliver me When this thing comes down that he would rescue me from being perishing with my family from perishing with rest of this. God said it. I believe it. It's up to him as far as timing. I'm not giving up on my faith in God. Lo and behold, the seventh day came. What was she thinking when those walls started crashing? Everything's coming in around her. People are screaming and dying and bodies falling past her window. Hey Rahab, are you up there? You got your back? Yeah! And her faith paid off. Are you with me? You say, man, I'm the only one that trying to do right. I'm the only one that is trying to live for God, no one else is, and day after day and Uh, you know, nothing's changing and Jesus said he'd come back, he hasn't come back yet. You know what we do? We just keep on trusting God Don't let go. Keep having faith in God. She had steadfast faith. I like Proverbs 27:14. They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage. She had selfless faith. I gotta end this. Now think about it. I wish we had time to go back. She endangered her life for the sake of those spies. Those Israelite spies showed up. She hid them. Where'd she put them? Up on the roof, right? And uh put was it was that that that where she put the corn out? The flax, yeah. I'm the one that studied the message. Why don't I know that? Um and so she hid these guys, she put herself at risk for the well-being of others because she believed God. Hey, am I incorrect in saying she inconvenienced herself for the safety of some others? Why? Because she believed that what they were saying was true. She believed that God was real. And it caused her to risk her own safety and inconvenience herself. She was able to convince her other family that God was, Jehovah was the true and living God, and he would take care of them if they would just trust him and obey them. Faith is selfless. You know what this whole world needs? Some Christians are willing to inconvenience themselves for the well-being of others. Some Christians that say, you know, God said there's a hell. God says that anybody that's not saved when they die, they go to hell for eternity in a lake of fire. I believe that's true. I'm convinced of it, that that is so, what God has said, and Jesus is the only way. You know what? I ought to go out and tell some other people about that. I might have to inconvenience myself. I may have to endanger my own life for the sake of helping some other people come to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. I may have to quit my job and pack up my family and raise up some support and go to another country so that those people have an opportunity to believe in the Savior that I've believed in. I may have to do without. I may have to sacrifice. But faith in God, when it becomes real, becomes selfless. For the sake of others. And I am with this, last of all, she had sanctifying faith. She's called a harlot here, but I'm suggesting to you that she was no longer a harlot You say, ah, the Bible doesn't say that. No, but you know what it says? The Bible tells us that she married a prince of Israel. Now you are not going to convince me that a godly prince of Israel was going to marry a practicing harlot. Something was different. Something changed. She was not living that lifestyle of a pagan, heathen, false God worshiping harlot. And you read on, and we find that she is now in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. God changed her life. God made her into a new creature. Old things were passed anew, everything became, old things were passed away, everything became new. I like 1 Corinthians 6, 9 through 11. He goes through a list of characteristics of unsaved people. Drunkenness, prostitution, anger, murder, fighting, wrath, it goes through this whole list. And he says this, and such were some of you, but ye are washed. You're cleansed. You're clean through the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. When I put my faith in God, you know what changes? Me. My life becomes pure. I become more like Christ. God begins changing me. Victoria. Triumph in faith. It's scriptural. It's saving. It's steadfast. And it's sanctifying. It changes my life. Changes my life Little boy was home by himself, a young man, Daddy had gone down the road. It was a two or three-story building, it's like a row house type thing. He was upstairs, unknown to him, that caught fire. Old building, and man, those flames just raced up the steps and up the walls. And before he was even aware of what was happening, his escape through the bottom of the house was gone. Engulfed in flames. He went higher, higher, up into the attic, out of the attic window, and he's standing on the roof. The firemen show up, the neighbors are there, Daddy finally gets there By the time they all get there, the boy is on the roof. Smoke is just billowing up, but they can see the boy through the roof. The boy on the roof can see nothing but smoke coming up to him. The fireman said there's no way he can get down through the building. It's engulfed in flames, he'll be killed That thing's about to collapse at any moment. If he stays there, he's going to die. His only chance of survival is to jump. We'll catch him. Daddy yelled out, son, you have to jump. And the son said, Daddy, I'm scared. It's too far. He said, son, you have to jump. There's no other way you will die if you don't jump. He said, but Daddy, I can't see you.