Clot Tide clothing detergent. And uh he wondered why this little boy, the grocer thought, why does this little boy want some Tide Detergent? And he asked him, What are you going to do with this? And the boy said, I'm going to wash my cat And he says, you don't want this type of detergent to wash your cat. You need some type of animal shampoo to wash your cat. And the boy said, no, no, this will be fine. A few days later, the little boy came in, a week or so later, a little boy came in, the grocer saw him, he said, son, uh uh did you get your cat cleaned up good? And the boy said, no, he died And the grocer said, see I told you you don't use that kind of detergent to wash a cat. You need shampoo. The boy said, Oh no, the tide didn't hurt him at all. It was the spin cycle that got him. And um And this actually has application to our lesson tonight. It's it's the spin cycle of life that gets us sometimes. And notice, if you would, James chapter 1, look with me at verse number 2. My brethren, James writes, under the inspiration of God Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. I started this two weeks ago, the message. I want to finish up this section. Verse 2 and 3 are really one message. And so I'm entitled it, Triumphing Over Trials. And let's pray. Father, I ask now that you would bless us, our study of your word. I pray you'd use these two verses and the truths they contain to help us, God, to deal with the spin cycles, the trials of life. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to yours, Lord. I present my body anew. And I pray that you would speak through me and help us. And God help us, I pray you would help us in a way that we would be able to help others then that are going through trials. And so blessed now I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. If you'll remember From two Sunday nights ago, we pointed out in verse number two that whenever we're going into trials, that the first thing we need to keep in mind is our standing. And if you look at verse number two, he says, My brethren. He's speaking to saved people. These are people who have accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. There are a lot of wonderful truths associated with salvation. And one of the most wonderful truths about being saved is the fact that I become a child of God. I am literally born spiritually into the family of God. How many folks here tonight, you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. Isn't that a wonderful thing? Now that's true, and I've no doubt no reason to doubt it, if that's true for each of us then we are literally the children of God. God is our Heavenly Father. And when I go into a trial, and we pointed this out the other week, when I go into a trial, when I go into a difficulty, a hardship, I need to understand I am a child of God. And God is a good father, and he's going to take care of me through this. He's not going to let me face something that I can't handle that he would not take care of me as his child. So we keep that mindset. I don't know for certain, but I can't help but think that I'm talking to somebody tonight. You are in a difficult time. You're going through a hardship right now, whatever it may be. Maybe it's very personal Maybe something at work or uh uh along those lines. I don't know. God knows you know, but I do know this. You are not facing that trial alone, you are going into that difficulty, you're going into that hardship as a child of God with a very good Heavenly Father. And so that helps us when we keep that in mind. The second thing we pointed out is we need to have that, first of all, our standing in the trials, keep that in mind. The second thing is having the correct sentiment in trials. In other words, the correct way of thinking. Look again at verse 2. My brethren, count it all joy. I am to think a certain way. As I go into this, alright? This is not an enjoyable situation. This is not an enjoyable circumstance. But I am going to make a conscious decision to consider it, to count it, to reckon this thing to be something that will do me good. I am going to be joyful in this. Um uh uh and it's a decision I make. So number one are standing in trials, number two are sentiment in trials If you remember, we pointed out number three from verse number two, our certainty of trials. Again, my brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, not if Not if none of us, these little children here tonight, uh, you know, our heart goes out to them. We know they're not going to get through life without heartache. They're not going to get through life without difficulty, without without a hardship. Now they're I I love being alive, amen I thank God that God some people say, oh, I wish I'd never been born. Not me. I I'm glad I'm born. I love uh I like life. But the fact is Sometimes we go through tough. You can't get through life without heartache, without hardship. And so we need to be aware of that. Listen, this isn't just happening to me. Everybody goes through this This isn't just uh oh nobody knows the troubles I've seen. Uh oh yeah? Uh everybody goes through troubles. I mentioned this before, but I like what George Truett said. He said, be nice to everybody, because everybody's having a hard time. There's a lot of truth to that. So the certainty, uh this our standing in trials, I'm a child of God. Uh my sentiment in trial in trials, I'm going to count it all joy. The certainty of trials, they're going to happen. Nothing I can do about it. It's going to be Uh gonna happen. The suddenness of trials when ye fall. The idea behind fall there is hitting me broadsided, unexpected. Sometimes the hardest difficulties in life are the ones we never see coming. We have no chance to prepare for it. And when you fall into diverse temptation, never saw it, never happened, boom, all of a sudden, there it is Then we pointed out the sundry trials of life. Counted all joy and you fall into diverse temptations. The word diverse there had the idea of various, multifaceted. There's all different kinds of trials. You say, oh boy, praise the Lord, I I I got I'm through that trial. Then a different one shows up. Then one we never expected. Diverse. Now here I want to go on to verse number three, because this is all one message here. Verse 2 and 3 are all one message. And I want us to consider now that our discernment in trials Our standing, our sentiment, our certainty, our suddenness, the sundry trials. Now our discernment in trials. Look at verse 3. Knowing this. The word knowing there is an interesting word. It means to have an understanding of, to perceive. The word knowing here is not simply just having head knowledge, not having the fact, well, I know the facts that hardships are a part of life. I know those facts. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about I understand what these trials are all about. I perceive what this means, what what this uh is is what this is all about. It has the idea of being intimately aware of It is more than just, oh yeah, this is the way it is, just grin and bear it, grit your teeth. No, no, no. We know something about this trial. We know something about the purpose it's come. We know something about what it's made up of, what it is. It has the idea of learning by experience. Now, look at this. Let's come back and let's read verse 1, 2, and 3 again with that in mind. Look at what it says: James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. To the twelve tribes which are what? Scattered abroad. Why are they scattered abroad? He's writing to believers. And they're scattered abroad. We have to go back into Acts to find out. You know why these believers were scattered abroad? Anybody want to take a guess? Persecution had come. Acts makes it very clear. These people, these believers that he is addressing under the inspiration of God, had experienced persecution to the point. That it drove them from their houses. They had lost jobs. They had maybe lost relationships with family members because of their faith in Christ. These believers had paid a heavy, heavy price for their faith in Christ. They were scattered abroad. And he says to them, he says, knowing this, and he's saying basically this, I believe, we are aware of this. We understand this because we've been through it. Um they knew that uh they'd been through it. They knew what it was to have uh uh diverse temptations. He says, you guys know this. You understand this. I tell you, we can read about trials all we want. And we can sit and listen to sermons about trials all we want. But we don't learn from trials until we go through them. Until we go through them. When I was in Bible college, uh we had I had a group of friends that we were very, very close. Uh Randy Miller, some of y'all remember Randy preached here one time, dear friend of mine out in Illinois. We were very close in college and several others. And we would share. We'd read books and we'd share them. And it seemed like we're always, for whatever reason, we were attracted to the books that dealt with the trials of life. Has anybody here ever read the book Hind's Feet in High Places? Anybody ever read? What a great book that is. It's an allegory. And it's the trials, uh uh it's it's a record just of how trials and hardships mold us and make us and we read those books and Born Crucified and some of these other books. Kind of deeper life type things that challenge us and and work with how God breaks our hearts and how God molds us And boy, we read them and we'd underline them, we'd talk about them, we'd and we'd be stirred up. But we didn't know what trials were like What until I got out and got in responsibility and some genuine hardships come by. That's where I learned the purpose of trials, not in a book. But in life. And he's saying that to them, knowing this. We've been through this. We've experienced this. I'm talking to some folks here. You look back over your life, you've been through some things I've known some folks, you know what it's like to sob your heart out late at night into a pillow? You know what it's like to stand beside the grave maybe of a child or of a loved one unexpected. Your heart's been ripped out. You know. That's who he's writing to. He says, knowing this, you've guys been through it. You've paid a heavy price. And you're aware of what this is. Anyone who has walked with God for any length of time understands that trials are not meaningless. I look back and I look at certain points in my life where God absolutely worked me over. Where God, I'm thinking of two in particular, where God absolutely broke me. And I look back and I see, you know what? God was doing something in that, knowing this. I understand. I didn't just read about it, but I experienced it. And you can say the same thing. Anybody that has walked with God with any length of time understands that trials are not meaningless. They are not without reason. I think, I shouldn't say a name. I think it's F. B. Meyer, but I don't hold me to this. But I believe it was him that said this. I doubt that God has ever used a person who he hasn't first broken deeply. I don't think God has ever used a person that he hasn't first broken deeply or hurt deeply. God uses broken people. And he's saying to them, you understand this. You've experienced this. You've seen what God can do. Israel had to learn this. Will you come back with me to Deuteronomy, just real quick? I want you to see a verse in Deuteronomy chapter 8. Fifth book, the Old Testament. If you're reading the Bible reading schedule in our calendars we gave out at the beginning of the year, you're right around here. Deuteronomy chapter eight, notice with me verse number two. Deuteronomy 8. 2. I'll begin reading in verse 1. Notice what the Bible says. All the commandments which I command thee this day shalt ye observe to do. that ye may live and multiply and go in and possess the land which the Lord swear to your fathers. Look at this. And thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord thy God led thee these forty years in the wilderness. Would you agree with me? They went through some hardships in the wilderness. Would you agree with me on that? Good grief. All those people that died through the wilderness, all the family members. That died throughout the wilderness, all the heartache, all the difficulty. Look what he says. These 40 years in the wilderness. Why? To humble thee and to prove thee, and to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep his commandments or no. He humbled thee and suffered thee to hunger and fed thee with manna. And he goes on down through there into detail What's he saying to them? He's saying, listen, you look back and you see how I was using those trials for a purpose. You know now, you understand now, you've been through it And you understand that. So Israel had to learn that. Come to Acts chapter 8. Back to the New Testament. Acts chapter 8 and verse number 1. The church had to learn this. Knowing this, you've been through it, you've experienced it, you know this. Acts chapter 8, look at verse number 1. This is kind of what I referred to a moment ago, where it talks about them being scattered abroad. Look at 8, Acts 8, verse 1. And Saul was consenting unto his death. Stephen's death. And at that time there was great persecution against the church which was at Jerusalem. And they were all scattered abroad. Throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles, they had been through intense persecution. They had some of their leaders now are starting to be killed, martyred, executed for their faith And now the church, the people are having to leave their houses, having to leave their jobs, leave their families for the uh for their lives And these are the people he's writing to, and he says, you understand this. I don't believe there's any other way to understand the value of a trial without going through it. I have to go through the difficulty to appreciate the value of it. So he says here in verse number three, there needs to be some discernment. You've been through this trial, you've learned from it, you understand some things about it. Then number seven, I put down the scrutiny of trials. Come back to James chapter one again. The scrutiny of trials. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. The trying of your faith. That's where I get the word scrutiny. The word trying there means to test. It means to, I like this definition, to test for the sake of approval. To test in order to prove that it is legitimate The trying of your faith. God's saying this, I'm going to let you go through some tough times. I'm going to let you go through some heartaches. I'm going to go let you go through some real trials to prove your faith, to make to to uh give evidence the fact that your faith is legit. And it's not just a profession. You just talk about having faith in God. And just sing about having faith in God. You go through a trial, it proves whether it's the real deal or not. The trying of your faith. The word faith there means what I believe to be true, what I'm confident of. We all like Romans 8 28. Amen or not. And we know that all things work together for Good to them that love God. We like that verse. We'll quote it to other people when they're going through a tough time. But you know what will prove whether we really believe that verse or not? How we deal with a trial? Do I really believe that all things work together for good to them that love God? Do I really believe that God is doing well when he sends a snowstorm on Sunday morning? Do I really believe that? The trying of your faith. Do we really believe that God is good? Do we really believe that God will only allow me to go through things that will benefit me, that are good for me? Do we really believe that? Or do we just say that? And he says the trying of your faith will prove that. We'll be scrutinized. That trial will scrutinize our faith. It will test it. Would you write these three statements down somewhere? I believe these will be helpful. And they're not original with me. These are from Warren Wearsby. Three statements. Number one, our faith will always be tested. Our faith will always be tested. Nobody gets through life and escapes the test, the faith examination. Our faith will be tested. Abraham exercised great faith. Would you agree with me? Abraham exercised great faith when he left Ur of the Chaldees, not knowing where he was going. Left behind his family, left behind. I think Sarah probably exercised even more faith. She had to trust Abraham. Abraham's trusting God. She's trusting Abraham. And uh he gets out there, and lo and behold, he gets to the land that God promised. For sake of time, we won't go back to Genesis. Look at this, but he gets to the land that God had promised. And the very first thing that happens is there's a famine. Now God had been telling them this whole time that I'm going to take care of you. This is going to be good. This is going to be your land. I'm going to bless it. You're going to multiply. He shows up there. He doesn't know if he's going to live till tomorrow. There's such a famine. And his faith is tested. It's scrutinized. Do you really believe that God's going to take ta take care of you? I put you in the land I promised. I did what I said I would do. Now are you going to trust me to continue that I will do what I promised I will do? You know what happened to Abraham? He failed his first test. He failed. He got there. What did he do? When the famine hit, where'd he go? Went down to Egypt. And went down there and he really messed up. He gets down to Egypt, he lies about Sarah's wife. He says, Don't tell them you're my wife, just tell them you're my sister. Now she was his half-sister, but she was his wife. And he says, don't you tell how do you think that made Sarah feel? And he says this, he says, don't tell me your wife, for my sake. They'll kill me to get you. I mean Sarah was apparently a looker. You know? I mean she was pretty good looking apparently. Am I right or wrong? And he says they're going to see you and how beautiful you are, and they're going to kill me to get you. So you ought. You don't tell them you're my wife, you just say you're my sister. So for my sake. I don't know, but if I was Sarah, I would be, you self-centered thing, why don't you stand up for me? So he failed the test, first of all, in trusting God. He gets down there, then he fails the integrity test. He lies about his wife for his own sake, selfish. And then they pick up in in Egypt, they pick up Hagar. Uh-oh. And that causes a whole nother set of problems. My point is this. This is what I want to write down. Your tape will be tested. My faith. If Abraham's faith was tested, your faith and my faith are going to be tested. Now, to Abraham's credit, he bounced back. God gave him another opportunity. God gave him another opportunity. And he became the father of the faithful. But the fact is, knowing this, that the trying of your faith, our faith will be tested, and it is always, generally it's always the difficult times that test our faith the most. Number one, your faith will be tested. Number two, write this down. The testing of our faith always works for us, it's always for our benefit. 1 Peter 1:7 says that when we go through the fire, we'll come forth as gold. Or Job says in 23:10, he says, When he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. Before the trial, Job saying before the trial, I wasn't that I didn't have that much value, I wasn't gold. But boy, when I came through that trial, I'll come forth of gold, my faith will be of value. Trials, the testing of our faith is always works for us. 1 Peter 1:7. Fire is for the good of the gold, our faith being tested by fire. As difficult as trials are, I must always remember they are designed to work for me. Now, we pointed out in the first message, the word temptation in verse 2 is not the idea of being enticed to do sinful, something sinful. That's of Satan. The trials, the temptations are the hardships of life. They are of God. Now here's what Satan wants to do. Satan wants to destroy my faith. God wants to develop my faith. Now, how does Satan destroy my faith? By tempting me to sin, by enticing me to disobey God, to break God's law? God, that's how Satan destroys our faith. God develops our faith through putting hardships, putting us through difficulties And so that develops our faith. Number three, you have these written down. Number one, faith will always be tested. My faith will always be tested. Number two, the testing of my faith always works for me. Not against me. And number three, jot this down. Trials help to mature my faith. They mature my faith. They strengthen my faith. I wrote this down. A soft life seldom, if ever, produces a strong faith. You read the biographies. I just I'm ordering now a book on uh Dr. Lee Robertson. I'm going to mention him here in a minute. I found that the men, as I mentioned a moment ago, the men and the women that God greatly used. God put through some tough times. And he used those tough times to make their faith stronger. To make their faith stronger. How many people recognize these three names? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Anybody recognize those names? Of course. Would you agree with me? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, the first were introduced to them. Would you agree with me? They had strong faith when we first introduced them. Nebuchadnezzar sets up, you bow down and worship this false God. You break God's command. And you bow down and worship this false God, or you're going to be thrown in a fire. That took tremendous faith. We're not going to do that. We're not going to disobey our God. He's able to deliver us from your fire, but even if he doesn't, We are not going to disobey God. We are going to be obedient to His word. Regardless of what you do to us. Boy, God give us some Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego's today, huh? They had tremendous faith, but let me ask you this. Do you think their faith was stronger before they went in the fire or after they came out of the fire? After they came out, I guarantee you that faith was multiplied. They had seen what God could and did do for them in the fire. And their faith was mature, their faith was stronger. And you and I, if we will trust God. When we go through the fire, when we face that hardship, whatever it may be, financial, physical, friendships, whatever it may be, if we will simply trust God and have faith in Him and stay true to His word. When we come out the other side, our faith in God will be stronger than when we went in. And we see that in Shadrach, Meshach, and Abimigo. Number one, our faith will always be tested. Number two, testing our faith always works for us. And the trials help to mature our faith. So that's the scrutiny. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith, the scrutiny of your faith, the testing of your faith, to see whether it's real or not. The scrutiny of our faith. And then last of all, on this, we have the scheme of our trials. Knowing this, this is what I mean by that. Knowing this, that the trying of our faith, look at this, worketh patience. That's the whole scheme behind all of it. That's what God is doing behind the trying of our faith, the temptations we face. is to work patience in our life. Now in verse number four he elaborates on that. That's another message. But I would I like in this section, worketh patience, I like that word worketh. It's an interesting word. It means this to fashion or to develop. To produce results. It is used often in this context. A potter working the clay. You follow what I'm saying? That potter has a has a lump of clay, and he works that clay because he's producing something. He is developing something. He is fashioning a vase or a or a picture or something, a plate, a bowl. He is working that clay. And that is the idea. I'd like for us to go to one more passage of Scripture, Jeremiah chapter 18. A tremendous portion of scripture. Jeremiah chapter 18. And I wonder if we read the first few verses. Now keep this in mind. We're going through trials. The trying of our faith worketh or develops, produces patience. Notice Jeremiah chapter 18, verse number one. The word which came to Jeremiah from the Lord saying, Arise, go down to the potter's house, and there I will cause thee to hear my words Then I went down to the potter's house, and behold, he wrought a what? Work. Aha. Proverbs or James chapter one. He wrought a work on the wheel. And the vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hand of the potter. It was damaged So that he made it again another vessel, as seemeth good to the potter to make it. Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, O house of Israel, can I not do with you As this potter, saith the Lord. Behold, look at this. This is a great statement. Behold, as the clay is in the potter's hand, so are ye in my hand, O house of Israel. Just like that potter works that clay. And maybe the clay doesn't cooperate or whatever. Something happens and he reworks it into something new. God says, that's what I'm doing in your life. I am working in your life. I am molding in your life. I am developing something out of your life. And James tells us that these trials, the trying of our faith, is God working and molding and developing us into the person he intends for us to be. And when that potter is working the clay, maybe it's on a spinning wheel, or he's just working it on a table What is he doing? He's putting pressure at one spot. He's pushing it in in one spot. And sometimes in life, boy, there's certain areas coming. It's just pressure on us. The world calls it stress, and it's boy, it's just such pressure there. And then sometimes the potter takes that claim, he might stretch it out another area. And sometimes we feel like God is just stretching me, and I'm at the point of breaking And he puts pressure and he stretches it out. And sometimes as he's molding that clay, he might take some more clay and add it to it. And God may put on your plate some responsibilities you really didn't want, you really didn't ask for. And He may put into your life some things, you know, God, I could really do better without this. But God says, no, I'm the potter. And I'm working patience in your life. I'm developing maturity in your life. I'm strengthening your faith. And as the potter, I'm putting this in. I'm adding this to your life. You may not choose it, but I know what I'm doing. And then sometimes he takes things away. Sometimes the potter will look at that, and what I'm trying to develop here, there's too much clay. I need to pull some out. And sometimes God will take things out of our lives that we hold on to dearly and we value so highly, and God takes it away. And God says, no, no, no. I know what I'm doing. I'm working a work. I'm working patience in your life. And that he tries our faith. Do we really trust him when he takes this away from me? Do we really trust him when he puts this into my life? Do we really trust him when he presses down here or stretches us there? He worketh. It's a scheme. God has a scheme. A vessel, the potter is making a vessel, and so he works it. And you and I, as children of God, we need to see that it is God working in our life, molding and shaping. There's several men had profound impacts on my life. Profound impacts. One of them was Dr. Lee Robertson. I mentioned him a minute ago. Dr. Lee Robertson used to reference often the death of their child Joy. In fact, he had a message, the detours of life. And that illustration was a key part of that message, powerful message. And he and this is what happened. He was preaching, he was out of Chattanooga, down at Highland Park. And he was preaching, if I remember correctly, it was up in uh Knoxville or or uh uh is it Kingston up there at the court? King Kingston, is that right, Dave? Kingsport, right on the line there of Virginia. He was preaching up in that area, a meeting. He'd preach out all the time. And he got the phone call. His little girl, Joy, had died. And he told the pastor, he said, I need to go home right away. Of course they agreed. And he said, as he was driving home from that meeting to go home to be with his family and the death of their daughter, he hit a detour. And the road was detouring, had to go around this. And he said that God used that detour to teach him a profound lesson. that the death of his daughter was not an accident, was not just some meaningless event But God was doing something. God was using this to work his life into being the person and the instrument that God could use. And he said by the time he got home, God had stirred his heart that they were going to start a ministry, a camp ministry for children called Camp Joy. I had the privilege of being out there many, many times when I was down at Highland Park. And God, and he said, we're going to make camp completely for free. For any junior child that wants to come, they can come absolutely free. I'm telling you, hundreds of thousands of children. Had been through that camp joy, had heard the gospel, trusted Christ, and their lives impacted. What was God doing? God was working, God was molding, God was taking away. Because God had a plan. God had a plan. Then the word patience, and we'll talk about this more in the next message on verse number four. The word patience has the eye of idea of endurance and steadfastness. That situation that you and I are so bitter about, that situation that you and I have such a hard time accepting Is the very thing that God is trying to use to mold us, to make us more enduring, to make us stronger. When I have a biblical approach to the trials I face, rather than stopping my Christian growth, they will absolutely enable me to go forward. Enable me to go forward. I'm talking to some folks tonight. There's no doubt in my mind. You're going through some trials. God has put some things on your plate that you would really rather they not be there. God is asking from you and I for some things that we really don't want to give up. And God's saying, listen, I'm working patient. I'm making you stronger so you can endure it and you'll be more usable to me. Maybe I'm talking to somebody that's gone through the trial of your life There's one point in my life I call that the trial of my life. And I trust, and God knows, but I trust that that's the one that that's behind me. I trust. But you may be going through it now, and I'm here to tell you: God uses trials to make us better people. To develop stronger faith to make us more usable. I read about the Nicene Council back in 325 A. D. And they had come together to kind of the church leaders had come together to kind of put together a doctrinal statement. There was so much False teaching coming into the church, there was so much distortion of biblical truth, the Catholic Church was taking ground And they put together on the deity of Christ and the inspiration of Scripture, the finality of the canon of Scripture, and just some key things they kind of put in place and in writing, so to speak. There was 318 men, men of God at that thing. Get this. This is what I read. Less than 12 of that 318 men, less than 12 of them. Had not lost either an eye or a hand or a limb being tortured for their faith in Christ 318, less than 12 of them, had not lost an eye, a hand, or a leg through torture for their faith in Christ. And they understood that God was use that to help their faith in Him to be stronger. Now I I doubt any of us are in danger of losing our eyeball because of our faith in Christ. Or our hand or our leg. But no doubt some of us are going through trials. And we need to see that God is working, God is molding. My brethren, Brethren, count it all joy. Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this. That the trying of your faith worketh patience. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you would help us. To trust you, dear God. We don't like the trials. But help us to understand that you are our Father. Help us to understand that you are working these trials for our good. And that when we come out the other side We'll be better Christians. Our faith will be stronger. We'll be more mature if we'll just trust you. How many would say, preacher, oh by the way, this is a decision we make. This whole thing is a decision. I'm going to decide. I'm going to count this all joy. Understanding all that's in love here. I'm going to count it joy. How many would say, preacher? I have a situation. I just need to decide that I'm going to face that situation with a biblical frame of mind. And I'm going to see God's hand in this. Is there any like that, preacher? I do have a situation. And I'm going to decide tonight that I'm going to face that with a biblical frame of mind, from a biblical perspective, that God is working And I'm going to trust him. Hands all around. Hands all around. Now let's come to the Lord tonight. And let's bring that to the Lord and say, Lord, help me. Enable me to maintain that frame of mind.