Well my heart's been stirred about pray and good song and we need to pray more and uh appreciate that, ladies, and uh pray for Mary getting down there Glad glad for that. James chapter one, if you would, turn in your Bibles. James chapter one. It's good to have everybody out at church coughing and barking and carrying on and everything And uh everybody's voice is blow, they're oh god, hey brother Latherman. And uh it's just great. James chapter 1. I wish you knew, I really do. I wish you knew my heart and how bad I really want to preach shorter messages. I try so hard. And um I and so I'm praying again tonight that uh we can get to the point. I can share something from God's word, God can speak to our hearts and uh we get to be able to Get out before we get snowed in. So you pray for me. And Lord knows my heart. James chapter 1. I'm going to read the first three verses. And um uh short message, only 75 points to the message tonight. So uh notice notice verse one. It says, James, a servant of God And of the Lord Jesus Christ to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting. That's the introduction to the book, as we're going to preach our way through here. We touched on that last week. Then he gets right into it in verse number two. My brethren Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. That's where I want to end. And so let's pray. Father, I'm grateful for everyone who came out on a snowy Sunday night. Lord, we know everybody's got little bugs and colds and whatnot, but um help us now for the next few moments To put all these cares aside, I pray that you would open our hearts and minds and that we would receive your word, Lord, and help us deal with trials in life. And uh to be able to deal with them from a biblical perspective. Fill me, I ask with all my heart. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. Verse 2 and 3 really are one message. And as I worked this, I looked at it, I decided I'm going to break it down into two messages, but it's one thought. in verse 2 and 3. And it's dealing with this matter of temptations. If you notice in verse 2, my brethren count all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Now before we go anywhere, I want to point out what he means by the word temptation there. When he says, count at all joy when you fall into diverse or various temptations He's not talking about the temptation in the sense to be enticed to do something sinful. That is our first thought when we see that word temptation, to be enticed to do something evil. We are never told in Scripture that that's a good thing. That that's something we should avoid. Boy, I'm being tempted to do something wrong. Boy, I'm going to rejoice in that. I'm going to count that all joy. That is not what he's saying. Whenever we encounter temptation in the sense of being tempted to do something sinful, being enticed or lured to do something that is against the law of God, the holiness of God. Whenever we're tempted like that, we are never to rejoice in that. We are to resist that. We are to flee from that. The Bible says in Timothy, flee temptation. And so uh we need to stay away from that. It is never good. Being tempted to do something wrong is never a good thing. Now the world and the rock and roll world and the Hollywood world, they think that's wonderful. And they'll play it up and they'll sing about it and they'll celebrate it, you know, temptation to do wrong, and they make millions of dollars off of that. God says it's not good. And we need to resist temptation. We need to flee temptation. If I'm in a situation where I'm being lured to do something that I know the God forbids, I need to get out of that situation. I need to get away from that. And so that's not what he's talking about here. It's important to understand that. The Bible uses the term temptation various times through Scripture to refer to not the enticement to do evil, but it refers to the idea of going through a hardship. Going through a difficulty, a testing time. And that is the idea here in this context. To count it all joy when you fall into various trials, various hardships. various uh difficulties or tests that God is bringing into my life. That is what He's addressing. Now I like the book of James To me, James is the most practical book in the New Testament. He just lays it out there. This is what you should do. This is how to do it. This is what not to do. Doesn't discuss a lot of theory, doesn't talk a lot of doctrine, but he does talk about how to live our life as Christians. And I like that. That fits my way of thinking. And it's interesting, right off the bat, James talking about how to live the Christian life, faith in action is the title of our series. Right off the bat, he addresses this matter of difficulties in life. Trials in life. How many folks have been alive long enough to find out that life involves difficulties? Gonna get a witness. How many folks have ever gone through some hardships in your life, some difficulties? How many folks have in the last week gone through some testing trial? In the last twenty minutes been through. Yeah. Yeah, it's part of it And the most practical book in the New Testament starts right off. Here it is, we're going to deal with hardships. It's part of life, it is a reality. They can either derail you Hardships, they can absolutely overwhelm you and destroy you, or they can make you a better person. They can make you stronger. And he goes, this is how to respond to when heartache comes, difficulty comes, trials comes, things that we seem like we can't handle. This is how to deal with them so that you can be a better person. So that my faith in God is stronger. And I come out of this better off. And so he addresses it right off. I said verse 2 and 3 are one or one message. Look what he says. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. You could write in the margin of your Bible, trials, hardships there. That's what I did. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith Worketh patience. Now that's one truth. That's one message there. But uh for sake of our study, we're going to break it up into two. I want to look at verse number two tonight. And I really want to break this thing down so we can grasp what he's saying. Because I guarantee you this, there's enough people here tonight that I am absolutely confident some of us, before this week is over, are going to face some sort of difficulty. We're going to face some sort of heartache. We're going to face some sort of trial, some sort of hardship. And so I want to know very clearly, I want to know very plainly. How do I deal with that as a Christian? How do I face that? So if you have a pen, I really encourage you to jot these down. If you don't need it tonight, you might need it tomorrow night. And you might know come across someone that could use a little help, a little instruction on how to deal with difficulty, how to triumph over our trials. I prayed, right? I already prayed, didn't I? I saw a newspaper clipping this week, a little article, that they are on the verge of inventing a thing they can plant in your brain and you'll have perfect memory. You won't never forget anything. I signed up for it. I want that. So we prayed. So look at this. Write this number one number one. And verse number two: triumphing over trials. Number one, I wrote this down. We must understand our standing in the trials of life. If I'm going to triumph over these hardships, I must understand my standing. in the trials of life, or standing in the trials of life. And I get that from one word in verse number two. My brethren. My brethren. He is addressing believers, people who have been saved, people who have accepted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Here is a tremendous truth. That when I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, a lot of things take place. There's a whole slew of things that instantaneously take place. May 7, 1979, 1030 at night, I knelt by Bemed, I called out on Jesus Christ to be my personal Savior. There's a whole slew of things that instantly happen. In my heart and soul, and in heaven's record books, and across the board. And whenever you trust in Christ, a whole lot of stuff took place that instantaneously at that moment Now, one of the things that takes place when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior is we are born spiritually into the family of God. God becomes my heavenly father, my spiritual father. Somebody says, oh, Preacher Leatherman, you're mistaken. Everybody, all people are children of God. God is everybody's father. Ah, the Bible tells us Jesus said from his own lips that if a person is not saved, They are not, God is not their father, but rather the devil is their father. He said in John 8:44, unbelieving Pharisees, he says, Ye are of your father the devil. Now, when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm born into the family of God. Jesus said in John chapter 3, you must be born again. Peter says being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible. So when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I am born into the family of God, and God Almighty becomes my heavenly Father. And I'm here to tell you tonight, our Heavenly Father is a good daddy. He's a good daddy. And by the way, this is just an aside: once I'm born into the family of God I can never get out of the family of God. You cannot be unborn somehow We have as you know we have two boys, Sam and Dan. They will always be my boys. There's nothing they can do to undo the fact that they are my child and I'm their father. They could disappoint me, they could grieve me, they could do all kinds of things, but they cannot be unborn. And so once a person accepts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, that person is saved. You cannot become unsaved. You cannot become unborn. You cannot cease to be God's child once I'm born spiritually into the family of God. And so the fact of the matter is, God is my heavenly father, and God is a good daddy. Now think about this for a minute. He says, my brethren. The only time that term is used in Scripture concerning believer is used concerning believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. Maybe one exception in Romans where Paul refers to the Jews as his brother. But he's talking about folks who have been saved, folks who are part of the family of God, folks who God Almighty is their heavenly father. And our heavenly Father is a good Father. Now think about God. God is all powerful. Are you with me? God is sovereign. He is in charge. He is in control. Get this. My heavenly Father loves me dearly. Your Heavenly Father, if you're saved, your Heavenly Father loves you dearly. My Heavenly Father is all-wise. In other words, he cannot make a mistake. He's in absolute control. He loves me dearly. He's all-powerful. He cannot make a mistake And when I go into a trial, when I go into this, to use James terminology, this temptation, this hardship, when I go into it, I need to come into it from the standing that I am a child of God And my heavenly Father is all powerful, He's in control. He is the one allowing me to experience this hardship He is the one that is allowing me to experience this disappointment, this broken heart, this financial setback, whatever it may be. He's the one allowing it. And he loves me, he's good. So if he is allowing me to experience this trial, therefore there must be something good to come out of it. It does not have to destroy me. It does not have to ruin me. God loves me, and He, as my father, is uh allowing me to go through this. My heavenly Father is not going to allow me to go through any trial that cannot help me. And so he says, My brethren. By the way, that term brethren is kind of unique in the book of James. I took a highlighter, and I want you to show you something. He's talking to Christians in the book of James. He's not talking unsaved. Look in verse 2, it says, my brethren. Verse number ten sixteen of verse of chapter one, do not err, my beloved brethren. Verse 19, wherefore, my beloved brethren. Chapter two, verse one, my brethren, verse five, brethren, my beloved brethren, uh verse fourteen, my brethren. Uh verse uh number one of chapter three, uh my brethren, verse ten, my brethren, verse twelve, my brethren. Chapter 4, verse 11. Brethren. Chapter 5, verse 7. Therefore, brethren, verse 9. Brethren, verse 10, my brethren, verse 12, My brethren verse nineteen, brethren We're children of God. If we've accepted Jesus Christ as our Savior, we are brethren in Christ and we are children of the Heavenly Father. And when we go through trials, we must keep in mind, God is my Father, He loves me, He's good, He's allowing me to experience this. I trust my Father To keep a trial from crushing me and to be able to triumph over a trial, I must remember I'm a child of God. God is good. He's allowed this in my life And I think until we understand that, it's going to be impossible to count this trial a joy. Until I understand, hey, God is in control. This isn't out of control. This isn't going, doesn't have to destroy me. If I trust God and understand He's allowing this, He has a purpose behind this. How many people I'm fifty-three. I kind of remember first going off to school when uh in kindergarten. They didn't have Head Start and all of that when I was a kid. We had to stay home and play. It was terrible And uh but uh going off to school, and I was thinking, and uh in my imagination, I remember this happening. In my imagination, I remember this happening. Uh but it's like, mom and dad, you guys must hate me. Why are you sending off to prison? You know, and uh so and it was so terrible. But you know what I found out? My parents loved me. And they weren't sending me off the c uh off the school to kindergarten because they were wanting to be mean or because they wanted to destroy me. They wanted me to be a better person. And you know what happened in school? I learned how to read. That's been a good thing. I am glad I learned how to read. I learned how to do multiplication. I learned 2 times 2 is 7. And I'm glad I learned all that. And um but uh the idea is this God loves us and we go into a hardship, we go into a trial, we go into a trouble We experience these troubles and we think, oh, this is terrible. Oh, this is going to destroy me. Oh, this is awful. And we need to back up and say, wait a minute. I'm a child of God. God's in control. He's letting this happen. There must be something out of this, though I can't see it on this side. There must be something that comes out of this on the other side that I can be a better person from this. I can be a stronger Christian. And so whenever we go into a hardship, James is telling us here, through the Word of God's telling us That we must begin with the standing that I'm a child of God. So, number one, do you have that written down? My standing in the trials of life. I wrote this down as I looked at this verse. Our sentiment In the trials of life. Our sentiment. Now that word sentiment means the way of thinking. Notice what he says, verse 2: My brethren, he says, count it all joy. Count it all joy. He's saying this is the way you need to think as you're going through this difficulty. You need to count it all joy. This is the sentiment you have to have in your mind, the way of thinking, the mindset, your frame of mind. Count it all joy. Now that word count is an interesting word. It has this idea, and I found some just pretty neat definitions of it. It has this idea to put something in place ahead of time. Um Friday night, my wife had all the ladies over to the house. I hightailed it out of town. And um went down to McDonald's for four hours almost and sat in the corner of McDonald's studying and stuff. And um I forget why I'm telling this story. And uh oh, uh what she did was anticipating all the ladies coming over, she had all these things put in place. She had about a four foot long caterpillar sandwich. Isn't that something? I don't know where she found a caterpillar that long, made a sandwich out of it But um uh but she had all these things in place, anticipating uh a bunch of people coming in, and she wanted everything just right. That's what that word count there has the idea. You are going to go through a trial. We're going to notice that here in a minute. We are going to go through heartaches. We are going to go through difficulties. We're going to go through hardships So, before you ever get into it, first of all, understand your standing. I'm a child of God going into this. Number two, establish your mindset. Put this frame of mind in place before you even go into it. Have a certain way of thinking Certain approach to this. The word count all joy, the word count means to consider a thing to be so. Consider this to be true before you even go into it. It means to decide ahead of time. It means to discipline or govern my thinking going into this. Now here's the fact. Whenever something happens, I get a notice from my boss, we're cutting back employees, different regulations, we have to cut back, we can't afford next Friday's your last day And it's like, oh man, I've got bills, I've got a house, I've got all this stuff, I've got a family, take care of what in the world And God says, and the natural thing to do when that happens, the natural thing is to how what's the natural response to that? To be worried, to fret over that, to think, man, this is bad. That is the natural thing that takes place. And God is telling us here, don't let that happen. You've got to govern your thinking You must discipline your thinking when you go into that difficulty, when you go into that hardship. And I use that illustration. It could be anything. Go into a doctor, he gives you a bad medical report And he says, don't let what natural don't let the natural response take over. It's natural to worry, it's natural to fret, it's natural to get upset, it's natural to get angry But he says, govern your thinking. Don't let that which is natural take place. Count it all joy. Discipline yourself to think a specific way. Now the word joy there is interesting. He doesn't say count it all pleasure when you fall into diverse temptations. I'll be honest with you, I can't think of one hardship, one dipping I went through that was pleasurable. I can't think of one. I've been through a few of them. I'm talking to some folks, and I think myself included, we've been through some awfully dark, deep valleys. I'm talking to some folks that have cried your eyes out because of the hardship you've gone through and the difficulty you've gone through. And not one of us would stand up and say, well, praise the Lord, that was a pleasurable experience. It wasn't. And God's not telling us to count hardships as something pleasurable. But he does say count it joy. It has the idea of this: of glad anticipation. In other words, he's saying, all right, you're going to face hardship. It's part of life. It's just a fact of life. We live in a fallen world where people hurt and bad things happen to good people. Now when you go into that, keep this in mind. My standing is I'm a child of God. But have this sentiment, get this way of thinking. Govern your thoughts. Don't let just don't let us react, but discipline yourself to understand that God can use this overwhelming sorrow or whatever it may be And he can use this to make me a stronger Christian. He can use this to work out of my life things that ought not to be there. And when it's all said and done, I'm better off for having experienced this difficulty. He says, count it all joy. uh um happy anticipation, glad anticipations. This is what we have to do. And I have no doubt, I'm telling some folks right now, you're going through it. I'm sure of that. And he says, this is what you have to do. You have to view your hardship through faith, through the eyes of faith. View that hardship from heaven's perspective. And see that God is doing something. God wants to use this. to make me a better person, to make my witness more effective, to make me maybe I come through this, I can relate to other people that go through something like this and be able to help them and be used of God to help them So it's glad anticipation. Look at my trials from God's perspective. I've used this illustration. You've heard this from other preachers, but when I was young, my grandmother would uh did quilts. We were over at Sue's house the other day and I remember we'd visit her. She had the big quilt, um, is it a frame? Is that what you call it? And boy, grandma and the other uh grandmas would get around there when I was little and they'd be quilting away and gossiping and quilting and and uh I don't know about the gossiping part, but um Uh I'm sure my grandmother didn't. But um they'd be uh putting away and I was just a little tight and uh you know your nose come up of that and you look there and and uh you'd see all that But you crawl down underneath that quilt and you look up underneath and all those threads are just here, there, and background, and doesn't make any sense. And it's like, grandma, this is a mess And what she would say is, well, come out here and look at it from above. And there's a beautiful pattern. We have one quilt in our home, my grandma made it's all these huge butterflies. Just beautiful. And from the view above, it made perfect sense. And that's the way our hardships are. And we've got to get that frame of mind. Listen, God knows what he's doing. Down here. This looks like it's horrible. It looks terrible. My life is a mess. So what's happening is a mess. But I need to back up and say, wait a minute I'm not going to view it that way. I'm going to discipline my thinking. I'm going to understand God is doing something that from heaven's perspective makes perfect sense. And when it's all said and done, it's going to be a beautiful thing. And so, number one, my standing. I'm a child of God. My heavenly Father is in control. Number two, my sentiment, the way I'm thinking about this. Write this down. Number three, the certainty of trials in life. Let's work our way through this verse. Look what it says: My brethren Count it all joy. What's the next word? When you fall into diverse temptations. Again, this is a place where it's good to notice what it doesn't say. He doesn't say if you fall into diverse temptations. He says when. I circled the word when in my Bible. You know why? Because temptations, these trials, these hardships, are a certainty. You say, oh, Brother Latherman, nobody's ever had trials like I do. Yeah, they have. They're not unique to us. Now here's the thing. I get into hardship, my heart is broken, I think I'm the only one that's ever been through this. Fact of the matter is, everybody, everybody's having a rough time Everybody faces hardships. Everybody goes through valleys. Everybody has their heart broken. Everybody is disappointed. Everybody faces trials. It's a fact of life. They are certain. Nobody gets through life without having to go through some hardships. We all do it. We all do it. And so we have the standing, I'm a child of God, the sentiment, this can produce a good thing. This can help me. That's not pleasant, but it can help me. The certainty it's going to happen. Trials are inevitable. Difficulties are to be expected. Hardships are a normal part of life And so the certainty of trust. I put this down, number four, and I'm making tremendous time tonight in this. But I hope it's helpful. Number four, the suddenness of life's trials. Look again at verse 2. My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into temptations. That word fall there has the idea of not anticipating it. Nobody says, yeah, I'm going to walk down the aisle, I'm going to walk down the aisle and walk up on the platform, I'm going to trip and fall. Nobody does that. You don't expect it, you don't anticipate it, you don't plan on it, it just happens. A couple years ago, um uh you might not this might be a surprise, but one winter it snowed a lot up here. And um I was going out to get the mail. And it was the middle of the day and everything was icy and covered with ice and uh I walked across the road. I got to the yellow line right out here in the middle of the road to get to the mailbox And something happened. When I hit that line, I my feet went out from under me and wham, I was on my back in the middle of the road. Anybody know what the first thing I did was when I hit the ground No, I looked around to see if anybody saw me, you know. And I got up and I was a little sore and and uh all that. But the fact of the matter is, I was not expecting that. I was not anticipating that. And boy, it completely caught me by surprise. One minute I'm standing fine. One minute I'm making progress over the mailbox. Next minute, I'm laying on my back in the middle of the road staring at the sky. And the Bible says, and he's suggesting here, that many times difficulties, heartaches, trials, they show up when we did not expect it. Does it seem like this way for you? It seems like just when I've gotten all my act together, then something else goes wrong. Can I get a witness? It just seems like finally, oh finally, wham, something else happens. And that's the idea here. They're sudden. That word fall has the idea of also being encompassed about by them. It's the idea of falling in a lake, and I'm in over my head. And the idea is this: man, I didn't see this coming. I didn't expect it. And the next thing you know, God, this is overwhelming. This is more than I can handle, God. I'm over my head. When you fall into these things, it's often the unexpected hardships that can do the most damage. We don't have time to prepare for it. We don't have time to get our frame of mind. And next thing you know, wham, we're broadsided. It's often the hardships that catch us off guard that if we're not careful They nail us. It's those hardships that maybe we saw them coming, but boy, they were tougher than I thought it would be. Or it lasts longer than I thought it would last. We have a loved one that passed away and we're grieving and we thought by now I'd be over that grief, but man, it still aches We had a financial thing we're going to work on. Man, this has taken me longer to achieve that than when I thought, and this is tough. And sometimes those are the ones, if we're not careful, can do the most damage. The suddenness of trials. Now that tells me this. As a child of God, as a Christian, I can't anticipate all these difficulties. I can't anticipate when they come up. They're going to blindside me. They are. And what I need to do is I need to stay as close to God as possible all the time so when they come, I'm prepared to handle it. When I get that message, when I get the word, I come home and something awful has happened. I'm close to the Lord. I didn't see it coming. It's overwhelming, but I'm close to the Lord and I can deal with that It's important that I stay strong in my faith. I believe that God gives us opportunity to exercise our faith on small things. So that when the big thing comes along, I'm prepared. I've learned that I can trust God God can see me through this because of these little things. Then when that big thing comes suddenly, I'm ready for it. Let me give you my last thought here real quickly. First of all, we said our standing. We're going to go through difficulties. It's going to happen. My standing is I'm a child of God. God's my father. Number two, my sediment, my frame of mind. Alright, I gotta discipline myself going into this. Don't let just the natural worry take over. I'm gonna discipline my thinking I'm going to count it all joy. There's something good can come out of this. Number three, it's certainty. This is going to happen. It was inevitable. I'm going to have to deal with this stuff. Other people do that also. The certainty of it. The suddenness of it Didn't see it coming, didn't expect it. But I'm close to God. I've been exercising faith in God. I can deal with this. And number four, this is where I have to explain my word here a little bit, but the sundry trials of life, that's a Bible term. And I get it from this. When you fall into diverse temptations, the word diverse means manifold, different types, various kinds, sundry times. uh types, um different shapes and sizes, different intensities I've been on the planet for a little bit, half a decade, or not or for uh half a decade. I've been on the planet for um half a century. I'm more than five years old. Uh half a century, and some of y'all have been here a lot longer than that, but um uh I've been here uh a little while and you know what I've found out, and the Bible bears this out, no two trials are exactly the same. Different time, different perspective, different emphasis, different length at last. They're various, they're diverse, they're manifold, they're different shapes and sizes. So I study my Bible, I find that the hardships that Abraham faced were not the same hardships that Moses faced. Yet they were both two great men of God, great men of faith, but they went through different trials. I found that the trials and hardships that David dealt with Were not the same trials and hardships that Elijah had to deal with. They were unique for each of them. The trials and hardships that Paul went through We're not exactly the same as the trials and hardships that Peter went through. They were neat. They're various. They're different kinds. I found that the trials and difficulties and hardships I went through as a young person In many ways are different than the trials and difficulties and hardships I face as an older person, as an older man. And so God is saying, listen, just because you went through one trial and you dealt with that right doesn't mean you can coast. There's going to be different ones come. There's going to be various intensities. They're going to be different. And by the way, the trial that you're going through isn't necessarily exactly the same as the trial someone else is going through. Now we all go through them. But they're different. I learned years ago that I have to be careful when I tell someone, hey, I know what it I know what you're going through. Someone's going through a tough time. If I haven't been through that specific trial, I really don't know exactly what they're going through. I don't know what it's like to bury a parent. I've never dealt with that. I try to, every funeral, if it's a somebody older than me I try to, every funeral I sit there and I try and put myself in the shoes of the person that's parent is being buried and I thought, well how would I feel? How would I respond if that was my parent And I try and relate to that, but I can't. I've never buried a child. So I don't know what that's like for somebody. I've never experienced that. It's different for all of us. Now I can go to someone who's a young person maybe whose parents split up, divorced, and went through that. I can come and say, hey, listen, I know what that's like I can say this, hey, let me tell you what God did in my life through that. Let me tell you how God helped me And so we each have unique trials, heartaches we go through. They're not all the same. And God teaches us through that and God helps us through that. Then when we do come across someone that maybe has something similar in mind, I can say, hey, let me tell you how God helped me. Let me tell you how God helped me. My brethren, count it all joy. Man. My brother counter all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. And then verse 3: knowing thus that the trying of your faith worketh patiently. Now we'll look at that next message. Some trials are physical in nature, some are emotional in nature, some are relationship-type trials, some are uh uh spiritual hardships, some are financial. But we all go through them. We all go through them. And they're a part of life. So what's the conclusion? How do I end this? This is how I end it. Number one, we need to be patient with each other. Because everybody's going through difficulties at some point or another. Amen. I remember I worked as a youth pastor in the there was a little uh we called it the printing room, it was Xerox and different stuff there. They had a big poster The pastor had a big poster in that little room where the Xerox was. And it said, uh, uh, be nice when folks growl. They might be living with a bear. And the whole idea was this. Listen, be patient with people. They might be going through a difficult time that we don't understand. Cut them some slack. Give them a little room. They might be going through a hard time. I like what George W. Truett said years ago. He said, be nice to everybody, because everybody's having a hard time. It's a great statement. So, number one, I put this down, let's be patient with each other. Number two, view our hardships from the perspective that I'm a child of God. I think that helps so much. God is my Father. He's in control. He knows what He's doing. And then I put this one down. This kind of is a branch off a little bit, but it ties into our Lord's Supper. Let's avoid self-inflicted trials. Some hardships, get this. Some hardships we bring on ourselves. Some hardships we go through that we really wouldn't have to if we'd just listened to God in the first place. Sometimes we make stupid decisions. Y'all are looking at me like you don't know what I'm talking about. And so and stupid you know what I found? Stupid decisions often have difficult consequences. And if I just be smart and listen to God and trust Him and obey Him. I could avoid some hardships in life. Now they're going to come, whether I trust them or not. I'm going to deal with them, but some of them I don't have to. And I'll be honest with you, my thinking is I want to keep them to the minimum. Amen. If I can avoid some, amen. That's good. That's why I want to trust God. I want to obey Him. God says to the church at Corinth in chapter 11 of 1 Corinthians. He says, some of you are sick because you're coming to the Lord's Supper presumptuously. You're coming to the Lord's Supper with known, unconfessed, undealt with sin, and you're bringing this difficulty on your life of sick. Some people died because they came to the Lord's Supper in an unworthy fashion. Holding on to sin, unrepentant, proud. And the proper way to come to Lord's Supper is to humble ourselves before the Lord and say, God, I am a sinner. These areas of my life that are wrong are dealing with me about, I need to confess them and forsake them. make it right, they cost you dearly. And so we always take a time or examine ourselves before we come to the Lord's Supper. We always take a time. We humble ourselves before the Lord and say, Lord, search me, try me. I like what Brother Gibbs said in the video we showed before the service tonight. He says we we we want to get cleaner, but we never want to get really clean. Huh Boys, when they were small, they'd wash their hands, but they'd they'd get the big dirt off and they'd come to the table and say, wait a minute, it's cleaner than it was, but it's not clean. And we bring a lot of heartache and dippy on ourselves because I'm not as bad as someone else, but I'm not clean. And so as we go to the Lord's Supper, we take imitation here a moment, let's humble ourselves before God. Let's ask God to search our hearts. Lord, we want to be right. I want my testimony to be clean. And God will help us. God will help us. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Pray Lord, you'd help us to approach the hardships, the inevitable hardships of life. Help us to approach it from a spiritual fashion. Have our minds set correctly. Lord, help us to avoid the unnecessary hardships that come as a result of our lack of faith and our disobedience to you. And Lord, as we come to your table, I pray your Holy Spirit would search our hearts and you would help us to humble ourselves before you, confess and forsake all known sin. And come to the Lord's table with clean hands and a clean heart. Not that we're worthy, Lord, but because you're worthy of what you've done for us. Our heads are bound, our eyes are closed. Let's stand together. As Jennifer plays piano, so we stand together. Maybe you'd want to come to an altar before we take Lord's Supper Maybe you just want to kneel tonight and say, Lord, search my heart, try me. Help me, Lord, to be clean, surrendered, and yielded to you. God spoke to your heart to see that maybe there's some things we know where we're being dumb or not trusting the Lord and Maybe the Holy Spirit of God, even right now as I'm speaking, the Holy Spirit of God is speaking to your heart. Say, hey, here's an area that needs to be dealt with. Here's an area that you you know is not right. God's convicting. God's convicting about a specific sin, specific area of disobedience Specific area where I need to trust him. Why don't we come on before we take part in the Lord's Supper and say, Lord, I want it to be right. I want to be clean. Not cleaner, I want to be clean in every way.