John chapter number four. We started this, actually, we looked at this passage two weeks ago. Brother Miller was with us last week, and so I want to pick up where we left off a couple weeks ago. But verse number 23 is our memory verse. Earlier in the year we memorized verse 24. I want to read those two just as the basis for our message this morning. Jesus speaking here, and he says, But the hour cometh, and now is when true worshipers. It would be good to underscore that little statement in the Bible, true worshipers. Shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such to worship him God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. True worshipers. As I said, we looked at this a couple weeks ago. We kind of set the stage in that message or the background, what the context here is. Jesus has encountered this woman at the well And in the conversation at the prompting of the Lord, it comes up that she pretty much had an immoral life. She uh had a little bit uh sketchy background there. She had been married five times. Now she's living with a fellow. It's not her husband. And so uh this then she in that conversation she brings up this subject of worship. She brings it up and uh and then Jesus makes some tremendous statements here about worship that are so helpful So let's have a word of prayer and we'll pick up, try to pick up where we left off the other week. Father, I ask you to bless our time as we consider this subject of worship. And Lord, you are our God. We are the created beings. We worship you. We want to, and we want to do it correctly. We want to be true worshipers. And uh as you uh lay out here. So I ask that you would please use me and speak through me and teach us In this matter, that we could be what you intend for us to be and love and serve and worship you the way you intend for us to. I yield my will to you, pray you guide my thinking and my speaking as I preach. Present my body. Lord, I ask that you would fill me again this hour with your spirit, and that you would be the one speaking and not me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. So Jesus is in this conversation with the woman. And I want I'm tempted. I was reading over it and kind of restudying this again this week and I'm tempted to say there was a little tension here maybe If you remember, we pointed out this woman was a Samaritan, and there's issues came along with that in their culture. A Jew speaking to a Samaritan was unheard of, was There was such a dislike between the two uh groups of people. And then a man speaking to a woman in that culture was taboo And then a woman of this type, of this background, a sinner, and for Jesus, the Son of God, to be speaking with a sinner was frowned upon and very very uh uh uh uh an uh an issue with the Jews. If you remember other times the Pharisees confronted Jesus repeatedly Now you're talking to sinners. You're eating with sinners. If you knew what kind of woman this was, you wouldn't speak to them. If you knew this was a publican And so they had a real problem with that. And we looked at all of that. So there's probably a little bit of tension maybe on the part of the woman here and uncomfortable in this conversation with the Lord Jesus. But as I said, she brings up this subject of worship. Now, I suspect she's trying to change the subject from her past The statements just before this, Jesus said, listen, uh, uh, you know, you've been married five times, the guy you have now, you're live, you're living in adultery, you're living instead. And as basically what he's pointing out. And so she kind of changes the subject. She says, I perceive you're a prophet. Ten times the word worship is used in five verses. And that's significant. When God uses, when God references a subject ten times in five verses, we ought to pay attention to what he's saying. And the word uh uh he uses it ten times. And he points out, as we said before, he references these true worshipers, true worshipers. And uh as we said uh the other week in the other message, the fact that he says true worshippers, what does that imply? It implies there are what? False worshipers. False worshippers. We looked at the word true. It means genuine. It means sincere. If he is distinguishing true worshipers, then he's implying that there are some folks that worship not genuine. Their worship is not genuine. Their worship is not sincere. The word true means to be correct or without defect. Perfect. In other words, the way it's designed. It's operating the way it's designed. It's true to its design. So the implication again, as we mentioned before, is that it is possible for a church or an individual to worship God in an incorrect way In an imperfect, uh a way that is defective, it's possible to worship God. In imperfect way The word worship or the word true has the idea of the opposite of fictitious Uh you have uh fiction people, fiction books. They're not true, they're made up. They're imaginary, they're the imagination. And so again, the implication is that it's possible to worship God in a in a made up way Just come up with our own ideas, how we worship God. I lived in Colorado for a number of years and uh with uh working on staff there at Neighborhood Bible Time, one of my responsibilities in the off-season was print ribbons. How many people here have Bible time ribbons somewhere on your possessions? Yeah. It should be just about the whole church. Uh how many people have a Bible time ribbon in your Bible right now? Setting right there. Is there any like that? I got probably 45 of them. in my Bible. I printed a lot of those back in the day. And I would listen to the radio. There was a Christian station there and it was just anything went. And one day there was a preacher on there, he had a program, and he made this statement. He said, the most meaningful Lord's Supper he ever had. Now Listen to this carefully. He said the most meaningful Lord's Supper he ever had was on a beach in California with a handful of his friends when they ate cheeseburgers and Coca-Cola for the Lord's Supper. Anybody here have a little bit of a problem with that? Yeah, the Bible is very, very clear that the Lord's Supper is for the local church, number one, and number two, it doesn't involve cheeseburgers and Coca-Cola. It's unleavened bread and the fruit of the w of the wine of the vine. And so it's possible for us to use our imagination, come up with these fictitious ways To serve God. And Jesus makes this statement to the woman. He says, true worshipers, you know, don't just make stuff up. We do it correctly. We're genuine. We're sincere in this. And so it is possible for a church to worship God in an incorrect way, an insincere way. It's possible for you and I, as individual Christians, to worship God insincerely. Let's go through the motions I don't mean it. It doesn't have any meaning to me. I'm just doing what superficially. And so we need to learn to worship God Our theme this year is worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. And all through Scripture, we're instructed to worship the Lord, worship God. In the Psalms and Revelation throughout Scripture, worship God. Ten times in this passage, worship is addressed So it's very, very important to our God that we worship him and that we worship him truly. We be true worshipers. We need to worship God. Our churches need to worship God the way God instructs us. Are you with me? Our homes need to worship God. Worshiping God, I emphasize this all the time. Worshiping God is not restricted to the church services. It's an ongoing thing. There ought to be worship in our homes just as genuine, just as real, just as sincere in our homes As we worship God in church. Our worship individually, alone with the Lord, my walk with God, my worship of God. as an individual believer ought to be just as real and sincere and genuine and scriptural as we do at church. As we do at church. One thing, myself as pastor and the leadership and the church as a whole, we try very, very hard. We try to be very, very careful that what we do lines up with the Word of God. We do not want to bring our imagination, we do not want to bring our own ideas into our service and walk with God, our service of the Lord, our worship of the Lord. We want to be true. We want to be correct. We want to be what God intends for us to be. And so it's important that we learn how to worship and learn to do it and learn to worship God. Now here's my first thought this morning. We'll jump right in. Number one, I want us to consider the concept of worship. The concept of worship. Our theme, as was said this year, is worship the Lord. What do we mean by that? What are we talking about when we say worship the Lord? To be honest with you, I've never been real satisfied with any definition of worship that I've come across. There's various out there as you study, read theology books and There'll be variations of what does it mean to worship God? It's one of those things where you kind of know in your heart and soul what it is But to verbalize it is a little difficult. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? You know, I know what it is But to define it, to put it in words, how do you define what worship the Lord is? It's kind of like trying to define what love is. 1 Corinthians 13 tells us very in pretty specific detail what love does, how it behaves, how it manifests itself But love itself, we know what it is. We've experienced it. We know what love is, but to define it is challenging, is difficult sometimes. And I think that's true with the idea of worship. I've been studying this for years, and then particularly this year, as we I felt the Lord led that to be our theme for this year, so I paid special attention to what the Bible teaches about what worship is Particularly when we realize how important it is in the church life and in our individual life. And to define it is a challenge. What is this concept of worship? Well, I know this I know it involves recognition of God's authority. When I worship God, I am recognizing that God is the supreme and ultimate authority in existence. And so it's a recognition of God's authority. It involves submission to that authority. You look in the Bible where it's We're told specifically that somebody worshiped God. And about every case where we have an L an example of somebody worshiping, where we're told they worship God. In every case, it involved submission on the part of the one worshiping to the authority of God, to a decision God made, to an action God took. They worshiped God. And so recognizing God's authority, that's one thing, but beyond that, submitting to that authority Is part of this concept of worship. I would say it also involves the idea of adoration, adoring God, His majesty, His glory, His holiness. His power, his wisdom, his goodness. And I'm overwhelmed with the glory and majesty of God. I recognize his authority I submit to that authority and I adore him for all that he is. You follow what I'm saying? Would you agree with me? That's difficult to define. To put into a dictionary definition of worship. We know in our hearts what it is Many of us, perhaps most, if not all of us, we've experienced that to some degree. The word worship. Worship. It requires humility. I cannot worship God and maintain a proudful attitude at the same time. My pride has to be put aside. I have to humble myself before the Lord. It involves faith. Believing and trusting God, just having faith in Him. All of these things, we know in our heart what it is. But it's difficult to define. I tried defining it. I've used this definition a number of times. It means to, this is my definition, as flawless as it is, I'm like I said, I'm not satisfied But it's the idea of recognizing God's authority in my life and then submitting to that authority, humbly submitting to that authority by trusting God, having faith in Him, and obeying what He says. Worshiping God. The word itself, the word worship itself, if you just take the literal definition of the Old Testament be from the Hebrew word and New Testament be the Greek word, the word itself simply means to lie prostrate, to fall prostrate. In other words, either to kneel down before something or someone and to fall on my face before them. That's the word itself means to prostrate myself. before someone and put myself lower and down on the ground. If you remember and Daniel, uh Hezekiah required that everybody worship me kneel to the idol when the music played. Everybody remember reading that That's the idea, bowing down, kneeling. That's where we get the idea when we pray. We get on our knees and pray. We bow before the Lord. Now you don't have to do that to pray. But it's part of it. It's a good thing to do. I try every morning when I have my devotions, try to get on my knees. I take the verse. Come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our God, our Maker. And so that's the idea that behind the literal word. But I got came across this. I heard something a preacher said some time ago. And he was saying, he was talking about worship, and he said the word worship. Our English word worship comes from the same word, the same idea of worth or value, worship. Worth, something that is worthy, something that is valuable. And the idea is this worshiping God is coming before God and recognizing that He is worthy of my adoration He's worthy of my trust. He's worthy of my love. He's worthy of my submission. God is worthy. He's valuable. He is such great value. It is recognizing God's worth and value and then submitting to him because of that. My father, he's been with the Lord here a number of years, fifteen uh years, maybe longer. He's been going a long time. We loved him dearly, Papa Kenny, we called him. He was an avid antiquer. How many people know what an antiquer is? Ask Ron Coddington. He'll tell you what an antiquer is. In fact, you look up Antiquer in the dictionary, Ron's picture is right there beside it. He's an antiquer. Well my father-in-law, Papa Kenny, was an antiquer and he was very good at it. Um he made a lot of money. He had different ways. He'd go to Florida, the big flea markets, and markets down there and he'd buy antique stuff, bring it back, fix it up. He had a he had a booth down in Whitesville, Virginia, I think, a big market down there, flea market, antique pla place there. And uh what I'm trying to say, he was very, very good. One thing he would do is he would go to auctions, estate auctions, those types of things. And very seldom did he buy antiques. He would sometimes buy antique there if he got a good deal on it. He knew what it was. knew, you know, not just just because something's old doesn't mean it's valuable. He knew what the value was of different things, what to look for, different markings and whatnot. And so he didn't a lot of times he didn't buy antiques at the auction because everybody else knew what the value was and they'd run the price up What he would buy is he would buy these old what I would call junk boxes at the end of the auction, all the leftovers. They just kind of clean all the drawers out from the estate, put it in a box and bid it off. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's just stuff. Not necessarily furniture or anything like that. It's just a box of stuff. And you could get that box like that for five, ten, fifteen, twenty bucks sometimes. Well he bought one. He would buy these and then he'd sort through and find different things and get things appraised. He was going through one here And he found a ring in this box of stuff that he paid like five bucks for. And he got looking at it. He says, that looks like it might be something. And so he went to a jeweler and had it appraised. Lo and behold, the ring was worth $7,000. It was a diamond ring, very, very valuable. It was in its junk thing. Up until that point, they just kept it in a box out in the shed, out where he had his antiques. He just kept it out there. But when he recognized the value of that ring, that changed everything. All of a sudden now he's keeping it in the house. He's keeping in the safe. In fact, he invested some money to keep that ring safe. And um and uh he changed his whole attitude about it. Another time he was at an estate and they had some vases there, and there was one, a very large vase. Probably stood three foot, three and a half foot off the ground, just beautiful. And they sold it for almost nothing, so he got it. He got it home, it just sat there in the living room in the corner for a while and One for for what whatever reason he went and had it appraised. Lo and behold, that daze was worth $10,000 All of a sudden it wasn't just setting in the living room anymore. All of a sudden now it's in a secure place. In fact, he got insurance on it. In case something would happen to it. Why? His attitude towards it, his actions towards it, his investments of time and money were altered because of the value of that object. I think this idea of worship is saying, hey, God is worthy. God is of great value, of great worth. And when we recognize God's value, his worth, we say, God, you're worth more than anything else in the world. You're more valuable to me than any possession I could possibly have. I worship you. I value you. I recognize your worth of my trust and my submission and my faith and my obedience. God, you are worthy. In fact, in the book of Revelation, it says, thou art worthy to receive glory and honor and praise and strength. Worship, recognizing God's value. In Acts chapter number seven, we have the count of Stephen And if you're familiar with the book of Acts, Stephen was a great preacher, and he was preaching, and uh the Jews turned against him. Most of the book of most of the chapter seven of the book of Acts is Peter's message to the Jews. And he rebukes them shortly. He goes through their history And then he rebukes him, says, You've always killed the prophets of God and you've murdered the Son of God. And they turn on him and they stone Peter. Anybody familiar with the story? Are you with me? Or not Peter, Stephen. And they turn on Stephen and they stone Stephen. And as these stones are flying at him, he's being bruised and bones being broken. He says, he lifted his eyes. He said, I see the Father seated on the throne. I see the Son standing at the right hand of the Father. You know what Stephen was doing? He was worshiping God. He was saying, I'm losing my life. I'm being stoned for you. And Lord, you're worth it. You are worthy to give my life for. You are of such value. It is worth my life to give for you for what you've done for me. You follow what I'm saying? That's worship. Worship God. We see it all through Scripture. We see it all through Scripture. Abraham, and I wish we had time. We don't. Abraham, God instructs Abraham uh to take his son, his only son Isaac, and take him up and offer him up as a sacrifice to God. I don't know about you, but I put myself in Abraham's shoes. I'm thinking, God, that's too much God, you're asking too much from me, right? Are you are you with me now this morning? God, my son But if you read that account in Genesis 22, not one time does Abraham question God. No negotiation, no debate, no resistance God says, take your son, your only son, whom thou lovest, and offer him up as a sacrifice. Abraham gets up that next morning. Gets his son, gets the wood, the knife, and they make their journey up to where he's going to sacrifice Isaac. And the servants ask, and they say, he engages the servants there a little bit, and he says, My son and I are going to worship the Lord. Abraham was saying, I'm going to sacrifice my son. It is an act of worship to God. How many people agree with me? Whoa. Whoa. You know what Abraham was saying? He's saying, I don't understand this. I'm putting this, I'm putting words in this mouth probably, but he's saying, I don't understand this. I know God. I know what he's able. I know he's wise. I know he's good. I know he's perfect. I don't understand it, but I worship him. He is worth me doing this, even though it doesn't make sense to me. He is of greater value to me than the way I understand things to be, and I will worship God. Now we're told later on in Hebrews that he was convinced that if he sacrificed his son, that God would raise Isaac up again, resurrect him from the dead, because that's who the promise was through And he knew God would keep his word. And so whatever the outcome was, God was going to bring it around and fulfill his promise. But he recognized this is wor would you agree with me, how many of you daddies? That would be tough Man, I don't know. But Abraham said, God, you're worth it. I trust you. That was worship. We go to worship. Worship the Lord. And so this concept of worship is to recognize God is more valuable than anything in my life. anything in this world has to offer. And I exalt Him, I worship Him, I value Him, I submit to Him. That's worship. That's worship. Exodus chapter 20, we're given the Ten Commandments. We're familiar with the Ten Commandments. Somebody want to tell me, what is the very first commandment in Exodus chapter 20? Thou shalt have what? No other gods before me. You know what I think that command is? I think it's a command to worship. I think what God is saying here, do not value anything above me. Do not consider anything to be of more worth or value than myself. He is to be our value. We value him above all else. Would you agree with me? We live in a world, and many of us, guilty, huh? Of valuing something more than valuing our God? Houses, cars, possessions, wealth, position, popularity How many people are willing to forfeit their relationship and their worship of God so that people will like me and people will accept me, huh? That's valuing the opinions of fallen man higher than my relationship with God. That's worshiping man. He says, have no other gods before me. You know, I want more money. I want to be wealthy. I want to have a bigger house. I want a nicer car. I want nicer clothes. I want bigger vacations And so we compromise and we forfeit and we disobey God and we forfeit our relationship and our walk with God so that I can make more money and get more stuff And what are we doing? We are worshiping stuff. We're worshiping value. We're we're we're worshiping possessions. We're putting off higher value on these things than we are on our God, our creator, our Savior, worshiping the Lord. And so this concept of worship, it's hard to define. But we see it through Scripture where God we submit to Him because We value who he is and our relationship with him. Job, what a experience Job had. Everything's taken from him. And in chapter two, I believe it is, his w his uh uh he says, The Lord giveth, the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord And the Bible says he worshipped God. Everything's gone. Everything's taken. His heart is shattered. His world is this devastated. And he worships God. You know what it's saying? Job was saying, God, you're more to me than all family, than all possessions, than everything. God, you're everything to me. That's worship. That's worship. Um modern Christianity. And again, I'm I I'm not out to be critical. God bless. I just want to do right. I want us to worship God in sincerity and in truth, in spirit and truth. And a lot of modern Christianity, they'll have a night of worship. They'll have a night. Oh, we're going to worship. And they'll bring in big bands and jumping up and down and carrying on and rocking and rolling. We're worshiping God. I'm here to tell you, that is not true worship. I'm not trying to be critical, I'm trying to be scriptural. True worship is saying, God, you're more valuable. I submit to you, I trust you, in humility, and faith. For God Almighty. Worship. Jesus said, true worshipers. Worship him in spirit and in truth. So, the concept of worship, God of greater value than anything else this world has to offer. Jesus put it this way: what shall it profit a man? If he gained the whole world and what? Lose his own soul. What a tragedy. To worship this world, to value this world to such a degree that I forfeit my own salvation. You're here in the service, or maybe you're listening online. You don't know for sure your sins are forgiven. You're on your way to heaven. Jesus is your only way to be saved. And I'm here to tell you, there's nothing this world has to offer that is worth losing my soul over. I preached young people for years ago. I used to preach young people a good bed. I always told them there's nobody in this world, no girlfriend, no boyfriend, that is worth going to hell for. There's no possession, there's no position that is worth sacrificing my acceptance by God, my walk with God, my service to the Lord. He is worthy. He is worthy. And that's what worship is. That's what worship is. So the concept of worship. Number two, I'd like for us to consider the fact that we are compelled to worship. If you would, if you're still here in John, notice in verse 23. But the hour cometh, and now is, when true worshippers, as we tried to define, shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. Now look at this last statement in this verse that Jesus made. For the Father what? Seeketh such to worship him. I got looking at that word, seeketh. It means to look for. It has the idea of craving or a desire, a strong desire. God wants us to worship Him. He wants us to value Him. To trust him and submit to him. He seeketh that. We're compelled to worship. I believe we have this outward compelling by the Lord. As our creator, he wants us to worship him. He created us for that. Don't ever forget, he's the creator, not me. It is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves. I think that's the underlying basis of the evolutionary lie, is to somehow remove the fact that I have a creator, that I have a God That has authority and that made me, and I'm answerable to him. We must never forget God is the one that made us And he longs for us to worship him. He craves for us to worship him. And so we have this God wanting us to worship, desiring us to worship. As our Savior, He wants us to worship Him. I think it's good for us on a daily basis just to stop in our minds before the Lord. And just remember what Jesus Christ has done for us when he died on that cross. Tonight we have Lord's Supper. I think it's one of the one of the most important Uh uh uh well there's two two ordinances in the church, baptism and Lord's Supper, they're both vitally important. But I tell you that Lord's Supper is so vital to the spiritual health of a body of believers When we stop on a regular basis and we reconsider what Jesus Christ did for us when he died on that cross. And when you and I look at that, we're compelled to worship him, Lord, you gave your life for me. You are worthy of my love. You are worthy of my devotion. You are worthy of my submission. You are worthy of my obedience. You were worthy. And so as our Savior, we're compelled to worship Him. As our Creator, we're compelled to worship Him. So we have this outward compelling to worship God, but I think we're compelled inwardly also. I think mankind has a worship instinct. There is something in us that prompts us, that drives us to worship. I want to submit to you that everybody worships something. Everybody sees something somewhere is of value. Whether it's the true and living God or it's an imaginary God. We have false religions throughout the world that they so value this imaginary non-existent God that they're willing to give their own lives For this imaginary God. They worship a God that does not exist, even to the point of taking their life along with others Giving themselves to a God that does not exist, cults that they dedicate their whole life to a false doctrine There's something in us that worships. You say, what about the atheists? They don't worship anything. Oh, yeah, you ever seen a rock concert? They're worshiping those musicians, right or wrong. Movie stars. They faint and scream and oh and they'll just do anything for that movie star. I'm here to tell you, and I I don't know, maybe I get in trouble for this But this morning coming over, I could hear not far from here a worship service going on on the ball fields. And sacrifice time and money and effort and sacrifice. Maybe there is Christians sacrificing their trust and obedience, submission to God, so that we can worship this God of sports. Now listen, I'm not against sports. I like it. I watched the baseball game Friday night. I like sports. But listen, I do not value sports above my God. I am not willing to sacrifice the assembling together of the people of God for a sport. To value God, to worship Him. And so there's something in us that prompts us to worship. Every single culture, no matter how remote it may be, I'm reading a book about missionaries in the 1800s up in Canada. Going to the different little um uh they were not Eskimos, but the n Indians, uh the n the the national natives of of uh Canada and these back remote backwoods areas that kind of missionaries who go in. Every single culture they got to, no matter how remote, no matter how isolated, they worship some sort of God Every single one of them. In Africa, South America, the Pacific Southeast, they worship, worship, worship. There is something in the heart of man That drives us to worship something. I think God created us that way. We were created to worship God. And we've sinned and we worship everything else. So the concept of worship, the value, the worth we put on God We're compelled to worship. We're driven to it. And God wants us to worship Him. And then last of all, correct worship. And we come back to the Lord's statement. When true worshipers, true worshipers, notice he says there, when true worshipers shall worship the Father. Verse 24, God is the Spirit, and they that worship him must Worship Him. Means it's necessary. It's right. It's acceptable. God looks for us to worship and worship Him correctly. He gives two requirements for true worship. I don't know how you feel. I don't know how this is coming across to you. But as a pastor of our church, I love our church, as an individual believer before God, I want to worship God correctly. I want our church to serve and worship God the way God intends for us to do it. Are you with me? So this catches my attention. This becomes very, very important to me and to us as a church when the Lord says this is how true worshipers worship. And he says there's two requirements. Number one, in spirit. They that worship him must worship the Father in spirit. Again, he repeats it in verse 24. Worship him in spirit. What does he mean by worshiping God in spirit? Well, I think he means sincerely. Sincerely, with my heart and soul In other words, not just a ritual I'm going through, not just some form. You ask some Christians in a church service, surely not here. But you ask some Christian in search service, why are you in church this morning? Why are you singing these hymns? Why are you getting together with other believers and listening to the preacher go on and on and on? Why are you doing that? And you get the answer: well, it's just what we do. It's just the way I was raised. It's just what we've always done. Maybe the young people would be, you're listening, young people? Maybe the young people would say, Well, because I had to Mom and dad drug me here. You heard about the guy who had the drug problem when he was a kid. He was drugged to church Sunday morning, Sunday nights, Wednesday nights. Well, I just I don't have any choice. I just had to be here. Listen, that is not worshiping God in spirit It's putting on a show, that's doing an obligation, that's putting up some front, going through some ritual. I'm here to tell you. There's a lot of things I don't know, but here's something I do know That is not what God's looking for. He's not looking for a show. He's not looking for a front, some facade. He's looking for sincerity. He's looking for genuineness. There's not a spouse here, husband or wife, that will want your spouse to simply go through the motions of loving you. You want them to love you sincerely. Amen or not. And they want to be loved sincerely. Why are you doing that? Well, because I have to That's romantic. Well, that's going somewhere. John or John or I read about John R. Rice and he was a great man and he had a great family, so don't misunderstand, but they were driving And they were in the back seat and the fellow driving said that he could hear John R. Rice and his wife talking. And his wife leaned over and said, um, she said, John, do you love me? And he said, Well, of course I do She goes, why do you love me? He said, 'cause God told me to. Ah, you might need a little more sincerity there. And you ought to love her if God just 'cause God told you to. starting point, but there ought to be a little more sincerity. God wants us to love Him and worship Him, submit Him and trust Him sincerely Just Lord, I trust you. I trust you. If all I got, if my Christianity is nothing more than my Sunday meeting clothes, I just put it on. Go to church. If that's all it is, I'm telling you, you're missing the point. Sincere. Genuine. We're studying this in the adult's honey school class were studying Malachi. The whole issue God has with Israel is they're just putting on a facade. Just putting on a show. It didn't mean a thing to them. And God says that's that's that's false worship. That's unacceptable. It must be sincere. It just must be sincere. Jesus rebuked the Pharisees for this. He says you're like white and sepulchres. Outwardly, oh, you look good. You got the Bible, you got your fundamental clothes and haircuts, you got all of that, but in your heart it's nothing. There's no love there. There's no devotion. There's no admiration for the Lord. All he's done for us. All he's done for us. We just give him a showback. Just give him this facade back. Father seeks us to worship him in spirit, in sincerity, genuine. And then he says, and in truth. So, number one, it should be sincere. Number two, it should be scriptural. Our worship of God ought to line up with scripture. He says it twice: in truth, in truth. It is possible, get this, it is possible to be sincere and yet still be unscriptural. I think there's churches all across our country, around the world. They'll come together, they want to worship God, they'll praise God, and they're sincere about it, but it's not in truth. It's not according to the Word of God. It's not lined up with God's instructions. It's possible to be sincere, but be unscriptural. As I said at the beginning, we've said it a thousand times over the years, we want everything we do at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to line up with Scripture. Everything. Across the board, everything We do not want to violate or contradict the Word of God. That is our authority. That is our instructions. That is our guidebook. And so we follow that. But what's true in church ought to be true in our homes. Our homes ought to function. Our marriages, our child rearing, all that takes place on the home ought to be according to truth. The instructions of God. We see today, we get all worked up about it, how the world is distorting the family and distorting marriage and distorting the home. Listen, that's the world. What we gotta watch out is make sure my family, my home, my marriage lines up with Scripture. It's possible to get all worked up about the world and yet yet let have mine corrupt. You see this big beam that's in the moat that's in the others, we don't see the beam that's in our own homes. Spirit and in truth, sincerity and scriptural. David had a problem with this. King David of all people. He wanted to bring the tabernacle into Jerusalem, the very center of the life of Israel. It was out on the outskirts. He's now king. He goes, I want to bring the Ark of the Covenant and bring it into the very center of the nation life of Israel. And he sold the idea to all the leadership of Israel and all the people. They were all on board. Yeah, let's do it. David was a very passionate man. He got in something he would be fired. If he's killing Philistines, he's doing it passionately. He's praising God, he's praising God with all his heart. And he gets worked up and he gets passionate about moving this ark of the covenant, the tabernacle of God, into the very center of the life of Israel. And in his passion, his sincerity, he gets reckless, gets a little careless. And he brings the Ark of the Covenant and he doesn't follow the instructions. Anybody familiar with the story? And God laid it out very, very clearly. This is how you move the ark. And David disregarded that. And he just brought it on a new cart, same way the Philistines did. Disregarded what God said, and it had tragic consequences. You familiar with the story? He was sincere, but he wasn't scriptural. A person can sincerely believe in their religion and yet die and go to hell. Sincerity does not save my soul. Jesus saves my soul. Now I need to sincerely trust Jesus, but it has to be Jesus. All roads do not lead to heaven. Doesn't matter how sincere we may be. It is through Jesus and Jesus alone. And so it must be scriptural. This woman says, oh, you guys say you have to worship God in Jerusalem. We worship God, the Samaritans, we worship God in this mountain. Jesus says, listen to me. It's not the place so much. It has to be sincere. And it needs to be true and right. And that's what he says to us. Anybody recognize the name John Payton? Anyone recognize that name? He was a great missionary. uh to uh uh what's Papua New Guinea now, back in the 17, 1800s, 1700s, and he introduced to in Scotland, he was a Scottish missionary And he introduced to the church leaders that God had called him to go to this islands in the South Pacific and take the gospel of Jesus Christ. We took some resistance. There was a lot of resistance. They were pretty Calvinistic in a lot of ways. One of the One of the church leaders says, if God wants to save the natives in the South Pacific, he can do it without us. Well, that's not scriptural. God uses people. He's told us to go into all the world. And John Payton resisted that and he says, God has called us. God has said, go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. He's called me to go to these people. One of the church leaders stood up and said, if you go there, you will be eaten by cannibals. John Payton stood up in response and he says, You stay here, you're going to die. Someday I'm going to die. Your body will be eaten by worms. I love God. And whether my body is eaten by cannibals or by worms, I am going to serve God. You know what that is? That's worship. That's worship. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to worship you. I pray your Holy Spirit. Would stir us and help us to worship you in spirit, genuinely, what we do, be sincere, our walk with you. And Lord, help us to be scriptural, be true. And loving you and honoring you and valuing you above everything else in this world, in this life. I wonder, with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many of us would say, Preacher, pray for me. I tend to I find myself sometimes putting things above the Lord. Myself, my own will, maybe some fun self, whatever it may be. Maybe God spoke to your heart this morning. He'd say, preacher, pray with me that I would value the Lord above all else. Any like that by the uplifted hand? I tell you, our hearts, we fall in love with stuff Fall in love with this world, we value things that really in the long run have little or no value. Maybe God can help us get that back where it ought to be. Worship the Lord. I wonder if there's some say, you know, preacher, I know there's some areas in my life that are out of line with Scripture. Maybe we just deliberately chose something, or maybe we just wandered, we just drifted. This morning I want to come back and line up with Scripture. I want to be sincere and be real. And I want my life to line up with the Lord. Is there any like that? Preacher, I know there's some areas I've gotten out of line from the scripture. Ain't it all like that? God bless you. Hands all around. There's some this morning that said, preacher, I don't know for sure. I'm going to heaven I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know that my sins are forgiven. I have a home in heaven. You'd say, pray for me, that God will help me get that settled. Is there any like that By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me, I need that settled Father. I ask you bless now our invitation in Jesus' name