John chapter 4. I'd like for us, if you would, read together verse 23 and 24. Read that together in unison. John chapter 4 Verse 23 and 24. Ready? Would you read it with me? But the hour cometh, and now is when the true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father seeketh such to worship him. God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. I want to speak this morning on true worshipers. Our theme for 2025 is worship the Lord and the beauty of holiness. And so we want to talk about true worshipers. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father, we thank you for our young people Lord, you've given us a tremendous privilege and a tremendous responsibility to teach these children the Word of God I pray you'd help all of us as members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to take that very, very seriously and not take it lightly. I pray for these little children and the lives that They have before them. We're asking that your Holy Spirit would move deep in their hearts, draw them to Christ, establish them in their faith, in their walk with you, and their whole lives will be committed to the Lord Jesus and the service and his service. I pray for us now that are here in this auditorium, those that are tuned in by way of internet on the radio. God, I ask you to use your word to stir our hearts, that our faith in you would grow, that we would be the people you've created us to be. I pray by chance for any that would be hearing my sound of my voice that do not know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. That do not have assurance of sins forgiven home in heaven. Pray that today would be the day of their salvation. Those of us that know you, stir our hearts that we would worship you. As you instruct us to in spirit and in truth. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer, dear Lord. I yield my will and mind to you, that you direct my thoughts as I preach I present my body so that you can fill and speak through my body to our hearts and minds. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. John chapter 4, we have this fascinating account of this interaction between Jesus Christ and the Samaritan woman that he meets at this well, Jacob's well. It's a fascinating account, and we could do a series. In fact, as I was preparing the message, I thought this would be a great series just to do on Jesus and the woman at the well There are several issues going on here in this conversation that may not be real evident to you and I here in 2025, 2,000 years later. But there are some serious issues going on. In fact, if you would notice with me in verse 27, the disciples, when they come out and see Jesus speaking with this woman They know immediately that there's something going on here. Look at verse 27 of chapter 4. It says, Upon this came his disciples. Now look at this. And marveled that he talked with this woman. With the woman. Yet no man said, What seekest thou, or why talkest thou with her? They come out here. That word marble there has the idea of being shocked. They're set back a bit. To put it in our vernacular, they may walk out there and say, whoa, what's going on here? Well, what's this all about? In fact, look at the two questions that they do not ask, that obviously was on their mind. It says, What seekest thou? They don't say to the woman, What are you doing here? Why are you here? And they don't say to Jesus, why are you talking with her? So it becomes obvious if we look at this carefully and think about it a bit, there's something going on here. There's some issues here That um, again, are not real evident for you and I. We do a little bit of research into the history and the customs of the day It becomes evident what's going on. Three, there's primarily three issues that the disciples are shocked that Jesus is doing this. Number one, a Jew is talking to a Samaritan. That was unheard of. We hear a lot of talk in our news and social media and all that about prejudice and racism. I'm here to tell you, it's nothing new And it's been around for years, as long as there's been mankind, there's been prejudice, there's been pride, and there's been uh judgment on one another simply because of physical features or whatever. But for a Jew to be speaking to a Samaritan was unthinkable. The Samaritans were hated by the Jews, hated And the Jews were hated by the Samaritans. Two did not get along at all. A Samaritan was what the Jews described as a half-breed. They were half Jew and half Gentile. Gentiles were considered dogs in the mind of the Jews of this day and age And for a Jew to have a child with a Gentile, that child was an outcast. Look at verse number nine. In fact, the woman brings this out. She addresses that. Verse 9. Then saith the woman, well, in verse 7, Jesus had asked her for a drink, and the disciples were in town getting some lunch Then said the woman of the Samaria unto him, when Jesus asks her for a drink, she's surprised that he would say anything to her. And she responds back, how is it that thou being a Jew asketh drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. And so there was this tension here. There was this great divide between these two groups of people And the disciples come out and see that. The Samaritans had, if you study their history a little bit, they had rejected The worship of Jehovah at the temple in Jerusalem. They had rejected that and established their own worship. In fact, she mentions that there in verse number 20. She says, We worship in this mountain. This is where we worship God. You worship him in Jerusalem, in the temple. They had rejected that, and the Jews hated them for rejecting the temple of God and the place of worship. They had their own version of worshiping Jehovah, and the Jews hated them for that. But here you have Jesus. And he is discarding these prejudices that were so ingrained in the hearts and minds of the people. You see, in Jesus' heart and mind, it did not matter that this woman was a Samaritan. What mattered was she was created in the image of God and she was a sinner in need of a Savior. And Jesus was able to look beyond her physical features. He was able to look beyond her nationality, her history. And he saw a heart that needed a Savior. I tell you, it'd do us a heap of good to see people that exact same way. He disregarded these prejudices that were going on. So that's one issue. The disciples come out. They marvel, what in the world? Jesus, you're a Jew. You're talking to a Samaritan of all people. Why would you even be in her presence, let alone talk to her? There's a second issue going on here that again we may not pick up in our day and age, but in that culture it was it was serious. And that was this: a man Was speaking to a woman. At this time and in this culture, that was unthinkable But a man would do that, a total stranger, sit down and engage in conversation with a woman. Now you and I, we don't grasp that in our idea. That's outside of our concept, why that would be an issue But in that time, in that culture, that was unacceptable. Unacceptable. And by the way, there still is a little bit of that thinking in the Middle East, particularly among the Muslim culture. And where there's a clear separation, an isolation between the men and the women, male and female. And so, but Jesus again disregards that Men and women are given differing roles, and Jesus mentions that. That's taught through Scripture. However, When it comes to having a relationship with Jesus Christ, I hope you get this. When it comes to knowing Jesus Christ as personal Savior. And having a relationship with him and being blessed of him and led by him. There's no difference, male or female. Before Jesus Christ. The gospel does not discriminate between male and female. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. To Jesus, this wasn't some Samaritan. To Jesus, this wasn't a woman. To Jesus, this was a woman, this was a person that had an eternal soul that was in desperate need of the forgiveness of God. That could only be found in the Lord Jesus Christ. Are you listening, girls? Are you listening? There's three issues going on here. One is a Jew talking to a Samaritan. I'm telling you, there ought not to be anybody in the world that we can't talk to about the Lord Jesus or anything really simply because of their nationality. Simply because of the color of their eyes, or the color of their hair, or if they have hair. Amen, Joe? I tell ya, discrimination against hair is a real thing. I'm here to tell ya, it's real. It ought not the color of their s their eyes, the color of their hair, the color of their skin ought not to be an issue. It wasn't to Jesus Male or female, we ought to uh uh everybody's a sinner in name of uh in need of the Lord Jesus Christ However, there's a third issue going on here, a third issue, and that was the moral stigma that was associated with this woman If you notice here, if you uh back up to verse number uh 16, Jesus has engaged this woman in a conversation. He initiates the conversation by requesting a drink of water from Jacob's well here. She confronts him. Well, you're a Jew, why are you asking me for this? And they have this little back and forth a little bit here about the water and the water water of life. What's happening is Jesus is redirecting this conversation. to this woman's need of a savior. He opened the conversation with requesting a drink, but he very wisely, and he's a tremendous example for you and I in sharing the gospel with people But he very graciously and tactfully redirects the conversation over to this woman's need of a savior. And in verse number 16, he says Go call thy husband and come hither. And the woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband. But then he points out something. What's he doing? He's getting to see, he's trying to help her see that she needs a savior. He's pointing out an area of her life. That is a glaring testimony of the fact that she is a sinner, just like everybody else. And he says to her Thou hast well said, I have no husband. And in my mind's eye, in my imagination, I see Jesus looking into her eyes. And he says, Thou hast had five husbands. And he whom thou hast is and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband. And that sayest thou truly, you're right. You don't have a husband. The man you're living with is not your husband, and you've had five. This woman was very good at getting married, but she wasn't very good at staying married. She could find the fellas She could get him to say I do, but she couldn't keep him. There was a moral stigma with this woman. She was considered a very loose woman. And Jesus, the Son of God. The pure, sinless, holy Son of God is talking to a woman like this The disciples come out and say, what in the world are you? They don't say it, they're thinking it. Why are you talking to her? What are you doing associating with someone like this? Why are you even in her presence? Jesus loves sinners. Let me say that again. Jesus loves sinners. Jesus loves the outcast. Jesus loves the misfits of this world. The fact that she was out here alone at noon. Now if you study a little bit of the history of the culture, they didn't go to the public wells in the middle of the day. It's the heat of the day. There's so many factors in the Bible. Why you want you would go in the morning to get water for the day. You would go of the evening to get water for throughout the night That's when everybody went. The time when nobody went to the well was the middle of the day. And that's when she shows up, indicating, implying to us that she was an outcast. Nobody wanted anything to do with this gal. She's nasty. She's loose. She's one of those type of women. And Jesus comes and talks to her. I don't know about you. I thank God that Jesus loves sinners. I'm glad he loved this old sinner. Fact is, it's not her lifestyle that made her such a sinner in the eyes of God. The fact is, every single one of us that have broken one law of God are just as condemned as she was In the eyes of God, you're just as much a sinner. Oh, your sin might not be sexual promiscuity. Your sin might be self-righteous pride Which is just as condemned by God. It may be criticism of others. Your sin may be dishonesty You may be a liar. Oh, I don't sleep around. I don't care. I don't do that. Yeah, but if you lie, just as much a sinner as she was. Huh? Come on now, let's be honest. And we'll look down on people and we'll condemn sinners and we'll say, oh, those people, they do this, and they and they and those folks. The fact that matters, what we need to do is look in the mirror of God's law and see the fact we're just as much a sinner as anybody else. I've got no leg to stand on when it comes in judgment of others for being sinners. In fact, Jesus was condemned by the Pharisees over and over and over. Thou eatest with sinners. One time a woman came in, very similar to this type of woman, came in, washed his feet, and dried them with her hair, and they said if he if he knew what kind of woman she was, he would have rebuked her He's constantly criticized because Jesus loves sinners. Now I want to point out a fact here very quickly because sometimes that gets misconstrued. Jesus loves sinners, he ate with sinners. He talked with sinners, but he did not sin with sinners. There's a difference. In fact, remember when the remember when the Pharisees brought the the woman taken in adultery? Anybody familiar with that event in s in the Gospels? They brought him a woman taken with adultery, and they said, The law requires that she be stoned and killed. What do you say? They were trying to get him say, oh, the the law's wrong. They were trying to get him blaspheme, God's law is what they were wanting to do, so they could Find fault with him, discredit him. And what did he do? He knelt and drew in the sand a little bit, and they pressed him, and finally looked, stood up, and said, You that are without sin. You cast the first stone. No he was saying, saying you guys are just as much a sinner as she is. You've broken the law, just like every other human being has And if you can say you're not a sinner, then you pick up a stone and you stone her. How they respond. They quietly walked away. They just walked off. And the woman standing there alone. He says, Neither do I condemn thee. But he said this. Go and sin no more. Stop it. Don't do it anymore. I'm not condemning you. Forgiveness. Stop it. Stop it. So there's three issues going on here. One is a Jew talking to Samaritan. Ah, what? A man talking to a woman. Are you kidding me? And you're talking to this kind of woman of all people? I'm glad Jesus loves sinners. I'm glad Jesus loves sinners. I may be talking to someone, maybe somebody hears my voice this morning. You say, Preacher, I'm a sinner. I'm a sinner. I'm here to tell you Jesus loves you. And he died for your sins. He was buried, rose again, so we can be forgiven. That was the whole point of this conversation. That was the whole reason that he went through Samaria. The Jews never went, took this route to get to Jerusalem. They always took this long, roundabout road that would bypass Samar uh Samaria so they wouldn't have to interact with Samaritans. They hated them that much. They would delay their travels by a day just to avoid interacting with a Samaritan. And Jesus deliberately, he said, early in the chapter, he says, I must needs go through Samaria. Why? Because there's a gal there that needs to know about forgiveness. There's a gal there that needs to know about the water of life that can cleanse our sin and give us eternal life. And Jesus engages her. In their conversation, the subject, the woman brings up the subject of worship We read it here a few moments ago, verse 19 through 24. She brings up this subject of worship. She says, Our people, the Samaritans, we worship the Lord on this mountain. You guys worship the Lord down in Jerusalem at the temple. And um so she introduces this subject of worship. Now that's what catches my attention for today. Our theme this year is worship. And here we have this woman brings that subject up. And Jesus responds, and the interesting thing is to this woman, this Samaritan woman with a sorid past. He makes some of the most profound statements about worship that are in all of Scripture We learn as much or maybe more about what worship is from Jesus' few statements to this woman than we do in almost all of the rest of Scripture. Notice with me if you would there in verse uh uh number uh twenty. She says, verse 19, I perceive you're a prophet. Oh, you know about my past. The only way you could know that is if you have something to do with God, you must be some sort of prophet. Our fathers, look at this, worshiped in this mountain. And you say in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. So she brings this subject of worship up. Jesus makes these profound statements. Now what I noticed here is Ten times in five verses the word worship is used. He's teaching us what it is to worship God. Now in verse 23, is everybody with me? Everybody doing alright? Alright, good. Verse 23 He says, Jesus speaking, but the hour cometh and now is. Now here's and I can tell you right now I'm not going to get through this message. I can tell you right now I'm not going to get through the introduction. How many people are glad that I'm not even going to try and do the whole thing? Yeah. Three honest people in the. But look what he says here. He says, the hour cometh, and now is When the what? True worshipers. He references, he mentions true worshipers So if he says, all right, the hour's coming, in fact, it's right now, true worshipers are going to do such and such. So the fact that he references true worshipers, what's the implication here? There must be false worshipers if he's highlighting what true worshipers are. It is possible to be a false worshiper of God. He says there's true worshipers here But apparently, the implication being, some people are false worshipers of God. Now I got looking at that word true. You know how we think. Well, what's he mean by true? Well, it means genuine. It means sincere. We're going to find out, obviously, in future message. What it is to be sincere in my worship. But the word itself means to be a genuine worshiper as opposed to a phony worshiper. The word true has the idea of being sincere. The idea is of being a sincere worshiper as opposed to an insincere worshiper. Has the idea of correct, a true worshipers, the correct worshippers. The word true sometimes is used to refer to something that has no defects in it In fact, one of the words in the definitions, a couple of the definitions I came across, has the idea of being perfect. True worshipers. Worship, people who worship, there's no defects in their worship of God. It's perfect. It's what it should be. It's correct. So again, the implication is it is possible to worship God imperfectly. Right? Incorrectly. That's not the way you worship God. That's the implication he's making here. The word true, again, has the idea of the opposite of fictitious. If something is fiction, what does it mean? It's false or what? It's made up. It's not true. I used to, years ago, I haven't read a fiction book in decades probably Probably twenty years since I've read a fiction book. I read a lot of books and I used to read a lot of fiction books. Anyone here? No, no? I I enjoyed it. Louis Lemour I read them all. Zane Gray, some of those and others before I was saved. Fiction. In other words, it's not true. It's made up It's the figment of somebody's what? Imagination. And people have fascinating imagination. Louis Lamore was a phenomenal writer. Of Western fiction. Not true. It's not real. And Jesus said, true worshippers Are not fictitious in their worship. In other words, they don't just worship in some way that they've come up with. Oh, this is how I think God wants to be worshipped. The fact of the matter is, and I'm jumping way ahead, fact of the matter is it doesn't matter what you or I think, it's what does God say. And so he says there are true worshippers and implying there must be false worshippers. They're insincere. They just go through the motions. They don't really mean it. Or they're wrong in how they're worshiping God. They're wrong about it. Or they're just making stuff up. Again, I I got my hands full with Mount Lake Independent Baptist. Believe me, I've got my hands full with Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I don't need to be worried about what other churches are or not doing. But I'm here to tell you, some churches are worshiping God, and I'm going to be honest with you, I think they just made it up. What goes on in the name of worship? What goes on in the name of Christianity? I can't find it anywhere in Scripture. They just made it up. And so, true worshipers, true, sincere, correct, true, it's possible for a church to worship God insincerely. It's possible for a church to worship God defectively, fictitiously. By the way, it's possible for a Christian. To worship God insincerely. It is possible for an independent, fundamental, King James Bible soul-winning, devil-hating, Christ-honoring Baptist to be insincere in their worship. Right or wrong Well say all those Catholics, all those Methodists, all those charismatics, all those brethren, all those Mennonites, how about all those Baptists Can be just as sincere as any insincere as anybody else. We can show up with our Bible, our hymn book, sing, smile. And it's all a show. You understand? Are you with me this morning? I don't want to be an insincere worshiper of Jesus. I want to be for real I think I'm talking to a lot of people this morning. We want to be for real. I don't want my Christianity. I don't want my faith in Christ. I don't want my My uh faith in God and my walk. I don't want it just to be a show for other people. I want it to be real between me and God. Real. True worshipers. It's possible in Acts chapter 17 and verse 22, Paul is in the city of Athens. And he sees all these statutes and all this paganism going on. And his heart is stirred. He's brokenhearted, these poor people. They're blind to the truth. The devil has them worshiping all this false gods and all this stuff Materialism and paganism and um hedonism The Bible says his heart was stirred, his heart was broke for these dear people, and he starts engaging them, he starts talking to them about Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who loved him and died for him and rose again. And as he begins his conversation or his message, how he's addressing them, he references the fact that these Athenians. Ignorantly worship this unknown God. They had a statute to the unknown God. In other words, they had all these gods they worshiped. They made them up, just various whatever And then, you know, just in case we're missing one We'll make a statute to the unknown, one that we are missing, that we don't know about. We want to make sure we worship him too. And he says, you're ignorantly worshiping. You're wrong. You're incorrect. You may be as sincere as can be in your incorrect worship, but it's still incorrect. It's possible for a person to worship God incorrectly. We need to learn to worship God correctly. If Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church doesn't do anything else, we've got to worship God correctly. We need to learn how to worship God. What does it even mean? What in the world are we even talking about? Worshiping God? Worship? What's that? I think our church needs to learn to worship God correctly. Our homes. Our families, mom and dad and the kids. Hey, we ought to worship God. In the home. Well, we're going to go to church to worship God. Get your Bibles. We're going to church to worship God. Listen, we ought to worship God at church. Amen. But we ought to worship God at home. By the way, uh this is what I'm trying to say. Our Christianity ought to be the same at home as it is at church. Always saying, Praise the Lord. I stand back there. I like to stand at the door and greet people when they come in. He walked in Oh, how you doing? Oh, praise the Lord, I'm doing good, preacher. Problem is I heard you driving in yelling at the wife and kids. You park the car and get out. Praise the Lord Come on now, you know why we're laughing. Our rejoicing in the Lord at church ought to be it ought to be at home just like it's at church. Singing hymn. Hey, why don't we sing hymns at home? Get your hymn book. We'll order you one. We'll get you one. You don't have money? I'll give you one. Get home and sing some hymns at home. Come on now. Mom and dad and the kids gather round. Shall we gather at the root? Sing it out. You say, preacher, we're not good singers. I am not a good singer. Come on now, be honest, don't be nice, be honest. Pretty good. Liar, liar, pants on fire. But you know what? I'm so far off my notes it's ridiculous. I am never making it back. But you know what? Jesus Christ has never complained one time about my singing The dogs have howled. And that's my introduction. I wanted to talk this morning about the concept of worship, what it is. The Bible tells us, and I promise you, we're going to cover that next, probably next Sunday morning. I want us to understand what in world are we talking about when we talk about worshiping God? What is that? Does it cross your heart, hope to die, come up, shh, shh, do all this stuff? Nah. But what I want to say is this. Let's be real. Huh? Let's quit putting on show. Let's quit being hypocrites like the Pharisees. And let's just be real. Let's be honest with ourselves. I'm here to tell you, and I'm obligated as a preacher of this book. I am obligated before God. I will answer to God. I believe this with all my heart. If there's anybody under the sound of the voice, my voice, that does not know for sure your sins are forgiven, That when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. I am obligated by God to tell you you need to get that settled. Now Today is the day of salvation. Not tomorrow, not next Sunday, not this summer, not next winter. Today's the day of salvation. And if there is a doubt, if there is a question in your heart and mind whether your sins are forgiven, whether Jesus Christ has saved you or not, that when you die you go to heaven and not to hell, if there's a question about that I urge you with all my heart, please get that settled. I can't save you. I can't forgive your sins. I can't take them away. I can't reserve you a seat in heaven. But Jesus can And we can show you from the Bible how he will do that for you if you will just let us So if you're here this morning, be for real. Let's be honest, say, all right, that's where I'm at. I need to get this settled. It's where I was at 46 years ago, May 7th. God forced me to get honest with myself. I am a sinner on my way to hell. I've taken God's name in vain. I've lied. I've dishonored my parents. I've stolen. I've blasphemed, I've used God's name wrong, I've hated people, I've bitterness them off, all this sin. God brought me to a point where I had to just be honest with myself, and this has to be dealt with. I read my Bible, I saw that Jesus dealt with it for me. He took responsibility for all my sin. He was judged in my place. On that old cross, he suffered the wrath and judgment of God for me taking God's name in vain, not him, me. And he says, I'll take responsibility, judge me in his place. Things my hands have done, the hateful stuff I said, the attitudes and bitterness that was in my heart. Jesus says, judge me, God, for him, I'll take responsibility. God showed me how much he loved me, that he would do that. I was reading the scripture. He died and he rose again. He's alive right now at the right hand of God. He hears everything I'm saying just as much as you hear me, just as real as you hear me now, Jesus hears me. He knows where you're at. He knows what's going through your mind right now. He's omniscient, all-knowing. And if you'll admit to him that you're a sinner, if you'll agree with him, Jesus, I'm a sinner. And if you care about that, if it means anything to you, say, yes, that's serious. I can't ignore that. You come and believe that He died for you. He took responsibility for your sins. If you'll believe that and trust it, call on Him. He'll come in your heart and life He'll forgive your sin. He'll cleanse it all from you. He'll give you a new name. He'll give you eternal life. And you know when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. I know for sure, God forbid, I live across the road, most you know, live across the road. Um and uh God forbid if I'm walking across this road and some Mac truck comes flying down, hits me I know for sure that if that would happen to me, God forbid, and I would be killed this afternoon, I know for sure that I would go to heaven, not to hell. You say, well you preacher, you think you're you really think you're something, huh? You're so good that you'd go to heaven. No, I'm not so good. I deserve to go to hell. But Jesus promised me that whosoever shall call upon him shall be saved. Saved from hell, saved from death. And what he promised me, he promises you. If you'll believe that, if you'll make a decision, I'm going to accept Jesus Christ for me, that's being true. That's being honest. That's being sincere. That's the beginning of being a true worshiper of God. By being a genuine believer in Jesus. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to take these few thoughts this morning. I pray, Lord, that your Holy Spirit is dealing with our hearts. Perhaps there's some this morning that need to get this matter of their salvation settled. I pray that that would take place. That today they'd address that. Make that decision. Trust Christ. Lord, maybe there's some, there's no doubt, there's some that have done that, have already had that settled. But sin has crept in and they've gotten cold and a little insincere, it's become a bit of a show I pray that your Holy Spirit now is working with hearts and we just get back and be real. Be faithful. humble before you and trusting you and sincerely letting you lead us not just the show but from our hearts God, I pray you'd help us all to be a good witness of who you are. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's any this morning. Say, preacher. I'm saved. I've got that settled. There's no doubt in my mind I have a scriptural basis for the assurance of my salvation. However I find myself sometimes just be in a show. My heart gets a little cold, a little indifferent. I just kind of go through the motions. And this morning you'd say, Preacher, I need the Lord to revive me. To bring that reality back, that sincerity come back to my heart. Faithfulness and that humble walk with God that I know I need to Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me, I need that. In my heart and soul. God bless you. Hands all around It's a decision away. Just come say, Lord, I want to be real. I'm making that decision. Any others, preacher, pray for me. I need that. I need that. God bless you. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I do not want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven my sins. I want that assurance, that confidence that that's true. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me. Get that settled in my heart and mind that I'm forgiven and saved according to Scripture. Is any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. About the salvation of my soul, where I spend eternity. Any like that at all? Now one last question, and then we'll give the invitation. I wonder if there's some say, preacher. I have some folks that I know they're not saved. I'm not trying to be judgmental, but I know they're not saved. And I want my life and my testimony and my witness. To be effective in them coming to Christ. I want God to use me to help them come to know Christ the Savior. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I want God. I want to be real And God to use me. God bless you, hands all around. We all know somebody that needs the Lord. You and I may be the only one that's an actual witness of what's sincere Worship and test and Christianity is. We've got to guard that. We've got to work at that. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen.