Well, after that, I almost Change my message. Uh I can't tell you what my wife has meant to me And those times when I was running from the Lord, when she was on her knees praying for me. And you independent fundamental men, you think that you're really macho and you you're the man of the home And all that, but I want to tell you something. You know, I hear, well, behind every good man there's a good woman. Well I say this, behind every good man there's probably a better woman. You can like it or lump it. It's a it's the truth. And uh well I'll tell you what, uh what she said, you know, as I was listening to her And let me tell you, some of you who do not know the story about my daughter Kelly, some of you have been praying for her all these years. She graduated come law from Bob Jones in nursing. And for 18 years she was away from the Lord. And we never closed our door to her. But we would not change what we were doing to accommodate her. She said, Daddy, I would call you and say, I'm your daughter. Won't you do this for me? And we could not do that. She would put us to the test. Folks, let me tell you something. These young people They make a choice to do what they do. And I'm going to say this, and you may disagree disagree with me, there's not a whole lot you can do about it. But don't change what you're doing. Don't stop being faithful to the house of God. Don't stop praying. Don't stop giving. Don't stop soul winning And this is what she told me after she'd come. I get her devotions every morning at 6 o'clock by email. She is so close to God now, she's teaching us things. And you know, well, it's just a miracle what God, because we didn't know what was going to happen We didn't know that she'd get some kind of a terrible disease. We just didn't know what was happening But we tried as best we could to stay faithful to God in every area. And one day she sat down with me and she says, Daddy She said, if you had a you and mama had ever changed for me, she said, I would have been so disappointed. I see large families with maybe one child that's rebelled They think, well, because of that child, I'm going to lose all the rest of the children, so we're just going to quit uh going this fanatical thing at church and and uh our dress and our music standards we're just not gonna be so strong in those areas for fear of losing the other kids. That is a lie straight out of the pit. Because it was that very thing that brought her back. She said, Dad, I'd have come back years ago if it hadn't been for my pride. She said, I was scared to death And you know, I'm one of these, I believe with all my heart that God that we serve is a sovereign God. And he allowed that situation in our lives. And how many missionaries and preachers have I been able to put my arm around and say, brother, I know exactly how you feel? Because they're going through the same thing. But when it comes to the to the women in ministry, Go back to the book of Romans, the 16th chapter, and read about all the women that helped the Apostle Paul become what he became. You read in 2 Timothy in chapter 1 and verse 5 when it says, When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in the In thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded in thee also. Verse 15 of chapter 3, it says, and that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith. My wife taught our kids from the time all the way through school from the time they could understand or from the day that they even started talking You know, there's five kids today that serving God, not because of their daddy. When they call the house, and it kind of ticks me off every once in a while. No matter who's calling, the boys or the girls, can I talk to mama? They don't want to talk to me. They want to talk to their mother. And as the old Dr. Seitler used to say, there's nothing in the world more powerful than a praying mama. Ladies, you hold the key, whether we men will admit it or not, but the key to that home is in your hands So don't vary. Don't give up. Never give up on one of your kids that's out of the will of God. And by the way, when you're searching and when you're hunting for the will of God, be willing to move. Hey, you know, I would have said you were crazy. If you'd have told me I was going to go to Africa. But you know, I'll tell you what, God does some wonderful things in our lives. And he takes us down that road of faith. And then we look back and we try to figure out how we did it. Was it our personality? Was it our great education? Was it all these things and our abilities to organize? And if we're honest with ourselves, we have to Give in and say, without God, it was impossible. God has to get the glory for it. And I just want to add that tonight to what she said that, and I I do, I appreciate my wife so much. I've said here before probably when she wasn't here and I'll say it again. We've been, we just few days ago celebrated 47 years together. And uh I've never really one time wanted to divorce her, but boy, murder has come up a couple of times. And I know you men, all of you men, uh y you can testify to that point. But uh I have a great wife and and a great family and This last Christmas we had we had uh uh 11 of our 13 grandkids home for Christmas, which we've now had, I don't know if we've ever had that many there And we had that 22 inches of snow, and boy, I mean I got that four-wheeler out and that old car hood, and I had them kids going through that snow. I'm loving being a granddad. And my kids, they come and said, Dad, you would have never done that for us. And I said, no, you're not my grandkids. That's different And some of you grandparents, you know what I'm talking about. Turn in your Bibles tonight, and I know it's getting late, and I won't be long with this. But I just want to, tonight even as we was going through the prayer list, there's some really heavy things going on out there. And uh certainly we we need to be people, men and women of prayer. Uh I didn't mention this this morning, but uh God is doing such a wonderful work in Africa Right now we have 120 missionaries in 17 different countries, and 15 new churches were started this last year. 265 churches total now across those across the continent. And last year alone, 34,104 souls were saved. That's what your faith promise is doing. And sometimes you can't see what it's doing. That's why you have missions conference And so that you can see what's going on around the world. And of course, we have 30 Bible colleges. We believe in training. uh our people on the field, you bring them to America, and my experience when you bring a national to America, you ruin them. You destroy them. And uh so anyway, I want you to pray for Africa, and hopefully we'll be getting back over there before too long. We think about the economy We think about Washington, and boy, it rules the roost today. And some churches just about give up because there's no way that we can have a successful faith promise. With the way things are going. Someone has said, and I don't know where I got this, uh recession is when you your neighbor loses his job. Depression is when you lose your job, and recovery is when the politicians in Washington lose their jobs Amen. I don't have a whole lot of confidence up there. I do pray for our president. A scriptural prayer, Psalm 109-8. It said, Let his days be few, and let another take his office. Now you could, I mean, if you voted for him, that's fine. I'm not I I'm not arguing with you, uh, but wait a minute. Hey, I know this I've worked in the Moslem culture for a lot of years. And I know that they will do anything they have to do to get what they want. That means lying, cheating, stealing, and everything in between. And they can say all they want to about our Bible-toting president, but I know where his heart is. And some of you do too if you're honest about it. But I'm hoping that'll change soon. But truly God is good. That's what the Word of God says. So we're going to look at Asaph tonight. And I pray that these scriptures will encourage you. Now that you're all discouraged about my political leanings. And uh it'll probably get worse during the week. Let's pray. Father, we thank you tonight for your blessings and for your love to us. And I pray tonight, Lord, if there's someone here that's discouraged and having a really difficult time, maybe their job has been lost A bad report from the doctor. Lord, I don't know, but I know that there's someone out there that needs this message tonight. And if they do not, Lord, I do And so, Lord, I'm just sharing with them what you've shared with me. And Lord, we'll praise you for what you do in Jesus' name. I heard those men singing and my son leads the choir in our church and I've told you before I ask him, you know Uh if I could join the choir when I'm in, I'd like to sing in the choir. And he said, Dad, that's not even something that we're gonna pray about. And so my own son won't let me sing, but when we think of Asaph, in Nehemiah, it talks about the singers, the children of Asaph. For in the days of David and Asaph of old, there were chief of the singers, songs of praise and thanksgiving to God. So this is a man who inspired others and encouraged others. And in this passage of Scripture We find the man of God, the singer of God, and praise God, you know, one of these days I'm going to get the glory. And I will sing. Amen. I'm going to sing a solo, and it's going to be good. I know it's going to be good. But I'll have a voice up there. But here is Asaph, the sweet singer of Israel, and his Psalm, he's responsible for Psalm 50, 73, and 83. This particular psalm is called the Skeptics Psalm because he makes a comparison like you and I do every day, the lost and the saved. And we find the singer, the one who should be encouraging God's people, we find him deeply, deeply discouraged. But those first four words of Psalm 73 is an interesting phrase. It says, truly God is good. Now I found that when I'm on the mountaintop and I'm shouting the victory, it's real easy to say, truly, God is good But when the money's not there and when the needs are piling up and when the doctor gives you that bad report When everything else in the world is going downhill, this Bible says, even then, truly God is good. It doesn't matter how we feel. I remember Dr. Bob Jones, he said, I never feel saved until I get my first cup of coffee in the morning, and I can identify with that. I have to talk to these legs. Legs, we've got to move this morning. You're not wanting to move and we've got to go somewhere this morning. Hey, it it doesn't matter how we feel this mor tonight, we've got the word of God. We've got the Word of God and we've got it in our hearts, and He's given it to us, and truly, no matter what happens I was telling them this evening about uh Jason and Mary Richie. They're getting ready to leave to for Mongolia uh next week. And we had their commissioning service Sunday night And they have two uh young nephews, I think it is, four and six years old, uh, the sisters of Mary. Both of them have been diagnosed in the last two weeks with leukemia. Two little boys, four and six, you see these diseases is not just for the old person anymore. It it attack the it's everywhere and it doesn't uh matter what age uh it deals with But now I want you to look at Asaph and I want you to to kind of maybe put yourself in his shoes. I say this. You're either going through a test, you've been through a test Or you're headed for a test. And God knows, and it doesn't matter how it turns out, God truly, he's still good. And he knows exactly what we need. And nothing is by chance. Nothing is accidental. He knows. And he's the sovereign God of the universe. And he wants us to help uh him to help us and why so that we can help someone else. It's always for that purpose. Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart But as for me, that now here we go, but as for me, my feet were almost gone, my steps had well nigh slipped, for I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. Hey, I want to tell you something. You look out your doors in the morning, you look around a little bit. Well, why are they doing so well and I'm doing so lousy? I'm you know everything just seems to be going their way Uh not oh it it's been several years now, but I you know independent Baptist buses, uh you know how they are. They're usually broke down. They smoke a lot. Well, this church decided they was going to go to Branson, and I was going to preach a conference for couples down at Branson. And so we went, all of us went in the independent Baptist bus. I mean the gas fumes were coming up through the floor. I thought we was going to choke to death before we got there I mean it rattled, it coughed, there was no air conditioning, there was no carpet on the floor. It was a mess, but it did get us there. The only problem when we got there, we pulled right in between two of those great big old tour buses that were down there to hear Willie Nelson or whoever was whoever was in that week And I said, you know, here we are serving God and driving this piece of junk and this crowd over here, the worldly crowd, the ungodly crowd for the most part They drive these big air-conditioned things, hey, you've done it. Why am I driving this old piece of junk when somebody else over here's got a nice car? Nothing wrong with you having a nice car, praise God. Not a thing wrong with that, unless you're driving it on your tithe money or on your faith promise And if that's the case, I don't want to ride to town with you at all. I want to stay away from you. Amen. You're welcome. Truly, God is good, for I was envious At the foolish, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. Now look at verse 12. Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world. They increase in riches. He's making the same comparison that you and I make just about every day. Now, look down at verse 6. Therefore, pride compasseth them about as a chain. Violence covereth them as a garment. Their eyes stand out with fatness. They have more than their heart could wish. They are corrupt, and it goes on and on and on. Verse 11. And they say, How doth God know Just like in the book of Genesis, when doubt was cast in the mind of Eve, oh hey, you can partake of that fruit How doth God know and how is there knowledge in the Most High? Question mark. What good does it do you to know the Bible? What good does here we are? Going through these difficulties, the sicknesses, the deaths, all of the things that transpire in our lives, uh, what good does the word of God really do? Well, I want to tell you, you know what I know, it does a lot of good. But he tries to put doubt in your mind about the Word of God. What version makes a difference? It doesn't matter what version. I had a pastor a few weeks ago getting mad at me Because a B-I-M-I missionary that he had invited to his church got up and preached out of the King James, they used the NIV, and he said, Well, wait a minute, he said, that's not right. He should use the same Bible I use And I said, well, BIMI, we require them to use the King James. And he said, well, I don't like that. You shouldn't do that. He said, what do I do? He said, I like BIMI missionaries I said, you'll have to call another board. You're not going to change, and we're not going to change. Hey, I want to tell you something the devil will love to get you to change. Verse twelve, Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world. They increase in riches. Verse thirteen, Now look at this. Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocency. I've prayed for that wayward child. You know, I think about Kelly and what a joy she is. It's just like God has erased 18 years of heartache. And how God is using her with people. Now, she's starting a new healthcare business herself, and it's called His Enterprises. Because she said, if God doesn't do it, it's not going to happen. And you know I think of All the prayers that have gone up for me, for me, from my wife and from other people. People that knew when I started out I'd never make it as a missionary. And I was right in there with them There's many a times when I told God he'd made a big mistake. Amen. When I went to school, I couldn't even talk. I couldn't get up in front of anyone and and and talk and I had to take a course uh a minor in speech and the speech teacher told me he said you cannot pass my course you need to change your Direction here. I said, well, I'm going to stay in there and you can flunk me, but I've got to learn how to talk. I have washed my hands in innocency. I think of my sister, my oldest sister, still alive. I think about how a Baptist preacher went to her house. When she had had a 12-year-old son die of some unknown disease. And the Baptist preacher told my sister: if you had been living right That child would not have died. And how for all those years she never darkened the door again of another church anywhere of any kind And after all these years, 42 years, we prayed for my sister. She started going when I was in the area, she started going with my uh other sisters to hear me preach. And and over the you know, I lost a couple of my other sisters, and and one day Donna and I was at at her house And you know, I've never seen anything, just a bitter, bitter woman all these years. But we prayed and we prayed and we prayed for that woman And you know, we walked in and I said, sis, you're 90, and she still cooks, she still bakes, she still lives by herself, does everything in the world, has better health right now than all the rest of us put together. And I said, sis, today if you were to meet God, how would you handle that And she said, Ronnie, she said, if I had to meet him today, I don't know what I'd do because I'm not ready. And you know, Donna took the Bible, and I kept the devil's crowd off the phone and from the door. And it was just like picking fruit that was just ready to fall in your hand. But I think of all those years, all those years lost. All those years of bitterness that just eat you up like a cancer. We'd get to talking about the Lord and my sisters and brother, and she'd get up and leave the room. She wouldn't listen to anything. And yet, God, in his grace, in his goodness, and in his mercy reached down and saved a 92-year-old woman. It is never too late and you never stop praying for that member of the family. You remember me telling about my dad, 76 years old, a drunkard all of his life. But I got a burden for him. Took a little Bible. Hadn't seen him in 13 years. Left our family when I was five. And I led my dad to the Lord. 94 days later, I preached his funeral. Hey, I want to tell you something. You can say what you want to about deathbed confessions. I believe I'm going to meet my dad again in heaven and get to know a dad I never had on this earth. Wait a minute. We cannot compare this lost and dying world to what's going on in our own lives except to learn from it and to go on for God We've got plenty of reasons today to serve God. Number one, for your yesterdays. How I thank God for that time in. Fort Smith, Arkansas, down on my knees on that front row between those two white-headed deacons. 1969, the month of August. hot in Arkansas and I gave my heart to Jesus Christ and I believe he called me to the mission field that very night. I thank God for that. We can serve him because of our yesterdies. We can serve him because of our present state Hey, when we look around at the world without an act of God, hey, we're sunk. It's just going to be those people that trust God in these days that's going to make it through. And if he came tonight, are you ready to meet him? And if your child walked out on you tomorrow, how would you handle it? Truly, God is good. No matter what the situation, no matter what the circumstance, God is good. We can serve him because of our tomorrow. Some golden daybreak we used to sing in Sunday school at Tabernacle. He's going to come. And uh, you know, the 21st, uh that saved me a trip back to Missouri, and it wouldn't bother me a bit, but it's not going to be because that guy had anything to do with it How does God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High? Just doubt God. Just doubt God. And then why pray? It doesn't really work anymore. I'm going to tell you something, it does work, and you know in your own life it works But there's something that's happened to us where we've put that aside because we know it works, we read all the stories about it working, but we just the bottom line is we do not pray anymore We don't have time. There's too many things to do for us to pray. And we've got to get back to it. Verse 16: when I thought to know this, it was too painful for me. Now the whole. Scenario changes in verse 17. Until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then understood I therein. Now he's changing. Now he's get going to get encouraged. Because when he goes into the house of God, why do you think you're a pastor? just pounds on this pulpit all the time. Be faithful to the house of God. Be faithful to your Sunday school class. Be faithful to your bus route. Be faithful to what The place that God has for you to serve, and God has a place for every person in this room to serve in this church. You're here tonight. Truly, God is good until I went into the house of God. You know, I'll tell you there's times when I've been so discouraged, but when I walked into the house of God Like faith, brothers and sisters there that love me. Hey, they they spot it right. Ron, what's wrong with you? What's wrong with you? What's troubling you today? Let's pray about it. The house of God. Be faithful to the house of God no matter what happens. Now look at this. Verse 21. Thus my heart was grieved and I was pricked in my reins. So foolish was I, and ignorant I was as a beast before thee. And then he gives us five things here that I'll share with you. Real quickly, five things about God and His purpose for our lives. Number one, nevertheless, he says in verse 23, I am continually with thee Glory to God. We have his presence. We've got his presence. We have the presence of a holy God in our lives. We can walk in the Spirit And you know what? We ought to be walking in the Spirit because that's the only way we're going to survive the day that we live. Hey, I want to tell you something. We have His presence. I'm glad no matter where we go, we've got His presence. My wife tells me that my guardian angels are getting tired and they're about to go on strike, but I praise God for all those situations I've been in around the world where I knew God was right there with me. Oh, I want to tell you something. We have his presence. Number two, thou hast holded me by my right hand. We've got his power That dunamos, that dynamite of God, this book that we we hold in our hands. It is the power of God and the salvation. We've got to preach the word. It doesn't matter about the numbers I'm not really too much on numbers, but uh I like to see what our missionaries are doing, and our missionaries are busy about getting the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ out around the world. That's what it's about. That's what your faith promise is going for going toward. But we've got his power. We've got his presence and we've got his power. Now look at this. Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel. We have his plan. We've got God's plan. Truly, God is good. Hey, I want to tell you something. He doesn't call everybody to go to the foreign mission field. But he has called every child of God to be a witness somewhere of his glory and of his grace. Whether it's a sister, a brother, a neighbor in the neighborhood, hey, I want to tell you something. The pastor can't do it all. Uh the the staff can't do it all. Then there's some people got the idea, well, if it's not getting done, let's just hire more staff. Well, I want to tell you something, that doesn't work That won't work. You can't afford that much staff. Everybody has to do what they can do, and everybody can do something. You can leave a track in a bathroom. You can leave a track on a table in a restaurant I think of Bob Mack in the Ivory Coast. Some men were out visiting, trying to win some souls of the Lord. They got lost. Bob was working in a gas station And those men came in and asked him directions, and when they left, they left the track with him. Those men, I don't know that they ever knew That Bob Mack read that track, got saved, and he spent about three turns terms in Ivory Coast and has done a wonderful work for God. We never know what's going to happen When I fly, I stuff all those magazines in the plane. I stuff them with tracks. Amen. You never know when somebody opens one of those magazines what they'll do We have his presence. We've got his power. We've got his plan. And we have his promise. Now look at this. Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory. Hallelujah. One of these days it's all going to be over. I just look for that day. You know, I've told you before. One time I was a this church had an orchestra and the trumpet player was right behind me. And I worried my mother, my poor mother to death. I played the trumpet when I was a kid. And you know a trumpet player, if you'll watch them before they blow that thing, they lick their lips. And I'm confident tonight. Whatever angel, whoever it's going to be, that's going to blow that trumpet He's standing back there in the shadow somewhere, and he's licking his lips, waiting for that nod from the Holy One of Israel, Jesus Christ. the Son of God that you have trusted, and we're going to be out of here. Just that quick. We're going to be gone. Thank God. Because of this book. We can absolutely know for sure where we're going. I talked to Brother Davis A young man, 51 years old, died of cancer. He's got seven kids. His wife has Alzheimer's. You don't understand those things. When you don't understand, you've got to continue to trust God. And David was on his deathbed. And I like to fish, and your pastor likes to fish, and And you know, God would never have put the river of life in heaven if he hadn't put fish in it. And I said, David, I said, get me a good spot along the river of life. And I said, as soon as I get there, we'll go fishing He said, Brother Bragg, I'll do it. I'll do it. And he went out into eternity. Hey, I want to tell you something. When I walk through that eastern gate I believe Brother Dave will be there. I believe my parents will be there. I believe my brothers and sisters will be there. Oh, I want to tell you something, those scores of Africans that we've known down through the years. That's going to be there because of a Savior, because of what Jesus did for us, and then we took that and we spread it around the world. We've got his promise that some golden daybreak it's all going to be over And you know what we do right now is so important. You say, well, we can't do much, Brother Brake. Well, that's all right. But just do what you can. Just do what you can. And everyone can do something. I heard about a woman that was having some financial problems. And they were interviewing her on Dave Ramsey. And he was trying to help her out. And they was going down through the list of what she spent her money on. $200 a month at Starbucks. Now I like Starbucks. But the only usually the only time I can uh Afford that place is when somebody gives me a gift certificate. That's a wonderful thing to give missionaries. Amen. Glory to God. Well, hey, wait a minute. What are we doing with what we have? That's the question this week. Number five, now why is all this so important? Why is it important that you be encouraged Why is it important that you understand the providence of God and why he does what he does? It's not to beat you down, it's to help you get up and to help you be a blessing to someone else. Verse 28, but it is good for me to draw near to God. I have put my trust in the Lord God that I may declare all thy works. Our purpose for life is to share what we have and what he's given to us. And we're not to look across town at what that church is doing. We're not to compare ourselves with the world's crowd No, we're to take what we have and who we are and let God use it anywhere in any way that He wants to use it. Then one of these days we're going to shout. Over there on the river of life, that I may declare all thy works. I think about how God has worked the last 20 years in Africa And it's just amazing. I never will forget making a survey trip to Uganda and how that country had been ravaged by Edi Amin. Thousands and thousands of his people he had put to death personally. And I walked down the street with a Bible. And people would want to come up to me and say, where are you going to preach? Where are you going to hold a service? Those people that have been tortured and maimed. All they they told me all they wanted to do was go back to their fields and work and go to church. We didn't have a missionary there at that time. We have 23 families there today. We have three radio stations, a dispensary, a medical work. Bible colleges, three orphanages, all kinds of good stuff because God's people Focused on the main thing. And folks, we've got to keep the main thing the main thing. Truly, God is good and he wants to use you this week, not next month when you get everything straightened out When you get your bills paid off, and I'll serve God sometime down the road. When I get everything in a row, all my ducks in a row, but no, you won't. Start tonight, determined by the grace of God. That you're going to let him have your life. And he'll do it. I think of old Brother Murphy. And I've probably told you about him before. He's in our church and He was a wife beater, married his third time now to a fine Christian lady, but he was a drunk and Just a terrible specimen of humanity before he got saved. Now as a saved man, he brings more people into our church and witnesses to more people than anybody in our church. No matter what's happened to you in your past, no matter what you've done, God can still use you some way. Some way. Truly, God is good. We've got his presence. We've got his power. Oh folks, I want to tell you something. We're sitting on a gold mine And we're scared to death to drill. We're scared to death to do anything. Just take a little step. That step that says, Lord, I'm going to trust you this week In a way that maybe I've never trusted you before. And let him do with you what he wants to do. Would you do that? Let's stand, heads bowed, eyes closed, the pianist is going to come. We're going to go our separate ways. This altar is open. If you're here tonight and you're not saved by God's wonderful grace, Would you just let Jesus come into your heart and save you? As the pianist plays, this altar's open. Christian, are you discouraged tonight? Are you dragging your feet? Your testimony is not what it used to be. You need to do something about it How can we give to God this week to get the missionary around the world if our own hearts are not right? We've got to have a cleanup time. Would you do it? Would you do it? The piano's gonna play. This altar's open. Is there some young person here tonight and you say, Brother Bragg, God's been dealing with me about the mission field for a long time Trust me, young person, if if you will say yes to God He will take you to that place where he wants you. But you've got to be willing to take that first step And God will put you on a mission field. It may be across the street from this church or downtown, but it might be in Africa or India or China. What about it tonight? Truly. God is good that he would take someone like myself and use me around the world. What about it tonight? Pastor