It was a good good special. Well uh I was thinking Brother James too. When Pastor asked me, I think I got a little more time than James did. Uh to to preach on this Wednesday night and I said the same thing James did. Sure. And then I and then I was like, oh man, what am I gonna do? A lot of times I have a message, you know, thinking about something. I really didn't have much uh any message on my mind or anything started or anything like that. Um so I thought I would take the easy way out And uh go back and do do something I'd done in the past. So that was my intention. I told Dad I was gonna um you know try to alleviate some stress and just do something something easy and do something that I'd already done. I was going to talk about the cities of refuge. And Dad's always quizzing me on the cities of refuge. And I was looking forward to giving a quiz, but We didn't I d I decided uh anyways, we're not gonna talk about the cities of res refuge tonight. Even though that is a good uh good good message, good thing to study. The great picture uh in the cities of refuge there of uh Our security in Christ. So um, but as I was, I I did pull that message out and I was reviewing it And as I was reviewing it, my mind began to wander. Does anybody else's mind ever wander when you're doing something? And uh this isn't a political message tonight or a patriotic message at all, but uh just something about something I'd heard on the radio through the week. I was talking about uh trust and uh specifically uh trusting the government. So like I said, I'm not gonna make this political, believe me. But my mind was wandering and I was thinking about that word trust and and I just got to thinking about that And uh I thought, well, I'm just gonna look at that word trust a little bit. Um so I started studying it a little bit, and first it seemed like a short message, and then we'll see how it goes. But uh just if I look at that word uh trust, uh kind of my title started out as uh it is just trusting Jesus. And then it went from trusting Jesus to just trust Jesus because I was thinking about a song. You ever start working on something And your mind's just going a million miles an hour and you just start writing stuff. Everything just keeps coming to your mind. And you just start writing stuff down. Then you try to figure out how in the world you're going to put it all together. Well that was me a couple days ago But I was thinking about just just trust Jesus, and then as I drove home on uh Tuesday, that was yesterday, um, I changed it again to In God We Trust And that's why I said I wasn't going to make this a it was it's not a patriotic message, it's not political, but uh just came down to in God we trust And if if you look at the word trust, the Bible has a lot to say about trusting in the Bible And um I like to sing a lot, so like I said, a lot of songs about trusting started to come to my mind. Can anyone give me a s give me give me a song? We I need class participation Trusting Jesus. Trusting Jesus, that is all. Trust and obey. Anybody else? Only trust him. I had uh I had uh simply trusting. I think that was the one uh Dale said there, that was one of my favorites. Trust and obey. I'm trusting Jesus is a good song. I just keep trusting my Lord. only trust. There's a lot of lot of songs that talk about trusting the Lord. The second competition tonight for candy bar number two is for the first person to tell me what my text is. Without me telling you. Trying to get you to think a little bit. Proverbs Alright, well they got keep your candy bar. So turn your Bibles, Proverbs chapter three. You probably might not need to turn there, but do it anyways. I think this is probably one of my favorite, I can't say verses because it's two verses, but one of my favorite portions of uh scripture in the Bible is uh Proverbs three, five, and six. I'm gonna read Proverbs three verses one uh through ten And then we'll try to get through some of this. Got it? Proverbs 3, verse 1. My son, forget not my law, but let thine heart keep my commandments. For length of days and long life and peace shall they add to thee. Let not mercy and truth forsake thee, bind them upon thy neck, write them upon the table of thine heart So shalt thou find favor and good understanding in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, lean not into thine own understanding, and all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths Be not wise in thine own eyes. Fear the Lord, and depart from evil. It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones. Honor the Lord with thy substance and with the first fruits of all thine increase, so shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine. That's correct. Father, we do uh thank you for another day uh you've given to me to us, Lord, tonight. I uh Just thank you for our church and the opportunity to uh give this message tonight, Lord, that uh I feel like you've laid on my heart. I I uh as I studied it, it's been a blessing to me. I hope it uh might be a help and a blessing to uh to others. Lord Pray will just bless our evening tonight as we uh look in your word a little bit and then spend some time in prayer in Jesus' name. Amen Alright, as I mentioned, I just wanna wanted to look at that word trust. What does it mean to trust? Class participation. Leave. Confidence, that's a good word. Yeah. Okay. Um the diction the Webster's definition is a confident reliance In the integrity, veracity, or justice of another. And I love when a definition, when you've got to look up every word in the definition to figure out what the hell those words mean Right? A co a confident uh reliance on the integrity, veracity, and justice of another Uh when I think of trust, I think of faith also. Like all faith and trust almost go hand in hand. Very uh closer closely uh related. Um I have a question. I was pondering. Can we can you trust people today? Can. Depends who it is, right? A little harder than it used to be, isn't it? Maybe a little bit. I don't know. Um have you have you ever heard the saying? It's I I shouldn't use it, but I've I can't I say I've used it many times. Um it's not that I don't trust people. Or I no I'm sorry, it's not that I don't trust you. It's just that I don't trust anybody. Has anyone ever heard that saying before? It still seems to be the way it is a lot of times. It's not that I don't, you know, it's it's easy to tell someone, well it's not that I don't trust you. I just don't trust anybody But um I think uh it's sad, but I think there's a little bit of truth, a little bit of truth to that. Um another question I had is are are are we naturally trusting of of other people. And Sandy, I I put depends. I have it right here. It it dep it really depends. You know if you're talking about trusting or putting your faith in something um inanimate like a car or something like that or an air you know get an air airplane, you know, you just automatically kinda kinda do it. Um every day you you put your trust in in in things without really even giving it much thought. But when it comes to to people, um A little different. And I think uh I thought about it to myself and I was thinking, you know, I I think I naturally do I I want to trust people. And uh I think a lot of times I do just, you know, just trust people, trust what they say. uh they're gonna do. Um and I think sometimes I think that I think it's good. I think it's good to uh to be a trusting person, but it gets you in trouble a lot of times, doesn't it Sometimes it gets you in not all the time, it depends on the person. But sometimes it gets you in trouble. But I I I think of myself as as you know usually being a fairly trusting person, I trust people, maybe too much. Uh sometime Now you gotta participate again. Who who who give me some people that we should be able to trust? We should be able to trust Yes. Should be able to trust Christians. Should be able to trust your wife. What do you think of that, Carolyn? What's that? Judge? Should we be able to trust the government? I'll get political for just a second. Should. Should. What about the president? I said I wasn't going to do that. Damn. What about your pat who said pastor? I had pastors. Two people tr friends? Family Um, I put the bank. You think about trusting your bank much? Put a lot of trust in them whether you like think about it or not. What about the doctor? Your doctor? Questionable. I got a story about a doctor, I'll say it really quick. When I first developed my uh health problem with my colitis, um we went to a doctor, I'm not gonna tell you who he was, but uh He wa he was a he was a surgeon, and I have no doubt he's a really good surgeon, but that's what he wanted to do. He's like, let's just take let's just whack that intestine out of there and just get it over with. You'll be good to go Wow. So I wouldn't ask somebody else. They're like you need to get away run away from there. As quick as you can. Man, if you don't if you don't if you don't trust your doctor, you know you should be able to trust that they have your best interests in mind Your spouse, Ed said your wife. Merilyn didn't say anything. About your kids. Hmm. What about the media and the news? I said I wasn't gonna say it. Media and the news, you should be able to trust what they tell. What about that internet? Man, if it says it on the internet, it's true, right? Man, there's a lot of stuff out there. A lot of things that that are out there that we should be able to trust, but let's look at the uh the definition again. Can we When you look at trusting something, can you rely, can you confidently rely on their integrity? So what's integrity? So Yeah, so maybe simplifying w would just be, will they do what they say they will do? When I thought of that word integrity, uh a verse came to my mind. Um God will do what he says he will do, won't he? Philippians 1. 6 says, I think it was our memory verse not too long ago. I'm just asking for help tonight. Philippians 1 6. Anybody Being confident. Yeah. Being confident of this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. The Bible tells us that God will do. Paul uh Paul wrote this verse, and Paul, I think, was confident All had a confidence in the integrity of uh of God. What about veracity? What's veracity mean? I had to look it up. Truthfulness. Has to do with truthfulness and honesty. So if if you look at um trusting someone, can you trust That they'll do what they'll that they'll say they'll do. Are they truthful? Are they honest? All characteristics of uh of God. Um John 14, 6 Everyone knows the verse. I struggle with uh references to get me started so you can usually get it. But John 14, 6, very similar. Jesus says, saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. I think it goes without saying, especially tonight in the crowd that's here, that we can trust God. He's proven he's never failed. Never, not one time. Um he has a reputation. He's he's of integrity and veracity. Um so now I'm going to go back to people. Um what do we what if what do we base our when you when when you come to some uh come in contact with someone, what do you usually base? Your trust on. I don't know if I'm asking the question correctly. Yeah. A lot of times we just look at someone, or I do, and I say, man, yeah, he's got it he got it together. I can trust them. Uh how they look, or how they walk, how they talk Maybe if they're educated, what their education level is. Sometimes what they have They're just possessions and a lot of times we we look at people and we think, well they they got it together, I can trust them. Sometimes those might be the worst people um to to trust. What about that slick looking car car salesman when you go on the lot? It looks like he got it all together. Is anyone a car salesman in here? I know one, pretty close friend, who used to sell cars Man, he was good at it too. I don't trust him for a second. Hope he's not listening. But uh a lot of times people look like they got it they have it all together. Look like they can be trusted, but uh Sometimes we gotta be careful. Um dad. No, no. Dad mentioned this in Sunday school. God's ways are not our ways. A verse came to my mind, 1 Samuel 16, verse 7, says, But the Lord said unto Samuel, Look not at his countenance. Or at the height of his stature, because I have refused him. For the Lord seeth not as man seeth, for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart Truth based or trust based on outward appearance alone, I thought, can get us in serious trouble sometimes. Probably most of us can attest to uh Sometimes we make really stupid decisions. Um and uh gets us into trouble trouble. Now I will say there's nothing wrong with looks. Um I have to say this tonight. My wife's sitting right there. And uh she looks good, I think. But if that's all all all we got, I think we're in trouble. Um I mean uh physical attraction is is usually what attracts you know, uh uh well, physical attractions, but it you know, it's usually maybe the first thing but um th that comes, but there has to be more. Um how many uh James, disastrous relationships have come uh from trusting someone based purely on their outward appearance. Many, many, many. But like I said, appearance has its place, and I'm not saying we should look good, maybe smell good Pastor says paint I just won't say what Pastor says. But uh about ever every barn needs sometimes needs a coat of paint or something like that, I don't know. But anyway, you know I'm not saying we shouldn't keep ourselves up and uh and look good, Dale. Well, I'm going to give it down back sometime. And you want that thing whether you look like a really nice thing. And it's not going to they they are nice and they are this and are that they are me. Yeah. And it was a pretty common and we have to do it on that. Yeah. You can't you can't go by the appearance, but some it sure helps to, you know, keep keep your appearance up, but we can't can't go purely on that. Um I thought of business relationships. You know, a lot of people get into bad business relationships. You're going to get into a business relationship with someone, you better uh Better better look up that definition. See if you can trust them. Save you a lot of headaches. But as I mentioned previously, God looks at the heart, and I think we would do good Look at the heart. So many relationships, there's for the moment things and and uh can mess up really fast. Um ever most people in here, no one in here tonight's looking for a looking for a husband or wife, I don't think. Maybe Zach. He might be looking. If you meet someone, you better don't don't rush into it. Make sure it's good Anyway, that's my advice to Zach. Anyway, I that's not in my notes. So I believe that the uh the basis or existed the basis of any good relationship is trust. Can you trust them? Now that goes for people or with God. How can you have a good relationship with someone if you don't if you can't trust them? I don't think you can. You can have a good relationship if you can't trust them to do what they say they're going to do. And that goes the same thing for you And how can we have a relationship with God if we if we don't trust Him? I mean, in order to be saved, what do we have to do? We have to put our faith and our trust into To God, to be saved. Trust is is is very important. Relationship. Back to the definition. Confidence That God is truthful and honest and will do what He said, what He says he will do. I mentioned earlier, but God has never He's never failed me. He failed anybody else in here If you are, you're lying. But you know, God has never failed us. Um never failed us. You don't have to answer this, but I was thinking, how many here tonight have have ever had someone That you trust in, betray, betray that trust. I'm sure a lot of us, a lot of us have, have had uh people betray your trust. I remember specific, I'm not, I won't get uh too uh I can't think of the word, detailed, but I remember um some friends had had split up And uh I was talking to one of them one night, I think it's been a long time ago. And uh that I just I remember s t telling them that That that the trust between them, I'm not a marriage counselor, but I said the trust was broken in just a second, in a moment. And I said if you if you want to get that trust back, you're gonna have to be willing to take a to spend some time And you might never get it back. But it it it can be broken. I read that down. The trust can be broken. Um someone can betray you in just a moment. But in order to get that back, sometimes you may never trust trust that person again. But uh it takes a long time sometimes to uh to get that back. And um I asked there in the beginning of the message if we can trust people. I think we can, but I think sadly in the world we live in today we've we've kind of lost. Uh we we don't we're not as naturally trusting, at least I'm speaking for myself, as I used to be. You know? Um it's just it seems like it's it's hard to to trust people. How do we get how do we get the trust back? Back to my text there. My son, forget not the law. Let thine heart keep my commandments. For length of days and long life and peace shall they add to thee. Let not mercy and truth forsake thee, bind them upon the neck, raise them upon the table of thy heart Then on down, trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways, acknowledge Him, and He shall direct thy paths. I underlined some phrases in there. One was, keep my commandments. The second one was, let not mercy and truth forsake thee. Third one was, lean not unto thine own understanding. And the next one was, In all thy ways acknowledge him. And we'll get to that in just a minute. This may apply more so before marriage, and I think it would be good. But how I I put, ladies, how how do you get your husband to trust you? Well, maybe that should have said uh girl girls, how do you I don't know how to say it, but how how do you get your how the Bible tells us? Anyone know where Tells the woman how to get the husband to trust them. Proverbs. Proverbs 31. Proverbs 31. I'm just going to read it. I got some some written down here. Proverbs 31. Who can find a virtuous woman for her price? Yeah, I should have let you turn there. Proverbs 31. Who can find a virtuous woman for her price is far above rubies? The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchant ship. She bringeth her food from afar. She riseth also While it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion of her maidens, she considers a field and buyeth it with the fruit of her hands, she planteth a vineyard She girdeth her loins with strength and strengtheneth her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good, her candle goeth not out by night. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold to distaff, she stretcheth out her hand to the poor and Yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy. She is not afraid of the snow for her household. That's quite a list of things there, isn't it? The virtuous woman. But I that first uh verse eleven says, The heart of her husband doth safely trust her. That's a good thing, Ed, to uh Um in in a marriage to to trust your uh trust your wife and for a wife to trust her husband, isn't it? What a miserable, miserable life. Um if you don't have that trust Um and this these these verses here, this is a hardworking woman and a faithful woman, and it says, gives some some things there, says that her husband can safely trust in her. So I won't leave it with just the women. Men, how do we get how do we how do we keep the trust? How do we keep the trust of our spouses Well, I thought it was Ephesians five, verse twenty five. Says, husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. So that would take care of it. But I'll read some more. That he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, that he might present it to himself a glorious church. not having spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself I think if uh if us uh men would take that those couple verses to heart, um that would take care of uh of the trust. Um issue. Verse six of Proverbs. I I re I I copied all the verses, all the scripture down on my notes, so I didn't so I'm I apologize if I'm not giving you time to turn in your Bibles to some of these uh passages. Um but uh verse six of Proverbs uh three says In all thy ways acknowledge him and he shall direct Thy path. If we acknowledge God, obey His commands, and live for Him, this verse promises us: if we trust God, He promises to direct our paths and direct us. If God is directing us I think trusting others and having others trust us will uh take care of itself. If that makes sense to you. I think if we're uh it's easier said than done, but if we're uh if we're if we're obeying God, keeping his commandments, trusting him, uh he promises he'll uh he'll direct us And I think that would help trust. This is where my title came from, and I'm almost done. Um If I can find where I was. Thought of this thing about trust, and in God we trust. Um our founding fathers understood this concept, I believe. I think they understood the the concept of of trust Um giving us our nation's motto, which is, In God we trust. Um they recognized I assume that they recognized that if we trusted God as a nation and as people, that uh that our nation would prosper And and it has. It has. Seems like it's going the other way. But uh if we trust God our nation would prosper. Imagine imagine if our uh if our Charlie imagine if our country actually uh and and imagine if I and we um lived that live that motto. Uh what a what a difference it would make in our uh our country and our churches, our lives. Trusting man uh I put takes some discernment sometimes. Gotta be careful sometimes. Uh but trusting God uh I put is a no-brainer. Yeah, deal. You don't know. Architecture you have saved your couple. You must be on the same page. I men not say named part. And many in the poor, they really say you're in it for that. And I think it's true. You wouldn't want to take a rant to trust among your rants. We've got the nose and now jumping to the moon. Now everyone table was five days. You can see where they're coming from, but they don't have the statue or the background of the Bible reading on. I think we try to do everybody born again or they're not a new name. Yep. For sure. Yeah. Well, um I that's that's pretty much all I have. The last thing I had down in my notes was that I personally Going back to our definition, have a confident reliance on the integrity, veracity, and justice of God. And therefore I trust Him. And uh I don't have to worry about trusting God. You've got to worry about trusting some some people sometimes, but I don't have to worry about trusting God. He's never failed, never failed me, never failed anyone. And uh I don't think he ever will. I don't think he'll ever fail us. So let's pray. Father, we uh Thank you again for just another day, Lord. I think sometimes uh these messages I get more uh out of them than than maybe anyone else. But uh it was just a blessing to me to study um study about trusting uh you Lord and uh We just thank you that we can. We can trust you, that you've never failed us. We can rely on you, trust your your promises, and uh trust that you will do what you say you will do. Or we just uh thank you again. Pray in Jesus' name, amen. Alright, well stand uh heads bowed eyes closed. I don't really know how to give an invitation, but Uh the altar is open tonight. Maybe uh something uh would like to just come up and pray and um maybe it has absolutely nothing to do with the message tonight, but just give a few minutes and uh The altar will be open.