That's what I'm probably going to be doing tonight is making a pretty rough noise. But it's joyful. I think I'm a little loud up here, Dave. There we go. Okay. Ecclesiastes chapter 1. If you're there, we're going to begin reading. I want to begin reading in verse 14. Actually, you know what? I'm going to start in twelve, read down through eighteen. We already looked at verse twelve through fourteen, but I want to keep this all together. He says, verse twelve, he says, I the preacher was king over Israel and Jerusalem. And I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done where? Under heaven. This sword travail hath God given to the sons of man to be exercised therewith. I have seen all the works that are done, where? Under the sun. And behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit. So he's looking, he's studying, is observing, he's experiencing everything under the sun. What can be seen, felt, heard in the material world. And he says this in verse 15, that which is crooked cannot be made straight, and that which is wanting cannot be numbered I commune with my own heart. And basically what he's saying there when he says, I commune with my own heart, he's saying this. I said to myself. He's kind of talking to himself. He's thinking through. He's actually what he's actually doing here is he's leaning on his own understanding. And he's reasoning with himself. Which, by the way, Proverbs tells us, ironically, Solomon, to lean not onto our own understanding. So, nevertheless, he says, I commune with my own heart, say I said to myself, this, lo, I've come to a great estate, and have gotten more wisdom than all they that have been before me in Jerusalem. Yea, my heart had great experience of wisdom and knowledge. And I gave my heart to know wisdom and to know madness and folly I perceived that this also is, here we go again, vexation of spirit. For much wisdom is much grief. And he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow. What I want to look at in verse 15 is that little phrase: that which is crooked cannot be made straight. We live in a world that's trying to make the crooked straight. And so let's pray and try to see what we'll see what he's talking about here. Father in heaven, again we come to this book of the Bible that's kind of a Mystery for a lot. And uh but I pray you give us understanding here on this passage. You told us, Lord, you told us very clearly. That all scripture, this here, is profitable for us. And so I pray you'd help us profit from this. I pray you'd speak our hearts, challenge our view of the world. Lord, I pray that your Holy Spirit would challenge our values, our purpose for living, what we're looking for, what's important to us. And I pray that You would fill me with your spirit so that you can do that through me and help us as we finish out this Lord's Day, approach a new week. We want to have a clear perspective. We want to have a clear understanding of what life is about this week, what we're doing, why, what it all means. I yield my will to you and present my body anew. And again, ask that you would fill me and speak through me. In Jesus' name, amen. Mentioned a couple times in the last few weeks the fact that I was able to uh confront uh confront's not a good word, but engage, I guess, to be a better word, uh, an atheist up in Connecticut when we're up there preaching And he made a statement that I thought of when I'm when I began developing this message and working on this passage. He made this statement. We were going back and forth about the existence of God. He denied there there is any God, this is it. And of course, I confronted that and countered his statements. But he made this statement late in the conversation. He said, if there is a God, excuse my voice. He said, if there is a God and he made mankind in this world, then God messed up. He said, there's something wrong. And, you know, I had to agree with them. Not that God messed up, but there definitely is something wrong. The Bible clearly tells us what's wrong. And so the fact that this world does not function as it's obviously designed it to function does not mean that God does not exist. But it does mean that something has happened and something has entered the world's existence that has messed things up. Of course, we understand that to be sin So I think that's what Solomon is addressing here. He has gotten to the point, as hard as it is, to believe this, but Solomon has gotten to the point where he has so pushed God out of his thinking. And so pushed God out of his worldview and his life view that he comes to the conclusion, I've sought every field of study there is. I've engaged in every human experience there is to engage in, at least as humanly possible. I've experienced every type of pleasure that this world has to offer. And he said, you know, something's messed up. He says, under the sun, there's nothing but vanity It's nothing but vexation of spirit. There's nothing but dissatisfaction and misery. And that young man up in Connecticut, he said, he used this statement. He said, life is misery. It's misery. There's no purpose. There's no meaning. If there is a God, he made this world, made mankind, he messed up because there's obviously problems. I think that's what Solomon is saying here. He says, verse 15, that which is crooked. You know what he's saying? He's saying this world is crooked. It's problems. It's not functioning. And the fact of the matter is that atheist was correct. Under the sun, Solomon's correct. Under the sun Things are crooked. Things are wanting. There's anger on every hand. I do not believe, in fact, I there's no way we were created to be angry Anger takes a toll. It wears away. It hurts. Our psyche, our our makeup, our personhood was not designed to be angry. And like running a machine in a way that it's not designed to run, it takes its toll. There's injustice in the world. There's infidelity. dishonesty, there's sadness. It's pain and death. And you look out on the world and you look out at humanity and you look at our own lives and we say, you know, we weren't mean. To experience this. This isn't the way it's supposed to be. You don't have to be a genius to see that. Even children see that things are not the way they ought to be. And they get disillusioned and despair even from young people on up is at an all-time high. And so Solomon here is making observations. If you remember, we pointed out that that little phrase is the key to this whole book Under the sun, under the sun, under heaven, under the sun. He's living a whole life as if only thing that exists is what's under the sun. And he comes to that conclusion. He makes some observations here, I want us to notice. And uh I'm really trying, I'm going to try and be real brief tonight. I don't think my voice will hold up too long. But with all his experiences and all the education he has, he's gotten everything out of this world that is humanly possible to get out from this world. And he comes to these conclusions. One, he says this. First of all, he says, under the life under the sun is dysfunctional. And I get that from verse 15. He says, that which is crooked cannot be made straight. The word crooked there is an interesting word. It comes from the it has this idea to twist something out of shape. Our word perverted comes from the word that this word crooked comes from And we think of the word perverted in sensual terms and that type of thing. But the word itself simply means to be twisted in a shape, twisted around in a way it's not designed to be. Sometimes people pervert the truth. They take the truth and they twist it around and make the truth to become a lie. Um it it has the idea of being unusable or to be used in a way it's not intended. And so Solomon's here, he's pushed God out of the picture, he's pushed everything out spiritual. All he sees is life under the sun. All he sees is here and now and physical. And he says, you know, life without God is not functioning properly. It's not functioning properly. I think that's why we have people that are going around miserable. That's why we have people young and old saying stuff like, Oh, I just want to take my life. You know why? Because it's crooked It's twisted. Your life is is not functioning as God intended it to be. And Solomon looked out under the sun. He says, things are crooked. Things are dysfunctional. I think you'd agree with me. And now this isn't true across the board because there are some people who see things from heaven's perspective, understand there's more to life than what At least under the sun. And uh and there's exceptions to some of this, but for the most part, I think we'd agree, many of our, if not most of our homes are dysfunctional They're not functioning the way they're supposed to. The husband-wife relationship, the parent-child relationship, is obviously not functioning the way it's designed. It's crooked, it's twisted, it's It's functioning in a different way than what it was designed to do. Our homes, even many of our professing Christian homes, are filled with anger. Filled with adultery and divorce. And you look out and you say, and Thomas looking out, and he's saying, you know, that's not the way it's supposed to be. Something's twisted here. Something's not right. Our homes are dysfunctional. I think you'll agree with me on this one, at least in the current situation. Our governments are dysfunctional. Corruption is at an all-time high. Even in nations like America, where you think, you know, there's a element of justice, it's not some third world banana republic type government. And even in solid, fairly reasonable in government institutions, the corruption is so rampant. Our homes are dysfunctional or crooked. Our governments are dysfunctional or crooked. I suggest to you our religions. are dysfunctional. Even a lot of professing Christian churches are not functioning the way God designed them to function, not functioning the way the ought to their crooked. We talked about somebody, we were talking about this a little bit this morning. I don't want to go to seat on this. Whenever the church of God is bringing the music of the world into the church, that's crooked. That's dysfunctional. Whenever the world is such a powerful influence and such a powerful presence. And the body of Christ, something, that's not the way. We know it's not the way it's supposed to be. Empty religions out there worshiping Mary. And worshiping little trinkets and going through meaningless rituals and trying to earn God's grace and all of that, it's we look at it and say, That's not right. That's That's not the way it's supposed to function. So our homes, we look around, we see homes dysfunctional, governments dysfunctional, uh religions dysfunctional. I would suggest to you that a society is dysfunctional Rioting cry. Um you know we first moved here, I probably shouldn't say this, but when we first moved here, we never locked a house. I know some of y'all thinking, man, I wouldn't have known that. Left the keys in the car, you know. You have to worry about it. But life under the sun, things become crooked, things become dysfunctional. We have rioting in our streets, murder Rape, all these horrendous things, robbery in our society. So Solomon is living like and I know this is really repetition. I'm preparing. I thought, man, we're saying the same thing over and over But I'm going through this passage and I'm finding out he's saying the same thing over and over. And so he looks out and he says, under the sun life is dysfunctional. Things are not working the way it's supposed to. Then he makes this statement. He says, I've seen he says that which is crooked cannot be made straight, and that which is wanting cannot be numbered. I put it this way, not only is life under the sun dysfunctional, but life under the sun is deficient. The word wanting means to come up short. It has the idea of not meeting the need. It does not fill the gap. It's kind of like having a ladder. I was cleaning, this has been a number of years ago, I was cleaning the gutters on the house. And I just had a little four foot ladder and it worked fine around part of the house, but I got to the back and it's a lot higher. And I climbed up and I was still coming up short And so I did what you're not supposed to do and stepped on the top of it and still come up short. So I put a bucket on top of the top of it and no, I didn't do that. That's why women live longer than men, because men do stuff like that. But the ladder was too short. I couldn't reach what I needed to reach. It's kind of like an extension cord. Do you ever have an extension cord? You need a pull you come together. That's like that much short. Well that's the idea behind this statement here. And what he's saying is this everything this world has to offer, the education, the pleasures. the experiences, everything this world has to offer, it comes up short. It's wanting as far as meeting the real needs of life. Fulfilling, bringing fulfillment to life and purpose and satisfaction in life. It comes up short, it comes up short. What does the world say? The world says, I can't find any satisfaction. No matter what I pursue, my life is empty. It's amazing some of these uh rock singers and movie stars and these people that indulge in the in uh every um uh hedonistic pleasure that the world has to offer and you listen to them talk and their lives are empty. They're miserable And if I know happiness, it has to be a little bit more, a little bit more. Why? Because this world comes up wanting. As far as meeting the needs of the soul, fulfilling, bringing fulfillment and purpose. The richest people in the world, the people who have the most money you can possibly dream of, are miserable. They're running to this, that, and the other. And man, you see them in the news, and they talk like degenerate 12-year-olds. Filthy mouths. And nasty lifestyles and empty hearts and empty souls And all the finances that the world has to offer, it comes up short. And they cannot meet that need in their heart and soul. And power. You have people that in the most powerful positions of the world, and we're thinking with the election going on. You look at these people and you hear how they talk and you look how they live And you know what it screams out? It screams out, my life is empty. No matter how much power, no matter how much pleasure, no matter how many possessions I have. Solomon says it comes up wanting. It comes up wanting. It comes up wanting. Listen, you can give your life. And pursue a life of pleasure. And you can pursue a life of money and you can try and gain power all you want. But I'm telling you, if all you're living for is what's under the sun, you're going to come up short every time. You're going to come up empty every time. You're going to be wanting. It will never meet the needs of the hearts and souls of an individual. Solomon says, I had money, I had the intelligence God has given me, I use that to find some meaning and purpose. in life and it all came up short under the sun. So no matter how loud the beat of the music is, no matter how large the TV screen is, no matter how extreme the sport may be, no matter how large the bank account may be If all we have is what's under the sun, if that's all I see, that's all part of me, comes up short, comes up short. Then he makes a third statement that I see here, a third observation. He said, that which is crooked, then he says this, cannot be made straight. And he said, that which is wanting cannot be numbered. He says that which is crooked cannot be made straight. In other words, he's saying it cannot be made functional. Here is life. And all we have is what's under the sun. All we're living for is what's under the sun. It's obviously something's wrong. And there is no this is what he's saying. There is no way That we can be made functional again by that which only exists under the sun. You follow what I'm saying? If all we have is what's under the sun, we cannot make straight that which is crooked. We cannot fix the dysfunctional homes. We cannot fix the dysfunctional government. We cannot fix the dysfunctional societies We cannot fix the dysfunctional life by simply what is available under the sun. Can't be made straight. Nothing in this world is able to solve that problem. For what, 6,000 years now? Man has pushed God aside and tried to solve his problems, and all they've gotten is worse. Right or wrong? It's just gotten worse. Mankind, apart from God, does not have the answers to this dysfunction of this world we live in. And so his his statement is this, under the eaf under the sun is despairing. It's dysfunctional. It's deficient. It's despairing. It can't be fixed. He says that which is wanting cannot be numbered. The word numbered there means to meet the need, fill the gap, fill it in. Nothing in this world can meet the needs of the soul and the light. If we choose, and we have this option, people have been doing it for thousands of years. If we choose to push God out of our lives, if we choose to exclude the Word of God and the presence of God from our thinking, And we're just going to use our own human reasoning. We're just going to lean on the wisdom of the world. And we're going to look to the resources that the world only has to offer. And he says you're going to end up in despair every time. Every single time. We must accept if if we want to live our lives, push God out. And exclude the truth of God's word, exclude the spiritual realities as they are, then we must live with the fact. That we will never have our spiritual needs met. We have to live with the fact that our lives will be dysfunctional. And here's the tragedy, and I meet them all the time out visiting and in ministry and whatnot. There's a whole lot of people who are just settled and are content with empty, dysfunctional lives. Charles Spurgeon said, one of the most tragic things in the world is a person lives their life 50, 60, 70, 80 years in empty dysfunction. And then die and go to hell. What an existence. What an existence. And Solomon looks out and he's pushed God out of everything and says, I see nothing but despair. The atheist up there, he says, it's miserable. Life is miserable. He's coming to the same conclusion Solomon did years ago. If we choose to exclude the Lord from our lives and our thinking, we must accept and live with the fact that our hearts and souls are going to be empty. And it's going to end up in despair. We say, well, that's a blessing, preacher. Sure glad I came to church tonight and hear all that. That's wonderful. Praise the Lord, I'll go out this week. Alright, let's try and glean something out of this. And I like this. And here's some gleanings or conclusion I come to. If that's true, and the Bible bears this out, if there is nothing but dysfunction, deficiency, and despair under the sun If it's all just vexation, uh vanity and vexation of spirit under the sun, if that's the case, then we need to look above the sun to find some hope. We got to look beyond this world and the physical material and the reasoning and the resources and all that this world is. We need to look beyond that and look above that. If we're going to find any hope. And that is where God comes in. We look past this world. We have And I think in our hearts and souls, every one of us knows that there is more to our existence than simply what is under the sun. That there's a God out there that does have a plan and does have a purpose and highly values you and I as his creation. And so we have to look, if if everything under the sun is vanity and vexation of spirit, if it's all despair, dis this uh uh dysfunction and uh deficiency, if that's all this world has to offer, then we look above this throughout. And we look to God and we look to Him for fulfillment and purpose and we find it in the Lord. And I got thinking about that, isn't that really the Isn't that really the job, the responsibility of every Sunday school teacher? To get the little children and the people that sit under us to look beyond what's under the sun, look beyond this world and see that there is a God, there is a creator, there is uh an eternal, holy, powerful being that loves us and plans for us. That's the job every Sunday school teacher, not just to entertain the kids and have fun little stories. No in the art. But to get them to see beyond this world and see there is a God. That's the job of every bus worker. That's that's the responsibility of the choir when they sing, to get people's eyes beyond just this world and look beyond and see. above the sun. Are you with me? Everybody follow what I'm saying? The Sunday school teachers, the bus workers, our soul winners. We go out on a weekly basis, some on Saturday, some Wednesday, some Thursday. We go out and We visit people and we knock on doors. You know what we're trying to do? We're trying to say, hey, look, there's more to life than just under the sun. Look beyond that. That's the job of the preacher. My whole occupation, so to speak. My whole purpose for my living. in many ways, is to get people to look beyond this world into another world, above the sun, a spiritual world, just as real as this world. And look there for our hope, and look there for answers, and look there for our fulfillment and purpose in life. Because under the sun, it's just dysfunction. It's just deficiency, it's despair, if that's all there is under the sun. Actually, it's the job of every Christian, isn't it? He said, go into all the world and preach the gospel. What is gospel? Good news. Hey, there is hope. There is salvation. There is life beyond the grave. There is meaning in life. There is fulfillment and joy That vacuum in our hearts and souls that's so empty, that makes us so miserable in life, that vacuum can be filled with the presence of God. And joy in the midst of heartache and sorrow, and purpose and meaning in the midst of chaos. So our job, our responsibility as believers in that which is above the sun, and believers in Jesus Christ, and believers in God. is to get people to look beyond that. But here's the challenge. So many people are so focused on this physical world, they never see the spiritual dimension. I'm having more people than ever before. When I ask them, do you ever think about heaven and hell? Do you ever think about God and spiritual realities? I have more people now than ever before. Now it's still a minority, but it's more than ever before. Say, no, I never think about that at all I never give any thought to where I'm spending eternity. I never give any thought to my relationship with my Creator And so that's our challenge, that's our responsibility, get people to look beyond the sun, above the sun, beyond just this world. So my conclusion, one, is if there is nothing but dysfunction, despair and and deficiency under the sun, then we gotta look above the sun. And second conclusion of this, if Solomon experienced all that the visible world has to offer and came up short. If Solomon experience all this and he says, my conclusion is it's all vanity, if that's the case, everything that's visible comes up short, then we need something that must be invisible. You know what that something is? It's our Creator. It's our invisible, eternal, holy, powerful God. And we need to look to Him and trust in Him and see that which is invisible. The fact of the matter is, there is a being and there is a presence Right here, right now, that we cannot see, we cannot hear, we cannot feel, but he is as real as you and I sitting here, and that is God Almighty. And we have people by the billions just living life for the physical, the material, what's under the sun, and they fail to realize there's a whole nother spiritual aspect. And God is real. And Solomon's coming to that conclusion. And at the end of the book, he comes all back around. He says, all right, here's the conclusion of the matter. Fear God and trust him. So he paints an awfully bleak picture. Now, I hate to say this, but it's going to get even bleaker as we go a little farther. The darkness of a life without God is pretty dark. But thank God. Thank God. That God has shown Himself and revealed Himself to us. And we know that there's more than here. Amen. I hope this makes sense. And I hope that in the midst of this bleak picture he paints, we can see above the sun and we see God is working and God is blessing. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I pray that you would help us. Not to be overcome by the emptiness that this world offers, but to be to be raptured by the fulfillment we find in Christ. And the peace that comes with knowing you and forgiveness of sin and awareness of your presence and uh the enjoyment of a purpose in life. And so I pray you'd stir our hearts tonight As we go into a new week, help us to be determined, to point folks to a loving Savior. That's so much more than anything this world offers. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Pastor, I want to live my life this week, the next seven, eight days, and I want to be consciously aware of the fact that God is in my life, and I'm in God's presence. And just look to him and let him lead me and direct me through my Bible reading and prayer and walking with him and trying to do right. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that this coming week would be a week of walking with God And living beyond just what's under the sun, but look living above this whole world and enjoying the presence of the Lord. Anything like that by the uplifted hand, surely that's what we want. And God will help us. If we ask him, he'll help us. Whether it's in elementary school, junior high, middle school, high school, college, work away, our homes. We can have the joy and presence of the Lord. Does there someone here say, preacher, you know, I'm really trying to evaluate my walk with God and my standing before God You say, I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven, that I'm actually a saved person. I'm not sure that God has accepted me, and I need the Lord Jesus to settle in my heart that I know That my sins are forgiven, that I go to heaven, not to hell when I die. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand tonight? Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. I am concerned about my soul's salvation I don't want to die in my sins without God. I want to know that God has loved me and that God has saved me and given me eternal life. Ain't you at all? Now a lot of us know some folks that need to see the Lord We need to see his evidence in our lives. They need to know Christ as Savior. How many, one last question, how many people tonight say, preacher, I know someone very specific. They're heavy on my heart And they need the Lord Jesus as Savior. They need to see something beyond this under the sun. And you'd say, preacher, help me to be a witness, a testimony to them. They'd see beyond that. Any like that by the upper hand, somebody very specific on my heart God bless you. Let's pray for them tonight. Let's finish out the Lord's Day in an old-fashioned order and preparing our hearts for the week and determined to be a witness to this old empty world And to live in the presence of God. Father bless us now, I pray, as we give the invitation in Jesus' name, Amen.