I'd like for us to l uh look at verse number six, seven, and eight. We're primarily going to look at verse six. We're going to touch on verse seven And we're not even going to get to verse 8, but um verse 6 says, and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes. condemned them with an overthrow, making them an ensample unto those that after should live ungodly, and delivered just lot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked. For that righteous man, dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. Caught that little phrase caught my attention, turning the cities into ashes. Let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us tonight. Father in heaven, we come to this portion of scripture that we've been studying for some time now. And I ask now, as we look at these two cities that were turned to ashes, that you would help us glean out of these verses some truths that would help us in our church and in our personal lives. And so, Lord, I yield my will as again every time I preach. I want my will and my thinking to be yielded to your will and your word. I present my body anew, Lord, and I pray with all my heart. That you fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord, and you speak through me. And so help us to be receptive, be receptive, help us to be sensitive. I pray it would be a help in our faith. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen So I said last week, 2 Peter chapter 2, actually go over into chapter 3, I don't know anybody that that's their favorite passage of Scripture in the Bible. The parallels, as we mentioned in Sunday school, if you're in the adult sunny school class, it's going to sound repetitious because the book of Jude, the little book of Jude, is almost verbatim the same as 2 Peter chapter 2. And again, I don't know anybody that you ask them, what's your favorite book of the Bible? Oh, Jude. I've never heard anybody say that. They are very sober. Passages of Scripture warning against dangers facing individual believers and the church We studied 1 Peter, and at the end of 1 Peter, as he was writing to these believers, he wound down his letter to them in 1 Peter with chapter 5 and verse number 8, where he says, Be sober. Be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. And he was using very descriptive language to point out to his hearers and to you and I, through the inspiration, preservation of Scripture, he's pointing out to us the reality of the spiritual warfare you and I are in. It's not only a real warfare, it's a very dangerous warfare. We have a very formidable enemy, the devil, the roaring lion. And he seeks to devour us. And that warning that Peter gave is not just for you and I as individual believers. How many people understand? We as individuals have a very real spiritual enemy. We as individuals have that. We felt the effects of Satan, no doubt. If you've tried to do anything for God, if you've grown, you felt the opposition of the devil. You felt that warfare, I'm sure But it doesn't just apply to individuals, it applies to churches as a body. Satan not only wants to destroy you and devour you as an individual believer, but he wants to destroy churches that believe the Bible and preach the Bible and try and obey the Bible. So there's a very real threat To God's people individually and local church. Anytime God's word is being proclaimed And promoted, you mark it down, Satan's going to seek to destroy and deceive that work. I encourage you to study the book of Acts very carefully. As soon as that new church there in Acts chapter 2 is empowered by the Holy Spirit. Peter gets up and begins preaching under the power of the Holy Spirit. Souls are being saved. Brother, it didn't take any time at all to those Pharisees who are in there trying to shut that thing down. I believe they were inspired of Satan. There's no doubt in my mind. When they said to Peter and the disciples, you must no longer speak or preach in the name of Jesus, you mark it down. That's of the devil. And the devil began fighting that church. And then, of course, later on, as they spread out in the missionary journeys, uh then they run into demon-possessed men, a young mate. Trying to distort and deceive and distract from the message. And so anytime, my point is this, anytime a church begins to grow uh church uh uh decides it's going to stand on the Word of God and serve the uh God and Promote the Word of God and preach the gospel, you mark it down, Satan's going to fight it. And that's been true all through the uh uh the ages. And so that he's writing here And these new believers, this is the second Peter, a second letter Peter has written. Persecution they were facing in the first letter has died down, I believe, and they're establishing churches now into the places they've been run. They're getting their feet back on the ground, they're getting organized, they're having an impact, and now these false teachers, uh notice there in verse number one of chapter two how he describes it. He said, but there were false prophets also among the people, speaking of the Old Testament, even as there shall be false teachers among you. Now look what they say. Who privily or are very sneaky shall bring in damnable heresies. Would you agree with me? That's a strong statement. A damnable heresy. And they're creeping in these churches, and Peter's warning them very strongly. And we've been looking at this, working our way down through here. He references three Old Testament events that illustrate how serious God takes biblical truth. A couple weeks ago, we noted in verse number four: the angels that sinned. There's angels, and we studied that. They sinned. And by the way, this sin was a deliberate rejection of God's will for them. And God casts them down. And our point there was: I believe the lesson I take away from that: nobody is too big to be cast down if they re deliberately rebel against God. Even an angel. God will cast them down. And then he points out in verse number five, the old world, the world before the flood. How they had turned against God. And now in verse 6, he references Sodom and Gomorrah. Sodom and Gomorrah. Peter is illustrating the seriousness of biblical truth. Peter is illustrating the danger of allowing false teaching and false prophets to come in and affect us. Now, I want us to three thoughts here real quick. Number one, I want us to notice the extremity of their sin. He references Sodom and Gomorrah and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes condemn them with an overthrow. Their sin was extreme Sodom and Gomorrah's sin was not just the daily struggle that a believer faces with sin. How many people understand you and I have a constant daily battle with personal sins Right? Paul said in 1 Corinthians 10, 13, there is no temptation taken you, but such as is what? Common to man. We all face temptations. We all have that. A person years ago said to me, I've never been tempted in my life. I said, well you're deceit. The fact is it's common to all men. Uh if you would Keep your place here. Come over to Romans chapter 7 with me just real quickly. Romans 7. Paul is writing here. Would you agree with me? Paul's a pretty good Christian. But notice what he says in Romans chapter 7, speaking of this matter of dealing with personal sins. Hebrews chapter 12 references besetting sins, sins that we're vulnerable to, sins that we are uh tend to struggle with. And we all have them And they're different for all of us. But notice what Paul says in Ro in Romans 7. Look down there at verse number 15 Now he words it here a little in our maybe a little awkward for some of us, but notice what he says. He said, For that which I do, I allow not. For what I would, that I do not. But what I hate, that do I You say, what's he saying? He's saying this. He said, the things that I know I should do, that I want to do, I end up not doing them. And the things I hate I don't want to do, I end up doing those Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sure. This is the Apostle Paul. He goes on, he says, if then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law, then it's Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. He says, I am a sin nature. Man, I just struggle with this. It's a battle. He goes on, for I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not. Paul is struggling. Some people try and explain this away a little bit, but I notice none of this is past tense. This is ongoing. This is current when he's writing it For the good which I would, I do not. But the evil which I would not, that I do. This we cannot use that as an excuse to justify or excuse our sin. But it's a reality in life that you and I have a sinful nature and we are going to struggle with sin. Throughout this life. And on occasion, and more often than we like, we end up giving in. Now y'all are looking at me so pious by giving. But I it's true for all of us, amen or not? Sure, sure. We struggle with that. Again, we can't excuse or justify or sin with that, but we understand it. Now, I said all that to say this: that's not the case for Sodom and Gomorrah. This is not God turning cities into ashes because they struggled with daily personal temptations and succumbed to sin. Sodom and Gomorrah was a deliberate and extreme rejection of that which is good and right and clearly laid out in Scripture. It's one thing to struggle with the temptation. I know this is wrong, I don't want to do it, and I struggle with that. That's one thing. It's another thing to say, no, I reject that righteousness, and I'm doing wrong. You with me? That is the case here. It was the case with the angels that sinned. It was the same case with the world before the flood. It wasn't just some struggling with daily personal temptation of sin nature. It was a deliberate rejection and rebellion against God Himself. And that's what Sodom and Gomorrah was doing. In Jude chapter 7, or not chapter 7, but verse 7, in Jude, he says this: He said, They gave themselves over to fornication, going after strange flesh. That phrase they gave themselves over, he is telling us it was a deliberate rebellion of God's design for mankind and saying we are going to do what's wrong and we don't care what God says. That's a little different than struggling with a temptation, right or wrong. In Genesis chapter 18 and verse 20, God said their sin is very great. This was an extreme rebellion against God. Deliberate rejection of God's authority over them and God's design. If you would, keep your place here. Come with me to the Old Testament book of Ezekiel. Now, interesting enough, Ezekiel, the great prophet, references Sodom and Gomorrah. And of course back in Genesis 1819, we have uh I don't think I'm on here, Jenny. Back in uh Genesis 18 and 19, we have the m a little more detailed of of uh of Sodom and Gomorrah, especially when the angels of the Lord showed up and their treatment there and all of that But Ezekiel gives us an interesting, some insight, not just on the outward Expression and behavior of their rebellion against God, but he gives us a root cause. Notice Ezekiel 18 and look at verse 49. This is what the root sin of Sodom and Gomorrah was Ezekiel 16, verse 49. Behold, this was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom. He says, all right, here was the problem. This is what their sin was. Somebody tell me what's the very first thing. It's what? Seems like we've been hearing that. Huh? Pride. Now I didn't design I didn't schedule this message for the first Sunday of June. God had this laid out. We started this we started this series, what, thirteen years ago? Something like that. Takes forever. Pride. Pride. I want to suggest to you the root of all rebellion is pride. Pride in the heart of man is nothing more than rebellion against God. You and I have no more right to be proud than anybody else does. I'm last year I started doing this and again this year I don't make a big deal about it. I'm not looking for a fuss. But I just decided Mountain Lake in the month of June, it's going to be humility month for us. The world can do what it wants. But how about you and I humble ourselves before God and seek His face? Turn from our wicked ways. Pray. Our land needs healing. Our land needs healing. So the root of Sodom and Gomorrah, this extreme rebellion against God, this uh uh extreme sinfulness Begins with pride. Then he goes on. Look at this. This was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom. Pride, fullness of bread. They were they w their their cupboard was full. They went down to the market and good night there's rows and rows and rows of goods and food and uh all kinds of stuff you could never in a lifetime buy all of it. Sound familiar Doesn't America not have abundance of bread Then he goes on. He says, fullness of bread, abundance of idleness. Man, they had a four-day work week. I sit around and they had all kinds of time for games and fun and playing and Abundance of idleness was in her and her daughter and uh in her and her daughters. Neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy. They were haughty. Look at this, and committed what Abomination before me. Therefore I took them away as I saw good. Sodom and Gomorrah's sin Was not just the daily struggle that you and I have as sinful beings with a sinful nature, and we struggle with that. It was much, much more than that. This was a proud Self centered, abundant in pleasure And a rebellion against Almighty God. The extremity of their sin. Come back to 2 Peter here, if you would. I hope you kept your place. Look how it's described. Verse 7, delivered just Lot, vexed with the, look at this statement, or verse 7, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked. This is God's assessment. It's one thing for you and I to sit back and say, man, those people filthy, wicked, this is God saying it For the righteous man dwelling among them, see him and hearing, vexed his righteous soul with their unlawful deeds. Sodom and Gomorrah's sin was extreme. Rebellion against God. Now I find it interesting, and I really don't have time. Wish we did. We could go back to Genesis 18. Where God, the angel of the Lord, had come to Abraham and gave him some promises, and he decides he tells Abraham what he's going to do. It says, I'm going to go down to Sodom and Gomorrah, and the wickedness cries up to my ears. I'm going to go down firsthand. And Abraham, knowing his nephew Lot is in that city and knowing what's about to come down, he begins praying. And he prays and said, Lord, Would you spare the city if there's 50 righteous? Just 50. Now, I don't know what the population of Sodom Gomorrah was. I think it's safe to say probably a hundred or more thousand people. Maybe several hundred thousand people. We don't know. Fifty people would have been a very small percentage of the population. He said, Lord, if there's 50, would you spare it? The Lord says, I'll spare it if there's 50. He says, let me ask again, Lord, please be patient with me. And I'm putting in some own words. Be patient with me. Lord, what about 45? I'll spare it for 45. And he goes down. 30, 25, 20. Would you spare it for 15? I'll spare it for 15. Lord, would you spare it if there's just ten righteous people? Just ten out of several hundred thousand, just ten, would you spare it? He said, I'll spare it for ten. That tells me there was less than ten saved people, ten righteous people in that entire city. And God judged them. Now that tells me something that encourages me a little bit for our country, especially in the month of June, what the our society has declared June to be. That apparently, now I'm assuming this applies across the board, I can't say definitely, but in Sodom and Gomorrah's case it applied, obviously, if there's a certain percentage of righteous people, God will spare his Final wrath and judgment. The hope I find, the comfort, encouragement I find from that Potential truth for us as a nation. If we can maintain or establish a certain percentage of righteousness within our country, maybe God will spare us. From the fate of Sodom and Gomorrah. And I want to suggest to you, perhaps, is one of the reasons we've been spared God's wrath. more than what we've already experienced is because there are a certain percentage of God-fearing, Bible preaching, imperfect But sincerely humble people of God that want God to be pleased. Say, what do we do, preacher? I'll tell you what we do. We keep preaching the Bible, we keep winning souls. I'm all for political action. I'm all for all of that. God bless you. Go for it. But until we start winning souls and seeing righteousness brought back into the hearts and lives and homes of Americans, nothing's going to change. Nothing's going to change. Even our political heroes are pretty sinful people. But I've got a Savior. It's a Son of God who is perfectly righteous. And if people know Him, I think it'll change things. You with me? So the extremity of their sin, the extremity of their sin, God turned their cities into ashes. It's the only time that phrase is used in the Bible. Ashes, I mean totally useless. There's nothing left. There's no rebuilding this. It's gone. There's no coming back from this. It's gone. Ashes. So the extremity of their sin, and then the next thing I noticed is the example to the ungodly. Look at verse 6. And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them with an overthrow. Now look at this. Making them an what? An ensample unto those that after should live ungodly. In Jude, verse number 7, he says the same thing. They were an example. They were an example. To warn others. Learn from this. Learn from this lesson. The word ensample has the meaning of to exhibit something. To put it up on display. Here, look, this is what happens. This is the consequence of this type of behavior, this type of attitude. That's what the angels that sinned, he was putting them up as a warning. The world before the flood, the old world, he says, this is an example. And he says, Here's these cities, they were turned into ashes. This is an exhibit. Of what this leads to, of where this ends up. It means a sign or a warning. It means the word ensample means something you learn a lesson from. I don't know if we've learned that lesson very well in our world today. I don't know. What are the lessons? What's the example for us? I put a few down. Number one, you cannot play with sin and not be affected. Lot pitched his tent toward Sodom. We'll look at this in another future message. He pitched his tent toward Sodom because the plains were well watered. They were very fertile. It was a good place to raise cattle. But it was a wicked place with no character. Lot of them leaned towards that and got involved and tolerant of it. And you cannot play with sin and not be affected. Number two, I put this down. Prosperity can draw us away from God. And I go back to what Ezekiel tells us. Their abundance of bread, their abundance of idleness, they were wealthy, they had everything they could possibly want, and became proud. And self-centered and self-obset obsessed. And I tell ya, we have to be very, very careful about prosperity And sometimes we worry, oh, I don't know if I'm going to have enough money. Sometimes maybe the best thing in the world is for us to need some money sometimes Our prosperity can be very, very dangerous. I'm suggesting to you more Christians are ruined by prosperity than they are by poverty. Revival will come more often in impoverishment than it does in prosperity. And so prosperity can draw us away from God if we're not careful. Number three, I put this down: it's impossible to hide our sin from God. God saw it. God came down firsthand. He saw it. Proverbs 28:13 says, He that covereth his sin Shall not prosper. The word cover has the idea of trying to hide it. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper. But whoso confesseth and forsaketh shall find mercy. Say, preacher, what do I do? I've sinned. What do I do? The first thing you do when we sin is run to Christ. Confess it, forsake it, and get up and forget it and go on. A problem is when we rather than Acknowledging it. And by the way, if any man says, oh, I don't sin, that man's a liar And when sin comes and we fail, don't cover it. Don't hide it. Don't think I can I can somehow God won't know this The very first thing we do, we fall on our face before God. We say, God, I did wrong. This was sin. I agree with you. I want it out. Somebody put it this way, keep short accounts with God. We're very good at sitting back And condemning the wickedness of Pride Month and the wickedness of the woke progressive. We're very good at condemning all that, but we never say a peep about our own sin. We just kind of brush it aside. I want to tell you, our sin is condemned of God. And it needs to be confessed and forsaken. Amen? Are you with me? I know this isn't, oh, that's my favorite message. No, nobody's going to say this is their favorite message. But it's a Bible message. Number four, I put this down, undealt with sin. This is the examples we're learning from Sodom and Gomorrah cities turned to ashes. Undealt with sin becomes progressively worse. We don't have time, but Romans chapter 1 tells us. And sin, according to Romans 1 The debauchery of humanity as it progresses. You go down through that chapter, begin around, I want to say probably around 20, verse 20, 21, somewhere in there, 22. The progressive deterioration of the morality of humanity until you get to the end of the chapter, and it is exactly what we read about in Sodom and Gomorrah. It's exactly what we're seeing take place on the streets of our cities. You know it all begins with unthankfulness. Neither were they thankful. You and I get the idea that we deserve more than what we got, or somehow I deserve this, and we're And we lose our attitude of gratitude, I'm telling you, we are taking the first step down a path that leads to a very bad place. And it's progressive. If we don't deal with that, it becomes progressively worse. Then last of all, I notice here, verse number seven, the extraction of lot. These cities are unbelievably wicked. God uses terms that are just horrific in describing how sinful they are, their behavior is, their lifestyle. He uh turns the cities into ashes. And he says, all right, here's an example. This is an exhibit of what happens. This is the end result of this. But then he tells us in verse 7 and 8, and we'll look at this a little more detail later, but he extracts Lot out of those cities before he turns them to ashes. Now it's interesting, again, we'll look at this a little more, but Lot doesn't really go willingly. He has to snatch him out of there. He has to catch him out of there. He has to rapture him out of there. That's just going through his business. I'm wondering. I wonder how many Christians would voluntarily be raptured and how many love it here so much that we have to be forcefully brought up out of here. Follow what I'm saying? Alright, rapture, voluntary rapture tonight at ten. Wonder how many people show up. Yeah, I know what else. I wonder how he'd say, man alive. I'm supposed to go out to Texas Roadhouse tomorrow afternoon. I think part of the reason we're raptured out of here is because there's a heap of Christians want to go voluntarily I think we've fallen in love with the world. Huh? Say, boy, I'm glad I went to church tonight. Preacher, such a blessing. I tell you, I'm afraid. I'm afraid I might be on to something. Lot is extracted out of there before the judgment. You say, why was Lot? Spare. A couple of his daughters, his wife came out but looked back. There's one reason, one reason only, that Lot was extracted. It wasn't because he was such a great Christian. It wasn't because he loved God so much. Notice what it says in verse 7. And delivered just Lod. Look at verse 8. For that righteous man You say, whoa, hold on, preacher. I've read Genesis, what it says about Lot. There ain't no way those are the same guys. And I'll be very honest with you, I've said it a number of times before. If I was first time I'm reading through the Bible, and I'm reading about Lot, I would assume this is an unsaved man until I get the 2 Peter. Now I look back a little bit and I see God's chastening hand a little bit here, and we'll maybe talk about that later. But the fact of the matter is he wasn't caught up out of there, he wasn't extracted because of how what a great lifestyle he was living. He was right in the mix. He was a leader in the city. But at some point He had put his faith and trust in the coming Messiah. How much he understood of that, I can't say, but he was a just man in the eyes of God. He was righteous in his standing before God. Not necessarily in his lifestyle, but in his standing before God. And when a person trusts the Messiah, who we know to be the Lord Jesus Christ, As our personal Savior, we are immediately given a righteousness before God. We touched on it this morning a little bit. And a Christian can be a have a sorry testimony, but yet still be raptured out of here when the rapture takes place because of our righteous standing with God. You follow what I'm saying? A little theological here. But when I trust Jesus Christ the Savior, according to Romans, the righteousness of Christ is put to my account. And God sees me as righteous as Jesus. Regardless of how good of a Christian I may or may not be, God sees me as righteous. And God sees you as righteous if you've trusted Christ. Now here's our goal. I'm a little off target here a little bit, but here's our goal. We ought to try to seek to live our lives In line with our standing with God. Follow what I'm saying? If God sees me as righteous as Christ, I'll just seek to live as righteous as I can. To match that standing I have. Are you following me? You follow me? But this is an example. Now I didn't preach this tonight because June is Pride Month in the world. I preached this tonight because this is the next verse in our series. And the fact of the matter is, let's focus on you and I staying humble before God. And seeking God rather than railing on those who declare their pride. Now, I'm not saying don't preach against it. Good night, I just did tonight. But what I'm saying is, let's not get I guess this one's saying, let's not get self-righteous about it By the grace of God, Brother Steve Wesson had a tremendous message, but by the grace of God, you and I could be right in the middle of all of that. Huh? Father in heaven, I ask you to bless and help us tonight. Lord, we need you. Lord, we struggle with this sinful nature we've got. Lord, sometimes it gets the best of us and we're so ashamed. But Lord, we agree with you and we come with you and we confess and forsake. And Lord, help us stay humble. Help us to learn from the past. Help us to take note and be careful. And I pray you protect our church from wrong thinking and wrong teaching, ungodly thinking. Lord, we see churches all around falling into such wickedness. I pray you'd help us. Help us stay humble. Help us stay grateful. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need a good dose of humility in my heart and life. Lord, I need to get back, uh I need to get back to being thankful For what God has done and always thinking I need more, bigger, better, this, that, and just be grateful, be content. So anything like that, uplifted hand, humility Gratitude and contentment. Oh, I'll tell you, that'll do a lot to help us. It'll do a lot. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen