Oh, excuse me, huh? First Timothy chapter two in your Bible. First Timothy chapter two, we're going to actually take that text that we've taken for the series. I know several folks may be in here tonight, or at least some may be in here tonight. You didn't really get in on the first part of the series. Well, Pastor was away overseas, vacationing, I mean, uh on his mission trip. Uh they uh we we delved into I'm only teasing there, that we delved into a series on prayer, and we've talked about a different kinds of prayer and I encouraged you don't necessarily delineate like our Western minds do, different kinds of prayer. Okay, Lord, I'm transitioning into this kind of prayer. That's not necessarily advantageous. I don't think that's what God's getting at. However, God does point out there are different types of prayer. That's not that hard to see. In the text we're going to read Actually, is the text we use where we get that idea that there are different kinds of prayers in the Bible, and it's a good idea to examine them. 1 Timothy chapter 2 is where we're going to read a number of verses together All dealing with the most blessed topic of prayer. Prayer is so vitally important. Nobody can overestimate the value of prayer in a Christian. So we're going to delve right into 1 Timothy chapter 2. Look at verse number one. Paul writes to Timothy, who is in full-time ministry. He says, Timothy, I exhort therefore, now, first of all, all supplications, prayers, Intercessions and giving of thanks be made for all men. That's where we get it. So we see he says supplications. We talked about that, prayers, intercessions. That's what we're going to talk about tonight. Giving of thanks be made for all men. Why, for kings and for all that are in authority, that ye may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior, who will have all men to be saved and to come unto the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God and one mediator between God and man. The man Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all to be test testified in due time. Verse 7, whereunto I am ordained a preacher and an apostle. I speak the truth in Christ and lie not. A teacher of the Gentiles in faith and verity. I will therefore that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and without doubting. Excellent passage on prayer. We're going to discuss tonight the importance of intercession. Before we do, let's ask God to bless our study. Father in heaven, I thank you. Once again, for your word, and I pray that you would communicate truth, that you would use the preaching of your word, that we would understand the importance of intercession. Lord, I am aware that many people in this room are familiar with the teaching in this passage, but I pray you would just help us to examine it in a fresh way and get a sense that we indeed Intercession is an important, vital part of the ministry of every believer. So we ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen. There was a special prayer meeting called by a pastor here in the States for his son, who was a missionary overseas. Maybe you're familiar with this story. A true account. The pastor was awakened in the middle of the night of a Friday night with a strong burden to pray for his son, but he didn't know exactly why, and instead of brushing it off like sometimes I'm guilty of doing. He called several in the leadership of that church to have a special prayer meeting together to pray. Um his son worked in a remote village and he needed to make some frequent trips into a large city that wasn't um that was uh actually more than a uh day's trip journey to get there. You had to pick up some supplies and some medicine that they could not get in the remote village in which they lived soon A group of bandits from the city caught on to what the missionary was doing. Uh time after time, he would travel alone by himself, get some supplies, and then head right on back And uh they caught on to what was going on and realized that he wasn't traveling with anybody. Um so they decided, they assumed, since he was traveling alone, that they would, they made plans to kill him and take everything that he had. Being an American, he would have had a lot of money, they assumed. So they were they hatched this plane. But however, just the time they were about ready to rush the missionary's campsite, they noticed several guards around where the missionary was sleeping that particular night. The leader managed to get a count of how many guards the missionary had at that time. There were 22 in total, armed guards that this missionary had. The group decided that it was way too many for them to handle, and so they decided to book it out of there. But during the next trip the missionary made his way into the city. He saw a gentleman that was badly injured on the side of the road. He thought about because he was in a hurry and he needed to get back home to his family to just pass by, but he was impressed. I need to go and and help this person. So he actually um the race to help this guy and ended up saving this gentleman's life. Um that and of course he shared the gospel, but for some reason or another the missionary couldn't figure it out. The man wasn't all that conversant. He just didn't say a whole lot. But just before the missionary was going to return to his village, the man grabbed him by the arm. Before you go, the man said to the missionary, I need to tell you something. You may not know who I am, but I know who you are. Several weeks ago, my gang and I were going to kill you and take everything you had. Of course, if that were you, you'd be a little shocked. The missionary was shocked by what the gentleman was saying. The man continued, seeing you willing to help me A complete stranger changed my heart toward you. Now I'm actually glad that our plans were stopped and that we weren't able to go through with all of what we were planning to do. The missionary seemed a little puzzled by the gentleman's statement. He said, How were you how were you stopped? Why why weren't you able to go through with your plans? I don't understand. Well you you know, the man said, uh our group's not any match for 22 of your armed guards But I don't have any arm cards, the missionary said. Of course you do. We saw them with our own eyes. I wasn't the only one that saw it. The missionary was getting the sense that those guards were not guards at all. You know, the missionary was so moved by what had happened while on the mission field, he decided to share his testimony when he got back into the States. He made his rounds to his dad's church where the dad was the pastor and uh his dad After hearing the story, stopped his son and asked him, Do you know, son, what night that was? We have to know. His son thought for a moment, well Oh well I know it was a Friday night. That's when I make my trip. And he gave the date. In an instant his dad knew the reason the spirit prompted him In fact several uh men had um uh he said, Son, that was the night God told me to be praying for you and several of us men we had gathered at together for a special prayer meeting right here not knowing until now why we were gathered together to pray the pastor then turned If you were there that night, would you please stand your feet one by one? All around the congregation, several of the men in leadership began to stand that were there that night until at last they counted twenty-two Men were standing. True story. Yeah, I would say intercession played an important role in this situation, wouldn't you? But you know the fact is God intends for intercession to be a very important vital ministry of all of God's children. Intercession uh has uh a profound impact. In fact, Oswald Chambers said intercessory prayer is not as much putting yourself in someone else's place as putting yourself in God's place for few things secure the mind and perspective of God than does intercessory prayer. Uh Leonard Ravenhill wrote a lot about Revival. He said, if Christians had more sleepless nights in intercessory prayer, there'd be fewer souls to have sleepless nights. nights in eternity in hell. Spurgeon said that uh believed that intercessory prayer is the sweetest God ever hears. And one person said that intercessory prayers might be defined as loving our neighbors on our knees. Intercessory prayer is a very vital ministry to the heart of the uh to the life of any believer. So let's examine Four aspects to intercessory prayers, all right? So aspect number one, and I'll explain what I mean by these, they do all start with the G, just a curse of being a preacher. They all start with the G, the gift of intercession. The gift of intercession. You may think that you kind of have an idea where we're going with that, but I believe intercession is a gift that we have We have access through Jesus Christ. We understand all these things. But before I even get into the access that we have as believers, let me remind you that we also have Two parts of the triune God had who intercede on our behalf. You don't believe me? Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit are actively interceding for every one of God's children. Hebrews seven twenty five, Jesus ever liveth to maketh intercession for us. Romans eight twenty six says, Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities, because we don't know how we ought to pray as we ought to, and the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us I love this part with groanings which cannot even be uttered. God is actively two parts of the Godhead actively today, tonight. You may feel discouraged. You may get down and now Things may not be going your way. But realize this there's a gift of intercession, not just because we got access, but we got two parts of the Godhead actively interceding for us on a very regular basis. I read in devotions Again this morning, it just seems to be popping up a lot. Um, Psalm 139, that the thoughts God has toward us are more than the sand of the sea. That's amazing reminder. That God is interceding for us. It is indeed a gift. And I think that if God is interceding for us, maybe He's pointing to the fact, hey, there's a powerful ministry you as believers can get on as well. I think of of a lawyer type situation. We're in the courtroom, right? Let's say you're put on trial Let's make it a little bit more of a Christian aspect. And let's imagine it's the CLA helping, the Christian Law Association. By the way I praise God for the CLA and for those gentlemen that work hard at defending the liberty that we have in the gospel. and the preaching of the gospel. But let's just pretend that you're in a court situation and uh maybe you're a young person and you got in trouble for sharing the gospel. in your in in your classroom or at lunch or something like that. I'm thankful that uh we step into the court, maybe we'll have an organization like the CLA Christian Law Association. What what's happening there As somebody is stepping up and somebody is defending your case, somebody that is in the position to do so, somebody that is taking responsibility to do so. Somebody that doesn't just brush it off like everybody else and they say, no, I am going to personally take it on me to defend your case before the judge. And in a lot of ways that's what we have. with God the Son and God the Holy Spirit interceding on our behalf on a very regular basis. And that's also what you can get in on that indeed intercession is very important. It's a gift that we have There are a lot of beautiful examples in Scripture like Abraham interceding for the cities, the wicked cities, and for his nephew Moses interceding for the stubborn Israelites at one point that he was just saying, God, you gotta do something. And now when God does say I'm gonna do something, he intercedes on their behalf. Jesus says, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do You can read the entire Old Testament and you say, Pastor Bro, what is that even there for? The weird rituals and things that they did? Is that really what God's all about? Well that really is a picture. You think about All the Old Testament priests, what their job was. It was the the tribe of Levi that would go in there. But do you know really what it boiled down to what the priests did They would go into very ceremoniously with a sacrifice and accepted before God, and God had specific regulations, and um they would make intercession For the people. So the people couldn't do it on their own. They would be obliterated if they entered the Holy of Holies. Even if you read your Old Testament, an interesting count I find interesting anyway, just to show you how serious God is about this, is that they would have a little bit of a bell, a tradition tells us, a little bit of a bell attached to the priest's feet, so that way that they they knew when that person dropped dead and they didn't do something right and they would pull them out. Kind of an interesting picture. But the whole priest's job boiled down to interceding on other people's behalves. They would go before God because Uh they were sinful. They they couldn't do it on their own. God had a specific system design. But you go fast forward into the New Testament. Why was all that there? I believe that the I know the Bible says that in the New Testament we are kings and priests of God. Those are some interesting titles. We talked this morning about the position. Wow, do you know if you're a child of God, a guy, girl doesn't matter, young old doesn't matter, that you are a king and a priest of God Whoa, what an amazing thing. But you know what? A priest's job in the Old Testament was to stand before and between And as a Christian, don't miss it. Our job is to stand before God and between God It's a remarkable thing to intercede. I agree with Spurgeon that there is not a sweeter, softer prayer that God enjoys hearing more, perhaps, than intercessory prayer. Heaven will tell how different our world is because of intercessory prayers. I believe that How many souls will be in glory as a result of intercession? How many lives will be impacted for the cause of Christ because of our intercession? How many generations will we rescue from From uh satanic attack from worldliness and from lack of faith, uh unbelief, because of interceding on their behalf. And maybe instead of complaining about some of these generations that are coming up, which I'm so prone to do, let's intercede on their behalf. They absolutely need that. The course of history. I believe has been shaped by answers to intercessory prayers who would describe themselves as a big history buff. You like history Okay, good. So there are some around you. That's not a bad topic to get into. That way you're not redoomed to repeat it. The more you know about history, but I believe history tells a lot of different tales because of intercessory prayer Abraham, I mentioned, interceded for Lot. Do you know Lot ended up having a couple children and uh after that, not in the best situation I understand, but because Abraham interceded for Allah. There are two nations that if you trickle it down are partially here today because of Abraham's intercession. Does the name Reese Howells mean anything to anybody in this room. This man was not most noted for being a faithful missionary to Africa. although he was, but rather a mighty intercessor on the behalf of nations. Reese was an intercessor with a powerful testimony to answers to prayer. His ministry reached a pinnacle during World War II era. Many who knew him would attest that this man's prayers and intercessions shaped the world around him and extended all around the globe. Even atheists were willing and almost afraid of this gentleman praying because he experienced such supernatural answers to prayer. Through how's Intercession, the gospel advanced wars were restrained, wicked leaders and regimes were overturned, maps were literally redrawn. The impact of this guy's hidden life of prayer along with the community of believers under his leadership in Wales, uh Great Britain, is I believe immeasurable in the throughout the twentieth century. And even the world that we know today is shaped by this man's prayer. This legacy continued on with his uh son Samuel Reese Howells who became the new director of Bible College in Wales, a relatively solid college. Um the last uh the research that I've done which led hundreds of intercessors who had been trained under his father to intercede whenever the gospel of liberty was threatened. Um beginning with prayer for revival around the world, especially in China By the way, there's an underground system of Christians in China that is moving and working to the point where they're actually praying for us as believers. that God would shake us, maybe even that God would use a form of persecution to wake us up. But can I say that this happened right around, coincidentally or not, around the time that Samuel his son was praying specifically For China. That blows my mind. He didn't stop there. He prayed that God would bind the strongman during the Korean War. to the Cuban Missile Crisis, to the Six Day War, to um the fall of the Berlin Wall. It would um If you would, if you're interested in it, you could read a little bit more about the impact of this powerful interceder and his son in a uh biography called Samuel Reese Howell's A Life of Intercession. But besides all that, imagine the impact on the world that every believer aspired to a ministry of intercession. like that of Reese Howell or his son Samuel. I wonder how dynamically our our world would be different today God does not move but in answer to prayer. I wonder if we're not seeing God bringing revival on a personal level on a church level, community level, state level, uh nation level, internationally, is that we're we're Prayer just is not all that important. Intercessory prayer is not really uh that important in our lives. So indeed, intercessory prayer is of everybody uh let me not stop there. Consider the first and second great awakening For those of you who are history bustering the seventeen hundreds, it spread throughout all the colonies. I love reading about that. Um the the but the result of godly men interceding on the behalf of nations for the cause of Christ, but this um coming just in time for the formation of one nation under God, the nation that we know and love today. One went as far as to say, history belongs to intercessors, those who believe and pray the future into being. Think about it from that perspective. Pastor Brett, can I have an intercessory prayer life that affects nations? Here's a gentleman that proved it. Here's a God that commands it. I would say, yeah, you can. Can I affect my next generation? Yeah, I think you can. Are you struggling with an issue in your family? We're praying about how to raise Asher and maybe you got dilemmas and that sort of thing going on in your life. Can you pray and intercede and and expect God to where you Yeah, I think you can, and I think it'll have profound impact. So uh aspect number one is I personally believe that intercessory prayer is a gift. from Almighty God and exemplified from God Almighty. But why is it also so important? I believe number two, the goal of intercession The goal of intercession. This really is derived from the passage that we just read there. The goal of intercession, he says, I exhort you to pray, supplications, prayers. Intercessions giving of thanks for all men, for kings and so forth. Why? Why do all this? God, why are you getting at that? Why should I pray for the previous administration that I didn't really agree with and maybe who knows is going to be president next. Why should I pray for uh the dictator in North Korea? Why should I pray for these people? I don't even disagree uh I don't even agree with them. And I shouldn't have to pray for everybody and that sort of thing. Well here's why, that we might lead a quiet, first of all, a quiet and peaceable life and all godliness and honesty. I think that's a good reason to do it. In fact, this whole passage really talks about a great deal about intercession. Verse number four, who will have all men to be saved and to come unto the knowledge of the truth. God's people interceding, I believe, is according to verse number four, folks are going to get saved. We want revival, and I do too. Pastor, it's been heavy on his heart. We meet every Monday morning in his office and spend some time in prayer together. And you know, every time I hear that man pour out his heart for revival. And you know, I'm starting to say, God, I need revival. We need revival. And it could be that uh it's revival in interceding. And when we do intercede, We'll live quiet and peaceable lives for sure. Yeah, in godliness and holiness. But also, verse number four tells me that folks are going to start getting saved. You better expect it. When you start interceding for folks and praying like you should be, just you may as well open up the doors a little bit wider because I believe that a direct result is folks are going to be saved all over the Verse number eight I will therefore that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands, echoing the same cry. We need to be praying, we need to be praying. I believe George W. Bush The forty-third president of the United States of America was a Christian man. Maybe you'll debate that with me, but um I just am simply in the habit of somebody says I trust Christ as Savior, even if they think slightly different than I do, that uh I I believe that God saves them. And I believe George W. Bush is a Christian man. He once said, I firmly believe in the power. of intercessory prayer and I know that I could not do my job without it. Amazing The leader of the greatest country formerly in in the world is willing to recognize I can't do my job without it. Maybe if a Christian would say, I can't do my job without it. I mean I know what the president says. I can't get on without it. I need intercessory prayer that you may live a quiet and peaceable life. A group of us back um at the Capitol Connection, I if you can't tell I thoroughly enjoyed that and stirred up But a ministry that encourages Christian involvement in the affairs of our government is uh that's the whole idea of capital connection. And I even was sharing with um Jen, I said, Jen, you know it's remarkable. I don't think a lot of people even realize you can make an an appointment with your senator and you could actually go in there and you could talk with them and even if it's just you, monoe mono You're allowed to do that. And we were both just discussing that, that amazing as that is. And that's kind of what Capital Connection was about to get us burdened about praying for our country and maybe even setting up some of those meetings, maybe uh setting a little bit of fire underneath of these politicians. and making them accountable and done nothing wrong with that, not in a mean and an ugly way, but because you love them and lifting up and doing what God says to do here that you can do that. Capital Connection was all about that. Uh so again if you're I can't tell I'm pretty excited about um be having gotten to go there. But one by one I noticed this. The politicians that they would bring in, one was a Fox News liaison to uh to really Preachers and those that are evangelical, those that are claimed to Christianity, uh really well-known guy on Fox News Network. But you know, one by one, they said, Do you want to know how you can help our nation I thought, oh boy, here it goes. We're going to write letters. We're going to um stand, we're going to protest. He said, We need intercession. Like, oh. That's interesting. That's good. Amen. Next, you know. And then the next day, another politician got up and shared some wonderful ways we can get involved. And he said, but do you know what we need the most? Intercession. Wow. Starting to get the hint a little bit. God, I need to be interceding for other people I need to be interceding for our country. I have got a strong burden for this nation. It used to be a phenomenal juggernaut. for the cause of Christ. It used to be based on scriptural values on the Bible. And we're we're shifting away from that. But uh We can w shift this thing back around just to well God can. We just need to intercede on our country's behalf. But you know a goal concerning intercession is not just so that we can live peaceably and quiet, have a good life and live the American dream. It's not that just that, although that's not a bad idea to be able to uh minus the the American dream part to live peaceably and quiet and so forth. It's that's not that's a good thing, but it doesn't stop there really it boils down to also an obedience to God's command Note the phrase here in our passage, for this is the will of God. This is the will of God concerning you. that we begin praying for one another, giving of thanks. Um, for this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior. Did you notice that Or an another way to put it is this is the will of God. This is w uh this is what God likes to see. And no anytime you see that sort of phrase, this is good. and acceptable in the sight of God, you can mark it down. God is drawing attention to something I believe that's very important, that He believes is very important. He's saying, Christian, if you want a glimpse into my mind, If you want to know how I'm thinking, what I'm thinking, what I expect out of you, what works best, then you're going to take heed to this thing that I'm saying. This is good and acceptable. Here God is saying Intercede, you must. I command it. So it's a good idea to obey commands, okay? I've been uh reading some in the Old Testament, and I notice under the law, the law wasn't designed to save the children of Israel, was it? No, we know that Because no deeds will save an individual except what Jesus did on the cross. But I was noticing that God issued a lot of conditional promises to the children of Israel. That is, when you obey, it was like, ooh, everything was really nice and hunky-dory, but then you get to the other part of the chapter and I was like trying to read really fast. Oh wow, this is really grim. He's like, seven times seven the plagues will be multiplied unto you and you will die the death of deathiness. And all that was like, whoa, wow, God slow down a second. But what was he getting at is is he's encouraging just being obedient to what It commands God issues and God says, Hey, you need to be interceding. This is good. This is acceptable. How do I make it any more clear to you children? I love you, but man Get the idea. I want you to obey this command. I want to bless you. I I want to pour out these things and I'm tired of having to curse a land, curse a nation, just because you won't pray, get on your knees and intercede for a nation for a generation. for s those around you, for your family. Um, but I think also a third way a goal for this is really it helps us show or share God's love with other people. I caught myself doing this, saying all the time, Oh yeah, I'll pray for you. Uh you know, I'll I'll pray for Cain, uh Jacob's uh buddy there, that he'd like to uh oh yeah, I'll pray for it and And then I won't write it down. Uh I won't make a big deal out of that. And I we just throw that around, don't we? I'll I'll pray for you. And how many times do we not do it? You know, rather than just, I'll pray for you, it doesn't have to just be a cliche thing. It could uh to say to other people, it could be a catalyst in the life of others, a catalyst of change. Let me ask you another question. Who's going to intercede for the lost? They're not going to do it. They can't. They aren't even awakened to spiritual things. So if you don't, who is going to do it? Lost family members? Lost people around you? Young people? Some of your classmates? that need Jesus Christ. God expects every one of us to be interceding. Let me ask you this. If Jesus answered, and I need this as well, if Jesus answered all of your prayers from the last 30 days Would anything change in the world or just in your world? It gives a good idea of how important intercession is in our lives. Number three, third aspect, not just the gift of intercession, not just the goal of intercession, the giving of intercession. Here's what I find. This is going to be utterly practical, and I'm sorry that I even need to mention it this way. But do you realize when you intercede for people, it does require a little bit of time, thought, and effort. Okay? You gotta put a little time, thought, and effort. That's not rocket science. But that if it does mean that, hey, I've got to start carving out some time for this. You know, some base concludes the average Christian prays slightly over, and this is not me One minute a day. I mean it's not me making this up. That's slightly over one minute a day. And the average pastor prays around five minutes a day. Ouch. Let me say that if you desire to be an effective intercessor, you're going to need a little bit more time than this. Evaluate your prayer life. Now uh just because an individual prays a lot of great amount of time doesn't mean they're effective. and they're intercession. That's not what I'm saying at all. But I am saying intercession requires a little bit of time, thought, and effort. You gotta put it in there. Um Maybe you're thinking, I'm super busy, I've got stuff going on, we're talking about our society, and it's very busy, fast-paced today I don't have time like you do, Pastor, to just sit around and pray. But consider this. Another survey ent um estimates that an average person spends three hours a day watching television or other some other form of entertainment of their choosing. I just looked this up because we live in the day of the smartphone era. Do you know on average folks spend f over four hours, I think four hours and fifteen minutes on this smartphone cellular device. Uh there is of course nothing wrong with um some entertainment. We need that. I enjoy a good movie and then relaxing and that sort of thing. But um, could it not be said that the amount of time we allocate to prayer will be the true measure of our conception of its importance? Could not we go out on the limb and say that? I'm not beating you over the head because I would need to do the same thing for myself. But I'm not saying spend three hours or four hours uh in in prayer every day. But we could afford to do a little bit more. Realize that there is some giving of it in intercession, that you need to give a little bit of time, thought, and a little bit of energy, a little bit of effort to this. Um let me just throw out some practical ways that you can intercede and incorporate intercessory prayer. One thing I mentioned is Capital Connection has an interesting and I didn't bring it here with me to tonight, but they have a little brochure and I was looking through some information they gave us and one was plus. And I thought, oh, that's kind of interesting. I don't remember them really mentioning a whole lot about that. But uh what it was was um pray at lunch for the US. I thought, huh, that's not a bad idea. Every day at lunch Maybe I'll just take a little bit of time out and intercede for this great country that I live in. Maybe tonight you would say I could do that same thing. Hey, maybe the young people will get on fire. for God and get a hold of this intercessory prayer. And perhaps you can get something going at your school, which is not which isn't allowed, and you can pray together for your country. get together and say, this is something I want to do, maybe some teams that would get on fire for God and want God to do something in their nation, in their school, in their community. And then we get together and pray something like that's a good way to intercede. Um maybe in your evenings, uh during family devotion time, Jen and I will Um we try to pray for missionaries at least once a week. So we'll flip through some of those cards that we have and pray for their needs the best that we can remember. Um evenings before bed, Jen and I try to pray together where we would just focus on the needs of our family And specifically for our spouse. That's not those are not bad ideas at all. The point is we need to intercede. Whatever form, whatever shape that takes in your life. Listen, we need to understand God is stressing the importance of intercession here. It's got to be done, or our world is going to rapidly fall apart. And uh w it's not gonna look pretty. And and uh but on the other hand, we can see God intervene in all these things just by interceding for others. Uh thought, um when I say it it requires thought, that means you've got to find out some needs of your spouse, don't you? I mean it's husbands, you need to ask your wife, what can I pray for you about? Sometimes that will just uh Totally mellow things out. Sometimes that'll be uh exactly what the person needs. A wives, same thing for your husbands. Um you need to find out some things about your country. I'm not advocating watching Fox News 24-7, but you do need to find out some things about your country and what's going on. How can I be praying? Missionary, stay up to date. Get in contact with them, find out their information, find out what they need, maybe send them a letter, intercede on their behalf. It also requires effort, um, recognizing these things that that are a good idea um is is kind of a good place to get started, but we need to actually uh be willing to do something to put forth effort. That's where we need to make some changes in our life. I'll just say this way that indeed intercessory prayer is a gift that we have. It also requires some giving of time, thought, and effort. And I'd like to examine the last aspect of intercessory prayer. That's the glory of intercession. The glory of intercession. Do you realize that God is glorified when we pray? How do I know that? John fourteen, thirteen proves this. Jesus said, And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that my Father may be, here's the word, glorified. So it's not me saying it's what God is saying under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit that you will actually bring glory to God when he begins answering your prayers, when you begin interceding like you should when you say, God Intercession is important in my life and I need more of it. And I'm going to allocate these times. I want lunches to be for this and I want to intercede on this behalf. I want to get this started. I'm going to intercede on behalf. I'm not going to let a day go by. That I'm not interceding for somebody on Thursdays. I'm going to focus on the lost and the unsafe people that I know of around me. I'm going to intercede at all costs. You know, God is glorified in that. That is indeed a good thing. It's interesting to note that of some individuals, the Bible says, Jesus Christ, I love this, he marveled at their faith. This is the God of the universe, marveling at his creature's faith. Why? Or at least he took note of it. Notice some of these incidences. One was a centurion man, a gentile. Interceding for his servant. You could look it up Matthew 8. 13. He interceded for another. How about the friends of the Paralytic. Matthew 9, 2 through 6, you can look it up. They interceded for another. How about a mother for her child? You could look it up. Matthew 15, 28. She interceded for another. The man for his lunatic son, you can look it up Matthew 17, 14 through 21. He interceded for another These are men, women, groups that Jesus Christ marveled at their faith. He honored their faith. He was glorified. He took this opportunity to seize upon their intercessory purse, and he did something, and it made an impact in other people's lives. In each of these instances, Jesus was well pleased with the work of intercession for others. You know, I would just point this out as a side note, but another common denominator in all this, did you notice that they they really did it by uh the the uh the faith was accompanied, had accompanied their prayer. The writer of Hebrew says, of course we know without faith it is impossible to please him. Talking about God. So uh and that's why also verse eight it says that we need to pray, lifting up holy hands. There's nothing wrong with this, even in a Baptist Uh church is nothing wrong with saying, God, I need you to do something. That's just what my Bible says. If God so moves you, you need to pray whether privacy of your home or in public. Not making a show, but you just say, God, I need you to do something. Lifting up holy hands, and what does it say? Without wrath, not getting upset, not getting angry, not getting frustrated. Not spewing out things, not praying precatory prayers, but rather just praying and letting your heart interceding for other people. And also it says, without doubting. You know why? Because God wants to get in all over this. He gets so much glory from this. He just can't miss the opportunity. Now, I don't mean to be disrespectful. to God. His thoughts are not my thoughts and his ways not my ways. But I just want you to understand God is glorified. You want to know why prayer is so important? Intercessory prayer is so important? Because there is glory in it. God gets glory from that. And we just need to pray lifting up our hands. Not even doubting with uh men I think this men see your good works. Couldn't intercessory prayers be classified as a good work? He sees your uh good works and then men will glorify God which is in heaven. You'll receive wards that cast at Jesus' feet, interceding on others' behalves. Proverbs 19, 11, this came to mind. It is a man's glory to pass over a transgression. The word glory caught my mind, and I thought, is there a connection here? Does that mean when someone's doing something wrong, I just look the other way? No. I don't think that's what this verse is saying. I believe the first part of this verse gives us insight to the real application. Here's what the first part of the verse, the discretion of a man deferreth his anger. In other words, instead of getting angry about something or someone, why not pray instead? Mm-hmm. I know that one's a hard one, isn't it? We all want to just relish in it and stew over it, but here it's saying that it's a glory to overlook. the transgression of another human being, of someone that's wrong with you. That falls right in line with the New Testament, doesn't, where Jesus taught his disciples to pray for the enemies and those that despitefully use you Pray for your enemies. Heat coals the fire on their head. Jesus not only taught this, but he exemplified it. When dying on the cross, Jesus interceded for those crucifying him, didn't he? He said, Lord, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Wow. He really caught hold of this. He he really interceded. He showed us how it was to be done. We know at least one person who heard Jesus prayed that prayer when he was on the cross. And the Bible says he was so impacted that this man said, truly, this was the Son, this man was the Son of God. I believe that by that profession this man got saved. Why? Because Jesus, instead of getting upset, interceded for those that were around him. And it it's amazing. Intercession is powerful. Jen and I came to this conclusion together. Really not that long ago we formulated this law. It's sure hard to be mad at someone you're praying for. Or praying with. How about that? Is there someone that we're kind of frustrated with, something? that we're frustrated with. You can intercede on on these be on other people's behalf. By your willingness to pray for those who despitefully use you like Jesus taught in the Sermon on the Mount, uh is like he demonstrated on the cross of Calvary would be uh Impacting people. Maybe people would say, truly, this was the this is a child of God. You never really know. There's a lot of tremendous power in Just simply interceding for other people. And uh the Bible, uh God is clearly saying here in this passage that intercession is important. You know, you can read the whole word of God. Now I've just finished with this. You can read the whole word of God and it's literally teeming with intercession and the powerful effect this kind of prayer has on other people. If God makes such a big deal about intercession. Here's the closing question is why don't we? Is intercession really all that important? to us. Very good question. God, we thank you for your word. And I pray that you would make us men, women, a church of intercession. I pray, Lord, that Maybe you would so cement this idea of the importance of intercession in our lives that we would make practical choices like taking lunches to pray for our nation. Like taking evenings to pray for each other, taking a day to intercede for lost people around us. Maybe God is just a fresh look at a very old topic of intercessory prayer. Regardless, God, I pray that this ministry of intercession would become important to every single one of your children. This evening we ask in Christ's name. Before I conclude, let me ask the same thing as this morning a couple questions. Is there anybody here tonight that would uh I know this is a regular crowd, but would say Pastor Brad, before I can know God's going to even answer my prayer, I'm I need to trust Jesus Christ as my Savior. If you've never trusted Jesus Christ to save you from your sins, to give you everlasting life, would you just simply raise your hand? I'll see it. And you can put it back down. Nobody else is looking around. Anybody like that? Just wait a moment here. And let me say this that if maybe if you are that way and you're not 100% sure, why don't you come see somebody? There are a lot of folks in this room that would love to chit-chat with you. But let me ask question number two, child of God. I know God's raked me over the coals about this. I know that I need this. Is anybody else honest and just say, God, I need this. I need this need to be interceding more. And there's some things in my mind right now that I can do a little bit different. Maybe some time allocated. Wonderful. Wonderful. There are several hands. Good. Good, and I don't know how God is speaking to your heart in particular. That's not my business. But let me encourage you in the moments ahead and give you an opportunity to respond to God's word. Why don't we stand Yes, I miss Jennifer Place and just as God