A little bit warm but I also don't want to freeze anybody out of it. It seems like always the guys, the dudes are really warm and then the girls are like, What are you talking about I'm freezing, okay. But all right, well we'll get on with it. Our challenge tonight is found from Ephesians, Ephesians chapter six. It's the same chapter. that has to deal with the whole armor of God. And I do believe that it I'm on, right there, Brother Gene. Okay, I think we're on there, so you guys should be catching me. Ephesians chapter 6, it is a Dane-all, or a climax, if you're talking about literature, I think Ephesians chapter 6 talks about warfare in a picturesque way. that I don't see anywhere else in all the Word of God. Paul is one of my heroes and he tends to give us certain analogies like the body of Christ. That's why when you guys are missing and we go without a pink But he also talks about armor, spiritual armor, that we're putting on here. But that's not really where we're headed tonight, just kind of by way of introduction, all that was. But we're talking about prayer. Can anybody tell me by way of review what aspect of prayer or what type of prayer did we discuss last Sunday? Anybody remember? Confession, that's right. Okay, so this is a little quiz time. Oh, Pastor Leatherman never does that, all right? So I'm a little bit different, and that's okay. Um, but Yes, it was confession. Confession, I believe, is a type of prayer. And I believe the Bible does talk about particular types of prayer. Now I mentioned that I don't necessarily like to uh categorize when I go to God in prayer, okay God, now I'm moving on to my confession. portion. Now I'm moving not no no no I'm not saying that but I believe we can be benefited when we rightly divide or separate the Word of God and and examine these things in detail. So unless you think I'm kind of getting a little crazy with the the series, I don't think that you are, but 1 Timothy 2. 1 says this. I exhort therefore that first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving thanks. What is Paul saying there? He's saying that, hey, when it comes to your prayer life, there are all these aspects. We talked about confession, but there's also supplication, prayers, intercessions. giving thanks of God, giving of thanks to God, be made for all men. So tonight we're going to examine together scriptural supplication. Here's what I'd like to do. Ephesians chapter 6, if you found that. We're going to begin reading in verse number 10. Now I already said we're not talking about the armor of God this evening, but I'd like to at least get the context of how important the building up of this supplication, scriptural supplication is. Okay? So when we get to verse number 18, will be our text where we'll park it. tonight. Ephesians 6, 18, I would like for us to read that verse in unison, everybody together. Okay? So follow along. Ephesians chapter 6. Verse 10, Paul uses this picture language. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and be in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness and in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day. And having done all to stand, stand, therefore, having your loins gird about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of Peter. Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Verse 18 together, everybody. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit And watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints There it is, supplication, scriptural, supplication. Why does Paul conclude this whole armor of God, this whole spiritual warfare with you need to be praying with all Prayer and supplication. Let's ask God to bless our study this evening. Father in heaven, I pray sincerely that you would help me to preach clearly and passionately And I pray that even though prayer is one of the most preached on topics from pulpits across America, We would not treat this subject matter lightly or commonly. I ask, Lord, the way only you can That you would change our minds, reorient our thoughts, that we really indeed need this scriptural Supplication. I pray your saints would be changed from this very date on forward and be more and more people of prayer. Lord, only you can do this, and we thank you ahead of time for what you're going to do during In this hour, we ask in Christ's name, Amen. Alright, I wrote something down here. David Watson notes that, and these are several men that throughout history, not just me, not just dedicated, not just passionate people, but throughout history were very noted for their prayer. Like David Watson notes that prayer has always been a mark of the saints of God in every generation of the church. George Whitfield, who retired punctually at 10 p. m. every night, rose promptly at 4 o'clock a. m. in order to pray. John Wesley, starter of the Methodist, spent two hours daily in prayer and commonly said that God does nothing but an answer. To prayer. Martin Luther said, if I fail to spend two hours in prayer each morning, the devil gets the victory through that day. I have so much busyness, I cannot get on without spending three hours daily. in prayer. The leaders of the Cla uh Clampam, I think is how you say it, the Clafam sect, such as William Wil Wilberforce who initiated enormous social reforms in England habitually gave themselves to three hours of prayer each day. They organized Christians throughout the country to unite in special prayer before critical debates in Parliament. They knew and persistently proved the power of prayer. William Temple replied to his critics who regarded uh who regarded answer prayer as no more than coincidence. He said, when I pray, coincidences happen. When I don't, coincidences don't. The disciple's request is probably the one most needed for us today. Lord, teach us to pray. Maybe you feel like that that Even though you've been a saint of God for a long time, you just sort of need to say, boy, do I stand in need of learning really how to pray? I'm not sure about you, but I want to know That um how I'm supposed to pray. I want to know that. I'm sincere before God. God knows that. God knows when I'm studying this, Lord I really need to know how to pray. For one, I'm going to get up and preach and challenge folks how to do it. But I want to know that God hears and answers my prayer. I want to see God answer my prayer. I'm praying with the disciples. Lord Teach us to pray. I pray that you teach us to pray. And that's not a bad prayer. We'll not take time right now, but maybe right now in your mind you'd say, God I don't know what you have for me, but just teach me to pray. Let's examine together tonight very quickly three characteristics of Scriptural supplication. I'd have you first notice if you're going to scripturally supplicate, if that's a word, ask your request and made known unto God. Give these things over to God, live a life habitually like that. Well, what exactly is involved in that? How do I know I'm scripturally supplicating to God that I'm giving my request? Well that's a good question Number one, if you are scripturally supplicating, if you have scriptural supplication in your life, it will be dependent supplication. Dependent. That means totally reliant. That means like a child cannot fend for himself in the early years of his life, nor can a Christian in the entirety of his life. I read a story of a man who fell in hard times financially. After losing his six six figure dollar job, um everything started crumbling in this man's life. Next he lost his house, his cars, his entire way of living just sort of evaporated like smoke. One day his wife was going through some paperwork to avoid legal trouble when she came across a check. written out to her husband for a substantial amount. She yelled from the other room, Honey, is this check for real? The man came into the room, took one look at the check, and threw it down to the ground. I'm way too proud of a man to take money from my parents. Someone like me shouldn't have to depend on my parents. Those were his words. The check was enough money to cover their bills at least till they could get on their feet. And but his pride would not allow him to do it. Unfortunately, this true story It's also a true story in a lot of believers' lives that God promises to meet our needs, but simply put, like this Well is illustrated in this life. Sometimes we're just too proud or we're too busy and we hasten on without giving God these things. Simple request. We would never say it that way. God, I don't depend on you. I don't really need you because I've got this all under control. But I can guarantee you that's exactly the way a lot of Christians live today. That's why God's challenging me. How many times do I approach a life situation where instead of praying about it, I kind of try to finagle and figure it out my own way? Even pastors, even people in full-time ministry, even saints of God that have been there and done that for so long, it's a temptation you've got to admit for every one of us to instead of to be dependent on God who's ultimately caring more than anybody else in this world. It's like we've got to know, we've got to make it happen. We've got to do it ourselves. God only helps those who help themselves. And that is not a principle you're going to find in any of the Word of God. Scriptural supplication is first dependent Supplication. Dependent on what? Well, that's a good question. First of all, dependent on the promises of God. Promises of God, that's a good place to start. Prayer that pleases God recognizes this simple fact. I can't, he can There's a lot in your life you can't handle. You know, I like sometimes we we look at certain people in difficult situations and we say Oh, this is looking terrible. You know, I wonder if God is up in heaven saying, oh, this is wonderful. Maybe about time I get their attention. Maybe it's about time instead of this terrible situation going on in your life, God's got your attention. He says, why don't you recognize the simple fact? You can't, I can't. Be dependent on the promises of God. I wrote this down. 5,467 is probably a liberal amount, but is uh amount of promises some have counted in the Word of God. Do you know at least 300 of those pertain to prayer? That's amazing No other subject is so vastly promised over than the promises that we have in prayer. Many precious promises deal with not just any sort of prayer. but prayer about supplication. Let me recite some Matthew 21, 22, and all things whatsoever ye ask in faith, believing. ye shall receive. Matthew 7. 7. Ask and ye shall receive. Seek, ye shall find. Knock, it will be opened unto you. Philippians 4. 19. But my God, shall supply all your needs according to um uh his riches in Christ Jesus. Every one of your needs met. James 1, 6 and 7. Let him ask in faith. Nothing wavering. He that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven about with the wind and toss Don't let that man think that he'll receive anything in in answer to prayer. But we've got a lot of extraordinary promises we can depend on in prayer. So dependent Supplication, dependent on what? Dependent on the promises of God. I have to put this down, dependent on the person of God. Some of us need a little recalibration of who God really is Young people I find all the time need a little bit of understanding in a Bible picture that God isn't a Tyrant who when he takes control of your lives, that he's evil. No, he is a good heavenly father that will take care of your needs. But note that God's word and God's ways are at stake when it comes to your supplication. His very character is at stake when you pray to him. If he can't answer, if he doesn't do what he says, if he doesn't follow through, if he doesn't meet your needs, he's got a problem. But I guarantee you there are no problems with God. But you can depend on the person of God. God, the Bible tells us, I'm not making it up, delights in answering prayer. Matthew 7, 8 through 11 proves that. To him that knocketh it shall be open? Or what man is there of you of whom if his son asks bread, will ye give him a stone If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? I sort of think about it like this, Astra's not old enough necessarily to verbalize requests that he has. I sure wish he were, it'd be a lot easier. But you remember that stage. But when he's older and he he expresses to me, Daddy, I would like a little bit more food. I'm still hungry. You better believe I'm going to give him a little bit more food. Why? He needs that. Daddy, I ruined my pair of shoes that that I had that I was using. Would that be okay if I get it? You better believe I'm going to do what I can to meet my son's need. If he's verbalizing a need, a legitimate need that he has. Oh my goodness, I want to give that kid everything. You better believe I'm going to give him the things, very basic things that he needs. Folks, God is infinitely more a person That's why in the New Testament we call him Heavenly Father. You may not have a Father here on earth. I know a lot of people like that that are hurting because of that. And maybe you even do have a father on earth, but not really. You know what I'm talking about. You could depend on God, not only because of his promises. But because of his person. God is there for you. He already knows ahead of time uh what you have need of. Um we just need to ask him You have need, brother or sister in Christ, you can depend on God, the person of God, claim it. You can start off your prayer. God, I know you are a loving God. Fill in the blank. God loves to hear something like that from his children. When we uh when we begin to rely on uh someone had uh uh this was a said by a late Baptist preacher named A. C. Dixon He said, when we rely upon organization, we get what an organization can do. When we rely upon education, we get what education can do. When we rely upon eloquence, we get what eloquence can do. When we rely upon prayer, we get what God can do. And that's what God is saying. I want my children to depend on my promises and my very person, who I am. How about on the power of God? Is there anything too hard for God? That's what he asked Sarah That's what he asked the prophet Jeremiah. And I think he's asking you, child of God, is anything too hard for me? Why are you continuing to hold on to this situation? this problem, this need, this uh thing, the plight that you have in your life. Is there anything really too hard for me to do? There is no plight nor problem. That can overtake God's power and provision. I love that. For with man, it is impossible. With God, all things are possible. How about you? Are there bills? Are there broken relationships? Are there wayward children? Are there unsaved relatives? Are there shattered dreams and expectations? Is your marriage and shambles? Is anything really too hard for God? Dependent on God and His promises, His person, His power? How about in um in His purpose? I like this one Do you know the promise of Romans 8. 28? If you know it, say with me, for we know that all things work together for good to them who love God. And to them who are the called according to his purpose. Yeah, that's right. Do you know that the Romans 8 28, that promise not only applies to problems in our life, but prayers in our life. That means that God is busily um discerning and recognizing that I've got a purpose in answering prayer. And when I do it, you just need to hang on tight, child of God, that there's a reason I'm bringing you through this. There's a glory that I'm going to get. And you just need to sort of hang on and still give me this supplication. You need to be dependent on the purpose I have for your life. Just hold on. I'll go back to that illustration of my son Asher, that when he gets to that age where he asks. Dad, would that be okay if I have uh something and sure if it's a need, no questions asked. But if he says, Dad, would that be okay if uh perhaps maybe he goes to hang out with some individuals that I believe would distract him from his walk with God. Maybe in wisdom we would say, Esther, mommy and daddy say, no, you cannot do it do that. And he may not necessarily understand the purpose behind dad and mom's decision, but maybe eventually he hopefully eventually he will well. For a child of God, you need to trust. You need to depend on the purpose of God in prayer. Sometimes the answer is no But that's okay. Don't get frustrated at God. He's got something far better than you could ever concoct in your own life. That's my experience, and I believe that's what the Word of God teaches. So biblical scriptural supplication has to be dependent supplication. It also needs to be determined supplication. That means a certain level of determination. I know that sometimes we look at young people and you almost can see from their personality as a child, boy, they're starting to get a little bit of a hard head. They're really passionate. I'm starting to see that a little bit from Astrid, that he's just really hard-headed and that he gets that from his mom. I'm starting to see, no, I'm just he's a that I'm starting to see this hard headedness a little bit and I'm only teasing, I know where that comes from. Sin nature comes from the dad, right? So we can blame it on dad. Um but we we see that um take root in a child from a very early age But, you know, sometimes we look at that and say, oh, that rebellious, hard-headed child. You know, sometimes that's not necessarily a bad thing when we're bound and determined. If we take that and contour the way God wants it, and we say, God, I want to be a person of prayer. I want to depend on you. I want dependent supplication. How about determined supplication? I need God to do something in my life. I want revival. I want to live for God. I want my children to turn out. I want, I need this. God and and that sort of determination I find is sort of refreshing, even if sometimes it gets uh har uh maybe harbored in a different uh direction or a wrong direction. Boy, that sort of thing. I think God is saying, oh man, I would rather you hot or cold, but because you're lukewarm, oh, that's not very appetizing. And he's just saying, hey, I want you to be determined in your supplication. Turn over to Luke chapter 18. Luke chapter 18. This is where I'm thinking, where my mind goes to when I think about determined supplication. I think of how many have ever heard the term importunate? The importunate widow. And that's the parable. We often call it the importunate woman. And the idea of importunity is that you don't give up A lot of uh Webster's dictionary will link importunity with prayer and that they kind of go together. It means you don't just treat it nonchalantly. No, you're going after them. You're getting it. You're like a aggressive salesman. You're just you you know something needs to be done. And you're convinced of it, and you're just wanting to do business with God. That sort of determination. And where I get it from is a parable that Jesus Christ told. Luke 18, verse 1, he spake a parable, that's Jesus, unto them to this end. Men ought always to pray and not to faint. By the way, the implication is if you're not praying, you're fainting. Okay? Obvious, but just a little bit of reversal there. Saying there was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man, and there was a widow in that city. And she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. And he would not for a while. But afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubleth me I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? Verse 8. I tell you that he will avenge them speedily, nevertheless when the Son of Man cometh and he find um shall he find faith on the earth Do you see what he's connecting here? He's almost connecting the whole bundle together. Hey, faith in that pleases God and a child's life. That sort of is connected. Do you see that, Jesus? This is the saying here that if you're going to have prayer like this woman who may seem kind of like a nag type sort of figure, that if you're going to have prayer, that's what God wants you to do. He wants you to actually be step up and be stubborn and zealous about something and and mount up and say, boy, I really need this sort of thing. I just a little said little tidbit about this is that this this Parable alone teaches us a few things. Number one, God expects us to pray. But Pastor Brett, you already mentioned that God already knows. That's okay. He still expects us to pray. We know that from that The judge already knew the need, but he's saying it's still a good idea to pray. Number two, God knows as human beings we tend to quit. I've never found that so true than our day and age, our culture, my generation and the generations to follow. It's like we just want to quit at everything. Everything's so fast-paced. Technology is ruling over our society. Everything's about um fast-paced technology, speed, schedule-driven society. Maybe you're catching that, especially the older generation, you say, ooh, I can't even keep up with these things. Computers, cell phones, internet, movies, even our food. Um whether fast food or food we get from the store, it has to be fast or we don't like it. It's not effective, I don't want it, blah, I don't need that. God recognizes that really it's in human nature that we tend to give up. So he's It teaches us that God expects us to pray. God knows as human beings we tend to quit. He gets it. Number three, God rewards those who continue to pray. I envision a ship, uh to illustrate, I envision a ship that's setting out from harbor on a three-month journey. across the seas, but because of stormy, tumultuous seas, they decide to turn back to where they came from. only to realize they stopped one day's journey shy of their destination. You say, oh man, that story just annoys you. me. You know, it's it's kind of interesting that uh sometimes God is just looking to reward those who are importunate in their prayer. They're they're uh determined in their supplication. Number four, God isn't um giving us a lesson that we can have whatever we want just so long as we We pray long enough for it, okay? So you've got to realize that too. But a lot of things that this teaches us. But um however, when you and I pray in accordance with God's will, not only um uh not only dependent on him but determined as well. God is well pleased with that kind of supplication based on what God's Word says. Are you Christian, determined in your supplication? Do you even really expect God to deliver on his promises? Are you really even looking for it? Or does it kind of, oh wow, I think God answered prayer. I'm not sure, but maybe that that's the case. I want you to notice some things about determined uh Determined supplication before we move on. Consider this. We're talking about determined supplication, the difference between importunity and indifference. What do I mean by that? Importunate says, I know God can and must. Indifferent says, I'm not sure God can and must Maybe he will. Importunate prayer is full of passion and pleading, while indifferent prayer is full of passiveness and maybe just a simple please. Importunate prayer demands an answer. While indifferent prayer depends on happenstance. Prayers of importunity grab the very heart of God, while prayers of indifference grieve the heart of God. You see the difference there Importunity versus indifference. What a big difference. One pleases God. One God does not like EM bounds has said in his book series, which I highly recommend on prayer, importunity in prayer is the pressing of our desires upon God with urgency and perseverance. They're praying that tenacity and tension with which with neither relaxes nor ceases until the plea is heard and its cause is one Wow, there's a guy though who had written years ago, understands it. James 5, 16, the second part says the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availed much. Effectual fervent. That means hot. Boiling over, that means passionate, that means I'm not giving up. That means God, you've got to do something. When was the last time that you really felt like that? When was Maybe the last time a good question to ask us in in America Today Christianity today is when have we really stopped and prayed maybe much more than five minutes 10 minutes enough to get passionate with God and say, God, I am not only dependent on you in my supplication, I am determined. How about not only importunity versus indifference? How about insistent versus insolent? There's a slight little letter change, but a huge change in meaning. Insistent versus insolent. I remember, uh hark and back to my Starbucks days, um, that we were working at actually at a Starbucks in a mall. And I'll never forget one day the whole we were Starbucks was located in kind of a rotunda. So all the different parts of the mall, it was a huge mall would come together in a major part and it um so it was a real huge room. And all of a sudden it seemed like all activity and everything screeched to a halt and I thought something really tragic or s uh scary was going on and soon I caught eye what was going on. There was a little boy maybe three years old, four years old, who literally slapped his mom across the face. It was so loud people heard it And they were arguing back and forth. Turns out from what everybody can gather while they were just sitting there watching the whole situation in front of everybody, the son was upset that his mother had told him no. And um it right there in front of everybody. Can uh to me, that was a perfect example of absolute insolence I thought I would never allow a child to get away with something like that. And maybe you're thinking that same thing. That is a good example of insolence So you realize this. We don't turn to God and say, God, how dare you not answer my prayer? How dare you bring me through this. How dare you give me this in my life? How dare you we throw this tantrum uh in front of everybody in our life that shows this evidence that we're kind of Poutin and silver, that is insulin. But uh what God says is pleasing to me, what is determined prayer is actually insistent God doesn't mind that. The whole purpose of that parable that he wrote is men ought always to pray, not to faint. Laxity, this is Ian Bowen said this again, laxity, faint-heartedness, and patience, timidity will be fatal. to our prayers. Awaiting the onset of our importunity in insistence is the Father's heart, the Father's hand. And the Father's infinite power and the Father's infinite willingness to hear and give to his children. EM bounds in his books. on prayer. That's someone that got it. I didn't have the privilege of hearing John R. Rice while he was alive in person preach. Of course he was um involved with Sword of the Lord. Um and I I met several who have that said it was quite a privilege. But I have The whole premise of it was this, that prayer that does not expect an answer Prayer that goes on with no real thought about any answer, prayer that is not asking and receiving. Don't kid yourself, it really isn't prayer. Now that's what he said. The whole premise of this book was to get God's people understanding scriptural supplication is dependent prayer, um dependent supplication But it's also determined with a voracious energy. God must answer my prayer. Is that lacking in your life? I don't know about you, but that's why God spoke to my heart. Boy, God, I need this. But notice that Scriptural supplication is not only dependent, not only determined, but it's got to be discerning. It's got to be discerning supplication. And this is where we'll end. It's got to be discerning. You've got to be discerning in in your supplication. What do I mean by discerning in prayer? Well, first of all, you need to discern What actually is an appropriate prayer to pray? What do I mean by that? 1 John 5. 14. And this is the confidence that we ask that we have in him, that if we ask anything, here are the words, according to his will. He will then hear us and be able to answer that. But notice it's got to be according to his will. Sometimes things are that we ask for are outside of the will of God. What do I mean by that? Well James furthers that explanation. He says, ye have not the famous Words that we hear, ye have not, what? Because ye ask not, right? Well what else does he say? He says that ye ask and receive not because ye ask amiss. that you may consume it upon your lust. Mark it down. If you pray and it's not in accordance to the will of God And you pray perhaps amiss, uh, that you can consume it upon your lust, he goes on to use strong language. He says, Christians, you adulterers and adulteresses Don't you know that friendship with the God with this world is is enmity with me? You're a battle with me when you begin to pray and want things selfishly. And that you can consume it upon your lust, you can better believe, you better be discerning that God is just, He has no obligation to answer that whatsoever. There are no promises that that demand that God answers prayer that's contrary to his will. None whatsoever. You can if you find something like that in the Word of God, please show me afterwards because if for my study I've not found anything according to scriptural supplication. That means that um and we're discerning in our supplication that if it flies in the face against God, that God has to answer that whatsoever. Um He does not have to do that. So praying and asking amiss, perhaps you're praying something tonight that's been on your heart or you've really desired it. Um perhaps you feel somewhere that maybe you deserve that. God, I I really feel like that I need this. It could be that we're just asking amiss. I've noticed a lot of young people And that they're making big decisions in their life. And uh I'll just give my little illustration. Uh my my testimony is I was praying about Bible colleges. We went on a college trip like we're going to pretty soon. And coincidentally, we went to ambassador in Pensacola on this college trip, just like we're going to do this time too. And um I got to Ambassador and I thought, I'm not that impressed. I I don't think I r really like it all that much much. I didn't say that on the outside. And before the trip I had already kind of said, I think I want to go to PCC. That looks like a pretty cool place to be. So in my mind I was praying, uh telling everyone, oh, I'm praying for God's will. Bless God. I want to go wherever God wants me to go. I am that spiritual, you must understand. And really what I was telling God was, all right, Lord, here are your options and you better answer. You could either tell me, I'm going to PCC, or I'm going to go to PCC. There you go. Those are my terms And I I you know, I had to eventually fess up to the you know it was two and a half years. That proves that guys learned kind of slowly. Two and a half years I spent at college thinking every semester I started. I don't think I'm supposed to be here. PCC's got a bad place. Just wasn't for me. I wasn't discerning. I was wanting what I want and God to bless it. Just sitting there. God, I'm in the wrong place. What am I doing? What am I doing? And I I it hurt me badly because for two and a half years and I lost a ton of credits and And for someone that young, uh it feels like when I lose a year or two years in college and blowing it away and it's taking me it feels like oh I'm way behind and I'm gonna die soon and oh no now I'm not gonna be able to serve God the way I'm supposed to But those things were flooding my mind. You know what I was lacking was discerning supplication. I was asking God to bless something and and asking him to do something, and it was just contrary to his will and maybe we're asking God the same way. Maybe God's putting that up there to sort of get our attention. But you know what I find if we need to be discerning? in our supplication, I think we not only need to be discerning about appropriate prayers, I think God's people need to be discerning about answered prayer. I cannot tell you to my shame. I'm quick to give God tons of requests and let him know the things that I need and and sometimes I'm voisterous about it. I'm not gonna lie to you guys. I'm I tell God like it is God, I really need this and you better do something. And sometimes I get that kind of attitude and uh but you know, I do that far more unfortunately than I do to just stop and take a look. Wow God you answered I cannot tell you again to my shame how many times I've turned to Jen and said, Jen, I prayed about this. I think I I didn't see it before. And I almost had to say, God, I'm sorry. I've been this rotten attitude, sometimes for weeks, and I just said, Jen God did answer my prayer, what have I done? And we need discernment in our supplication. Scriptural supplication is discernment that God did answer prayer. Um I I think back to my neighborhood Bible time days and I got to go on one week, it was the first week of my first year, and I thought, whoa, this is so cool, all neat experiences, but I got to go on this military base. and check out all sorts of their equipment. We got to fly in a Panche helicopter simulator. We got to practice different maneuvers that these guys that are actually flying, these multi-million dollar piece of equipment uh get to do and train on and I was getting to do all that. And then we were in this particular room and there was all this fancy equipment And he said, you know, don't touch it, just be careful with it. You can ask or whatever, that sort of thing. Um but uh I saw these pair of goggles, kind of fancy looking, and asked what they were used for. The guy giving us the tour said, oh, these are infrared goggles. They cost about $15,000 a pair. At first I wanted to try them but when I heard the price tag I was kind of a little hesitant. But then he offered, so I you know, of course, being a college student I couldn't pass up on that and So but when I first tried them on, they really actually didn't seem I put them over my head and they didn't really seem that different. I mean everything was normal. They kind of had lenses and a lot of bulkiness off to the side. But then he um pressed a little bit of a switch, and all of a sudden, everything went really dark. And I just saw these little red beams of light pop up all around me. Now, even though we were in a small little room with this fancy military equipment, I could see every living soul. And that entire building, that whole warehouse. Why? What the the goggles made the difference. When I began to see infrared, I it picked up on these things You know, I think about the Christian life. Maybe we need to start putting some goggles on, some spiritual goggles, and open our eyes. How is God answering prayer in your life? What is he doing? God, give me discerning supplication where I can see what you're doing in my life. I can see the way you're answering. I can see why sometimes you say yes, sometimes you say no. Sometimes you just tell me to wait. God forgive me. I want to see infrared. I want to see things from your perspective. I want to see to see and be discerning. You answering prayer. You know the fact of the matter is, God does kind of have three options in his in his hands, so to speak. If we could sort of limit God that way, of course he's not we understand But sometimes God does say, yes, child of God, you can have this thing. This is for you. I want you to have it. Thank you for asking me, just like a father would ask his son, or his son would ask his father, rather. Sometimes God says no. But I can guarantee you it's for your good. Sometimes he just tells us, wait, we know all these things, but we still allow it to get us frustrated. And worked up. Hey, be discerning, not only what is appropriate prayer, but answer prayer when God is actually at work there. You know, the sad truth for many Christians is that Indeed, you have not, because you asked not. I'll conclude with this. Perhaps you've heard the tale of Mr. Jones who died and went to heaven. If you have, um this is a pretty popular story, it's make-believe, but that's okay. He was being escorted around the Pearlie City and Pearlie Gates. by Peter um through the pearly gates and up and down the streets of gold and on his way Peter showed him his mansion and it was way better than he could even have imagined. But as they strolled along He saw a rather large building with no windows and only one door. Almost like a warehouse. It looked as though it didn't belong, so he asked Peter if they could go in there next. Peter said, uh Uh oh no, I I don't think you're gonna want to see that. Mr. Jones said, It's an heaven, of course I do. Upon entering the door, Mr. Jones noticed one large room with shelves Towering way high and all full of what seemed to be an innumerable number of white boxes. In fact, each section was sorted by names. So he quickly, in his excitement, raced and found one with his name on, and before he could even ask Peter, he ripped it open, and as he tore the lid off, he thought, Wow. This is gonna be great. This thing is absolutely huge. Thanks, God. Are all these wonderful things mine now that I've reached heaven? He asked Peter. Peter said, No. I'm afraid not. These are all the blessings God wanted to give you while you were alive on earth, but which you never received. Without hesitation, Mr. Jones asked, why did I not receive all these wonderful blessings and things? It's quite simple, Peter said. You never asked. Now it's a sad shame that for a lot of Christians, what are we really missing out? on because we don't ask. Can I ask a question? Not just how is your prayer life? How is your supplication? In your supplication, are you dependent? Are you determined? And then are you discerning? And your supplication. Father in heaven, again, we are so humbled by your word and thankful for all the instruction that you give us. I pray as simply as I can with the disciples because I need it. Lord, please teach me to pray. Make my life a prayerful life, even if not much else can be said about my testimony. That people could point to the fact that Pastor Brett prayed. Brett Yates was a man of prayer. I pray also for your saints of God. Not in a fat flashy or showy way, but would be willing to ground their supplication in Scripture, in the Word of God, and maybe even make changes, maybe even make an entire lifestyle choice, uh thinking choice, so that we become men and women of prayer and and supplicating to you that The way that we should. God, I pray that you do a mighty work we ask. In Christ's name with your eyes closed, head bowed. Still let me ask question number one. I feel led that I still need to ask, even in a crowd faithful like this. Is anybody here that does not know Christ as Savior? If I were to ask you this way, sir, ma'am, if you were to die today, do you know for sure you're I your way to heaven. If you cannot say absolutely from the Word of God yes, can is would it be possible that I could pray for you? Would you raise your hand if that's Okay, I I did not think so. Let me ask question number two, and this is the audience really I've been preaching to. Child of God, would you be willing to say, God, I want to be scriptural. Am I so application, maybe even more than I am now. Pastor Brad God, I needed this challenge tonight. If that's you, would you slip your hand up? Very good. Very good. Appreciate that. Hands all over the building. Here's what I'd encourage you to do. Again, you may choose to come forward, that's fine. Or even sit where you're at while everyone else is standing and And just waiting, that's fine. But I'd encourage you, if God spoke to your heart, I'm not talking about just a slight change. I'm talking about a dramatical change. change when we shift our life from depending on ourselves to more depending on God and more passionate in our prayer, more determined and even discerning in our prayer. That's kind of a big change, I feel, and I'm asking God to do that. Yeah from from this day forward. Here's what I'd encourage you to do. In a moment I'll I'll pray. Miss Jennifer will play, and then I'd encourage you to do business with Jennifer. God. Dear Lord, I pray with those that raise their hand that you'd make us men and women of prayer and that we would be in thank you. scriptural in our supplication and maybe just folks simply praying, Lord, teach us to pray. So I pray with these folks and I I'd ask also that you meet with them as they seek to do business. with the with you we ask in Christ's name. Amen. Let's stand and again