Romans chapter one, I'd like for us to read together in unison verse number sixteen. It's our memory verse for Meg, so I hope you're working on this, and uh maybe many of you already have this verse committed to memory It's a good one. Let's read it together. We're going to use that for our text this morning. Verse 16, Romans 1. Y'all got it there ready here to go. All together. Say it with me. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For I am not ashamed. Of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm entitled the message, Unashamed. Unashamed. Let's pray together. Father, I ask your blessing now on our message this morning, the study of your word. I ask that you would speak to our hearts. And Lord, I'm asking, myself included, that you would raise up an army of believers. Who are completely dedicated to you and unashamed of the gospel of Christ. Lord, this whole world needs our witness And I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. Pray, Lord, you would speak through me and challenge us and provoke us to go forward in our Christian life, to step out in faith, in dedication to the Lord Jesus, and the declaration of the gospel of Jesus So again, fill me with your Spirit. Have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. If I was stranded on an island somewhere And they took me and they banished me to an island. Well, first of all, I would hope it would be in the Caribbean But if somebody was going to banish me to an island and I was allowed to have one book of the Bible that I could have with me there on that island, I couldn't have a whole Bible, I couldn't have any other books But I could have one book from the Bible. I would choose the book of Romans. I would choose the book of Romans. I believe the book of Romans. If I could, if I had the ability, if I had the authority to require and make every person in the world read one book, If I could somehow was granted universal authority and could dictate to every man, woman, and child that they had to read one book. Anybody want to guess what book I would pick? Book of Romans. The book of Romans. The book of Romans, I believe, is one of the most profound books ever written. Of course, it's given by inspiration of God, penned by the Apostle Paul. I think, now all scripture, now don't misunderstand what I'm saying, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. All scripture is profitable. I believe every Christian at some point in their life ought to read the entire Bible at least once. Every book, Old Testament, New Testament. But I think there is one book in the Bible that is tremendously significant, and that is the book of Romans. The book of Romans. I think it's the greatest book perhaps ever written, penned, again, given by inspiration of God in this case. The book of Romans begins what the section of the New Testament that we call the Epistles. You have the Gospels, and you have Acts as a historical book, a historical record. Then you have Romans begins a section That is called the epistles. The word epistle simply means this. If you'll notice up there at the top of your chapter number one, your Bible probably says the epistle of Paul the Apostle. How many people have that title there? The Epistle. The word epistle simply means this, a letter. And this begins, this is the first of a number of letters that Paul wrote under the inspiration of God. To various churches and individuals that God led him to write to. And of course they're inspired, preserved for us in God's Word. This begins that section It is the longest of all the epistles or letters that Paul wrote. Just if you like trivial information, there is 7,111 words In the book of Romans, in this epistle of Romans, more than any other epistle that he wrote. So it's the longest, just a little background of the book of Romans here I was reading about Romans and what other people said and some commentaries, and one fellow made a statement that caught my attention. He said that Romans is the cathedral of the Christian faith. I like that statement. It's the cathedral of the Christian faith. In other words, it gives the most thorough teaching. on what Christianity really is. You want to know what Christians believe? You know what Christianity is and its very core doctrines? Study the book of Romans Book of Romans tells us, gives uh, I believe the most thorough teaching on the nature of sin. Now all through the Bible we see sin all the way back Genesis right from the get-go, Adam and Eve disobeyed God, and through one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin. So death passed upon all men And so we see the evidence, we see the truth, the hard, tragic reality, that mankind is a fallen race. We have sinned against our God. And Romans brings that out and gives the most thorough teaching about the nature of mankind, the sinful nature of mankind. Romans chapter 1 Later on, after you get past our text here, he begins to talk about the downfall, what I call the de evolution of mankind as we uh degenerate into perversity and wickedness in on scales that are hard to imagine. So Romans is a cathedral of Christianity, the most thorough teaching on what Christianity is at its core doctrine, the most thorough teaching on the sinfulness of man and what that means and how it impacts. Our relationship and our standing before God, the fact that we're sinners. Romans is the cathedral of Christianity in that it gives some of the most thorough teaching on what salvation is. I tell you, you go to ten different churches, ask ten different preachers what is salvation, you'll probably get about ten different answers Listen, I am not concerned about what man says salvation is. I want to know what God says salvation is. Man's salvation, man's theory and formulas and ideas about salvation never kept one soul out of hell, but God's salvation will keep every soul out of hell that will receive it. So Romans is an incredibly important book. Romans is a profound and significant book of the Bible. In that it gives some of the most thorough teaching on Christian and its basic doctrines, on sinfulness of man. And on the salvation of a soul. And by the way, let me throw this out. There is nothing more important in this world than the salvation of an individual soul. I I wish I wish I wish I had the author uh I wish I had a lot of things. But um I wish I had the authority to require every media outlet, every website, every social media um thing. Um I wish I had authority to put all that. They ought to put God's plan of salvation on every program, every day, all day long, day and night. This world needs the message of salvation. And so Romans, what a book. I highly recommend it. If you were going to become an expert, if you were going to study, you say, I just want to commit myself to study one book of the Bible, I'd recommend the book of Romans. That's profound. It's significant. I believe one of the greatest ever written. The book of Romans was penned by the Apostle Paul, as we mentioned Now God's the author. Amen? We understand that, right? The Bible is God's word. He's the author, and he used individuals to record and pen down his word. So God used Paul to pen the book of Romans. And interesting, for whatever it's worth, Paul penned this letter to the church up in Rome from the church in Corinth when he was there in Corinth. Now the church at Corinth had its issues The church at Corinth there had s a lot of serious problems and Paul was working with them, helping that church get up and running. And in s and while he was there He wrote this letter to the church up in Rome. Now we do not have any indication that Paul ever uh uh that Paul was a part of starting that church there in Rome. We'll talk about that here in a little bit But he he he had a relationship with him, he had interacted with him, and he sent this letter. Now I want to show you something that to me I thought was very interesting. Go to Romans chapter 16. Now we're gonna we're gonna pick up back here it in chapter 1. But come to the end of the book of Romans, chapter 16, and notice verse 1 and 2. Just a little background here before we Get into this, Romans chapter 16. And here Paul mentions this dear lady. Verse 1, chapter 16, I commend unto you Phoebe. I circled that gal's name. This gal is something else. This lady is something else. I commend. Now Paul's commending her. That's that's something. That's significant. Paul didn't commend a lot of people. But he did this lady. I commend unto you, Phoebe, our sister. Now look at how he describes her, which is a servant of the church, which is at Crinthia. Now look what he tells him, that ye receive her in the Lord as becometh saints. He said, you treat her with respect. You receive her as a brother, as a sister in Christ. You receive her as a saint of God. You receive her in the Lord as becometh saints. And that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you. For she hath been a securer of many. That word secure means a helper, practical helper. She has helped a lot of people. Secure of many and of myself also. Now, you say, what in the world does that have to do with anything? Notice he says in verse 2 that you receive her. What does that imply? If he's telling them you receive her, that means she's what? She is She's coming there, she's showing up there, she's arriving. And he saying when she gets there, they get this letter out I I this is what I'm this is what I'm trying to say. I believe God used this girl Phoebe to deliver the letter from Corinth Up to the church at Rome. Now that's a long way. That's probably a couple months traveling. They're going by land, by sea. She's walking. She's in shit. Somehow she's getting up there And God used this dear, godly, faithful woman of integrity to deliver. Now think about this, that is the very Word of God initially being delivered to the church at Rome. And I thought, and I read that and I saw that and noticed that, I thought, you know what? Thank God for the godly women in our church. And a lot of times over the years, dear ladies that serve the Lord and are faithful and godly, they get overlooked. I'm telling you, our church would be nothing without the dear ladies of our church. Amen or not. And so don't ever, don't, hey, fellas, don't you ever minimize or look down or now we joke around a little bit, but uh don't you ever minimize or look down or uh um uh understate the importance of God's women in the church. God used this dear lady to bring that up there. So it was penned by Paul, delivered apparently by Phoebe to the church at Rome. I believe chapter 1, if you would come back there with me, verse 16 and 17 are what I would consider the theme of the book of Romans. It's kind of a 16 and 17 is kind of a concise summary of the book. Again, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God into salvation. To everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For therein is the righteousness of God in the gospel Is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith as it is written? Now here's the key verse of the whole book, I believe. The just Shall live by what? By faith. You say, what's that mean? I'll just simplify it for you. It means this: God wants you to trust him. God wants you every aspect of your life, every area of life, He wants us to trust Him. You live by faith. You trust what I say, you claim my promises, you heed my warnings, you follow my instructions, trust me! That's what God is saying. The message of the book of Romans, and really the whole Bible, is simply this: that God has provided salvation for mankind. And that we need to receive that by faith and then trust God as we live for Him. Amen? What a great book. What a great statement. The book of Romans. Now, I'd recommend you underscore that phrase there in verse 17. The just shall live by faith. It's probably one of the primary doctrines of Scripture, to learn to live by faith, to trust God, and follow his instructions Now, that's the book of Romans. And again, let me just by way of background here a little bit. What about the church at Rome that he's writing to? What's the condition? What are the circumstances? that Paul is writing this profound letter, a lengthy letter, to the church at cr uh at Rome. Well, we don't know a whole lot about the church at Rome, but in studying the book of Romans, we found that there's a pretty strong mix. Of both Jews and Gentiles. Jews and Gentiles working together, one body, one in Christ, brothers and sisters in the Lord Now, what do we know? Now, if you've been around church very much at all, you know this. What do we know about the relationship outside of Christ of Jews and Gentiles? It's kind of what Kind of messed up. It's kind of rocky. In fact, it's worse than that. It's downright violent. Jews and Gentiles before the gospel at the time of this writing, outside of Christ They were bitter enemies. The Jews despised the Gentiles. In fact, they would not even touch the uh uh the silverware or anything if it was a Gentile Years ago, my mom, uh as long as I can remember, my mom worked as uh part-time jobs in the evening uh cleaning houses, uh, some of the ladies here around the lake Back home my mom did for very wealthy people she would clean their houses of the evenings or during a day when she wasn't working the other jobs And uh she worked, she cleaned house for a dear Jewish family, and they were very kind, they were very gracious, very good to my mom, and and uh they became friends, but they were pretty devout Jews And there was certain silverware, and there were certain pots and pants and certain issues, certain items that my mom was not allowed to touch My mother was a Gentile, and she did not handle or touch these certain items and utensils that they had. That was the mentality Of the Jews and Gentiles at the time. But in the church at Rome, all that was gone. All that thinking, that hatred, that bitterness, that self-righteousness, that pride. was all put aside and Jew and Gentile one in Christ. I tell you, that's one of the beautiful things about salvation It breaks down barriers. It breaks down prejudices. It breaks down pride And when a person trusts Jesus Christ, it doesn't matter what their nationality is, doesn't matter what their background was, doesn't matter what the color of their skin is, doesn't matter what the color of their hair is, doesn Doesn't matter if they even have hair We're one in Christ. Amen? We're one in Christ. What a beautiful, what a beautiful church. They had there when Jews and Gentiles could get together and sing praises to God. I'm grateful for our church I thought over the years we've had times where we had folks sitting on one side one pew of folks sitting there that barely had enough money to get by week by week, just trusting God. And on that same pew or somewhere near was somebody that was very, very wealthy, had no problems at all, and they loved each other, and they sang praises together, and they were one in Christ. People that were educated and folks not quite so educated, people that were highly known and very well known in the community, and others that very few people knew, but yet in Christ We can glorify God and we can love each other and we can serve God together and put all those differences aside. And all God's people said, Amen. And that's the church at Rome Jews and Gentiles. One in Christ. One in Christ. I don't believe there's such a thing. You hear these things, and I I'm not trying to get overboard on this. But I don't think there's such a thing as a white church or a black church or a Korean church or an Indian church or a uh what else? Uh Filipino church. I think there's one church. It's the Church of Jesus Christ. And God's people in Christ. one together. And so the church at Rome, there was a strong mix of Jews and Gentiles. It's unclear who started the church. We don't have any record really of who came up and got that thing going. Of course the Catholic Church wants us to suggest to us that Peter was the founder of the church at Rome and he was the first Pope The only problem with that, there's no biblical or even historical support or evidence that Peter even ever went to Rome. Uh some legends within the Catholic Church is about the only place you come up with that. So we don't know really who it was that started it. It's not important if it was God would let us know There was a contemporary Roman historian at the time, was writing a history of Rome, and in his record of the history of Rome, He mentioned the Christian church at Rome. Now, this was at the time Paul's writing this letter. This is outside of biblical record. As a historian is writing this, and we have his writings And he mentions this church of believers of the way, followers of Jesus Christ. And he makes this statement about it. He said it was an immense church. Now I don't know what he meant by immense as far as numbers are go, but if you have a Roman historian, an unbeliever, just given a history of the s of the city of Rome at the time, and he says this body of believers was immense. That tells me it was probably what? Immense. It was probably a large church. In fact, it was probably a huge, significant number of believers In that church at Rome. It was a famous church, if you would. Look with me at chapter 1 and verse number 8. Notice what Paul says about it. He says, First I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all. Now look what he says here. That your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. Wow, you talk about a famous church. Paul said the whole world knows about your faith, the known world at that time. Everybody had heard of it. And so Paul's writing to this church. It's a profound church. It's a significant church. It's a strong church. You study the book of Romans, you find no mention of doctrinal error in the church. Apparently they had their doctrinally, they had their ducks in a row. They had things straight. Um and so uh Uh there is no doctrinal error that we can tell in the church. There was no problem in the leadership of the church. He doesn't reference Any corrections or instructions for the pastors or deacons or any of that? Some of the other epistles he does, but not in the book of Romans. Not in the book of Romans And so there's no doctrinal errors. Apparently the church was good. Its organization was functioning. The leadership was in place. Now let's come to our text here. He says, Paul says to this church in Rome, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. I'm not ashamed. Now I want you to think with me for a moment. Everybody with me? Everybody okay? Think with me for a moment. Here's the Apostle Paul. What do we know about the Apostle Paul? Well, we know up till not too long before this, Paul was a fire-breathing, self-righteous, holier than thou Pharisee. And now, he publicly says to the large, perhaps the largest church in the world at that time. In the Word of God, he writes and says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. Just a few years before, he was putting people in prison for preaching the gospel of Christ. Not long before this, he was killing people, having people killed because they were preaching the gospel. He hated Christ and he hated the church. And he hated God's people. But something happened in the heart and mind of the Apostle Paul. He got saved. He got saved. He came in contact with the Lord Jesus Christ. And he heard the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And God got a hold of him, and he believed that Jesus was the Son of God, and that Jesus Christ had died for him personally, buried, and rose again, and he put his faith in Christ. And his entire life was completely transformed. He came from hating the gospel to saying, I'm not ashamed of the gospel. What in the world happened? How does somebody become so transformed in their mentality, in their attitude, in their heart, in their nature, in their life? That can go from hating Christ, hating the gospel, hating the people of God, to saying publicly, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ Well, I think there's several things about Paul that will tell us why he was unashamed of the gospel of Christ. He went from, I put it this way, he went from being a self-righteous, holier than thou Pharisee To a humble yet powerful witness for Christ. The old boy got saved. Now let me ask you a question. Does everybody that get saved Become unashamed of the gospel. Think with me. Do you ever know some Christians that were timid, a little bit ashamed, afraid to speak up for the Lord Jesus Christ? Anybody ever know anybody like that? Anybody come across someone? Yeah, they're saved, born again. Let's bring it home. Any of us here, since we've trusted Christ, any of us here? Ever been a little bit timid? A little bit hesitant. Let me put it this way. A little bit ashamed? Come out and out for Christ Stand up for Christ. Oh, uh say I I I can't take my Bible to work. Those guys will think I'm crazy. What about a Christian that's afraid to bow their head just over lunch, have a hot dog at lunch, afraid to bow their head and thank the Lord Jesus Christ? You know what that? It's a shame. Wife and I got married. I mean people are glad Kathy and I got married. Yeah, me too. We got married on February fourteenth, nineteen eighty-seven. Smartest thing I ever did. Got married on Valentine's Day. I never forget our anniversary. You've got reminders everywhere. And uh we got married on Saturday. We went up to uh we went up to Pigeon Forge for our honeymoon. Oh, it was gonna be great. Uh we uh we re I went up there about a month or two ahead of time and I reserved a room. I'm telling you it was great. Uh it had a big fireplace in the moat. This is like honeymoon Capital of the world type thing, and uh had a big fireplace, had a heart shaped gazoozi uh Suzuki See, you got me nervous. I mean it was something else. And uh so we got married, we drove an hour or so up from Chattanooga, got up there, and uh went in to check in and said, uh, this is my new bride, Kathy, we gotta a honeymoon suede available and she looks what's your name? Leatherman. And she's flipping around. And I said, Is there a problem? She goes, Well, uh, I think we gave your room away. Uh there was a murder in Pigeon Forge that night. No, there wasn't. So there was nothing we could do. They said, We're book full, it's Valentine's. I said, I was here a month ago, reserved it and and showed her the paperwork. She goes, I'm sorry, we messed up. There's nothing. We have nothing So we said, well well, so we hopped out in the interstate, I think it was 81 or whatever, going up there, and uh we drove up for a while and there was a motel six. He says, who cares? And um We went in there and uh Sunday morning and uh we got up get ready for church. You say, Preacher, you went to church on your honeymoon? Yeah. Yeah. And we're sitting there at the breakfast and um we're sitting there at breakfast and we said, All right, we got our little buffet thing, we sat down, we held hands and I prayed, thank the Lord for my new wife. for our new lives together. Thank you for this food. We got done. A fella sitting across the little lobby there came over and said, excuse me. He said, I don't mean to interrupt. He said, but um I noticed you bowed your head and prayed, young couple. Young couple. He said, and um he said, you bowed your head and prayed. And he says, I just want to come over and tell you I respect that. You hardly see that anymore today. Isn't that something? Unashamed. And I'm not trying to boast myself. It's just a simple little thing. But the fact that that would stand out tells me we had a problem in Christianity of people ashamed, bow their heads and thank God for food By the way, we finished up our meal. Guess who comes walking in the lobby? My mom. She had they just stopped at a random motel on their way home from the wedding, and lo and behold, it was the same one they were She goes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't know This wasn't even in my notes. This uh But here's the thing. Paul, the believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, who had such a proud, hateful background, got saved. And his life was so transformed, now he says, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. God, give us some Christians in our day that are unashamed of the gospel of Christ. Now, I have four things real quickly I want to give you that I noticed from the Apostle Paul that enabled him to say, I am not ashamed. Number one, let me give it to you real quickly. First of all, he believed in the simplicity of prayer. The simplicity of prayer. For Paul, prayer was not a complicated thing. Look with me, if you would, at verse 9 in Romans 1. He said, For God is my witness. whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers. Paul understood the simplicity of prayer. It wasn't complicated for Paul. Praying wasn't some big production that Paul went on. Listen, I'm not impressed with somebody get up, use fancy words. And put on this big oratorical prayer. Listen, that's not what brings the power of God. It's a simple heart hungering for God's presence and for God to do something in my life. That's what brings answers to prayers. It wasn't some complicated thing. It wasn't some big oratorical speech that Paul pressed God with. Sometimes the most effective prayers, listen, sometimes the most effective prayers are simply a little cry, God, help me. God help me to be a witness. Help me in this storm. I think sometimes the quietest little groan in a heart is heard in heaven better than uh more so than the big fancy prayers that sometimes religious folk like to put on Paul, the simplicity of his prayers. It put uh for Paul prayer put him in contact with an omnipotent God. I want to remind you, our God is all powerful. How many people here believe in God? Come on. Believe in God Our God is all powerful. There is no limit to his power. There is no restriction on his power. Mary, mother of Jesus, when she found she was with child, she'd never been with a man. She was a virgin. How can this be? God answered and said, With man, this is impossible. Listen to this. But with God, all things are possible. Paul understood that. Just simply getting a hold of an all-powerful God enable him to be unashamed of the gospel. Take your Bible real quickly, if you would, and turn with me to Ephesians. Now keep your place here. Ephesians chapter number three. Ephesians three. Now I want you to notice verse number 20 with me. Now, if you don't have this underscored in your Bible, I encourage you to do so. Ephesians chapter 3 and verse number 20. Paul is praying for the church there at Ephesus And he says this in his prayer. He says, now unto him that is able, speaking of God, unto him, God that is able, that word able means to be possible. It is possible. Now, unto him that is able, look at this, to do exceedingly abundantly above All that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us. Paul said, listen, God can do, God can answer your prayers in ways you never dreamed of. God can solve our problems. God can meet our needs. He can direct us in ways we never dreamed of. Never underestimate the power of prayer. Because it puts us in contact with an all-powerful God. Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. How can you say? How come you're not ashamed, Paul? He goes, I know what it means to pray to an all-powerful God. I'm in contact with an all-powerful God. I have no reason to be fearful to speak up for God. The simplicity of prayer Jeremiah chapter 33 and verse 3. It's God's phone number. It says this: Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things. Which thou knowest not. What a promise of God. Say, preacher, I'm just a little bit in tim I'm just a little timid about speaking up for the Lord. Why? You pray to an all-powerful God and ask him to help you beyond ashamed of the gospel of Christ. So Paul understood the simplicity of prayer. When we consider the omnipotence of God. The all power of God. Our prayers bring hope. Our prayers bring boldness. New Testament Church understood the importance of simply praying to God We don't have time. I spend too much time talking about my wedding. But in Acts chapter 4, you have the church is facing intense persecution. They're throwing people in prison. They're beheading believers, leadership in the church. They're beheading them. They're torturing and beating. Followers of Christ for no other reason than that they're preaching the gospel, they're unashamed of the gospel. And you read Acts chapter 4 very carefully, you'll find that New Testament church, they went to God in prayer When they needed boldness, when they needed courage, when they needed to be unashamed of the gospel in the face of intense persecution, the very first thing they did So they went to God and said, God, grant unto thy servants that with all boldness we may speak the word of God as we ought. Simple prayer, simple prayer. You know what I believe our Bible preaching churches need in America and no doubt around the world? We need a little bit of boldness in our churches. To speak up for the Lord Jesus Christ, to declare the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. You say this old world hates us. This old world is so wicked This old world is becoming violent and hateful and angry. I know we need more boldness to speak out the gospel of Christ. Amen or not? So Paul understood the simplicity of prayer. The simplicity of prayer. I was in back in 1985. I was traveling, doing a Bible time rally in Grand Junction, Colorado. Beautiful. I loved it out there. And we were in a church. We got there, showed up Saturday, I'd never been there before, didn't know anybody. And um I found out it wasn't exactly my stripe of church. They were a little bit liberal in some ways. contemporary in some ways and and uh we got in there and uh we got the thing started on Monday night. It was my time to preach. I was going to preach to the teens on Monday night. Um I was a little timid. This is my first time out doing anything like this. The church wasn't exactly on board where we were as far as what they believed about the Bible and some things. And my partner and I, we said, uh, we need to pray. We need to pray. So we stayed up late Sunday night. We prayed, God, send revival. God, give us your power. God, do a work in this church. It's cold. They're liberal in a lot of ways. And Lord, we just need you to do something. Sun Monday morning, we got up early. We prayed. Finally, it's my turn to preach. I got up there and I was going to preach on hell I pray, God, fill me with your Holy Spirit. Oh God, give me boldness. Help me not to be ashamed or timid, but I'm going to preach your word as the Bible says. I tell you I got up there and started preaching, and this is the first time in my life I ever became consciously aware That I was filled with the Holy Spirit of God. I'd never really become aware of that before. And I'm preaching my heart out, and the Spirit of God has taken over And it was kind of like, and this, I don't mean to be sensational or be weird, but while I was preaching, I was thinking, God's doing something. This isn't me. I don't even I'm trying to figure out what in the world's happening. I'm just preaching away. We gave the imitation, kids are at the altar, kids getting saved, teenagers. Kids crying for unsaved family members and loved ones wanting them to be saved. When it was over, the youth pastor came up to me. Now, remember, this is not a fundamental independent Baptist church He came up to me and he says, he said, uh, he said, that was the greatest message on hell I've ever heard in my whole life And I had to be honest. I had to be honest. I said, that wasn't me. That was God. God met with us tonight. God did that. And I'm telling you, if we can learn to pray and get a hold of God I think we could see God use us, our individual witness, in this old wicked world in ways we never dreamed. Amen. Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. I'm not ashamed. Why? Because he knew the simplicity and power of prayer Let me give you another one here, real quick. He understood. I noticed also the persistence of his determination. The persistence of his determination. Paul was not a quitter. I think very few people in life have faced the opposition that Paul faced as a believer, the Lord Jesus Christ. And he was determined to please God. Again, we don't have time. If you would look up 2 Corinthians 11, verse 23 to 33, he describes what he went through. Because of his witness for Christ. He was beaten. Thrice he was left for dead. He was imprisoned. He was stranded on a shipwreck. And he goes through this length of list. He was beaten, 49 stripes, beaten. And he says, I will not quit. I will not quit. Paul said in so many words, he said, There is nothing that man can do to me is going to get me to stop being a witness for Christ. His determination, persistent termination, he would not quit. In Philippians chapter 3, verse 14, Paul said, I press towards the mark For the prize of the high calling. That word pressed toward me as this idea. Put your shoulder down and just plow right into it. You say, Brother Leatherman, we live in a wicked world. We live in a world that is in darkness and saturated with sin of the worst sort. Say, what do we do? I'll tell you what we do. We press towards the mark. We put our shoulder down with the gospel, and we go out in our communities, and we just proclaim salvation through the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen or not? Paul's Paul was determined. He said, I pressed toward the mark. In Acts chapter 21, verse 13, he said this, For I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem. for the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm telling you, cowardly snowflake Christianity isn't going to make any difference in this old simple world. What we need are churches and pulpits and Christians and bus workers and soul winners and Christian fathers and Christian mothers and Christian teenagers that say, I'm going to be a witness for Christ, doesn't matter what this world does. I'm going to be a witness for Christ. That was Paul's attitude. He said, I'm not ashamed. I'm not ashamed. Christ is looking for soldiers, not snowflakes. In the cause of Christ. In the cause of Christ. He was persistence of his determination. Paul would not quit. Number three, I put this down. I think this is better preaching than what you all are responding to personally. I'm stirred up up here and y'all just sitting there looking at me Number one, the simplicity of his prayers. Number two, the persistence of his determination. Number three, I put this down Now gotta get this. His perpetual dying to self. If something's perpetual, what does that mean? Come on, talk. Y'all wake up here now. Talk to me Repeatedly, over and over. It's perpetual. It just keeps going on and on and on. You know what Paul did perpetually? He said, I died a self. He told the Corinthian believers in chapter 15, verse 31, he said this, I die daily. Lester Roloff, one of my favorite preachers, Lester Roloff, said, the hardest funeral I ever do in my ministry is my own funeral every morning when I wake up. I've got to die to self as I go into that new day. Now, what does it mean to die to self? It means that I put myself aside. Let me illustrate what I what I believe he means by die to self. I've done probably 200 plus funerals over the years in the ministry. Some are here at the church, some are at other churches at funeral homes, done them all over out gravesides I have yet to see. They have the body the caskets here and the bodies laying in the casket. And I've seen you can you can't imagine the different responses and actions people have taken beside an open casket with a family or a friend or a loved one there. I've seen people come up and say, Oh, you were the greatest person that I've ever met and you were the you were just awesome. There's nobody in the world as great as you were. I've seen people come up. I don't know why they're there. They're just kind of like, hmm I'm telling you. As it one in uh Indianapolis, they got in a fight at at the funeral. I've seen them come up and cry all over them. I've seen them come up and laugh, remember. But you know what I've never seen? I've never seen that body respond to anything they said or did Oh, you're the most wonderful thing in the world. You dirty rat. You know what? They were dead. They were dead to praise and to criticism And Paul said, I die daily. You can praise me all you want. I'm not going to change my commitment to Christ. You can criticize me, you can throw me in prison, you can chop my head off I'm not going to respond. I'm saying committed to the cause of Christ. And what we need today is some Christians who learn to die to self. In fact, I don't believe we'll ever be victorious, successful, effective witnesses for Christ while we sit on our high horse, get offended and uh by everything and anything that people do around us. Anybody notice And I'm talking about Christians are offended by the slightest little thing. I had somebody get mad at me yesterday, some innocent little thing. They were offended. And I'm telling you, we have got to get off of that. We've got to get ourselves off the throne of our hearts and put Christ back on that throne. It's no longer me. Not my will. But thy will be done. Just die to self. Just die to self. Yeah, but they criticize me. So. Well, they think I'm the greatest thing in the world. So I learned years ago, I learned not to get too high when everything's going good, and don't get too low when everything's going bad. Just stay focused on Christ. Amen or not. Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. Well, you're an idiot. Yeah, we're going to throw you in jail. It's fine. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. Paul, you're the greatest thing ever since mustard. It's fine. I'm not ashamed of Christ. I'm not going to change. I found that people that get all puffed up when people praise them, they're crushed when somebody criticizes them. We've got to get over that. Number one, the simplicity of his prayers. Number two, the persistence of his dedication. Number three, the perpetual dying to self. And last of all, the power of his witness The power of his witness. Romans 1:16, he said, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. Why? For it is the power of God unto salvation. The power of God. The gospel of Jesus Christ has tremendous impact on the hearts and lives of those who receive it. Those who receive it. That word power means comes from the same word. We get our word dynamite. Dr. Lee Robertson used to refer to it as gospel dynamite. What he meant by this was, you give the gospel to somebody, and if they'll believe it and receive it, that message, they'll receive it and believe it, it'll change their life in ways they could never imagine. I'm here to tell you this. You can have a brand new life. God can forgive sins The power of the gospel can change a light, can have sins forgiven, can bring a home in heaven. If you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm here to tell you the gospel can give you a brand new life. The gospel can take those sins and that guilt in our hearts and minds. and completely wash it away through the blood of Christ. The gospel. Listen, I can, you've heard me so many times, you're sick of hearing it. But I'm telling you, by firsthand testimony, personal experience, the gospel of Jesus Christ can take an old drunken, drug addict teenager that was so perverse you'd be ashamed to know him Turn him around and make give him a life and purpose and a whole new life. Power the gospel! Just believe and receive it. I was thinking this morning, I was going over my notes, and again, I I hope I'm not out of line in saying this, but I'm telling you Eighteen months before May 7, 1979, when I trusted Christ the Savior, for 18 months before that, a year and a half before it, not one day went by. where I was either not stoned out of my head or as drunk could hardly walk. I'm telling you, God can change a life And by the way, you might never touch liquor, you might never touch soap, you might never have snorted or shot up anything. You're a self-righteous, proud, holier than thou Pharisee. God can save your soul and give you a new, humble, godly life. The most upstanding person in society and the lowest drag in the gutter The gospel can change that life and make them the kind of person God wants them to be. The power of the gospel. Paul said, I'm not ashamed of this. This is the most powerful thing this world has ever seen. Listen, Islam has no message that's as powerful as the gospel. Islam can stir up fellows to kill themselves and kill others, but the gospel is a God that died for me. That'll change your life. That'll change the sorry's life. Just receive it. Just receive it. I've seen people so eaten up with guilt and shame from the sins, they say I can't even lift their eyes and look at someone. They'll come and receive Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, and God will change them. Give them peace and confidence and purpose in life and remove that burden of guilt. I'm telling you, this world needs the gospel of Jesus Christ. And you and I, as believers, are the only ones. That God has to deliver this message, and we must not be ashamed. I think one of the reasons our society and our community, our country is in the condition is is Because Christians have become ashamed of the gospel of Christ. We're afraid to speak up. Listen, I'm preaching it myself. I don't know about you. I stand in line at Walmart and I got that track and I'm thinking I need to give that gal a track. And my flesh is saying, oh, she's probably got ten of them. She'll be offended. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Finally, I just got to decide. I'm going to die to self. It doesn't matter. That poor gal dies in her sins. She's going to hell forever. I may be the only one or the last one that gives her any hope of salvation I just a humble messenger and say, here, here's a witness. There's nothing wrong with America. The gospel can't change. Nothing wrong with your home or your life. The gospel of Jesus Christ can't transform. Don't ever underestimate the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The power of God unto salvation. By the way, every person that dies in their sins, unsaved, separated from God for all eternity, horrific place called hell. I wish that wasn't true. I don't want to believe that. I read my Bible, I study what the Bible teaches about hell, and I think, no. The fact of the matter is, it is true. The gospel of Jesus is the only name, the only hope for mankind to be saved. That's what makes missions so vital. It's what makes our bus ministry and our visitation on the week, our tracks, radio, makes it all so vitally important. Government's not declaring the gospel. Social communities aren't sharing the gospel. The church is the pillar and ground of the truth. We're the ones that have to take it. Charles Spurgeon told the story of years ago in London there was a dear lady that was very poor, and there's a Christian in the community. That knew of her condition and she was going to lose her little place where she lived. She couldn't afford the rent. She was completely broke. She was going to be kicked out in the streets. And back in that day, that was that was it And the fellow had the money. He was wealthy enough. He had the money. He says, I'm going to go up. I want to give this money to this dear gal. So she can pay her rent and make it through another month. And he went and he knocked on her door. She didn't answer. He knew she was in there. Came and he knocked again. Nothing. He refused to give up. And he said for twenty minutes he stood and knocked on that door and knocked on that door and knocked on that door and she would not answer. A couple days went by, he's down the street, and he saw her. And he went over and he said, Man He said, I came by the other day at such and such a time, and I had your rent money. I wanted to give it to you so you could pay your rent. She began to weep. And she goes, I was there, but I was afraid to answer. I was afraid it was the landlord coming to kick me out. And I was afraid to answer. Isn't that sad? This whole world, living in sin, living in fear, they're on the verge of dying and spending eternity separated from God in a place called hell. And you and I have the rent money. We've got the message. We've got the gospel. Now we can't control whether they receive it or not. Amen? You can't force anybody to believe. But we have got to commit ourselves that we are not going to be ashamed. And we need to go out and, so to speak, knock and knock and knock and knock on the hearts and lives and minds of people in our community with this gospel because it's the only hope of salvation. There was no other name given among men under heaven that you must be saved but by the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us, like Paul, to not be ashamed. Pray you'd help us to establish our walk with you so that we can be bold with the gospel. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed this morning, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. God saved me. I've got that settled. But I need to be a stronger witness. I need to be a bolder witness. I don't want to be ashamed. I want God to help me, not be ashamed of the gospel. Any like that by the uplifted hand, I want God to God, God bless you, hands all around. Doesn't mean arrogant, doesn't mean rude. Just means not ashamed. Now to do that, we've got to get our prayer life in line. We've got to learn to get a hold of God and just simply pray. We need to determine nothing's going to stop us. I'm committing myself to live for the Lord and be a witness. We need to die daily I just got to get myself off the throne of my heart, put Christ there, and just die daily. And we need to understand how powerful that gospel really is. I wonder if some would say, preacher, I need to get my prayer life in line. Any like that? I need to get my prayer life in line. I need to learn to get a hold of God and pray. God bless you. How about this matter of just committing, dedicating my life to be a witness for the Lord? I really don't think about it, but I want to dedicate and commit my life Determined to take the gospel. Any like that? I want to. God bless you. How about dying to self? How many people say, preacher, I get so offended. I get upset about stuff. I need to get over that. God bless you And then the power of the gospel. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven? I've never trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I don't want to go to hell. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. That I could know that God has forgiven me, that I could have this new life, eternal life Have that settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? Please pray for me. I need to get my soul's salvation settled. I don't want to play around anymore. I've got to take this seriously. I've got to get this settled. Any at all? Like that? How about it? Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James