Appreciate the ladies singing there. I noticed before the service Ed was going around paying people not to give testimonies tonight. So uh the service would be a little shorter. It's a shame I have an hour and a half sermon this evening, so we'll be out by the time the game's over. John chapter 8. And I'm just going to read verse number 7. This is a pretty familiar passage of scripture. And uh This is actually the second half of an introduction to a series that we started last week and and uh I want to spend uh probably a month or two or probably two or three months probably. uh on Sunday nights looking at what I'm calling uh uh I'm calling the series Confronting our comfortable sins And uh I'm just laying the groundwork and then after tonight, as God directs, and I think I have following his leadership here, but uh we're gonna get down into the nitty-gritty And I want to assure you it is no more pleasant for me than uh it is going to be for anyone else. And what I believe the Lord is doing, what I believe the Holy Spirit is directing me to do, is uh just confront th uh sins, areas of disobedience that we as independent fundamental Baptists have gotten comfortable with. And uh well let me let me let me get things going here. Look at John chapter eight And verse number seven, this is the situation where the woman is taken by a bunch of self-righteous Pharisees. They catch this woman in the very act of adultery, is how it's worded. And they bring her to the Lord Jesus Christ, and they say to him, They said, Listen, the law in the Old Testament demands that this woman be stoned, that this woman be killed. She was taken in adultery in the very act of it. And they say, what do you say? And of course they were trying to get the Lord Jesus to contradict the Word of God. They were trying to get him to violate the law. Just something they could find on him, they could tag on him to say, ah, see, he's wrong Well Jesus ignores them at first. Remember it says he drew in the sand there a little bit. And then finally they press the issue and they press the issue and they press the issue. The law says she should be stoned. What do you say? What do you say? What do you finally stands up and he gives that classic statement Ye who are without sin, cast the first stone. This is where we're at. Look at verse 7. So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself and said unto them, He that is without sin among you Let him cast uh let him first cast a stone at her. You know what he was doing there? He was confronting the self-righteous Pharisees. With the sins that they had gotten comfortable with. The fact of the matter is, none of us are without sin. Right? None of us. And what we do, if we're not careful, we'll get all worked up about the great sins, the big sins, the uncomfortable sins. For instance, this woman's adultery. Uh sodomy, abortion. And we'll get all worked up about them and we'll will these big sins, quote unquote Well overshadow a lot of times the sins that we tolerate in our lives, the sins that we're comfortable with. They don't bother us. Like the sin of sodomy does. They don't bother us like the sin of abortion does. And we don't never confront them in ourselves. And that's what the Lord's doing here. And look at the response, look at the effect it had upon these self righteousness. Verse number eight. And again he stooped down and wrote on the ground. It's always said, You were without sin among you cast the first stone. Verse 9. And they which heard it, what's the next statement? Being convicted. Ah. The things uh a few moments ago didn't bother him at all Before Jesus confronted them, they were comfortable with these sins that aren't even mentioned here. Being convicted by their own conscience. Went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the youngest, and she is left alone, and the woman standing in her midst. Now, before we misunderstand what's happening here, you understand the Lord wasn't condoning adultery. In fact, he says to her, he said, Where are you accusing? She goes, I have none. He says, Neither do I condemn thee. But then he adds on, this is where people miss a lot. Go and what? Sin no more. He wasn't justifying her adultery. That was awful sin. But what he was doing was confronting The sins that they were comfortable with. And that's what I believe the Lord is directing in our church in my own life. Is directing, wait a minute, what about me? And so let's pray, and uh we'll get look at this. Father I really believe, Lord, that you have led me and directed me in this direction on this subject that we'll be dealing with. I know, Lord, you've been working in my own heart on this And I pray that you would speak through me and that we as a church would take a good strong stand on the sins of our society. But Lord, let us never get comfortable with our own sins. and those acceptable sins. And Lord, we need your Holy Spirit to do what happened to these fellows here and convict our own conscience. And help us to be thoroughly right with you, God, and just nothing between us and you, dear Lord. And that we would have sweet and blessed fellowship. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember, we pointed out, and we say this repeatedly, we're saved by grace. It's not how we live our lives, it's not because we don't sin that we're saved. We're not saved by our lifestyle. And our salvation is not dependent on our lifestyle. It is the grace of God that saves us from sin in hell. And we said a saved person cannot lose their salvation And uh to me that never gets old. I am just as thrilled uh by the fact that when I got up this morning, God kept me saved as I was saved as I was initially saved way back yonder May 7, 1979. It's just as glorious. The god fact that God keeps me saved. And then we said, yes, Christians can and do sin. And that's what we get to. Now last week we looked at the definition of sin. Sometimes you go out into the world, you go out up to Walmart or whatever, and stop the man on the street and say, all right, what what is sin to you? And they'll say something like this. Well, it's when you do something really, really bad. Sin is when you uh are really, really bad. Uh and we fail to understand the Bible definition of sin. If you remember, we pointed out last week That uh 1 John 3:4 tells us that sin is a transgression of the law. Anytime I step outside of the perimeters of Scripture, I am disobeying God. I'm sinning. Whether it's uh 50 yards, remember we use the illustration of private property, you go 15 yards into the private property, or 150 yards into the private property, you're trespassing the moment you cross that line So whether it's a person involved in sodomy, that awful sin of sodomy, or whether it's someone here gossiping, we've both, they've both crossed the line and are transgressing the law. You follow what we're saying? So we need to understand the biblical definition of sin. It's a transgression of the law. We said it is to miss the mark, and then we just said sin is sin. However acceptable it may be, it's sinful when we disobey God and whatever degrees we put on it. Now I do want to repeat this before we get into the night's thoughts. All sin is equally condemned by God. Alright? Hating a person in my heart is just as condemned as killing that person. Right? Now that's hard to swallow a little bit to comprehend. Are you serious? I mean God stand before God, he's gonna condemn me hating someone just as Yeah Yeah. In fact, Jesus said we're going to be judged by the very words we use, the idle words we say. And so all sin is equally condemned, but all sin doesn't have the same consequences Some sins have far reaching far uh uh uh more far-reaching consequences than some other sins do. And I say this often and I mention it, but I want to reiterate it here. You know, I would far rather have a man hate me in his heart than kill me. You know? And so the consequences are different, but they're both equally condemned. So should we preach against the big sins of society? Yes or no? Yes, absolutely. But we should also preach against the acceptable sins that we tolerate in our lives, and we need the Lord to confront us with that Now, before we start getting into the nitty-gritty, we're going to look at specific sins in the coming weeks and how how we as Christians often tolerate them, get comfortable with them But before we do, I want us to understand how serious they really are. And so that we'll take them seriously when we deal with them and address them. And so last week we looked at the definition of sin. Tonight I want to look at the destructiveness Of our comfortable sins, or the uncomfortable consequences of tolerating comfortable sins. Those sins that we're okay with. Sins that we'll tolerate in our life. We think, well, I don't see anything wrong with that. Here's the question I want to address tonight. What does it matter if I tolerate some little innocent sins? What's the big deal? Alright, so sometimes I get gossiping about someone else. What is the big deal? What's wrong with indulging in that a little bit? Uh what's wrong with a little bit of self-righteous pride? I mean, come on, what does it hurt? Um let me put it in this context. What does it matter if I tolerate a little malignant tumor? Suppose you go to the doctor this week. Now, God forbid that this would be the case. Suppose you go to the doctor this week for a regular checkup. The doctor does a he says, you know, I kind of hear something there. We're going to do some x-rays, CAT scan, and different things. They run it through, and they say, you know, we found a spot on your lung And we hate the doctor says, I hate to say this, I hate to give these news, but by all appearances, it looks like it's a malignant tumor. Now, question: Is a malignant tumor good or bad? It's bad. That's the bad kind of tumor. He says it's just a speck at this point. It's very small. Can you imagine a person saying to the doctor, you say it's really small? In fact, you wouldn't have even noticed it if it hadn't been for the CAT scan and the x-rays and all that, correct? The doctor said that's correct. It's very small. I never caught it, but we did the test and we picked it up. You imagine the person saying something like this. Well, what's the big deal then Why should I bother with it? It's just a little spot. Yeah, it's malignant cancer, but man, it's I can breathe fine. Doesn't seem to be affecting anybody. What's wrong with just tolerating it? The problem is that malignant tumor never stays small. It always grows. It always expands. My grandfather in nineteen eighty-seven, Samuel David Leatherman, my grandfather's name. He died in nineteen eighty-seven of bone cancer. Very painful. This last month and the last year was very, very painful. We were I just finished school the year before. We were gotten married. I was starting the ministry in Indianapolis and I wasn't home much and I I wasn't in on the details of his physical condition But I know he was uh in he was ended up in a nursing home and um uh was in a lot of pain, dying of bone cancer. He died that August, I believe it was. Several years later, in fact it was since we moved here and and uh we got a doctor here and was gone and um I forget there was something they were doing tests and they asked me, they said, is there any cancer in your family? And I said, my grandfather back in 1987 died of bone cancer The doctor said, 1987, huh? I said, yeah, he had it for a few years, it developed, and uh the doctor told me this. He says, you know, that probably started as prostrate cancer. He said they didn't test back then like we do now. And he says, I would venture to say it started very small, but it was undetected. And it developed and got into his bones. And that's probably. He said, if he'd have been alive today, we probably could have caught that and avoided a lot of that. As I was working this series and presence, I thought of that. How many lives are destroyed? Because we got comfortable with a little sin. We knew it wasn't right. We knew the Bible said we shouldn't do that, but what was the big deal? Not bothering anybody. My life isn't affected by it. I think it's fine. I'm fine with it. And we just go on and we don't deal with it. And boy, before long, that malignancy has spread throughout the body, and next thing we know, our lives are destroyed. So, is this important dealing with these small quote unquote sins? I say yes, they are. Sin is spiritual malignancy. And it's left unchecked, it will spread throughout the entire being. Must be dealt with. I was reading an article about cancer, and so I was studying this. I got looking at some things about cancer, and they said that cancer is often very subtle. Sometimes it'll be obvious right up front and right immediately become obvious and all that. But they said usually it doesn't seem that bad at first. Like I was illustrated with my grandfather. They said often it will spread throughout the body without ever being noticed until it's too late to do anything about it. I did a funeral for a young man years ago, and when they were doing the autopsy, they found a huge tumor inside his body. They had no idea it was there before he died. Just growing, growing, growing, unknown to him. Our comfortable sins are very much like that. You know, preachers in years gone by, back the Puritans, anybody familiar with I'm talking about when I talk about the Puritans back in the 1700s? Uh Charles Spurgeon will reference the Puritans a lot early in America. They were very influential. Man, these guys were absolutely brutal. On the little, what we would call little sense. They would absolutely tear them up from the pulpit. These guys were merciless in condemning The sins that in our day and age we're just so comfortable with. They would use terms like this, the vileness. The ugliness, the odiousness of sin. They would call it malignant, a pestilent, hideous sins. Pois, abominable, deadly. They would use these terms In describing things that you and I would say, it's not that big of a deal. You know why? They understood the destruction that a little sin can do in the life of a believer The only poem I've ever memorized in my life, and I've quoted it here before, it's been a long time. I'm very proud of myself for this poem. Dr. Lee Robertson used it one time in a message and I wrote it down, I memorized it, and all these years it's been a great blessing to me It goes like this. Here's to the chigger, the bug that's no bigger than the head of a very small pin. But the itch that he raises simply amazes, and that's where the rub comes in. Isn't that a blessing? I'm very proud of that poem. I have no idea who wrote it, but I memorized it and I quote it to myself driving down the road and all over. It's a great blessing to me. I thought you would be more impressed Than you are. You don't seem impressed at all. But there's a truth in that poem. Anyone know what a chigger is? Anyone here? Little tiny butt, man, they get in you under your skin, and they'll absolutely turn your world upside down. And that's what we're talking about here. David, King David. We know about his sin, right? Bathsheba. Would you agree with me? That was horrific sin. Would you agree with me? Now understand the terminology here. Would you agree with me? David's sin with Bathsheba was a big sin. Yes. Uncomfortable, would you agree with me? Murder her husband? Uh commit adultery there. How many folks would say that's an uncomfortable sin? I I when I read that, I'm uncomfortable with that. I tell you, I read what he did to Uriah, and that just burns me. A good, loyal man is murdered and his wife stolen. That just I I'm uncomfortable with that. But you know that's not where David's problem started. David's problem started before that, long before that, with little sins, things that there's nothing wrong with it. For instance, like staying home in Jerusalem when he was supposed to be out fighting the battles. Oh, what's the big deal? Good night. He's fought tons of battles So buddy stays home one time. He wasn't where he was supposed to be. Hey, can I get a little intolerant here? Can I get a little narrow-minded here? Yeah, I know I'm supposed to be in church then. I know that's when church is, but what's the big deal just missing a service? Tell you what, I know it's a big game tonight. Um and I'm not picking on Ed too much, just a little bit. He goes up on the rooftop. We know the story. There's a woman bathing herself. Now, whatever responsibilities Bathsheba had, we can debate that. The fact is, the Bible says that David saw her. And that word saw does not mean he just happened to notice she was there. That word saw means he stopped and he was watching her. He was looking at her. You say, oh, good grief. What's the problem with that? I mean, it's innocent. He's not hurting anybody. It's a little bit of the term the world uses, eye candy. He's just looking and enjoying it. What's the big deal? Nobody knows. Hey, I know it's a nasty show in the middle of the night and show and stuff, but hey, it doesn't hurt anybody. What's the big deal? I tell you what, it became a big deal, didn't it? destroyed his life, destroyed another marriage, brought shame on his testimony. You see, what I'm trying to say is this. The little things we're comfortable with that we're okay with, we can justify. They never stay little. They are not without consequence. We must judge ourselves that we be not judged, Corinthians tells us, 2 Corinthians. Boy, I wish we had more time and we don't. But I want to urge you to study Psalm 51. This is the most public confession of sin anywhere in literature. David confessing his sin of adultery and murder, of adultery of Bathsheba, and murder of her husband. And it's recorded in Scripture for all generations to read for the rest of eternity. Can you imagine that? And he confesses it, and uh tell you what, we got a few minutes. If you would turn with me over to Psalm 51. In fact, we got about an hour and a half yet. And so go over here to Psalm 51 This is a little bit kind of fun, actually. Uh teasing about that, I mean. Psalm 51 Let me just go down through here quickly. If you're taking notes, I encourage you to jot these downs. What were the results of David's little sins? Just staying back home when he should have been at the battle and looking at a woman he shouldn't have been looking at. What how did that end up? Look with me at Psalm 51. Look at verse number 2. See if you catch these words I'm looking for. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. Come down to verse 7. Purge me with hyssop and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Look at verse 10. He says, create in me a clean heart, O God, renew a right spirit within me. Does anybody catch a theme in those three verses? Wash me, cleanse me. What kind of person is wanting to be washed and cleansed? A dirty person. You know what the end consequences were of David tolerating these little comfortable sins? A spiritual uncleanness. He just was unclean and he knew it. Listen, I wish I could tell you that your pastor has never sinned. Boy that that's a shock to a lot of you. I know that. Y'all are looking at me real pious. You've sinned too now. Come on now. You're making me nervous. But the fact is, see if I see if I can't get a witness on this. Do you ever do something you knew you shouldn't uh shouldn't have done, or you didn't do something you knew you should have done, and you just didn't deal with it, you went on, and after a while you just felt Dirty. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Come on, don't make me look bad up here. You know what I'm talking about? And then finally you come clean with God. And you confess and you're fake and get it out of your life and you just feel clean again. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's what David happened. For over a year, as he refused to deal with these sins, as they mounted and grew and grew and got to the point of no return, He felt dirty and he says, God, I don't want to be this way anymore. I don't want to be spiritually unclean. And these comfortable sins produce a spiritual uncleanness. And you know what I believe? Now listen, this is just the way it is, I think. I believe we have churches all across our country filled with Christians who just are spiritually unclean. They're sins that they justify and they've tolerated and they just carry that around. You know, it's possible for a person, maybe in their job or whatever, they just work in dirt and grime or whatever so much that they just get used to being dirty. You know what I'm talking about? Just get used to it. And then finally, uh we were out in uh Colorado a number of years ago, um we went hunting uh up uh when Sam was outfitting out there and we stayed up in the mountains for it was I think it was like uh five or six days or whatever we're up in the Mount Stock Williams and Gene Williams went with us. And of course there's no water or anything up there. We're just staying in a camp. I mean we were roughing it Uh I am a real man, I'm telling you. And uh we were uh that was uh humor. And uh we were up there and we went like a whole week. It was like eight days, no shower It was great. And um uh you know and after a while the first few days it's like uh I feel yuck. And uh, you know, we're brushing our teeth with sap from the trees, you know, and I mean we were just really roughing it. And uh finally at the end of the week we got down to camp to the cabins there, and man, we were just waiting a line, just getting in that shower And you come out and you forgot what it felt like to be clean. And I think that's what happens to a lot of Christians who just got all this sin. And we forget what it's like to be clean and forsake that and get that out of my life and just be clean before God. So this Sin produced spiritual uncleanness. In verse 3, he said, My sin is ever before me. You know what was happening? It was bothering his mind. It was messing with his mind. It was constantly on his mind. The fact that he had disobeyed God, the fact that he was living in sin, just did not leave his mind alone. Every time he saw uh uh something, I remember before I got saved, God was convicting me so much about my need to be saved. And every time there was some Mennonite, a lot of Mennonites in the area where I was, and they like to put verses out. They do it around here, put verses out in different things. Every time I saw one of those, it would mess with my mind. I thought man, I need to be saved, I need this. And uh that's the way David That's the way David was. Man, it just was constantly on his mind. I need to make this right, I need to make this right, I need to make this right I think the way he's talking here, it sounds like he couldn't think, couldn't concentrate on things. It just was bothering his mind. Uh, this is just a idea that I have. I wonder if uh uh if some of the mental problems people have isn't really just a matter of sin not being dealt with. Now I understand there's real and legit. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But I'm thinking sometimes it's just a matter of just having to deal with some sin. Number three, I put this down, it pricks our conscience. Verse 4 and verse 9 His conscience was convicted. And it bothered him. Number four, I put this down. Produces spiritual depression. Look at verse 8 in Psalm 51. Make me to hear joy and gladness. Come down to verse 12. He says, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. If he's asking for joy to be restored, that means he doesn't have what now? He doesn't have that joy now. He's unhappy. The sin has stolen the joy. I think there's often there's a sadness and a depression that comes over Christians when we don't deal with these little sins, we justify them. I always think every time I read the story of Jonah. What's Jonah doing in the first chapter when he's fleeing from uh God's call to Nineveh? What's he doing in the boat? He's sleeping. He's sleeping. He's sleeping. You know what I think he was? I think he was depressed. I think he was running from God. He knew he wasn't right. Wasn't that big a deal? I know God wants me to go there, but what's the big deal? And he's depressed. A spirit of depression comes on him, and he's just sleeping all the time. Number five, I put this down. Tolerating these sins can physically affect us. Verse 8, the last part. Go to Psalm 32, verse 4. Said there's rottenness in my bones. It affected them physically. His health had gone down because he was tolerating sin. Number six, I put this: it can poison our attitude. Look at verse 10. He says, renew a right spirit within me. That word renew also has the idea of repairing. Spirit has to do with our attitude. He's not talking about the Holy Spirit. He's saying, man, this sin gave me a bad attitude. The word right spirit means an established spirit, an unchanging spirit. You know what I think happened? He got moody. I think sin can make us very moody. It affects our attitude. Man, one time or another, another time we're dead. We just can't get established. Number 7, I put this down. It will suppress my awareness of God's presence. Verse 11. He says, cast me not away from thy presence. Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Is God omnipresent? Yes or no? Sure he is. God's presence was there, but David didn't didn't sense it. His sin had given him this idea that he was all alone, that he was separated from God. He seemed so far away. A lot of times people that tolerate sin are very lonely. They have a great crowd, but they're lonely because the presence of God seems so far away. And last of all, I put this one down. It stifles our witness. Look at verse 12. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, uphold me with the thy free thy free spirit, then will I teach transgressors thy ways, and sinners shall be converted unto you. Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation and my Tongues shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. You know it's kind of hard to talk to others about their relationship with the Lord when my relationship with the Lord isn't right. It's kind of hard to share others the joy of forgiveness when I'm under conviction for my own sin. You know what that does a lot of times? Just shuts us up. We don't want to say anything about the Lord. One time we had years and years ago, one long after we got here, so a fella came and we were had visitation and we had oh probably eight, ten people out visiting and I was dibbing them up, sending them out And I gave him and his partners, one guy, his partner, I said, here, go visit this guy. I came across him, I said, there's some interest there. And he looked at it, he says, I can't visit him I said, what do you mean? He goes, oh, I've worked with him for a while. He says, I've got a terrible testimony. It would be bad if I went by to visit him. I thought, isn't that a shame? That's not right. And that's what happens. We let sin in our heart and life, and suddenly our burden for others, our concern for others, our testimony is bad. That burden's gone. David says, Lord, he says, then restore to me the joy of thy salvation. Uphold me with thy free spirit. Then I'll teach transgressors the way. It ruins our testimony. The clear a clear understanding of the seriousness of our comfortable sins. That are so malignant when we understand that these are serious, and like we said this morning, we've gotten so good at justifying them. We've gotten so good at our devil has twisted our thinking into that which is right seems so wrong, and that which is wrong seems so right. And we fail to realize how serious these things are and how malignant they are in our lives. So you say, preacher, what do I do? As we go into the coming weeks and we deal with specific areas that are common in Christians' hearts and minds, you say, preacher, what do I do? Just get discouraged. Oh, I'm terrible. No, you know what these when we realize these sins, you know what it needs to do? It's drive us to our knees in repentance. Say, God, I'm going to make these things right. God, I want to be thoroughly right with you. Last Sunday night, this altar was filled with Christians saying, God, I'm opening the doors of my life to you to come in and just do house cleaning. And knock out the sinful cobwebs, the cobwebs of sin. Lord, get those little sand-grain tumors that have been found that you're showing me in my life. and extrap them, do the surgery that needs to be done and get that malignancy out of me before it uh what's the word metastasize? Is that the word I want, Helen? Mastesize Metastasize before it gets hard and ingrained and fit and into my life and then boy it's major surgery, major damage has been done. Anybody recognize the name Gypsy Smith Old evangelist got saved result of D. L. Moody in England. He was a gypsy boy in the gypsy camp outside the city, there in London, I think it was He got saved, became an evangelist, old Gypsy Smith, just a simple, uneducated guy that God's hand was on. He preached powerful meetings all through Europe and America here. There was a fellow got saved in one of his meetings, and I don't have the name, I failed to write it down, but a fellow got saved in one of his meetings. He got home from the meeting of an evening. And he got home, and there was a watch that he had stolen from a man a long time ago. He saw that watch, and the Spirit of God convicted him. The next day he went and found the man he stole it from, and he approached him and said, Sir, I have something for you. He handed the watch, and the fellow had forgotten all about it. Then he says, What is this? And he says, Sir, I stole that from you a long time ago, and last night I got saved. And I wanted to make it right. And the fellow said, You didn't have to do that. Good night. I had forgotten about this. He said, No, if it hadn't been so late that I got home last night, I would have brought it to you last night. I want to make this right. You know what I'm afraid many average Christians would have done? Said, ah, that was so long. It's not that big a deal. He's probably forgot about it. I'll just keep it. Don't worry about it. Not this guy. He didn't even want the tiniest of sins to take root in his heart and life. He wanted to be thoroughly right with God. Because those little sins, those comfortable sins, never stay little, and they have very, very uncomfortable consequences. As we go to Lord's Supper tonight, let's ask the Lord to search our hearts for those little things we've justified. Ask the Holy Spirit, search me and try me. Do a CAT scan, Holy Spirit, on my life. Those little things that I've buried, that I've ignored. Bring them to my attention and let's deal with them. And in the coming weeks. Let's get thoroughly right with God. Father, bless us now as we go into meditation time. You know our hearts. You know our needs. And I pray, dear Lord, that you would just thoroughly examine us. God, don't let anything get by. We want to be right with you. I want to be thoroughly right with you, dear Lord. And so challenge us and convict us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. The Spirit of God spoke to your heart tonight. And as Jennifer plays, before we go into Lord's Supper, maybe you'd want to just slip out, kneel at an old fashioned order and say, Lord, search my heart