Amazing, amazing man. We love you, Brother Rose. Come on up here and um let her rip. I wish my wife could hear you too. I know. We'll send her a recording. Howdy, brethren, how many glad to be here tonight? That was great, brother uh Ed. I was looking forward to hearing Sister Mess Mary testify. Uh watch out for this lady. She I was in their church, I guess, a couple of times for missions conference. But they played a uh a terrible trick on my wife and I. You ask her what it is, I I I don't have uh the liberty to tell you but uh they really did it upright, her and some other ladies and And and brother brother brother Ed is so calm and uh and his wife is explosive and some of those ladies from that church. You watch out for 'em. Sam, I'm glad you took after your m uh your dad. If you uh have your Bibles Uh thank you, Pastor. Open him up to Luke chapter fifteen, please. I really appreciate this church, this pastor. You everything has been so wonderful. We are grateful for the privilege. uh of being here again. Thank you for letting us come. Uh praise the Lord for you. Would you stand with me, please? Uh Luke chapter 15 I'm amazed that some preachers they can they can preach a sermon before they preach one. I I can't uh All I can say is hi to brethren, how many are glad to be here and get into it. That's about all I can do. Uh but Luke chapter 15 And uh we're going to pray, and then I'm going to read verse 25 down through the end of the chapter. Dear Lord, how grateful we are. Please, I want to uh even put emphases On what was said tonight, on what was about our country, God give revival to America. Please stir Please help us. And we pray for other churches to be founded all over this country, churches that will send out missionaries. I pray that God should bless and please help us now. Bless the reading of your word and then the preaching of it. May it be touched, anointed, and filled. May your servant be filled with the Spirit of God. Please may your power be here tonight and give us a broken heart. For Jesus' sake we pray. Amen. Still standing, verse 25. Now his elder son was in the field, and he came and drew nigh to the house, and he heard music and dancing. And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant. And he said unto him, Thy brother is come, and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound. And he was angry and would not go in. Therefore came his father out and entreated him. And he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment. And yet thou never gavest me a kid that I might make merry with my friends. But as soon as this thy son Notice that he doesn't even say my brother, he disassociates himself. This thy son was come, which has devoured thy living with harlots. Thou hast killed for him the fatted calf, and he said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me, all that I have is thine. It was meet that we should make Mary and be glad for this thy brother was dead and is alive again and was lost and is found. Thank you, you may be seated. I want to bring a message this evening on the Greatest sin of the elder brother, the sin of unconcern. There's many sins that are pointed out in this passage. He was angry. He was jealous. He was rebellious He was a Pharisee. All of those things he was. He was self-righteous. He was quick to point out the sins of his younger brother, but said nothing about himself. But he said about himself, L these many years do I serve thee. But it wasn't a labor of love. I can't get over that anger. He was angry. Can you imagine someone being angry because somebody came home? I can't imagine someone being angry because somebody got saved. He resented the mercy that was manifested to his younger brother. He was angry about the feast, the gifts that were given to the younger son. But tonight I want you to see that his biggest sin is a sin of unconcern. He was unconcerned about three things. And I want to point them out to you. First of all, he was unconcerned about the heart of the father. This older brother didn't care how much that father loved and longed for that younger boy to come home. Don't you know that as they sat around the table and that father would see that empty place When he asked the blessing, he would weep and say, Lord, somewhere I've got a little boy that's in a distant land. Please help him. Dear brother, do you and I care about how much God cares about this world? Does it stir you as we heard that beautiful song by Sister Jennifer? How much God loves this world. God so loved the world. I have a message on the word so, just so, a superlative, the church. All over America, seemingly, and many places in the world has settled down and their self Satisfied, and they fail to see how much God loves this whole wide world tonight. How his heart is breaking To see people come to know him. I don't know what he would say if he were preaching to all of the churches in America. Maybe he would say To the fundamental churches, you say, Jesus, I my cross have taken all to follow thee. And maybe he would ask, What have you left? How far have you taken the cross of Jesus Christ? God says, look at Calvary. Look at the agony. Look at his son uh uh laying there on that cross and suffering for your sins and my sins. And I believe he would say, My son, cried out, It is finished, but have you finished the job I sent you to do? Do we care about how much God cares? I remember starting the second church Third church, I'm sorry. We were in a little storefront and just starting out visiting My oldest uh my youngest boy that is a missionary in Brazil now, he's forty-three, uh, uh he was just a uh a a baby and his mother had to play the accordion uh and I remember preaching one night and looking down as he was sitting in the chair all by himself. And all of a sudden I looked down, and that little fellow was weeping. You know why? Because his dad was weeping behind the pulpit. He may not have understood all that I was trying to do, but he looked up and saw his dad. With tears in his eyes, and he began to weep. And oh, that you and I could look up and see the heart of God and how he weeps and longs to save sinners He says, Didn't I command you to pray that the Lord of the harvest would send forth laborers? Churches don't want to do that. They're afraid that God will call some of their own out. Parents, oh my. They don't want to do that. They're afraid that God will call some of their children. God help us to care about the heart of the Father for that one in a distant land tonight. They're in darkness, folks. Dominated by darkness and superstition. I can't get it across enough how superstitious around the world they are They're born in darkness. They're reared in darkness. And thousands and millions die in darkness. They live in cells of darkness. No hope, no peace, no real joy And if they knew the verse, they would cry out with Jeremiah, is it nothing to you? I remember Visiting door to door in that same city that I'm talking to you now. And uh I saw an elderly man, I was coming down the dirt street in that uh that part of the that village. And I saw an elderly man. Uh he was down on his haunches. Uh I mean they can they can sit for hours just like down like that. If I got too far down I wouldn't get up. But then sit for hours. Well, I stopped to talk to him And I would uh change kneel on one knee and then uh kneel on the other knee and And as I witnessed to him, he bluntly told me, he said, Now uh I don't want anything. I'm a Roman Catholic. I was born a Roman Catholic I was reared a Roman Catholic baptized a Roman Catholic and he said A Roman Catholic But God helped us to win his son his daughter and his son-in-law to the Lord Then one night I saw him come into our church after we had built a building there. He came into our church and And he walked down the aisle and said, I want to trust Jesus Christ as my Savior and my Lord. And there was an elderly man that was doomed in superstition and religion. And determine not to accept Christ as Savior. But thank God He did. I was away, uh uh I I traveled all over Brazil because they didn't they didn't have any evangelists. By the way, if there's a missionary that would like to be an evangelist, Brazil desperately needs one. And I would hold meetings and I was way down south and I had traveled about thirty hours. By bus. And I came in, and my wife said that Sher Juan died. And uh his body is in his little house. And I walked in to his little home and Uh there were just about uh two rooms, three rooms, uh a kitchen, uh a front room, and a little bedroom. And there was that little wooden coffin. And I looked down and saw Sir Juan, and uh he had my suit on. He had my tie on. He didn't have clothing to be buried in, so my wife took care of that and Finally, they have to be buried within twenty-four hours. My wife said, you go home and sleep a couple hours and come up with the men tomorrow And uh we'll have the service in our church. And we went up in the next morning and brought his body down And didn't take the left on Main Street down to the big cathedral, but went up to the Independent Baptist Church. And what a homecoming it was, and how his family was blessed. Aren't you glad that God can save those that are in darkness? I had a lady in my uh uh in uh the last church that I founded, uh uh one of the greatest Christians I think I've ever met. Brother Dennis, I don't think I've ever met anybody just like this lady. Her own children told me that she prayed two hours every day. And after a service she would come up when I was telling the church I'd be away, I'd behold in a meeting we had several preacher boys. And she would say, Pastor, I'll be praying for you. And I knew she'd be praying. But how sad it is to see those that are in darkness. I w went into The Timbana tribe. I never worked in the tribes I visited so I could encourage our Brazilians to get into those tribes and thank God several of them have. And I was d in that tribe when they were having a ceremony for the dead. And I never could understand and even Uh even those Brazilian missionaries working there don't understand uh uh yet but there was uh one lady that was coming from uh uh this direction uh with a bottle of liquor that they made there. Another lady came from that direction with a shotgun or a rifle. I thought, my, this doesn't look good. Ladies liquor and shotguns are I mean, boy, that doesn't look good. But uh there was a blind man uh And he was beating with nuts on the ground. And they were lamenting and crying and weeping as it was a ceremony for the dead Do we care? God cares. I was in the krinkete tribe and and uh uh they showed me a a little building. It was about this high and about that wide. I was amazed at a structure so small made out of bamboo and straw on top. And I asked, what's that for? And they told me they would take a young girl, maybe eleven or twelve years of age, and they would place her in there, and no one saw her for a month And their father would bring food to her. She couldn't stretch out. They purposely made it so she couldn't stretch out. And uh they she was fed like that, laying down, couldn't stand up unless she was very bent over, eleven or twelve year old girl. You say, why did they do that? They were fattening her up to give her away in marriage. And a 40-year-old man would take a young girl like that. Can you imagine? Oh, you say, does God care? Yes, he cares. God cares about those. Secondly, not only does God care Uh uh or uh uh there's concern in the heart of God, but secondly, this elder brother shows us there was unconcerned or hardened. About the one in the distant land. That older brother, why didn't he go after him? He saw the heartache of his father. He saw how his father suffered, and yet he never went after him. People in the distant land tonight, they cry out, maybe not in these words, but in their heart, you have light, we have nothing but darkness. I remember being called to uh a lady was dying, a spiritist lady. I I I'll never get it. Uh uh she couldn't understand uh Anybody, and she lay there just about the end to eternity. The last word she said Is your tenure medu? I'm so afraid. I'm afraid. God saw that. God cares about that. Their cry as we try to find a way out, and there's no one to tell us. They cry, we're afraid to die. Do you care? If they could address all of the fundamental people tonight, they would say, you sing at your funerals, we wail at ours. How many times I've seen them walk down the cobblestone streets carrying a casket uh and uh everybody having a rosary uh and pulling those beads uh and their hearts would be broken uh and tears would roll down their eyes uh I I'll never forget the scene uh of them caring when of their loved ones out to place them in the ground that they had gone out into eternity. Maybe they would ask if you were more concerned, wouldn't you come quickly? Wouldn't you do something about it? I'll never forget hearing years ago, our first missions conference at Tabernacle Baptist Church. Great, great missionary that served in Africa for years. Was called to a dear African man that was dying. He was the chief. And the chief asked him White man, you tell us there is a heaven and a hell, and the missionary said, Yes, sir The old gentleman dying, running out his words, said, You tell us that Jesus is the only way. To heaven. Is that right? He said, Yes. Then his eyes opened a little wider And he stared the missionary straight in the eye and said, Then why did you wait so long to come? Why did you wait so long to come? My father, my grandfather, my ancestors. Are in hell. If you're right, why did you wait so long to come? The church Is like the Levite and priest that walked by that man on the road to Jericho. Why didn't they do anything? Well, uh there's several reasons. They were uh afraid that was a place of thieves and robbers, and how many are unwilling to go or be a missionary because of The danger. Then there was selfishness. They had received their love offering in Jerusalem. They didn't have time to stop and help a man half dead on the road to Jericho. Selfishness. Oh, I don't know what to say. And I don't know how to get it across But and I do thank God for everything America has. But I'm afraid that m materialism It's killing us. It's taking our fire, our compassion. And we're not what we used to be. Why? We have got wrapped up in things Selfishness. I remember reading where a man came out, I think it was our capital, I can't remember. Specifically where it came out, and there was a little boy with light ragged clothes, and he was admiring This man's car. This was years ago. And the man stepped up and he said, Uh, uh, son, do you like this car? And he said, Oh, it's it's a beautiful car. He said, You know, my brother gave this car to me And the little boy turned his head and he said, Your brother gave it. Then he said, I wished And the man knew what he was going to say. I wish I had a big brother like that. But he didn't say that. This man that was wealthy but a Christian said, Would you like to ride in this car? It was one of the old-time Packards that was top of the line, and he said, Yes. He got in, he, the man driving said, Where can I take you? And he said, take me by my house. And the man driving thought, I know what he wants. He wants everybody to see him in this car that's chic. He wants to wave at the neighbors. And he took him to his house and he lived upstairs and he said, I'll be back in just a minute. And he came down the stairs and he was carrying another younger boy, and the younger boy had braces on his legs uh and his uh uh feet were about Knee high to this other young boy, and he was struggling to get him down the stairs. And he said, I wanted my little brother to see this car. And he said, I wished, I wished The man thought again, here's a young man that's going to say, I wished I had a brother like that. But he said, sir, I wish I was a big brother like your big brother, so I could give my little brother. In his mind, a car like this, so he could see the sights of the city. What unselfishness. This man said, son, uh help your brother get in, and I'll take you both a ride Leonard Ravenhill sadly says, I am persuaded that all the tears shed over hellbound souls. In one week throughout the entire world could be collected in one small bucket. Oh well, tears are brokenness. We're unconcerned about those in the distant land. Thirdly, he was then concerned about the heart of the Father. He was then concerned about the hardened prodigal. And thirdly, he was unconcerned about the servants. The servants, oh, there was joy When uh that boy came home. There was a feast. There was merriment, and now they are so thrilled. Here's a young elder brother that was completely unconcerned. Folks, you're a great people. I really believe that. I'm not trying to butter you up. God knows better than that. But hey, you got a great pastor here. He's God's servant. You take care of him. Amen or not? If you ever mistreat, criticize this man of God, I'll come back and haunt you, amen or not. I'll come back and haunt you. But how many pastors have a broken heart tonight, wondering, does anybody care? Do they really love? How many evangelists crisscrossing the country Oliver B. Green supported us As one of his missionaries, he had too for many, many years. His mother was a great friend. And when I was home on furlough, she would have me come down, and she would always have some money, and uh, and uh uh she would always give it to me. And sometimes Brother Oliver would be there in her home. And how many times have I heard that man of God say Brother Jimmy, I've worn my body out. I'm going to die young. And he did. He said, I've completely given it All to the Lord and I've worn my body out. And he said, Now now, Lord, you be more careful. He said, if I had to do it over again, uh, I'd go a little bit slower. And I thought to myself Dr. Green, I wouldn't dare say it. If you had to do it over again, you'd do it the same way. They cry, are you concerned about the missionaries? Do you care? Hey, here's a man, and you won't hear this much, that says missions conference is the most important time. You won't hear that. That is not from most. Are you concerned about those that go? And in foreign lands they have no one to advise them. Of course, thank God now there's telephones. When I first went to Brazil It it was years and years before we ever had a telephone uh uh and things can be done uh uh through telephone, but Uh uh how many are denied uh in need of encouragement and I cross the land and you know what I find? Many people just don't care I don't care. Are you concerned about those that go into a church? And sometimes there is welcome as a leper. Not like your church. There is welcome as a leper. And I and I wish because I can't get mad now, but uh I wished I hadn't heard uh the things I've heard down through the years. Uh I have heard that missionaries can't preach and I've heard all of that junk and we can't. That's all right. But we're going, we're going. Are you concerned about those that are reaching out? That have a burden for the unreached around the world. Do you care about those that may be isolated? I've gone into some Indian tribes and seen people isolated, no converts yet, working years. I was on the Amazon River in a place called Puraquequara. And I was asked to come way up north there to preach to missionaries that were working in the Indian tribes. And I'll never forget this dear missionary. Coming 18 days down the Amazon River to be able to hear the word of God. To be able to hear a message Eighteen days down the Amazon River. They're disappointed sometimes when they don't hear from home. Are you concerned about missionaries that are struggling with languages? Hey, Brother Luke. God knows for me to learn Portuguese is one thing, but to learn several languages, ladies and gentlemen, that's something else They're going to need prayer. They're going to need uh somebody to bear them up. Are you concerned enough? To care, to pray. God help us to have people that are praying. Let me tell you what's the hardest thing I think I've ever done. Oh look, thank God. That your children are young and Brother Mike, Sister Jennifer, thank God your children are young. But you know what's going to happen one of these days? You're gonna leave them at an airport. And they're going to go to college. And I can't explain to you. I cannot explain to you. How hard that is. I took my oldest boy to Tennessee Temple and they took him to his dorm. And I'll never forget he's 6'2. When I was ready to say goodbye, that that big boy lifted me up in the air. And I told him, son, I'd only do this for Jesus Christ, for no one else would I ever do this. They need your prayers when that happens. When they're discouraged. One young lady years ago was in an African village and and she got so discouraged Oh, the the naked natives and the uh the vulgarity and uh she was just a good young single missionary and and how it hunted her and and then and then and I'm not excusing her but She drank poison to try to take her life. They had to bring her home. And I know, I know People pointed fingers at her, but I want to point fingers back. To the church that sent her out and forgot about her. And forgot about those long, lonely nights, that hot burning sun, and forgot about her. Yes, you'll stand before the Lord. The church will too. When loved ones are lost to death I remember I told you the other night my wife got on an airplane with me to go to Brazil. We'd never flown in an airplane in our life. And and uh Her dad had terminal cancer. She was able to get home to see him a week before he died. But coming back to Brazil and later on, sometime later on, I was gone for some weeks visiting Indian tribes. And I'll never forget, I was so anxious to get home. I I I I rode a bus three days and three nights. And at that time most of the road was dirt. And then out with a Jeep out to Indian tribes And I was so anxious to get home. I I I preached in one little village uh uh uh uh uh just a little village and uh and and folks They gave me one of the greatest love offerings I've ever had. We just used a gas lantern and a table But I ate in one of the deacon's house. He was it was a little uh uh little straw house or bamboo house. And they had buttered beans. Now in my part of the uh country of Brazil, they didn't have buttered beans. And I thought, my, this is heaven. This is heaven. And I ate and ate and ate and I bragged about those butter beans and so what that church did is they gave me an offering, uh a bag about that big Of butter beans that I brought all the way. From there. But I came in to uh to get a cab. There's no buses running to take me to my house and I got out of the cab and I knocked on the door of my wife. She said, Who is it? And I said, It's me. I'd been gone, I think, three or four weeks. And she opened the door and she stood back. And she started weeping. And she said, Mama died while you were gone. And you have our passport. We're all on one passport. She said I couldn't go. And in the night, as I hugged her, she said, But God's been with me. Let me tell you why. Let me tell you why. Because churches didn't give up on her, churches prayed for her. Are you concerned? Well, about those That have buried loved ones on foreign soil. How hard that is. I have never had to do that. But God bless those that have missionary candidates. You know what they want to know? Do people really care? They're nice, they're good. And this church is essential, and I'm not trying to butter you up. But do people care? We got to get to the field. Uh I I went to the field in a few months. I had the sum total of $310 support, and boy, I was gone. But now things have changed. Missionaries are takes a long time. And they're wondering people care. Years ago in Africa, Brother J. B. Williams told this He said a tall missionary stood before his congregation of Africans and said, Ouch yonder. In the bush, there are tribes of people that need to hear what you've heard. And we have some preacher boys, if you would just give. To help them get out there. The next weekend At service, this young this young African girl came and she had a large sum of money For her. And she said, here, here, Pastor, send someone to tell. The people about my God. He said, Sweetheart, where did you get all this money? She said, I sold myself as a slave to one of the rich ladies in the city the rest of my life. Here, go tell my people About Jesus. God help us. Now let me say w w would you be patient with me? Would you be patient with me? I want to say this about our country. I don't care what the ACLU says, this country was founded on principles that are in the Word of God and Christianity. Did you ever imagine that one day a state supreme court would pass a law that you could not say the pledges of allegiance in our schools? God have mercy on us. Did you ever think that one of the most liberal senators is now our president? Can you imagine that? Did you ever imagine that in America there would be lawsuits? Over the nativity scene on government property. Listen to me. Our leaders believe that the foundation of our nations and our laws should be eternal principles found in the Bible. Let's look at the record. Just bear with me just a minute. Fifty-three out of fifty-six men uh who uh Who wrote the Constitution of our nation? Uh uh the convention to write the Constitution believed in Orthodox Christianity And personally supported Bible teaching to professors from the university uh out in Houston began to study five thousand documents about our founding fathers And uh uh he found out they found out after ten years of labor and working uh uh they found out uh that our founding fathers uh Quoted the Bible four times more than any other source One-third of the founding fathers quoted directly from the Bible, not about the Bible. Let me read you what our first president said, his prayer. Let my heart, gracious God, be offered affected with your glory and majesty, that I may discharge those weighty duties which thou requires to me. I have called on thee for pardon and forgiveness of sins, for the sacrifice of Jesus Christ offered upon the cross for me. Thou gavest thy son to die for me and hast given me assurance of salvation John Adams, our second brother. I'm talking about this junk that everything goes Our second president, Quincy Adam, John Quincy Adams said, the general principles on which the fathers uh achieved independence were the general principles of Christianity. Patrick Henry said, Are you listening out there? Amen and uh I'm saying how far we've gotten away from America. Don't think we don't need churches that are fundamental in this country. Patrick Henry said it cannot be emphasized to str uh uh to strengthen or to uh too often. That this great nation was founded not by religionists, but by Christians, not by religions, but on the gospel of Jesus Christ. How do you like that? Amen or not? Our forefathers fled England not to be free from religion, but to have freedom of religion. Well, I guess I better stop concerned about this country. Well let me read this just one more. Seventeen eighty-two the United States Congress said The Congress of the United States approves and recommends to the people the Holy Bible for use in the schools. How far we've gone. How far we've gone. I'm saying, folks, we need a revival. We need concern. We need to repent. We need to let God set our hearts hearts on fire for Him. Would you stand with me, please? Every head bowed, every eye closed. Father. I guess I preached too long. Oh God, I want to be concerned about your heart. I want to be concerned about the hard-hearted prodigal in the distant land I want to be concerned about the servants of the Father. Please help us tonight. Put concern in the hearts of this great church. Help us to really care. Please help us for Jesus' sake. Our heads are bowed and our eyes are closed and if you like to slip out of your seats and slip down to an old-fashioned altar and say, God, help me to care. Help me to care. Help me to care. Help me to care.