Of uh of Jerusalem on the way down to Gaza and there he sees this guy riding, this guy from Ethiopia, an African fellow. is riding in a chariot heading back down to Ethiopia from Jerusalem. Verse number 29 Or verse number 28 says, He was returning, and sitting in his chariot, read Isaiah. Then the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near and join thyself to his chariot. And Philip ran thither to him and heard him read the prophet Isaiah, and said, Understandest thou what thou readest? And he said, How can I, except some man should guide me? And he desired Philip that he should come up and sit with him. There's the hitchhiker. He hopped in the chariot and they're riding along. I was telling in Sunday school class that as I read this, this Ethiopian fellow, he had come up from Africa. He went to Jerusalem to worship Now, I don't know what all is behind that. I don't know what prompted him to go to Jerusalem. I don't know what stirred him to worship Jehovah, the God of Israel, but nevertheless he was there. I believe, now I can't prove this, and we're not told, but I believe that while he was there, somebody gave him a portion of Scripture. He's reading from Isaiah. Now, if you know anything about books and writings and all of that, back at this time frame, you understand there was no printing presses There was no bound books. These things are written in scrolls on pieces of papyrus or parchment, different types of things, maybe leather, some suggested. But he's not carrying a Bible like you and I think of carrying a Bible. He's not sitting there with an open book in his lap reading. He has no doubt simply a small portion of the book of Isaiah. The passage he is reading is Isaiah 53 The gospel, the clearest gospel presentation in all the Old Testament, in my estimation. I believe somebody Gave to this Ethiopian eunuch, this guy from Africa, while he's in Jerusalem, my thinking is somebody gave to him A piece of paper, so to speak, with the Isaiah plan of salvation in there. I think it is a very ancient form of a gospel tract And as he's writing back, he's reading this portion of scripture that he got somewhere, somehow, maybe somebody gave it to him. And God is dealing with his heart, and God directs Philip to come there and explain to him how to be saved What an amazing thing. A heaven sent hitchhiker. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless. Father We thank you for the Word of God, and Lord, what a tremendous opportunity to be your ambassadors, and in this old sinful world, to be able to share with others the message of the Lord Jesus Christ. God, we recognize that you have given to us some incredible tools that enable us to do this in a very efficient, effective way. Lord, as we focus on gospel tracts this month, I pray that our hearts would be stirred and our eyes would be opened to the power of the gospel. In these little written forms, as we saturate our region of our world with the Word of God, we pray that many, many souls would be saved. I pray that our hearts would be revived. Our burden for the lost would be strengthened. And God, I ask above all else that you would use us. To preach Jesus Christ and point many people into the kingdom. Lord, as we bring this message, I ask that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit, present my body anew, and ask that you'd speak through me. I pray that our hearts and minds would be open. To what your word has to say to our hearts and lives. And so please bless now in this hour I ask. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The book of Acts is an exciting book. It's what we might call a historical book. It gives a historical account or record of the beginning days of the New Testament church Jesus Christ has been crucified. He rose again from the dead, as Jennifer sang beautifully. And he's ascended to heaven in Acts chapter 1, and he leaves a great commission behind for the church. He says, ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria, and unto the othermost parts of the earth. And he ascends to heaven. The Bible uh the book of Acts records how the church carries out those instructions that God gave to that newborn church. I see in chapter two, I see where God energizes the New Testament church. Now my little theory is and understandings. People ask sometimes, well when did the church start I don't know in my mind. I can't put a date and time. This is the day. This is when the church began. I believe in the Gospels the church was in embryotic form. Jesus Christ is presenting himself as the Messiah. People are believing on him. Folks are being saved. The church is in a very embryotic form. during the gospels. I think when you get to Acts chapter two, then the church is energized and the Spirit of God comes down upon that body of believers and fills them and gives them power from on high. And immediately they go out and begin preaching the gospel. So in the book of Acts, you have the churches being energized. Um and uh the power of God come upon it. Now I believe later on in the epistles the church becomes organized, and there God gives instructions for leadership in the church. function of the church and uh the uh organization of the church. But here in the book of Acts, as I said, it's an exciting, exciting account Of how the power of God comes upon the church. And in chapter 2, they're energized with the filling of the Holy Spirit. Then you have throughout the book of Acts, you have the church evangelizing The Bible says that all of them, everyone in the church, went everywhere preaching the gospel. They're going into the cities. They're going into the towns, they're going into the villages, they're going up and down the streets. In fact, one place, the enemies of Christ, the enemies of the church, the Pharisees says, you have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine. And they're acknowledging that every street, every home, every neighborhood had been reached with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. They filled the whole city. With the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. So they're very aggressively and very thoroughly, very boldly evangelizing people throughout that region of the world. Then we find the church in the book of Acts expanding. And by that I mean we find the church growing. In Acts chapter 2, there's added unto the church. 3,000 souls were saved and baptized into the church. Amazing day. 3,000 people. And then it goes for the next several chapters. You find statements like this. There was added unto the church. There was added unto the church. There was added unto the church. The church is growing, growing, Grow expanding Then you get a little bit later on in the book, and they stop. The Bible stops saying there is added unto the church disciples, but it begins using this term. The numbers were multiplied. And multiplied and multiplied. This is explosive growth, explosive expansion in this New Testament church. What I'm trying to say is this: the book of Acts is exciting. We see what God is doing. Somebody said that the book of Acts is the fruit of the Gospels. In other words, in the book of Acts, we have displayed to us. What the preaching of the gospel in the power of the Holy Spirit produces. You say, what happens when a church gets empowered by the Spirit of God? They obey the Great Commission and preach the gospel to every creature. What happens? Read the book of Acts. It's exactly what happens We have it displayed here. If you would, keep your place here in chapter 8, but look back at chapter number 1. I want you to notice particularly the title of the book of Acts. Come back there to chapter 1. And what does your Bible say the title of the book of Acts is? The Acts of the Apostles. Now you understand that title is man given. That's not God's title for the book. Man put that on there. And I'm not, I don't take a great issue with it But I crossed out in my Bible, I crossed out that word apostles. Now that's a man-given title, so don't have a heart attack. Don't stone me. A man gave that title. I crossed out the word apostles. I put this, Acts of the Holy Spirit. I believe this is God's Holy Spirit working through the church, doing amazing, amazing things and bringing people to Christ. Now, that's leathermanism, but that's what I did. And I believe that might be a more accurate title. The book of Acts, we have an inspired record of what the Holy Spirit does in and through the lives of believers Who are fully yielded to him. And here we have a New Testament church completely surrendered to Christ. For the most part, a few exceptions are recorded. But for the most part, the church is fully yielded to him. They are preaching and sharing and witnessing the gospel with boldness. In Acts chapter 4, they prayed, Lord, grant unto thy servants that with all boldness we may speak the Word of God. The Bible says that God shook that place up, and they were filled with the Spirit of God, and multitudes believed and were saved. What an amazing record. What an amazing record. I think here in our text, Acts chapter 8, we have one of the most unique meetings in all of history. Where God, the angel of the Lord, God through the angel of the Lord, sends Philip along this road, and Philip has this divine encounter. With this African fella who is seeking the Lord. This man is very obviously concerned about his soul. And God brings the two together. Philip ends up in the chariot with him, as we just read here a few moments ago, and he becomes a heaven-sent hitchhiker. And leads this fellow to the Lord. Now, I'm buzzing through this a little bit because I want to get to my outline here. I want us to notice, first of all, I want us to consider the character of Philip, this fellow Philip. What was he like? One, we must not confuse Philip here with Philip the apostle. In the Gospels, you read one of the twelve disciples who was named Philip, not the same Philip There's several reasons we believe that. I got looking up his name. Sometimes in the Bible you can tell a lot about a person by the name they're given. A lot of times the name will indicate the character of the person. I thought, well Philip, I'm pretty impressed with him, what I'm reading. He must have a very interesting meaning to his name, probably tell us a lot about him. I looked it up. Brother Derek, Philip means a lover of horses. I tried all I could to figure out spiritual application of a lover of horses. I don't know why he was given that name, but it does tell us a few things about it. That tells us he probably was not a Jew Most Bible scholars that I looked up believed he was a Greek of some sort, a Hellenist, maybe, but he was not a Jewish uh person. He had converted to Christianity not through the uh through Judaism, but somehow we're not sure. But so he probably wasn't raised a Jew, or that's certainly not a Jewish name Lover of horses. Now what does that mean? If him not being raised in Judaism, that would eliminate a lot of the prejudices that the Jews would have had. If you'll remember, the Jews despised the Greeks and the Romans, a non-Jew and a Gentile They absolutely did not get along. Jews would have nothing to do with Gentiles. In fact, it was an issue for a while in the early church. Where they thought, well the gospel isn't for the Gentiles, they're unclean, and God had to make it very, very clear, yes, the gospel is for all people. All backgrounds, all nationalities, all skin colors, all levels of education, all types of personalities, nobody is excluded from the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. So Philip would have not had that ingrained prejudice to overcome, a perfect candidate. For winning someone from Africa to the Lord. He didn't have to deal with any of these prejudices that maybe perhaps the Jews would have had to overcome. We're given very little information about him. As I said, he's not the same as Philip the Apostle you read in the in the Gospels, not the same God. We're introduced to him in Acts chapter 6. The church is growing. It is explosive growth. And they're getting the church is growing faster than what their organization of the church is able to deal with issues. And in Acts chapter 6, in the first couple verses, we find that there was a certain widows in the church were being overlooked. They were being cared for like they really needed to be. So God instructs them through the apostles to choose out seven men who are going to function, and I believe this is the introduction of deacons to the church. They choose out seven men that have to meet certain qualifications to hold this office and care for the dear ladies, uh widow ladies of the church that were being overlooked and neglected. Turn back there with me, if you would, to chapter 6, and we find a little bit about what this fellow Philip is really like. Chapter 6, and notice with me, if you would Uh, verse number three, Acts chapter six and verse three. They're being instructed here, the leadership of the church, the apostles are instructing the church members, verse three, wherefore, brethren. Look ye out among you seven men. Now here's their qualifications. If they're going to hold this office, if they're going to fill this position, here's their qualifications. Number one, seven men uh of honest report. They have to be men of integrity. They have to be men that are have a testimony that they are honest men of integrity. Then it says uh honest report Full of the Holy Ghost. These have to be men who are spiritual or yielded to the Lord. And Spirit of God is able, is filling them and using them. And so they have to be spiritually mature, submissive to the Lord. uh and filled with the Holy Ghost and wisdom. So they have to have a little common sense about them. So we don't want knuckleheads. We want guys that know a little bit what they're doing, have some wisdom about them Then, if you will, you come down to verse number five, and we have a little, this is expanded on a little bit. And the saying pleased the whole multitude. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost. That's one of the qualifications. And look, and who? Philip. Here he is. Philip. And Procurius and Nicanor and Timon and Parmenas and Nicholas, the proselyte of Antioch. So they go on. So it tells us a little bit here. Here you have Philip. This fellow in Acts chapter 8 that becomes a heaven-sent hitchhiker. In Acts chapter 6, he's a member of the church. He is a faithful member of the church. He's in his place, doing his responsibility. He's highly respected by the rest of the church. Can I just throw this out there? One of the best things you and I can do To promote the success of our church, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, one of the best things we can do is just faithfully attend the services of the church. That's one of the best things we can do to promote the success of the church. Philip was a faithful church member. He was in his place. He was fulfilling his responsibility. Apparently, very obviously, he was active, involved, a very vital part of the church there. So that tells us a little bit about this fella. He wasn't some Lone Ranger out there running doing his own thing. No, no, no. He was a key part of the church. Not only that, he was respected by the church to the extent That the church, not appointed by the apostles, but the church body chose him along with six other fellows to fulfill this role that had very Very clear requirements filled with the Holy Ghost, integrity, wisdom And so that tells us a little bit about this fellow Philip, that he was a man. He was a respected, faithful member of the church. He became a very respected deacon. Uh he became an effective soul winner. If you come back to chapter eight in the first part, he's winning people to the Lord. He's not just holding a position in the church and He's not one of these guys, and thank God I don't think we've ever, not under my experience here at Mountain Lake, had anybody like this, but he's not one of these deacons that walks around, wants everybody to know, I am a deacon here. Bow down, kiss my big toe. You know, now I thank God none of our fellows have ever been that way. We've had great men, tremendous men, meet the qualifications tremendously. But sometimes if we get a position somewhere, it kind of goes to people's heads. And they kind of think, well, I'm above everybody else. I'm sort of, I'm a deacon. Well, what do you do here? I deke. What do you think deacons do? And sometimes that's all they do is deke around. And so Philip is not just holding a position. He's not just warming a pew. Acts chapter 8 tells us he's out there involved. He's engaging people with the gospel, Lord Jesus Christ. He is very practically and very actively fulfilling the Great Commission. That God had given to the church and to all of us to take the gospel to every creature. And so this guy is uh he's a he's a pretty good Christian. Faithful church member, respected deacon, active soul winner. He's out there involved. And by the time you get to back in chapter 21, I believe it is, he's given a title. God gives them a title. Philip the evangelist. And he's and he's he's recognized now as somebody That has a title of God, an evangelist. I believe evangelists is God called office. Ephesians talks about that. That God gives to the church evangelists And so I see here a progression in Philip's service to the Lord and his walk with God. He is uh uh he begins just a faithful church member, gets saved, faithful to church, active, the people recognize that this guy has some character to him, some integrity, he's mature, spiritually mature He's put in that position to serve. The office of deacon is an uh office of service. He's serving. He's out there winning souls And God uses them in greater and greater ways. Each stage was a pro was a preparation for the next stage. Listen, I don't know where you're at in your Christian life. If you're here this morning, I trust that you know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, That when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. The most important thing in your life is to know Jesus Christ as your Savior. And get that matter settled and know for sure That you've trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, that He's forgiven you all your sins. And that when that day comes and this life is over, that you go to heaven and not to hell. We can know that. We must know that It's too important to neglect. Now, if you're here and you know Jesus Christ as Savior, no doubt many, most of us here know Christ as Savior. There's a point in time we've accepted Him. I'll tell you this: God wants us to grow. God wants us to grow in our faith and develop and follow his instructions as a Christian to develop our faith. Baptism and Church membership and Bible reading and and all these things develop my faith and help me grow. That's what I see Philip going through And it becomes a very faithful, active member of the church, serving God. And then God opens the doors and expands his area of influence. Here in Acts chapter 8, when we have this event where God directs him down here to uh on the road down from Jerusalem to Gaza out in the desert, we see here, I see this, that Philip's very submissive to the Lord. When the angel of the Lord shows up and says, you know, you need to go down to this desert road, this road that goes through a desert, I don't see any fussing with God. I don't find him, Lord, that doesn't make any sense. Nobody lives down there. Why in the world would I go down there? That does, I've never been there. Who's there? Nobody lives there. And you don't find any of that at all. How do you I think sometimes we have a tendency, I don't know how you are, sometimes I find myself fussing with the Lord. I know none of y'all do that, I know. But sometimes God will impress or show us something and say, Lord, you know, that really doesn't make sense. Lord, I why would you want me to do that? I've learned something. I got saved in 79, so that's uh what 38 years coming up in May? Uh that I've been saved, been walking with the Lord. And um I'll tell you one thing I found out. Every time I fussed with God, God was right and I was wrong. How many people are shocked to hear that? Not one time when I took issue with the Lord have I been right. Looks like we learn after a while. Quit taking issue with the Lord. He's always right. Well, I don't see Philip fussing with the Lord at all. And God tells him to do something that really on the surface looks very strange. Why? It looks like it doesn't make any sense But Philip has enough spiritual maturity about him that he knows if God instructs him to do something, the best thing in the world to do is submit to God's instruction. Is to let the Lord lead and direct him. I've learned something. I'm kind of a slow learner. But I learned something. God knows what he's doing. God knows what he's doing. And so I see here in Philip, I'm thinking about the character of this guy, he's very submissive to the will of God. And when it is made clear to him what God's will is, he submits to that. He doesn't take issue. He doesn't argue. He doesn't fuss. He submits. I see here a man of tremendous faith. Faith in the Word of God. Now this ties in closely with the submission, but What I see here is a man that believes with all his heart that God knows what he's doing. He has absolute faith in God. That God's way is best. God has a plan. God is doing something. I'm going to trust him. And that's what you and I need to do. Some of y'all I don't know a whole lot about, some of y'all I know more than I wish. But I know this about all of us. God is working in every one of our lives. God is working, God is molding, God is, hey, it's not a coincidence, it's not just coincidence that you're going through whatever trial you're going through right now. God allowed that. And if God allowed it, he has a plan, he has a purpose. And we need to get to the level of spiritual maturity where we can learn to trust God And understand that God is in control. God is always. He loves me. And even though it may not be exactly what his will was, he did allow it. And because he allowed it, he can use this to help me grow and develop and be as Christian he wants me to be. What I'm trying to say is this: don't fuss with God. Don't fight his word. Don't fight the Spirit of God when He applies His Word to our heart and prompts us. Don't resist that. Don't grieve and quench the Spirit. Trust God. Submit to him. Let him lead you. Let him direct you. It's what Philip did. What a tremendous example. What a tremendous testimony. And of course, tied in with submission and faith. Philip was tremendously obedient to God. What God told him to do, he did Can I boil down the successful Christian life for you? I just boil it down to its most basic element. Trust and obey There's no other way. There's no other way to be happy in Jesus, but to trust and obey. That's what Philip did. He's soul-winning, he's up there, he's seeing results. Spirit of God, the angel of the Lord comes to him, says, Go down to the road of Gaza, out of Jerusalem towards Gaza, out in the desert, go on down there. He doesn't thus, doesn't question, doesn't hesitate. He goes and does exactly what he says. He gets down there, and lo and behold, there's this chariot going along, heading back down to Africa The Spirit of God says to him, go get up beside that chariot. And he goes up there, and lo and behold, here's this guy reading a portion of scripture somebody gave him up in Jerusalem, a gospel tract, perhaps And he engages that fellow. What a tremendous man Philip is. He's not an apostle. He's not a pastor. Later on, he becomes an evangelist. He's an everyday Christian that loves God and trusts God with all his heart. And what God says he does, he trusts God and obeys him. Very submissively, very willingly. And God used them in an amazing, amazing, amazing way. Now consider this fellow, this Ethiopian fellow, very quickly. Look at verse 27. And he arose and went, that's Philip. And behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace, queen of the Ethiopians. Who had the charge of all her treasures and had come to Jerusalem to worship, and was returning and sitting in his chariot, read Isaiah the prophet. He's reading this little portion of Scripture. Now, this is a man. This is a man that Philip would never had access to in any other scenario. This is a man of tremendous authority. He is a government leader of a powerful nation in Africa. Not any just Joglo is going to walk up to this guy and engage him and encounter him. I have no doubt he must have had some sort of entourage with him. Maybe he had security, I don't know what it was like then. But he was not somebody that was in any other scenario, I doubt seriously, Philip would have had any access to But when Philip trusts God and lets God lead him, God opens doors that Philip could have never opened himself. And he meets this fellow. And he encounters him. And there's a word, as I was studying this, that stood out in my mind. Look at verse 27. Alright, the angel of the Lord told him to go on down here. He says, all right, verse 27. And he arose and went. He doesn't know where he's going. He doesn't know what he's going to encounter down here. He has no idea what he's getting into. If for all he knows, it's an empty desert. I'm going to sit out there for a few days. I don't know what God's doing. And he arose and went and what's that next word? He arose and went and Behold. I was reading that. In fact, last night I was going over it. And Kathy was laying on the couch there, and I was reading over this. He rose and went, and behold, that word behold stood out. It's like, wow. And all of a sudden, everything God was doing made sense I would imagine, I can't say for certain, but I would imagine in Philip's mind is, boy, I wonder what in the world this is how this is going to turn out. There's nothing down there, it's just desert. What in the world? And he gets there, and here's this chariot with this high-ranking official. And behold, all of a sudden, what God was doing became clear. Here's a guy the Lord needs me to talk to. All of a sudden, everything the Lord was doing began to make sense. I don't know about you, but I've been times in my life where I had no idea what God was doing. What in the world? And then all of a sudden, give God time, let him have his way, trust him and obey him, then suddenly you get to a point and it's like, ah Okay, I see what's happening here. I mentioned about the gal from China getting saved for a track month We were up in Morgantown. We gave out, I don't know, four or five thousand tracks. We put 'em on doors all through apartment. We just covered that part of town. We had no idea, we were just doing and hadn't Nothing significant stood out. I'm closing up the church on Saturday night. It's about 9. 30 or so, maybe 10 o'clock. I'm locking the office door up and the phone rings Hands the phone, low, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church fellow says, this is so-and-so. I am a missionary. I am currently in Beijing, China. He said, okay, what can I do for you? We get missionaries call all the time. He says, were you in Morgantown giving out literature today? Guys in Beijing, China. I said, uh, this is weird. Um yes? And began to tell me that one of the ladies in the church here that got saved, her daughter is a student. At WBU, and they had been witnessing to her. She got one of our tracks in her door. She called home and her mom angry that her mother sent somebody by to witness to her. Her mother called the national pastor and said, Why did you send somebody by? My daughter's all mad at me. He goes, I didn't send anybody by Well maybe it was the American missionary. So they called him up, gave him the information off the track. The girl gave it to her mother. Anyway, one thing. And after it was all said and done, I went, uh, behold God had us go up there that day because there was a Chinese gal that people in China were praying for to be saved, and he needed somebody to go by and give her the gospel. Isn't that an amazing thing? By the way, six months later, the missionary calls back. Just want to let you know, the old gal got saved. We're going to baptize her here in a little while, back in China. Isn't that an amazing thing? Behold! This may not have made any sense to Philip. He's going out. I don't know why God, I don't know why Prancer has us give out tracts every April track month. And then something like that happened, and it's like, oh I see. God has a plan. God's doing something. God has people out in our community that need the gospel. And so this Ethiopian eunuch is uh going down here, and I that word behold just kind of stood out in my mind, and uh Philip's like, oh, I see what's going on here Let me quickly give you a few observations about this Ethiopian eunuch. He's from Africa, he's coming out of the continent of Africa, at this point in time, a totally unreached Region of the world. No churches down there, as far as we know, little or no witness at all. In the whole continent, maybe a little bit in Egypt. That's it. And he's coming up, and I notice he's returning from Jerusalem. Somebody tell me, what was he doing in Jerusalem? What did we read? He was doing what? He was worshiping. He wasn't there on official business. He wasn't there representing the Ethiopian queen uh Candace He was there of his own accord to worship Jehovah. Now I have no idea. We are not told what prompted him, how he knew anything about this, what stirred his heart to get up there But whatever the case was, maybe he had been there on some previous business trip and encountered some believers, or the Jews impressed him. I don't know. But for whatever reason, he goes to Jerusalem to worship Jehovah. As a Gentile, he could not have entered the courts of the temple. So we don't know what all that involved. But I do know this. He was a religious man, but he was lost. He was unsaved. You know what's a tragedy? Not just that this Ethiopian eunuch would go to Jerusalem, the center Of God's human universe, so to speak, where the church is being established, where the church is exploding with power and growth. And he leaves lost, unsaved. I tell you what a tragedy is, that all cra all around the world there are churches Some are filled with people who are very, very religious, but they're lost. Lost. If they die in their condition, they end up in hell for all eternity. My daddy was a very religious man, but he was lost. Grew up in another denomination. He knew the gospel. He knew the Bible was the Word of God, but he had never personally trusted Jesus Christ as his own Savior. I was ten years old. He knelt in the basement of our house, an old sofa. He recognized the fact that though he was religious, he was unsaved, he needed Jesus Christ as personal Savior. And my daddy in 1970 called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be his personal Savior. Listen, this eunuch was very religious He was unsaved. He was in his fence. Isn't that a tragedy? Be religious, but lost. Not only that, he's returning from worship and he's still lost. He had gone to the place where the truth was. And for whatever reason, he was not reached with the gospel. Somebody, no doubt, gave him this little portion of scripture. But he left church lost. I tell you what is another tragedy along the same lines is when somebody does come to a Bible-preaching church like ours, and we're not the only one. Somebody does come to a Bible preaching church and they have the opportunity to be saved. And they walk out the back door still unsaved. Still lost. That is one of the greatest griefs of my heart as pastor. And we have sometimes, I know there's somebody that's lost. They know they're lost. I've been witnessing to them. And I preach my heart out and I share the gospel as clearly as I can. And they walk away and not trust Christ. What a grief that is. What a sad thing that is So here we have this Ethiopian eunuch. He's very religious, but he's not saved. He'd been to the Jerusalem where the church is growing and expanding, and I don't know what his encounters were, their experiences. He is coming out with a portion of Scripture. But he's still not saved. He's still not saved. And he's reading the scriptures. He's returning from Jerusalem. He's reading the scriptures. Obviously, his heart is stirred. Something down inside his heart and soul tells him there is more to life than what he's living. Something down inside his heart and soul tells him that he needs God But he just cannot put the pieces together. But he's ready to be saved. How can I Understand what I read, except some man tell me. To me, that statement on this man's part indicates a desire to know God, a hunger To have my soul's needs met, to know Jesus as my personal Savior. How can I? Except some man tell me. He's ready to be saved. He's ready to be saved. He's willing to be instructed. I think it's interesting. This is a man of tremendous authority. The Bible says that. Powerful man. And yet he humbles himself to let this total stranger, a peasant, so to speak. Get up in his chariot and show him how to be saved. What humility. I tell you what, nobody gets saved that doesn't first humble themselves. Before God. Pride is the greatest enemy of salvation known to man. Pride. Pride sends more people to hell And any other sin. Any other sin. Pride. And here we find this man humble himself. Will you show me Show me how can I be saved? Who is this man? What needs to be done? Humility. I tell you, if you're here this morning and the Spirit of God is pricking your heart about pride in your heart and life, you and I need to agree with God and humble ourselves and confess that sin of pride and forsake it. If we need Jesus Christ as Savior, we need to humble ourselves and trust Him. If we are saved and we're too proud to submit to God, we need to repent of that sin of pride and humble ourselves before God. Pride's a terrible thing. Terrible thing. And here this fella, he's ready to be saved. He humbles himself. So I see, number one, the character of Philip, and I gotta end. Number two, the The uh condition of this Ethiopian, then last of all, two questions in the chair. I want to end quickly. There's two profound questions here. First one, Philip asks. You understand what you're reading. The second one is, how can I, except some man, guide me? Those two questions tell me a couple things. I'm going to give them to you real quick. Number one, God uses human instruments to reach the lost. I think it's interesting. The angel of the Lord didn't tell this guy what he was reading, what it meant. The Spirit didn't tell this man what he was reading meant. The angel of the Lord directed Philip to tell him. The Spirit directed Philip to tell him. God uses people. Some man was needed to bring this fellow to Christ. You military fellows, what's it mean when we say there needs to be boots on the ground? There needs to be bodies there. There needs to be people there engaging the enemy. You can't just from shoot missiles. There has to be boots on the ground. I'm saying to you, for souls to be saved, the church needs boots on the ground. God uses people to reach people. Behind every soul saved is some person, one way or another, getting that gospel to them somehow. God uses people. The second thing I notice here, God uses the Word of God. Nobody ever gets saved without the Word of God You're here this morning and you claim to be saved and you're not saved the Bible way, you're not saved The Word of God. The Word of God. And we see that very clearly here. And then number three, I put this down: people are saved by grace through faith. Did you notice he said there in verse number 37, I believe. That Jesus Christ is the Son of God. He put his faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. This fellow believes. He gets baptized. By the way, baptism is not part of salvation. It's a testimony of the fact he was saved. This fellow goes back down to Ethiopia. The history accounts tell us that some churches were established in that part of Africa. Those churches sent out missionaries. And others were reached in that part of Africa. But the one history I was reading of the church there, a fellow made this statement, G. Campbell Morgan made this statement. He said, there is no record, now this is a little aside, there is no record that the churches in Africa, as a result of this encounter, ever translated the Word of God into their native languages. And as a result of that, they did not have the Word of God in their language, and the churches died out. I thought that was interesting. I believe what we're doing with Beacon of Truth and getting the Word of God in languages of the people around the world is vitally important. When people are reached, now I'm talking about missions. I'm a little rabbit trail here, but we're talking about missions when these nations, they must have the Word of God in their language. Or they die out. They die out. And we desperately need linguists and people who are able, gifted of God, to be able to translate accurately under the Spirit of God the scriptures into their languages. And as I was studying this, I thought that was a profound observation. The scriptures weren't translating their languages, and the churches died out. And many years later had to send missionaries back to reach them. God has people, just like this Ethiopian eunuch, his heart was ready. God was dealing with his heart And God knew that, and God sent Philip down to encounter him, show him from the scriptures what he needed to do to be saved, this Ethiopian trusted Christ. And was saved. I believe all across our area here. I believe in Morgantown with all my heart. I believe right now in Morgantown. I believe in Cumberland. I believe here in Oakland, in Grantsville, and all these areas and regions around I believe that there are people God's dealing with their hearts, just like this Ethiopian. And God is looking and directing us to go by. And show them how to be saved. Am I making sense? Am I making sense? I believe that with all my heart. I believe as people right now, if we would go sit in their kitchen with an open Bible, all around here, there are people who would call on the Lord to be their savior, if just somebody would go by and show them how to be saved. I was reading about a fellow, Christian fellow. Was flying on a business trip, and he was signed a middle seat in the air, in the aisle, there in the plane, a middle seat. If you fly very much, middle seats can be miserable So he decided he was tired, it was a long trip. He decided he's in the middle seat, he's just going to sit back, close his eyes, and sleep, and didn't want to deal with anything. Well, to the right of him was a little girl. She had Down syndrome, and she kept asking him questions. She said, Mister, what? Do you brush your teeth? Yes. She said, that's good because people who don't lose their teeth. Right. Mister? What? You smoke? No. That's good because people who smoke get sick All right. A little bit later. Mister? What? Do you know Jesus? Yes. That's good because people who don't don't go to heaven. Because that's right. She quieted down a little bit. He was sitting there. After a little bit, the little girl touched him on the side and said, Mister, what? Will you ask the man on the other side if he brushes his teeth? Alright. Do you brush your teeth? Yes, yes. Tell them that's good because people don't lose their teeth. That's good because people don't lose their teeth. You know where this is going, right? Ask him if he smokes. No, good. Mr. Ask him if he knows Jesus. You know Jesus? No, I don't. It's interesting you ask that because I've been thinking a lot about that And the guy said for the next rest of the flight, he had his Bible out showing that guy how to be saved. The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe all over God has people prepared. He's working in their hearts. He just needs somebody, maybe a little girl with Down syndrome, that's not afraid to say, you know Jesus. Maybe just a church member that's not afraid to take a gospel track and leave it on a door, put it on a car handle. Hand it to a lady at a counter, go down a street, stick it in a bill and pay it. That might be all it takes to reach somebody that God's working in their life. You follow what I'm saying? I ordered checks from Colorado Springs. I needed some checks. My wife has this idea, as long as there's checks in the book, you know, you're fine. There's a lot of money. We um no, I'm kidding. I only say that because she's not here. But um Lo and behold, month later I get a letter in the mail. Dear Mr. Leatherman, I got your order for the checks and I got your little gospel track in there. My mother just passed away yesterday and those verses meant so much to me and I wanted you to know that I prayed that prayer on there and trusted Jesus. As my Savior. Just a little track in a bill. That's something. Just some Ethiopian unit going down through a desert, but God directed him, and his heart was ready, believed, and got saved Let's let God use us this month. Let's get involved. Take some tracks. Give them out. Pray. Be creative. Be bold. Trust God. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray you'd use us in these next four weeks, particularly, to reach as many people as we can with the gospel of Jesus Christ. I know you're working in hearts, there's no doubt about it I believe he just needs us to be faithful, submissive, and obedient and get the word of God out. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher? With all my heart, I want God to use me. I'm going to do everything I can in the next four weeks to get the gospel through these gospel tracts or whatever as effectively and as thoroughly as I can. How many like that would say, Preacher, I'm on board with you I'm on board with this. I want to get it. God bless you, hands all around. Maybe there's some here this morning say, preacher, I really don't witness like I should. And this message, God convicted my heart. And uh I'm a little timid, but uh I want to start. It's kind of new to me, but I want to I want to get involved in this. I want to be active. Is there any others? I know a lot of hands are raised, but how about particularly, Lord, this is something new, preacher And I want God to use me and bless me. God bless you. A number of hands are round. God bless you. And God'll do it. God will do it. One last question. Are you here this morning and you're not certain that your sins are forgiven, that when you die you go to heaven? You have some doubts there. There's some questions. Once you get them settled today, the Bible has the answer, tells us how we can know for sure our sins are going to want to wait in. Is there any like that? Preach or pray for me I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven. When I die, I go to heaven. I'm concerned about that. And I'll pray that God will give you peace in your heart and settle that. Any at all. Any at all. Now Father, bless our invitation. A lot of hands raised. I anticipate you do using us in the next few weeks, Lord. We want you to And so have your way in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed, Jennifer's playing the piano. How about