Yeah, I was telling Tom and Cindy before we were out visiting this afternoon, I really don't want to preach this message. Uh this is one of the most convicting ones uh that um uh I've had in quite some time and uh I was just pr asking the Lord, please somehow let me get out of preaching this message. And he didn't let me. Proverbs twenty-five, verse number twenty-eight. So since I have to preach it, I'm just gonna do it really quick and get done and get out of here. And um Hey, you know, I'm no different than you are. Uh get convicted about things and challenge. So uh we'll s we'll see what the Lord has for us. Proverbs twenty-five, verse number twenty-eight Notice what the Bible says here. Now our series is, just while you're finding your place there, our series is confronting sins that we get very comfortable with. And you know, we've been using the incident with the Lord and the woman taking in adultery as our kind of our springboard that Jesus confronted the Pharisees about their own personal sins Uh they were very worked up about this other woman's gross sin, but they had sins of their own that they were very comfortable with, and that's what we're asking the Lord to confront us uh with the areas in our life that we have a tendency to get comfortable with and you say, well what's the big deal then? What happens is we have these What we consider little sins, what happens is they hinder God's blessings on our life and they hinder our prayers from getting answered and they hinder revival and and God using us. And so We need to face them, we need to deal with them. And here's one tonight that the Lord led. Proverbs twenty-five, verse number twenty-eight. He that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down and without walls. What we're going to discuss here real quickly is the sin of being undisciplined. Undisciplined. So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father, I do yield myself to you. Present my body. I ask, Lord, with all my heart you fill me with your Holy Spirit. Confront us, Lord Search our hearts, Lord, and deal with those areas that we've excused and we've justified, we've become very comfortable with, and help us to confess them and forsake them, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I don't think there's been a series I've preached in all the years I've been preaching that has been as challenging to me personally in my walk with the Lord as this series we've been doing. And tonight's message As I said, the Lord really used to challenge me. Notice in verse 28. What is he saying here? He's saying that the person who has a faulty self-discipline has no rule over their spirit, they don't have self-discipline. They have uh their defense against the enemies of success is going to be broken down. It's going to be faulty. In other words, if uh if I don't have if I'm not disciplined in my life, then I am vulnerable To things that would destroy me, destroy my testimony. Now in ancient days A wall around a city was the probably the most important aspect of their defenses when they would have that wall up around that city. We think of the of the walls around Jericho Remember that story? And uh uh here's the thing about it, Jericho knew Israel was coming. Word had gotten out. Remember when they sent spies in and Rahab the harlot, she told the spies, we've heard about you. And uh we're scared to death. And we knew you were coming our way. And uh just be merciful and remember me and my family whenever you take over the city. So Jericho knew Jerusalem was coming. They had plenty of time to amp up their defenses. They had plenty of time to stock up their armory. They had plenty of time to put things in place And with that wall around them, they were fairly secure. And of course, God had Jericho had Joshua go in there, march seven times for seven days, seven times on the seventh day. And when those walls came down, Jericho had no defense. And Israel could just storm in there and slaughter them and spoil that city. The walls were very, very important for their defense. Didn't matter how much armor they had, doesn't matter how much ammo they had, doesn't matter how much spa uh arrows and spears and soldiers they had, if that wall was down they were dead meat. Now that's what he's saying here. For you and I as a Christian, if we do not have self-discipline, we're like a city in ancient days that has no walls. We're vulnerable. Does anybody think what the New Testament word is for self-discipline? There's a New Testament word for it. Anybody know what that word is? Temperance. Temperance. And uh the Bible talks about temperance. We'll notice that in a minute. Who was it that penned these words here in Proverbs? Who was the human? Who was the person that penned these words? Solomon. Solomon was the wisest of men. Jesus referenced that. But here's the tragic thing. Solomon wrote this passage down, yet he failed to practice in his own life what he, under the inspiration of God, admonished people for all time to practice. He was not able to discipline himself in his love for women. And the Bible tells us he had 700 wives. Now if you have s all right, practice self-discipline right now. Uh if you have 700 wives, that means you've got you're in trouble, yeah. That's one way to put it. But think of all the mother-in-laws you got. That's what I was thinking of. That's rough. Uh he had 700 wives, 300 concubines. Now, for you folks in West Virginia, a concubine is not an instrument for harvesting grain. Sorry, I couldn't resist. Uh why is everyone looking at Robin? Um A concubine was uh was uh really an illegitimate lover of the of the man. It was a a mistress kind of. That was accepted and and uh in society then, but it was wrong. So he had seven hundred wives, three hundred concubines, and he paid a heavy price. If you read very carefully, and this has just really dawned on me in recent years, Solomon ended up a very perverse man, a very, very wicked man. And I think we can take it all back to the fact that he was undisciplined. He did not practice this verse right here. And he paid a heavy, heavy price. Come back to another verse just a few chapters before, Proverbs 16. Come back there. Here it's the same subject is addressed, but he comes at it from a little different angle. Proverbs 16 and verse number 32. It says Proverbs 16, 32, he that is slow to anger is better than the mighty. Now look at this. And he that ruleth his spirit. Now you could paraphrase it and say, he that exercises self-discipline. He rules, he controls his spirit. He that ruleth his spirit, then he that taketh a city. Now notice what he's saying. He's saying it's better to have there's greater benefit in exercising self-discipline than there is in getting the spoils of a city. Can you imagine if you overtook a city and all the s all the resources, all the money, all the possessions of that city you had full access to, you could have it all. He says it's better to have self-discipline than to take a city. than to conquer a city. Often folks are better at controlling others than they are of their own self. Sometimes preachers are that way. Sometimes leaders are that way. In Galatians chapter 5, verse 22 and 23, we're given the fruits of the Spirit. And one of the fruits of the Spirit is temperance. Self-control. It is a fruit of the Holy Spirit indwelling me and controlling my life. is self-control. Second Timothy three, chapter three and verse three, we're told that one of the characteristics of mankind in the last days is that he will be incontinent. In other words, he will not control himself. I think it was Paul Harvey the radio commentator, not Paul Harvey the farmer. Although Paul Harvey the Farmer might have said this. But Paul Harvey, the commentator, said that self-government without self-control will never work And he's and he's talking about exactly what this subject is. In the last days, people will not control themselves. They will not discipline themselves. Titus 2, verse 2 through 6. Titus is instructed to teach discipline in the church, teach self-control to the church members. And so a lack of self-control has destroyed so many testimonies, lack of discipline Now I'm going through this as quick as I can. I want to encourage you to jot some of these down. Maybe come back to some of these passages later and give them some thought. I know as I worked through this and studied this, the Lord dealt with my heart in a number of areas And uh I think God can use this to really, really help us. Number one, I put this down. What are characteristics of self-control? Come back to Proverbs 25 there, and let's just look at some of the words that are used here. And find out a little more in depth what God is saying to us. Proverbs 25, verse number 28 again. And uh let me get to it there. He says, he that hath no rule over his own spirit. I got looking up the word rule. It simply means this: to control or restrain himself. He that has no control over himself, he that is unable to restrain himself. It has the idea of governing My behavior. Now I'm not a mechanic and um uh so I don't know a whole lot of what I'm talking about here, but I do know in years going by at least, I don't know if they still do it or not, you would put often on an engine, you would put a governor Does does anybody know what I'm talking about? Am I correct? A governor. And that governor would control how fast he can go, would control uh the speed. Maybe you'd set it at fifty five No matter what you did, no matter what the circumstance was, you could not go beyond that. That governor controlled or restrained The speed of that vehicle, how fast that injib would take that vehicle. That's what self-discipline is That's what disciplining ourselves, it restrains our desires, restrains our free will to keep us in check. Now God created us with two things. He created us with desires. Originally in the creation of Adam and then Eve, those desires were holy desires. They were legitimate desires. And he also created man with a free will. Before sin entered the world, the free will and the desires work beautifully together in unison. I could choose to fulfill my desires. There was no sin that stained them or corrupted those desires, and they could be fulfilled. There was no need for self-discipline in the sense because there was no uh uh sinful desires there. But God created a garden and in the garden he put a uh tree of the knowledge of good and evil And he forced man to have to discipline himself, govern himself And to use his free will to keep his desires in check. Of course, Satan showed up and he manipulated Eve who influenced Adam. And they refuse to exercise self-discipline. They refuse to govern their actions, and they allow the sight of the forbidden fruit and the words of Satan to. To get them to break down the walls of self-discipline and it brought destruction to mankind. Everybody with me? And so the importance of self-discipline, it means that the characteristics of self-discipline is saying no. Let me put it this way. It's saying no when I need to say no. It's saying yes when I need to say yes. It's stopping when I need to stop. It's going when I need to go. It's disciplining myself. It's doing right when I need to do right, whether I feel like doing right or not. Let me put it this way. It's doing right when I need to do right, whether I want to do right or not. How many folks here? Say you know, say amen. Anybody here since you've been saved you wanted to do something you knew was wrong? Come on now, be honest. Anybody at all? Yeah. And uh what do we have? We need to exercise discipline. Because if that discipline is not there, that self-discipline is not there, the walls are broken down, and boy, I am vulnerable to destroy my testimony I am vulnerable to let evil come in and absolutely destroy my life. By the way, the world recognizes the importance of self-discipline. Uh financial advisor, somebody that's very successful with their finances, you know what they'll tell you? They'll tell you you need to discipline yourself in your handling of your money. You can't just spend it on whatever you want to. You can't just blow through it. You need to say no. Uh you ever listen to Dave Ramsey? Uh guy in financial editor guy. I like him. I got his books and the news. different things. And um uh h his big thing is doing without. Being content with what you have, saying no. And avoiding that debt trap and all that. Financial advisors recognize the need for discipline in handling of money. Athletes recognize the need for discipline in developing themselves physically and being able to do uh perform the uh whatever sport they're in. And man, they'll get up when they don't feel like getting up, they'll exercise, when they don't want to exercise, they'll cut back their eating. When they don't want to cut back their eating And they'll do what they need to to get to that level. Success in any field Requires discipline. Nobody has become successful because of their lack of discipline Nobody ever. It does not promote success. It promotes failure, it promotes destruction, it promotes uh uh loss. So any field, and it's true in the spiritual life also. Oftentimes in the world, and it's true, I hate to say it, but it's true in the church, a person can be very disciplined in one area of their life. and be very undisciplined in another area of their life. How many people recognize the name Tiger Woods? Would you agree with me? He is a very disciplined golfer. You read about how he uh prepared himself from a young boy and how many uh times he'd be out there practicing. And working on his swaying and dieting and exercising and being in the best shape he possibly can to be what is arguably one of the greatest golfers that ever walked the lake Very disciplined in his athletics, in his physical aspect, and the golfing skills, but very undisciplined in his moral life Very undisciplined in his marriage, in his relationship with his wife. And absolutely I tell you, to be honest with you, just as a human being, I thought so highly of that man And then I learned so much about him. You know what it was? It was a lack of discipline. If he would apply the discipline that he had in his golf gate, if he would have applied that to his personal life keeping an amazing person. Amen. So it's possibly very disciplined in one area of my life and very undisciplined in another area of my life. Does any of any of you old timers, anybody Remember the name Bobby Knight? The coach Bobby Knight. He was out of the IU when we lived in Indianapolis. Bobby Knight was again arguably one of the greatest college coaches, basketball coaches that ever was. And a tremendous coach and developed different aspects of the game. He was very disciplined in his coaching of basketball. But he was very undisciplined in his handling of his temper. And he was just as much as he was known as a tremendous coach, he was also known as a horrible highhead. screaming at the news reporters, uh the infamous incident when he got so mad he threw the chair across the court in front of the a national game And in front of the whole world and everybody. And he scarred his testimony, so to speak, as a person. Not by his discipline in basketball, everybody respected that, but by his lack of discipline in his temper. And that is true for you and I. We can be very disciplined in some areas of our life and yet very undisciplined in others and absolutely scar our lives. I've said this often over the years, and it's true for all of us. I've worked very hard for twenty years I've been here as pastor in the community. I've worked pretty hard. I've tried very hard to maintain a decent have a decent testimony As of a genuine Christian. And what it has taken me 20 years to work on and try and establish, I could blow in one evening One evening of undisciplined action, not restraining myself, could absolutely destroy what twenty years uh effort required. You follow what I'm saying? What I'm trying to say is in the Christian life, discipline is very, very important. And it's simply the willpower, the determination that I will say no when I need to say no. And I will not do what I should not do, whether I feel like it or not. And I will say yes when I need to say yes, and I will do what is right to do, not on my desires, but on whether it's right or wrong. The characteristics of discipline. Let me give you number two real quick the consequences of a lack of discipline What happens if we do not exercise discipline? We'll look here at verse 28 again. He that hath no rule, no restraint over his own spirit, is like a city that is broken down. This is what he's like. Now I put this word down, dilapidated. That's what the word broken down means. This city that has no walls is in ruins. It's uninhabitable. You can't live there. The idea broken down there gives the picture of the roofs and the of the houses in the city. There's no wall around it, and the storms come by and the enemies come by and the marauders come by. And the buildings are burned, and the roofs have holes in them, and the streets are in shambles. You can't even live there because the wall's not there. And uncontrolled desires destroy lives. Uncontrolled desires destroy lives. When I was a youth pastor in Indianapolis, there was a fellow who came to the church, joined the church, he and his wife. And um there's just something made me a little nervous about the guy, but everybody seemed to like him and he seemed to have a pretty good testimony. He was there for a period of time, ended up in the choir, singing in the choir. One night the preacher called me up, I think it was a Sunday night or a Monday sometime, he called me up of an evening and he said says, well you I gotta go down to the jail. Uh will you go with me? We gotta visit so and so. I said, you gotta be kidding in jail. What's the story? He says, well we'll find out when we get there. We got down there and uh visited with them and found out he had beaten up his uh wife. We got busy with him over a period of time. And here we found out that he had spent more of his life in jail than he had spent out of jail. He was probably in his sixties at the time. And we got talking to him, found out more about the guy, uh, and this is what he told us. This is the lesson I learned. He said, I can be a good Christian in jail. But when I get out, I blow it every time. He said in jail, I don't have to decide when I get up and when I get out. In jail, I don't have to decide whether I'm going to drink or not, whether I'm going to do this or not. Everything is decided for me. If someone else exercises discipline over me, I can function. But I cannot function if I have to exercise my own self-discipline. A lack of discipline in the part of this man destroyed his life. As far as I know, he died in jail. Spent most of his life behind bars. Why? Because he could not discipline. Himself. He was broken down. His life was dilapidated because he had no self-discipline, no walls. No walls. Uh do you ever read about folks that win the several million dollar lottery? And all of a sudden restraints are removed, financial restraints restraints are being removed from them and now they can buy whatever they want. And they can spend their money on whatever they want. They can take whatever vacation And they fail to act sometimes uh you know poverty can be a good forced discipline. If I don't have the money, then I'm not tempted to buy it. That's where credit cards become so dangerous, right? But now they're multimillionaires and they never had the discipline to begin with, and the money didn't destroy them, the money simply enabled them to live their life without discipline for a while. And you've read the follow-up on them, and almost without exception, with very few exceptions, their lives are destroyed, their marriages are destroyed, and they end up farther in debt when it's said and done than they were before they ever won the money. You know what that's saying? If a lack of self-discipline destroys the life. It dilapidates the life. But notice what he says. He says that uh like a city that is broken down and without walls, that's defenseless. Defenseless. Every enemy of the city has unrestrained access. I put myself in grave danger when I do not discipline my behavior. I put myself in grave danger when I do not govern my desires I have got to learn to discipline myself. I've got to learn to practice temperance. In my life. So number one, the characteristics, number two, the consequences. Let me give you the last one real quick. What's the cure for a lack of discipline? You say, Brother Leatherman, I agree with you, I understand what the scripture is saying But you know I have some areas in my life where I just I give in. I don't I don't do the I don't say no when I need to say no and I I don't say yes when I need to say yes, I just see Certain areas of my life where I just break down. I don't have discipline over that. How do I correct that? By the way, this matter of discipline applies every area of the Christian life. It requires discipline to read your Bible on a regular basis. Just have to discipline yourself to do that. To pray like we're supposed to pray requires discipline. Can I suggest this? Church attendance requires discipline. You may find this hard to believe, but there are some times where I just choose stay home is not very church. I mean I love church. I love coming here, but there's some situations Where it's like, you know, the old flesh would like to just stay a little, but I can't, I'm the pastor. I've gotta go. So now it's gonna happen. You're gonna sit out here and think, I wonder if he'd rather be home right now. They're very rare people But uh you know what, you just gotta do it. How many folks here, I've asked this before, how many folks here ever did not feel like going to church, but you went anyway, but you knew it was right and when it was over you were good Maybe win. Sure. Uh soul winnings that way. Uh yeah, there's a lot of times I think I really don't feel like going out there and get used up. or whatever. But I know it's the right thing to do. I'll just go out and Sunday or whatever medication is or sometimes a little week and I'll go out and ask for what I'll say for the last Where I did that. And so what's the cure? How do I develop this in my life so that I know I'm doing what I'm supposed to do, whether I feel like it or not. I'm not doing the things I shouldn't do, even though I want to. How do I cure that? Well, I put two things down. Number one, there has to be a wholehearted decision. Discipline is never easy. It always requires willpower. I must want to do what is right. I've prayed this prayer for years and years and years. I've prayed, God, make my desire to do right greater than any other desire I have. God put in me the wholehearted desire to do what is right all the time, in every circumstance Give me that desire. Because if I don't want to have victory in the area of discipline, I will not have victory. If I don't want to be, if I wholeheartedly do not want to be what I know I should be, then I'm not going to be it. You know what athlete will tell a young person that's going into a field, they'll say something like this to them. You've got to want it with all your heart. I enjoy watching boxing and one of the things the guy says When a guy starts out, you've got to want to do this with all your heart. And they get in there and man, they're getting beat up and they're obviously losing, and there would be a real temptation, just take a knee or whatever, and uh sometimes that guy and they'll make this statement. wants it. And he'll stay in there and keep doing his getting via because he desires it. And if you and I are going to be the people God intends for be, if we're going to have the prayer night and we're going to fulfill the great commitment The way God intends for us to, we have got to make a wholehearted decision that that is what I want more than anything else in the world. There has to be that decision. Then, second of all, I believe this: there has to be a filling of the Holy Spirit. How many folks here found out the flesh is awfully persistent? Good heavens. This flesh does not want to do what the Holy Spirit wants me to do. And there's this constant warfare going on. And it is very difficult to conquer the flesh with the flesh. The way I overcome the flesh is through being filled with the Holy Spirit. Galatians 5 tells us these two lust one against the other, so that we cannot do what we would I've got to get to the point. No, I do not want to fulfill the lust of the flesh. I do not want to have the works of the flesh be true in my life. I want to be filled with the Holy Spirit. I want the fruit of the Holy Spirit, though, more than anything else I want to be right. And Lord, I yield myself to you, and I look to your Holy Spirit to enable me to be disciplined, to have victory over the areas I'm weak. And God can change us. Now discipline is something that we really need to instill in our children because it is very difficult to attain later in life if you've not had it throughout life. That's sometimes where people struggle. Somebody gets saved that never was disciplined growing up. And then they get saved. They need to learn that characteristic. They need to learn that um uh attribute, I guess. And it has to be developed. Now I've got the Holy Spirit, He can help me. But I've got a desire. I've got a want And uh Tom Landry, I've got a quote, brother Tom Tom, you'll appreciate this. Tom Landry, who was the coach down at uh uh in Dallas for the Dallas Cowboys was had a good testimony as a Christian. You know a lot of these famous athletes and stuff ha say they're Christian, but Brother Landry had pretty good testimony. He he seemed like he was the real deal. He said this. The job of a football coach is to make men do what they don't want to do in order to achieve what they've always wanted to be. Isn't that a good statement? It's to get people to do things they don't want to do so they can achieve that which they've always wanted to be. Now let's apply that to the Christian life. I have got to learn that I've got to do something sometimes I don't want to do, and I've got to s not not do something that I flesh does want to do So that I can be the person God wants me to be. And that requires desire, requires the power of the Holy Spirit. God convicted me as I prepared this message in areas of my life where I just need to work on developing discipline. I don't know, maybe the Holy Spirit's done the same thing for you. But I had asked God, help me. Desire and determine and fill me with your spirit. To be disciplined. Our Bible reading, all the areas of the Christian life. Father bless us, Lord, and help us to be disciplined In our lives. Across the board. Holy Spirit, search us and try us. How many would say, with heads bound, eyes closed, you say, along with me, preacher? The Spirit of God has touched on some areas of my life where I've really not I've just justified it, I've overlooked it, I've excused it. But what it is, it's a lack of discipline on my part. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me That God will help me have victory in that area. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? My hands raised and hands all across. Now let's just begin as individuals and as a church. Let's just kneel at an altar and say, God help me now, start this process. of getting victory over this, or start this process of getting this wall built up so that my life and my testimony isn't destroyed. Father, bless our invitation, I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads of our eyes are closed. Can't you play a few verse and meditation? God spoke to your heart tonight. Let's uh let's just start this matter of having discipline tonight. I'm telling you, a Christian, the altar ought to be A very familiar place for a Christian. A Christian ought to feel at home at the altar. And that's a good place to come and say, God, you know where my struggles are. God, you know where my weaknesses are. And I ask you to help me have victory and be dead. Discipline in these areas.