Or notice with me, verse number four. I'm going to read verse four and five, and in the in the beginning part of verse five, there's a little statement there. I'm going to stop, and I want us all to make those say those two words together. You'll see when we get there, you'll see what I mean. But look with me at verse 4. Paul is writing under the inspiration of God to this young man, Timothy. And notice what he says in verse 4. Greatly desiring to see thee. Paul wanted to see Timothy, being mindful of thy tears. That I may be filled with joy. Now look at verse 5. When I call to remembrance the next two words, say it with me. Unfeigned faith. Then he goes on, he expounds on what he means. And I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee. Now look at this, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois. And thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also. I want to speak this morning about that unfeigned faith. That Paul saw in Timothy's grandmother Lois. He saw it there first. And he saw it in his mother and then in Timothy. So let's pray to ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, we thank you for the opportunity to assemble together in your name. Sing these hymns to your glory and your praise. We're glad we have the opportunity to recognize and honor our mothers today. I pray you'd help us to do that. You promise, Lord. That if we honor our parents, that you would bless us in a special way. So I ask now that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I pray I present my body, and God, I pray you please speak through me. The truths here in your word. Speak through me to all of our hearts and minds. Help us to make good decisions, to respond in a positive way. What you speak to our hearts about now. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I want to give a little background on the book of Timothy here, as I kind of alluded to as we were reading through there It's penned, the book of 2 Timothy and 1 Timothy, 12 Timothy, are penned by the Apostle Paul Now I always use, and folks have been around here very long at all, you know I always say this, I always use the term penned. Paul penned it. Paul is not the author. A first in 2 Timothy. Who's the author of 12 Timothy? God is Himself. This is God's Word. God is the author. of the all the Bible. But he used men to pen down what he wanted written. And so first and 2 Timothy or pen by the Apostle Paul, great man of God It's written from, I did a little study on this, and it, and Paul wrote this, now think about this. He wrote this letter to Timothy from a prison cell, a Roman prison cell. Now it's hard for you and I to understand the conditions of what of these prisons back in this day and age We have a number of our church folk that work in the prisons up at Hazleton and I think we got somebody up in Cumberland at the prison. And is what they experienced in those prisons and what Paul experienced in the prison here were very, very different. I did a little studying on that research of what exactly was this prison that Paul was writing to. Well I can tell you, first of all, he did not have a cushioned mattress to sit on. In fact, he didn't have any furniture at all. Zero zilts, nothing What I understand as I studied this is what they would do is they had dug down into the ground what they called these dungeons There was no windows, there was no doors, it was just a hole dug down into the ground, and they would cover and put a roof on it. Over the roof, there would be a hole at the top of the roof. They'd be lowered down into this thing. They'd cover the thing up, but there was one hole up there where they would let water down in some sort of container. They would put uh r let it down, they'd have water, and they'd send some food down. Most of the time, the only food they got is what friends and family would bring by for them. The government did not provide food for them, the g uh the not the game warden, the um prison warden Uh they didn't provide food, so it was up to family and friends to uh provide any kind of nutrient or any kind of food for them This is the condition that Paul is writing this letter in. He's in this dungeon lower down there. No walls, no doors, no windows. Just a little hole up there. They drop stuff down. I was reading one article about these prisons back then, and they said the one particularly that Paul was in probably They say you can go over there and see the the these things, many of them are still in existence. There was probably a river that flowed underneath it And they would dig a little cleft in that that prison, uh, that dungeon. They dig a little cleft in where they could s that river would be flowing by, that underground water would be flowing, and that would be where they would relieve themselves and that type of thing. So I think we would all agree that's far different than any prisoner's experience in the United States of America today. These are horrific conditions. These are hard to imagine. So Paul's down there. And he's writing this letter to this young man, Timothy, who Paul loves dearly. He's a young believer. He's been called to preach. He became pastor of a number of churches there and the early church and those New Testament churches. Paul invested a tremendous amount of time and effort into this young man Timothy, and he's down in this prison writing this letter that we're reading here To this young man. Now you say, what in the world was Paul doing in prison? How did he, what did he do to end up in prison? You know what he did? You know what he was guilty of He's guilty of preaching the gospel. That's it. Out in the community telling people about the Lord Jesus Christ Telling people that the only way they could have eternal life, the only way they could have their sins forgiven, their only hope of escaping hell and spending eternity with God in heaven was through trusting the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. That was considered, to use our day's terminology, that was considered hate speech. And it was outlawed. And anybody that preached the gospel and anybody that claimed to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ was condemned by the state and was considered an enemy of the state. They were a disciple of Jesus Christ. So Paul's in prison. He's writing to Timothy. Again, a young man that he loved dearly. He invested time and effort and resources into this young man. He loved him. This is the last letter. That Paul writes that is preserved for us in Scripture. In fact, if you would, take your Bible there, turn over to chapter 4 of 2 Timothy. And notice a statement that Paul makes. Shortly after he writes this letter, Paul is beheaded for his faith. He's martyred. He's killed for no other reason than being a preacher of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And in chapter 4 and verse number 6, he makes a statement that indicates to us that Paul knew What was coming. Paul knew that his days were few. And he says in verse 6, he says, For I am now ready to be offered. For the time of my what Departure is at hand. I don't know about you, but I think that's a I think that's a pretty neat way To describe his death, his upcoming death. It's a departure. It's not the end. It's not all over Death for the believer, hey, death for the believer is just going from here into heaven. It's a departure. Now for the unbeliever The person that's never trusted Christ as Savior, never come, found forgiveness, sins, eternal life, death is also a departure But not from here into the presence and glory of God, but it's from here, the place Jesus called hell, for all eternity separated from God. So Paul says, he anticipates, he knows what's coming. He sees what's happening. He says, I don't have much time left. The time of my departure is at hand. Notice what he says there in verse 7. He's writing to Timothy. Last letter that Timothy gets from him, no doubt. He says, I've fought a good fight. I've finished my course, Timothy. I've fulfilled. He says there, I've kept the faith. I fought a good fight. I've finished my course. I've kept the faith. Look what he says, verse 8. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge Shall give me in that day, and not to me only, but to all them that love his appearance. So Paul is writing this letter to Timothy from this prison, horrendous conditions He writes to Timothy, knowing that this is the last letter that Timothy's going to get from him, perhaps the last time he hears from Paul at all on this side of heaven. And Paul is beheaded shortly after that. Paul loved Timothy like his own son. In fact, he refers to him as that numerous times. He invested a tremendous amount of time and effort in this young man. And Paul thought very highly of Timothy. In fact, Paul had great hopes for this young man. And he's writing, as I said. If you study the letter, just an overview of the letter, it's a message of triumph. It's a message of victory. In dark days, he's writing to Timothy and saying, we can live victorious lives. We can rejoice. The letter is a call to faithfulness to Christ. In a day of wickedness, in a day of apostasy, if you would notice with me again in verse number three, in fact, the whole chapter number three, I should say. The whole chapter number three is a dark chapter. And he describes the days that are coming upon this world in Paul's age. And now here we are, years later. Look what he says in verse 1 of chapter 3. This know also that in the last days. Now you and I are in the last days. That's this whole church age here Perilous times shall come. Now, when I read this, I want you to think with me a little bit about the world you and I live in. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, and proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents. Unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truth breakers, false accusers, incontinent, that means no discipline, no self-discipline. Fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded. Look at this Lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. And he says, From such turn away Paul's writing to Timothy, and he's saying, listen, Timothy, we're in dark days and they're going to get darker. And he describes the characteristics of society. In the days preceding the coming of the Lord. Now I don't know about you, but I read that, and that sounds like yesterday's headline news, doesn't it? Sounds like the latest programs on television. Sounds like our social media. God is describing 2,000 years ago the conditions of our world to a T. And he's challenging Timothy. He's writing to Timothy. He's challenged Timothy, this young man, and he's saying, you stand true. You do right. In these dark days, when all the world is doing wrong, when all the world is turning away, when all the world is living for itself, you live for God You stand for what is true. You do what is right. I love 2 Timothy the book. I love both 1 and 2 Timothy, and what a challenge for you and I, young and old. In these dark days, to stand for God, to stand for what is right. Preach the gospel. Declare the Word of God. Live upright. And trust God to see you through it. So Paul's writing this tremendous letter, last one he writes, from a prison to this young man he loves dearly, and he's challenging him. To live for God. Now we come back to our text, verse number four and five. And as I look at this and I read this, Paul says to Timothy that there is something about Timothy. There's something about his mother Eunice. And there's something about his grandmother, Lois, that Paul cannot get out of his mind. There's this one particular characteristic that Paul says comes back to my remembrance over and over and over. It's almost like Paul is saying, I can't shake This characteristic that you, your mother, and your grandmother have, it stirs my heart and it grips my mind. Now my question is this, what is it that Paul brought to recalled to remembrance? Look at verse 5, when I call to remembrance What was it that had such a profound effect upon Paul's heart and mind? He tells us what it was. It was what? Their what? Their unfeigned faith. Now it's interesting. Sometimes you can learn a lot from the Bible by noticing what it doesn't say as much as by what it does say sometimes. I notice what Paul doesn't say about Timothy, his grandmother Lois, and his grandmother Lois, and his mother Eunice. And notice what he doesn't say about him. He says, when I call to remembrance the faith that I first saw, he doesn't just say faith. Are you with me? He says their unfained faith. He points out this un. . Now look here, look with me here, and I'm going to talk about that here in just a moment. But notice something he points out. When I call to remembrance, the unfeigned faith, not just faith, that is in thee And then he points something out here that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois. Now that word grandmother, I got looking at that, and uh I looked it up. I found I want to see what does the word mean that the word grandmother comes from. Anyone ever think about that Grandmother. Well it it it applies the definition is your mother's mother is basically what the word means there but it could be your father's mother. How many people knew that? Your father's mother is your grandmother too, yeah So I don't know. I looked in the dictionary, said your mother's mother. I said, well, what about my dad's mother? But this is what I thought was interesting Is the word itself, if you just transliterate it over into English, is this, Mammy. Which dwelt first in thy many Louis. When I read that, this uh you know what this is me, I'm sorry. You know what the first thing came to mind when I read that? Oh mammy, make me some eggs and a hammy I'm sorry. That is the level of your pastor's mentality right there. But it means Mammy. I told my wife that would be and by the way, how many how many grandmothers do we have here? Grandmothers How many of you have some term of endearment your grandchildren use for you? Anybody here? There's all different meanie. Some of them are just weird. Yeah, ma'am, Grammy, Grandma, um, Memo. That's a weird one. What? Saga? Gaga! Yeah. But I thought a biblical term for a ch grandchild to call their grandmother would be mammy So if we started over again, we would have had our kids called Kathy Mammy. That way it'd be biblical. That's just what I thought. But he says about this Grandma Lois, and that's who I want us to consider this morning. The unfained faith Mammy Lois. The unfained faith of Mammy Lois. First thing, three thoughts real quick I want to give you. Number one, I put this down. Her faith was genuine. It was genuine faith in God. Genuine faith. That word unfeigned is a word we don't use in our day and age too much. It means this. It means to be without disguise, unfeigned, not fake. Genuine. Without hypocrisy. When I call to remembrance the faith that there's no hypocrisy in it at all. That dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois. That genuine, sincere, undisguised The r uh I put this down in my notes, the real deal. How many people know we talk about somebody say that guy's the real deal? Anybody ever hear that? Know what that is Paul saying to Timothy, your grandmother's faith. I've seen it in you, I've seen it in your mother, it comes to my mind all the time, and your grandmother. That their faith in God is genuine. It's real deal. It's not fake. It's not a show. It's for real. It's for real. No acting. No hypocrisy involved in their faith. Now, I probably don't have to tell you this, but not all faith is genuine. Not all faith is the real deal. Faith in Christ. In James chapter number two, if you would keep your place here and turn towards the back of your Bible, you run into Hebrews here before long. Right after Hebrews, the book of James. And in James chapter number two And beginning in verse 14, James describes, under the inspiration of God, what he calls a dead faith. Not all faith is genuine, some faith is dead. Notice with me if you would, verse number 14. He says, What does it profit, my brethren? Now, I want you to notice the wording very carefully here. What does it profit, my brethren, though a man, what's that next word? Say, he hath faith. And have not works, can faith save him. So, according to that verse, let's just stop there. According to that verse, all this guy's faith consists of is what? Words, just what he says. Oh yeah, I've got faith. Yeah, I got faith in God. But there's there's no effect on his life. Look with me if you would at verse 15. If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of food, and one of you, there's that word again, say unto them, Depart in peace. Be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding you give them not those things which are needful for the body. What does it profit? And the answer is what? Nothing. It doesn't profit anything I can tell somebody that I care about them all I want and they're starving. They don't have any shoes on their feet. Oh, I love you and I care about you and I've got food. And I've got the means to relieve them and take care of them. And I say, oh, I care about you. Go on. And I don't do anything about it. My words are what? Shallow. They're empty. They're meaningless. I can say I care about them all day long, but my actions betray the deadness Of my words. You follow what he's saying here? You say to them. He goes on. Notice he says in verse number 17, even so, he's illustrating something. Even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. Now he sums it up in verse 18. Yea, if a man say, Thou hast faith, and I have worked, show me. Now here's the key to this. Show me thy faith without thy works, which is impossible. And I will show thee my faith by my works. Now I want to stop and pause here for a moment. James is not suggesting, even remotely, that we are saved by our works. There's not things I do, how I live my life, the works I do for God. That is not what makes me acceptable to God. That is not what Opens the door of the gift of eternal life. My works cannot save my soul. You can give all the money you want to missions. It's not going to make you acceptable to God. You can attend every church service, be in Sunday school, your entire life. It's not going to save your soul. There's only one way to be saved, and that is by grace, through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's the only way to be saved. Our church can't save it. We had a fellow of his our church years ago, elderly man. And he started coming a little bit. There were some changes going on in his church that were unscriptural. And so he started coming to our church. I went and visited him, elderly men. We got talking a little bit, and I said to him, I said, Sir, let me ask you a question. I said his name. I said, Do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven and not to hell? And without batting an eye, he says, absolutely, I know for sure I'd go to heaven. Now I don't get that response real often out in the community. And I said, well. And I said, I don't hear that a whole lot from folks. I said, what makes you confident? What gives you that assurance that your sins are forgiven and you're going to heaven? What gives you that assurance that God is granting to you eternal life? And he made this statement. He said, I've been Sunday school superintendent of our church for 40 years. Never missed a one. He says, I'm going to heaven. I don't know about you, but that's a sad statement in my mind. Being a Sunday school superintendent does not pay the wages of our sin. Ways of sin is death. Eternal separation from God for all eternity in a horrific place Jesus described as hell. The only way to be saved from hell is to put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ, who died for me, and suffered that judgment for me and rose again. And it's my faith in Christ That saves my soul from sin and hell. Amen? We want to make that perfectly clear. We're saved by grace through faith. Plus nothing, minus nothing. Faith in Christ. But what's James saying? James saying that if our faith is genuine, if our faith is unfeigned faith. It's more than just talk. It's more than just words. It's a genuine faith in Christ that affects and impacts my life. Follow what I'm saying? Somebody can say to me all day long, oh yeah, I've got faith in Christ. But the only way I can know that, the only way there's a testimony of that faith in Christ is how I see how they live their life. Follow what I'm saying? We don't want to get the cart before the horse. It's not how I live my life that brings my salvation. But when I put my faith in Christ The only way people know I have faith in Christ, not just my lips, anybody can say our faith in Christ, but it's how I live my life. I'll tell you what kills your witness You go to work and you act and talk the same way the unsaved people do, and you say you got faith in Christ, you're killing your witness. So I don't see anything. Your faith is dead as far as I'm concerned. But I tell you, we put our faith in Christ and God gets a hold of us. My Bible says, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. God brings about a change. So Paul's writing to Timothy under the inspiration of God and he says, there's something I can't shake out of my mind. There's something that comes to my remembrance every time I think of you, your mother, and your grandmother. And that is the genuine, unfeigned faith. That I noticed, particularly in your grandmother Lois. Not all faith is genuine, some faith is dead faith. Some faith, I put this down, some faith is dishonest faith. How many people here know what a chameleon is? A chameleon. What is a chameleon? It's a type of lizard, and what's the chief characteristic of that chameleon? He changes color. Or you could put it this way, he blends in with his environment. If he's on a gray rock, he turns gray, looks like a rock. If he's on a brown tree branch, he turns brown, looks like fits right in with that brown tree branch. If he's on a pink and purple polka dot Piece of garment, I guess they turn pink and purple. Locadot, I don't know. Some faith is dishonest. Some people's faith is chameleon faith. And what I mean by that is they simply blend in wherever they're at. They go to church, they talk like church folk. Act like church folk. They sing like church folk. And they get out around the world and then they talk like the world and they act like the world. They look like the world. Their faith is just go along to get along. I thought about when I was studying this There's a person in the New Testament came to mind who had dishonest or chameleon faith. You know who I thought of? Judas. Judas. He fit right in with all the other disciples. He said the same things they said. He went the same places they went In fact, when Jesus said, one of you guys, he's talking to the 12 disciples, and I'm putting this in Leatherman version, he said, This: one of you guys is going to betray me. And you know what the other eleven disciples said? They all said, oh, it's obvious, that's Judas. No, they didn't say that. You know what they all said? Is it me? Is it me? No one in the world, not one of those disciples, suspected that Judas was a devil-filled, lying thief. That's exactly what he was. He was a devil-possessed thief. And yet he blended in. His profession of faith, his talk, just blended right in, but he was completely different than what he professed to be. You know what that is? That's dishonest faith. That's dishonest faith. Some faith is dead. It's just talk. Other faith is dishonest. Put on a show. Put on a show. Now, I want to illustrate that again, but I want to be very careful about this. And if you talk to my wife, she'll give you her testimony. She'll tell you that as a young teenage girl in a good Bible-preaching, independent, fundamental Baptist church, They gave the invitation one time in church, and she said a bunch of people went forward to be saved. And she didn't want to be different. So she went forward and went through the motions. Sometime later, a bunch of those same young people got baptized, and she didn't want to be left out And so she went and got baptized. And she'll tell you to this day, if she was here, she would stand and tell you, she goes, I didn't, I was not saved. There wasn't anything remotely True about my profession. She goes, I was just doing what everybody else was doing, and it meant nothing in my heart and life That's chameleon. Just going along. Now praise the Lord. I'm glad my wife is saved. How many people are glad your preacher's wife is saved? Yeah. That's good. But I praise the Lord. It's about 14 years old. They had a revival meeting in her church. An old leather-lunged old school Baptist evangelist preached the devil out of them. He preached heaven glorious and hell hot. God got a hold of my wife's heart. She went forward. She didn't get saved at church, but that night she went to bed. She said she was laying in bed. And the reality of her sin and the reality of hell. Gripped her and she slipped out and got her knees and called on God with unfeigned faith. Trusted Jesus Christ, her personal Savior, and God saved her soul. Nobody gets saved by going along to get along. Nobody gets saved by following a crowd. People get saved by putting their genuine, for real deal faith in Jesus Christ personally. Paul's writing to Timothy and he says, Timothy, there's something about you and your mother and your grandmother that just grips my mind. Particularly your grandmother. And their faith is genuine. It's for real. Some faith is dead faith. Some faith is dishonest faith. I put this down. Some faith is misdirected faith. What I mean by that is somebody, well, they have faith. They're genuinely trusting, but they're trusting the wrong thing. Talked about this a little bit in James, but I think there are some people that are sincerely put their faith and trust and hope and confidence in their church membership. They're putting it in their good works, their baptism. Something I've done. And their faith is as real and genuine as your faith, and my faith is in Christ. But it's in the wrong thing. I had a lady one time not far from the church here. I was out knocking on doors and um introducing myself, inviting people out to church. And I had a lady say, uh I asked her, I inevitably, I tried to at least get to the point, do you know for sure your sins are forgiven? When you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. And she goes, Oh yeah, I believe I go to heaven I said, what makes you think that? What gives you that confidence? What are you trusting in? She goes, oh, I have faith. I said, okay, that's good. I said, what is your faith in? What are you trusting? What are you relying on? What's that faith in? And she thought for a little bit and she goes, well, I guess my faith is in my faith. I don't know what that means, to be honest with you. But putting my faith in my faith isn't what gets me to heaven. Isn't what gives me eternal life, isn't what takes, brings forgiveness of my sin. It's not faith in my faith. It's not faith in anything other than the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus made a very profound and important statement in John chapter 14 and verse 6. Jesus said this: I And the way, the truth, and the life. Then he said this: listen, no man cometh unto the Father But by me. It's faith in Christ and Christ alone. That is genuine, unfeigned faith. So some faith is dead faith, some faith is dishonest, chameleon faith. Some faith is misdirected faith Uh in John in Acts chapter 16, the uh Paul is in prison there again, and he uh there's an earthquake and And all the bars and everything broke in the prison and the prisoners were able to escape, but none of them did. And the prison, not the game warden, I keep wanting to say game warden, the prison warden The jailer comes in and he's and he sees the earthquake and all the doors and everything's down and he says, he's thinking they all escaped My authorities are going to kill me. So he's going to kill himself. And Paul says, no, no, no, stop. He says, do thyself no harm. We're all here. No one's escaped And under great conviction, after hearing Paul preaching, that Philippian jailer said this, what must I do to be saved? Paul summarized the truth and the message of the gospel. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Genuine faith is not dead, it's not dishonest, it's not directed. It is a sincere, heart decision to put my confidence and my faith and my trust. In Jesus Christ for my salvation, but more than that, for my security, for my safety, for direction in my life. The Bible says we're not only saved by unfeigned faith that brings us salvation and eternal life, but we're to live by faith. We're to walk by faith. That means every day I trust what God says to me in His Word. I trust it. I believe it's right. And I live my life in accordance with that because I have faith in him. I follow his instructions. That's living by faith. That's genuine faith. I tell you, I hate to say it, but we live in a day and age when a lot of faith is just words. It's just talk. Say in the right words in the right way. And there is no genuine trust, unfame faith in Jesus Christ. For my salvation and my life. Paul writes to Timothy, says, I can't shake it. Every time I think of you Every time I think of your mother and your grandmother, it grips my mind that you guys, your faith is for real. It's unsane. It's genuine. I can see it in your life. I put down, first of all, her faith She had genuine faith. Second observation I make of Grandma Mammy Lewis's faith is that it was grounded faith. If you would look here with me real quick in chapter 5 When I call to remembrance, the unfeigned faith that is in thee And then he says this, which dwelt first in my grandmother Lois. He's saying, listen, this genuine faith, this unfaith faith, it's in you. It's dwelling in you, your grandmother. I looked up the word in. Anyone want to guess what the word in means? In Deep down in there. This is one of the ideas of the definition. Deeply rooted. The word dwelt, he says it first dwelt in thy grandmother Lois, it means It has moved in, I'll get this, hope you'll stick with me now. It has moved in and established itself. I ask you, where do you dwell? Where do you live? Where's your home? Where's your dwelling place? That's the place you moved into. That's the place where you've established yourself. That's the place you go to. It's a fixed position. He says, I notice your grandma, her faith is genuine, and I notice her faith is grounded. In other words, it's not on again, off again. It's not in and out. It's established day and night. She has faith in God. It doesn't change. It doesn't change. My dwelling is my long-term residence. Her faith in God. was a long-term thing. Some people have faith and perhaps genuine faith when everything's going good. But brother, you let some storms come to life, come into their life, and suddenly that faith is moving on to something else. Follow what I'm saying? Unfaith, faith, it's in you. It dwells in you. It's established. When the sun is shining, her faith is in God. When the storms are blasting, her faith is in God. When the bills are paid, her faith is in God. When the debts are high, her faith is unmoving, unchanged, it's fixed. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to trust God. Do you ever hear of Sunshine Christians? As long as everything's going good, oh, God's good to me. But brother, you let doctor come up say that word cancer, all of a sudden everything post-poor. Or sometimes it's the other way around. Everything's going good. I don't see any need for God, but something comes up bad, doctor says something, job closes down, all of a sudden, oh, I'm going to trust God. I'm suggesting you, as disciples of Jesus Christ, if we got genuine faith, we ought to trust God good times, bad times, richer or poorer, sickness and in hell. He said, Paul said, I noticed something about you and your grandma, particularly grandma. Her faith doesn't change. It doesn't waver. It's established in her. Christian life is a long the Christian life is a marathon, not a 40-yard dash. It's just keep trusting God. Just keep trusting God. You say, preacher, doubts come to my mind. I just keep trusting God. Preacher, it just doesn't seem like God is working in my life. I just keep trusting him. It's dwelling in me. It's moved in. It's fixed. It's established. I'm faith in God. I'm going to do what he says. I'm going to follow his instructions. It doesn't matter what I'm going through. I'm not going to shake my faith in God. But a hold on it. The Paul says, I noticed that about grandma. I noticed that about your mom. And you, Timothy. Unmoved by trials, unmoved by personal failures, unmoved by doubts and fears. I've mentioned this a number of times over the years, but Oh, World War II general, George Patton. What a great theologian he was. No, he wasn't. But he made a phenomenal statement that helped me tremendously. Somebody writing a biography about George Patton, and I've mentioned this before, but they're writing a biography of George Patton And they said, George Patton, you are fearless. And you go into battle, and you are unshaken and unmoved. You are a fearless man. And he stopped the interviewer and he said hold it right there you are dead wrong he goes I am as scared going into battle as any one of my soldiers are He said, but I learned a long time ago. Now listen to this. I will not take counsel of my fears. Think about that. I'm scared to death, but I'm not listening to my fears. I'm not taking counsel of my fears. I'm going to do what needs to be done. You know what I took away from that when I read that? You know what I took away from that? Sometimes doubts come to mind. Amen or not? Sometimes fear, sometimes flat-out unbelief comes knocking on my mind's door. When I read that, I decided I'm making a decision as a child of God. I am not going to take counsel of my doubts. I am not going to take counsel of my fears. I am not going to take counsel of any unbelief that throws itself at me. I am going to trust God, and I'm going to keep my faith in God and His Word, and I'm not going to pay any attention to any of that. Amen. And Paul says that's what I noticed in Lois, Manny Lois. That faith dwells in her. It's fixed. It's established. Whatever the devil in the world throws at her, she keeps her faith in God. Number one, it's genuine faith. Number two, it's grounded faith. And lastly, I need to end with this. I put this down, it's generational faith. It's generational faith. This is honey and lemon, it's not orange juice. Ah I'm losing my voice and Brother Mark said, uh, we're going on vacation. You need to leave the singing. I said, yes. I don't have any voice. What do you mean, generational faith, Pastor? Look what look again here real quickly. When I call to remembrance, verse 5, the unfaint faith that is in thee, that dwelt first. In thy grandmother Lois. And then in thy mother Eunice. And I'm persuaded in thee also. Generational apparently now you can go back in Acts and we don't get a whole lot more information there. We don't know much about grandma other than we don't know much about Mammy Lewis here Other than what Paul says in this statement. But what we implies here, what it implies here, is that grandma was the first one to come to saving faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. It dwelt first in Grandma, Mammy, Lois. Lois. It's generational. Apparently, Mammy Lois' faith, she's the first one in the family that heard of Jesus Christ. She knew of the coming Messiah, she was Jewish. Now Timothy's daddy was not Jewish. He was Greek. We tend to think he probably was unsaved. But Timothy's grandma, Lois, his mother's mother, she heard of Jesus Christ. She knew there was a Messiah coming. She heard of Jesus Christ and she believed. She trusted Jesus Christ, her personal Savior. And here's the thing: her salvation led to her daughter's salvation, Eunice. Dwell first in thy grandmother Mammy Lewis, and in thy mother Eunice, and in you also. You know what happened when Mammy Lois got saved? There began a generational change and shift in that family. And the daughter got saved, and the grandson got saved, hey! And we have every reason to believe that perhaps tens, maybe hundreds of thousands of other people were saved From Timothy's ministry. Listen, never ever underestimate How God might use just one dear person who trusts Jesus Christ as Savior. It may just be a dear, sweet, gramy, mammy Lois. But she got saved, and that influenced her daughter to get saved. And that influenced her son to get saved. And God used him to reach many, many people. You follow what's happening here? Salvation, the generational faith. Two generations following Mammy Lewis were impacted by her genuine faith in God. I put this down. Never ever underestimate the influence of the faith of an individual family member. You may be the only person in your family that knows Jesus Christ as Savior. Don't you let your faith waver! God may use you to reach your children, your grandchildren. You have no idea. I'm telling you this, your influence is powerful. Just make sure your faith is real. A firming faith isn't going to reach the following generations. But genuine, unfane faith will have an impact, not just now, but in years to come. I believe that with all my heart. I can't imagine, I can't imagine a parent not being concerned about the spiritual well-being of their children. I cannot imagine that. Don't tell me you love Jesus if you don't care about the spiritual well-being of your kids, if you don't pray for them, if you don't have any kind of Christian witness. Grandma Lois got saved. Her daughter got saved. Her son got saved. Now listen, I'm not suggesting, listen, I'm not suggesting just because We're saved that that's a guarantee all our kids are going to say. They're not. They got their own free will. They make their decisions. But I am saying this: our faith has an impact. Our faith has influence. I'm so grateful. I'm so grateful at the age of 61 that I can call my mom up this afternoon. I talked to her the other day on the phone. She called me on my birthday. By the way, my birthday was Thursday I'm so glad I'm going to talk to my mom. And I know that my mom knows Jesus Christ, her personal Savior. Life's been changed. We talk of heaven. We talk of the Lord. What a joy. What a joy. I got thinking as I was preparing this and thinking about Mammy Lois. I got thinking about my grandmother. We called her Grammy. Anybody here Grammy? Any Grammys here? Grammy Leatherman. My dad's mother. She's been in heaven a long time now I'm so glad I got a grandma that knew the Lord Jesus Christ as her Savior. And she believed that old book. And she taught it to her sons and her daughters. She lived it. You won't hear any of her kids say one thing negative about Grammy Leatherman. She was as humble, as sincere, godly a woman you'll ever meet. She loved that Bible. She loved her Lord. And guess what? That affected her oldest son, her firstborn, Clyde. And her faith in God and her faith in that book affected her son Clyde. He believed that Bible is God's word. And he trusted the Savior that his mother and father knew. And Klein Leatherman had a profound impact on his firstborn son, Dennis Leatherman. So grateful for a grandmother, who had unfeigned faith that affected her children. And affected their children. We had a little girl, I've got to quit, but we have a little girl years ago came here. She rode the Sunday school bus. A lot of you will know her, Zoe. She came just a young girl. She got saved and baptized. I think it was Bible time After that, I'd go in the back and shake hands. We'd go out. She'd always come up. She'd come running from downstairs. She'd come up. And she'd say, Pastor, please pray for Pappy. Pray that Pappy would get saved. Pappy was diagnosed with cancer. Didn't know how long he had to live. And I said, sweetheart, we're going to pray for Pappy. And every Sunday, for weeks, Pastor, please pray, Pappy, get saved. Please pray, Pappy, get saved. Finally one Thursday night, Charlie and Ed were there. I said, Charlie and Ed, I need you to go out and visit Bushrod Hardesty. Go talk to him about the Lord. His granddaughter's here and she every week, Brave Happy gets saved. Old Charlie and Ed Went out and visited Bushrod. You know what they said when they came back? They said, We've knocked on the door, invited him in. He said he was watching, sitting on the sofa, watching a preacher on TV, and the preacher was preaching that you need to get saved How about that? He's sitting there watching and they came in, they start talking, he says, I'm just watching. This guy's talking about I need to get saved. Can we show you how? He said, Yeah. Charlie and Ed led Bushrod Hardesty to Jesus Christ as his Savior. Bushrod came, got baptized. How many people remember Bushrod? He came, his life was transformed. He came and got baptized. His wife professed faith in Christ. His boy professed faith in Christ. We just can't. It was like a great fishing pond. We just go back there. More people kept getting saved. His brother Gary got saved, baptized, lived for God. His sister Tammy got saved. His other brother Brett got saved. Friends and neighbors, I mean his his the impact of his faith in Christ was like the ripples on a poet just affected so many others. Talking to Sister Tammy this week. She has serious health problems with her lungs. She goes, Pastor, I missed church so bad. She's probably watching now I'm telling you, just one person getting genuine faith in Christ has a tremendous impact on others. Paul said, I saw it in Grant Mammy Lewis, I see it in your mother Eunice. I see it in you. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, mothers, fathers, all of us, to have genuine faith in you, to trust you, follow your instructions. Their heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I want my faith to be stronger. It needs to be. I believe in Christ. I've trusted him as my Savior. But I need to develop and strengthen and exercise that faith so it grows and gets stronger. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Hands all around. Moms and dads, young people. I want a faith in God. I want it to be for real. I want it to be genuine. I wonder if some here would say, preacher, I've got some family members that need Christ. My heart's soap burdened for them. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll be a good witness. That God will use me to draw them to Christ. Is there any like that? I want to be a good witness to my family. I want them to know Christ. God bless you, hands all around, young and old. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure. My sins are forgiven. I don't want to go to hell. I'd like to know that God has forgiven me and accepts me. And I need Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Say, preacher, I need to get that settled. Is there any like that this morning at all? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get this settled in my heart and mind. Any at all? Any at all? Father, bless our invitation time now. Lord, we went a little long, but help us, Lord, to trust you and to respond in faith in Jesus' name