You know it I don't know why Mark don't play like that, but uh that's good, Austin. Praise the Lord. Uh Romans chapter one verse eighteen Romans 1, if you'll turn there. We're looking. I'm really, to be honest with you, I'll share a little bit of my thinking behind this little series we're doing on confronting our comfortable sins. Uh I'm anticipating leading up to revival service in April and uh just asking the Lord to deal with our hearts and challenge us here a little bit And revival begins with the individual. We talk about God reviving our country. God really doesn't revive a country. He revives individuals, and then that becomes as a bunch of individuals in a church get revived then that church is revived, then as churches get revived, then a country is. And so it's a little bit, the series is a little bit introspective. And uh just really examining, looking for areas in my life that uh really need to be touched up and cleaned up. And tonight I want to speak just real quick, and um I have a goal in mind here, uh, but um I I want it's kind of a negative title, and uh you know I but it I called it ungodly Christians. Ungodly Christians. Now that sounds a little bit like an oxymoron You know, that's that's two opposites. How do you have an ungodly Christian? Um in John chapter 8, we've been using the incident with a woman taking in adultery. And the Pharisees that brought them. Now I'm not suggesting they were Christians. They uh uh obviously the Pharisees were unsaved, they were very self-righteous, but they were highly respected moral uh religious leaders And they had gotten to the point where they condemned these great sins, but they were obviously there's a lot of sins in their own life that they had gotten comfortable with, and the Lord confronted them And he says, you that are without sin, cast the first stone. Well, I would suggest they had never thought about their own sins. They were obsessing over others. And as they began to be convicted, as the Bible says, they began to leave one by one, and they were confronting areas in their own life that needed to be dealt with. And by all appearances, when that incident was said and done, that woman standing there by herself and the Lord, and they're all gone Apparently these guys weren't as godly as what they thought they were. In fact, they were at the point where they could not even condemn this woman Because of their own sin. And I'm suggest to you, uh, there it is possible to be a Christian and to be a nice, kind, respected person, and yet be very ungodly in a lot of ways And so let's pray, and I'll just share a few of these thoughts, and uh maybe the Lord will challenge us, and uh in some areas we never really gave it thought. Father, please fill me with your spirit. Lord, there's so much weather and other things going on to distract us. Lord, maybe just one thought tonight, maybe one truth from your word would uh take root in our hearts and in our minds And you could begin to change us. Maybe ways outside world would never see, but in our hearts we know something's different. And I pray that would be true for myself. And uh for the for those of us that are here this evening, I yield myself to you, Lord, and I ask that you would uh fill me with your spirit, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Ungodly Christians, when you see when you hear the term ungodly, what do you think of? We're just small class tonight. Talk to me a little bit. Yeah, you think uh you're unsaved, you think of that, that's an unsaved person? They what? They cuss? Alright. My mind is you see somebody is they say, man, that guy is ungodly. You're thinking of someone that is just really wicked. They're depraved. They do uh let me see if you if you if you agree with this. Uh they do things I would never do Huh? That ungod they're ungodly. They do stuff good and night. I don't know how you could do that. I don't know how anybody could do that. That's our definition of ungodly. But the biblical definition and the strict definition of the word, as I said, if it's possible for a person to be a Christian. To be very nice, very moral, very respected person, and yet be ungodly. Look in Romans chapter 1 and verse 18, I referenced here just a minute ago And I'm talking away here and I'm not turning in my Bible. Romans chapter one, look at verse 18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all now look what he says here. Against all Ungodliness and unrighteousness. Now he's referencing two categories, almost, you could say, of people here Uh, ungodliness and unrighteousness. Now, I don't know about you, but in my mind, I picture ungodliness and unrighteousness as being the same thing. Right? This guy's ungodly, he's unrighteous. I just put them in the same category, but God separates it here. The term ungodly, let me give you my definition here, that phrase ungodliness. uh has the idea, and this is in my words, my thinking on it, is living with little or no regard for God. Now think about that. Is it possible for a person to be moral, respected in this community, maybe even a church, and yet they have little or no regard for God? Sure. You don't have to be taken an adultery, the very act of it, like the woman was, to be ungodly. Those those uh uh Pharisees who no doubt had never done something like that, uh yet they were ungodly. They weren't regarding God's view on this situation, God's perspective And so to live with little or no regard for God, to live for self Let me ask you this, is it possible for a Christian to live for themselves? Sure. A pastor can pastor a church and yet be very self-centered, living for himself. You can uh hold all kinds of positions. in a church and and in the ministry, and yet be very selfish. And so ungodliness is basically, we're going to boil it down It's basically this. I am in the running the show in my life, not the Lord. It's ungodly. itself. Now he references the unrighteous here, and that simply means people who live outside the law. They're just breaking God's commands. They're just Living. So you can you can be uh you can live by the principles of Scripture in a sense and yet still be ungodly Uh you can go to church, you can give your tithe, you can uh uh hand out gospel tracts, you can do all of that, and yet still be ungodly Follow what I'm saying? With little regard for God, doing it for myself, for my own glory and my own strength to make me look good And those types of things. So it's possible for a Christian to be kind, friendly, courteous, and yet have little regard for God. Let me put it this way: have little dependence upon God Turn with me if you would to James chapter uh four. Turn back there to James chapter four. Everybody doing all right? Everybody? I'll take that as a yes, I guess. James chapter four. And uh notice verse thirteen. James 4. 13. Go to now, ye that say tomorrow today or tomorrow we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain. Uh what's he saying here? What are they doing? What what's he referencing here people doing? The sooner you answer, the sooner we get out of here. Um What? They're making plants We're gonna move to uh we're gonna move to Atlanta and we're gonna set up shop and we're gonna do this and we're gonna do that, and uh they got it all planned out. Has he referenced anything here that is sinful No. I mean that's good to make plans and all that. There's nothing wrong with that. But look what he says. Go to ye that uh ye that say now today or tomorrow will go into such a city Uh we're gonna go to Philadelphia and stay there a year and we're gonna set up a store and we're gonna buy and sell, and boy, I'm gonna make money. And uh whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow For what is your light that is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away? What's he saying there? He's saying, listen, you're not as in control as what you think you are And then look what he says here. For that ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. But now you rejoice in your boastings, and all such rejoicing is what? Evil. Man, that's a strong statement. What's he saying here? Is he saying it's wrong to make plans, financial plans, and business plans and to plan ahead and do things? No, he's not saying that at all But he's saying if you do that without regard for God's authority in your life, without regard for God's will for your life, then it is evil. It becomes ungodly. Now, have you ever heard a Christian say something like this? Well, I plan on uh I plan on uh going up to uh I plan on going to Duncansville on Tuesday. There's a preacher's fellowship, but I'm planning on going there, Lord willing. Did you ever hear that phrase, tacked on, Lord willing? How many of us have ever said that? Sure. There's nothing wrong with saying that. But what he's telling us here, he's not saying your, just tack that little word on your statements It's not some little religious phrase we tack on. He's talking about having a frame of mind, a perspective on life here, that I recognize that God is in control. That God is in authority. And to live my life and to have the frame of mind and just disregard the idea that God is in control or that God has any authority, he says that's evil. That's ungodly. And so is it possible for a Christian to be ungodly? Sure. We can live our lives with little or no regard. for what God is. We decide what we're going to do, we decide where we're going to go, we decide what uh what is and what isn't and what we're not going to do. And we decide all these things. And we never give regard to, wait a minute, what is God's will in this situation? And so isn't that what Satan did when he approached Eve? Did Satan question Eve? Did Satan try and get Eve to get drunk? No. That would have obviously been wrong. Did he try and now you know this is obviously this would have been impossible, but uh this would have been impossible, but did he try to get her to be unfaithful to Adam No, I mean she didn't have any choice. But um uh that wasn't his approach. What did he try to do? He tried to get her to be her own authority Yea, hat said, uh, go ahead. Uh God knows the day you eat thereof you will be as gods. You know what he was saying? You can be your own authority. You don't have to regard what God says. Eating a fruit, there was nothing morally wrong with eating a fruit The problem here was is disregarding God in her life. Just putting God. What does God have to say about this? Ah And that's where the root of ungodliness. So, ungodly Christians, if I want God's full blessing, and uh if you if you Uh I I would imagine some of you have been like I have in periods of time through my Christian life where it's just like I don't feel like God I I don't feel like my relationship with God is everything it ought to be. Has anyone ever been at that point? I mean God's blessing and you're saved, you know it, but you're just you feel like there's uh uh a fly in the ointment. Does anybody just humor me, all right, a little bit? And just say, man, you know, something's something's out of whack there. It may be that I may be an ungodly Christian. Not that I'm immoral, not that I'm living in blant sin or unrighteousness, but I'm simply living my life with God out of the picture. Even my Christian service, going into teaching a Sunday school class, not depending on the Lord, just doing it in my own self. uh just living my life, never giving thought, dis and not never regarding what God's will is or depending on God's power. So how do I become a godly Christian? How do I avoid that and be a godly Christian Here it is, real quick. Number one, uh when I start pleasing God rather than myself, when that is a high priority in my life, then I become a godly Christian When pleasing God rather than self is a priority in my life. Turn over real quick to Colossians chapter 1. Colossians chapter 1. And uh I'm not going to develop these. Let me just give them to you. Colossians chapter 1 and verse number 9. Look what the Bible says. Colossians 1:9. Bible says, uh for this cause also, since the day we heard of it, do not cease to pray for you. All right, here's Paul's praying for the Christians at Colossae. He says to pray for you to desire that you might be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding, that you might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing. being fruitful in every good work, increasing in the knowledge of God. What is he saying here? He says you might be uh fruitful in every work and um Uh the phrase I want there, that you might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing. In other words, he's praying that they get to the point in their Christian lives Where pleasing God is more important to them than pleasing themselves. Somebody put it this way: only two choices on the shelf, pleasing God or pleasing self. You know what I've found out a lot of times when my priority in my life is what I want and pleasing myself, a lot of times I'm not pleasing the Lord. And so when that becomes a priority, boy, then I'm on the road to being a godly Christian. Alright, here's the situation. Which is pleasing to God, which pleases myself. If there's a conflict, I go with pleasing God. Number two, put this down. When I get to the point where honoring God rather than myself is highest priority in my life First of all, pleasing God rather than myself is a priority, then honoring God. Listen to what Jesus said in Matthew 5. 16. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify you. Is that what it says? Anybody remember that passage? No. That they may see your good works and glorify who? Your Father, which is in heaven. He's saying, listen, you get to the point where people see your life and their thoughts, their attention isn't, their praise and their honor isn't placed on you. But it's based on what God is doing in your life. Now that's a challenge for all of us. Somebody put it this way: if God is like that Christian, I don't want anything to do with God. Boy, that's a bad testimony, isn't it? I wonder if we can get to the point in our Christian lives where people look at us and say, boy, if that is anything what God is like, I'd sure like to get to know God If that is anything what Jesus Christ is like, what he or she, what mom or dad, or he or she or the guy at work, or the lady in the office, if that's what Jesus Christ is like, I'd like to know Jesus a little bit better. That's the whole idea here, that they may see your good works and glorify your Heavenly Father. So when honoring God, when my purpose in life isn't to get accolades for myself But to bring honor to God and people think highly of the Lord and people praise the Lord and recognize His working in my life, boy, then I'm on the road to being a godly Christian. Let me give you the last one. When I get to the point where developing an intimate and unshakable relationship with the Lord, when that's the highest priority in my life, is that I have a very intimate relationship with the Lord And the the thing I want more in life is to walk with God and know him and he knows me and uh that is the highest priority of my life. Boy, then I'm on the road to being a godly Christian Uh Jesus made a a startling statement, to be honest with you, on the surface. He says, Any man, uh if he doesn't hate his mother and father, his wife, his children, and his own life own life also, he cannot be by disciple. It's like, Good night. Hate my family, hate my spouse, hate my kids? Uh, that can't be the Lord's disciple. I think what he's telling us here is When we get to the point where our highest priority in life is my relationship with the Lord, that it's intimate, it's tight, it's unshakable, then I'm on a point where uh I can be a godly Christian. Doesn't mean I don't I I hate in the sense that the world thinks of it. In fact, I would suggest it's impossible for a man to love his wife like he should until he loves Christ supremely It's impossible for a wife to love her husband or her children, or children love their parents like they should until they love Christ supremely. And so how badly do I want to be a godly Christian? Where God is the center of my life. What I'm doing is lifting honor to Him. Every action, every word I say, every moment of my life, I want it to please my Savior. I want to know him and have an intimate relationship with him. When I get to that point, then I'm on the track to being a godly Christian. Can I be very frank with you? I fall short of that continually. And God has convicted me about this and challenged me. And I found this out in working on this series, and I've known it to be true, but it's been reinforced in my mind. We think we're better Christians than what we really are Huh? We think, boy, you know, I'm that there, and I'd get in the Bible and I start looking at some of this stuff, and I think, wow I've got a long way to go. I have not yet attained. I pointed this out last week. What did Paul, the great apostle Paul, what did he say about himself? Jesus Christ came to save sinners of whom I am chief. What amazing statement that Paul would say that. You know what? He was able to look in the scriptures and see where he was really at, and he says, you know, I'm pressing towards the mark. I'm not ortained. I'm not there yet. I was reading, you've heard the news reports and so on news reports, they come out with an iPhone. Inevitably, whenever they come out with one of these iPhones or a snoo PlayStation or something like that The day they're coming out, you go to certain cities and there will be people camped out twenty-four hours ahead of time. In the snow, on the sidewalk, sitting there Boy, they want in on that. They want it bad. They're willing to take a day off of work, inconvenience themselves, and do all this stuff to get that little gadget Boy, you know, when I as a Christian get to the point where my walk with the Lord and my just being so thoroughly right with God is that important to me as getting that gadget is to them. Boy, then I'm on the track of seeing God doing some great things. Our God is very merciful, isn't he? And he gives to us whether we care or not, whether we give anything back or not. He just blesses us and blesses us and blesses us But the longer I grow as a Christian, the longer I've been saved, down inside my heart there's more of a desire to say, Lord, I know you're going to take me to heaven regardless of what I do or don't do. I know you're going to be love me and be merciful to me regardless. But God, I really, really would like for my life to please you. I really would like for my life to bring honor to you. Lord, I'd really like to know you in an intimate way. My God, my Savior. And we get to that point, boy, I think we can see God do some great things. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us to be godly Christians. I doubt I'm talking to anybody here. I certainly hope not, Lord, that there's anybody here that uh wants to go out and rob a bank or murder or do any of these horrendous things. But Lord, we just get a frame of mind we're comfortable with with uself and depending on ourselves and Lord we want to put that aside. We want to be Totally depend on you and help us, Holy Spirit, deal with us, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand