Um I I was I started to say nineteen ninety-seven, but I don't think that's correct. I think that's too early. I think it was around ninety-nine, two thousand. Uh we had a preacher scheduled for our Sword of the Lord conference a Sunday night he had to cancel out. He had heard his voice preaching in church. So his wife called me. You know how brave these preachers are. She called me and told me he couldn't make it. So his wife called me And um she told me what the situation was. I said, Well I understand. And so um called Brother Smith the next morning early and I said, Man, I I lost my preacher. And I told her He goes, I got a friend of mine. He says so it will really be a blessing to his name's Fred Schindler, and he's uh in the Philadelphia area. He said, if you call him right away, he'll come out and preach. So called him up, brother Schindler packed up, came out, preached Monday night, Tuesday morning. Morning, Tuesday night, and absolutely uh uh won me over. Had great messages, and uh all these years he's been coming and preaching. I've been over there preaching when he was pastoring, preached for him many times at the Landmark Baptist Church. And uh he just told me, he says he believes this is the 50th time. 50th time He's preached from this pulpit. And so he's been a good friend of ours for a long, long time. He's with First Bible International now, uh missions work around the world. We thank God for him and his wife and family. And let's get our Bibles out, ask the Lord to speak to our hearts Thank you. Brother God bless you. I'm glad to be here. At my age, I'm glad to be anywhere. Give you a little report. I I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for helping us and supporting us and praying for us. I know missionaries say that and I hope you'll never think that that's just we just say that. But I can tell you we do. Amen, brother. We do appreciate I was telling you a preacher today, it's really hard to raise money for missions. It's also really hard to raise money just to go to the foreign field And uh money's not there for that and so we have to take this little bit of support we have, we have to put that towards the trips. And w God has w done wonderful things. Uh Lynn and I and I have been married four years. I've had in thirty three states and six foreign countries. And uh last year we went uh to uh uh well this year been to to uh uh uh India and to um um Dominican Republic, getting ready to leave on November the eighteenth for Costa Rica and Panama. Then next year we'll be going by and by the way, last November we're in Zambia. This next year we're in Zambia Back to India and uh so on and ministering and training nationals. One of the greatest needs, in fact, the greatest need on the foreign field. Uh and the works that God has put on the foreign field is training training the nationals and training national leadership. It's like uh I told your preacher, I said when we had Northeast Baptist School of Theology, we had about twenty-five or thirty people who would teach a student. If you went to our college and you would probably have a minimum twenty five to thirty teachers that came in taught you those subjects. I said, who does who's who's gonna do that for the missionary? They don't have they don't have access and surely they don't have the time and energy and uh Th this em it's impossible for that preacher to teach everything that needs to be taught in order to train a person for the work of God in the foreign field. So they absolutely are ecstatic and happy when somebody can And so we really, really enjoy that, and that's what we do. And uh with First Bible is to travel and to train nationals in the foreign field. So pray for us and thank you so much for helping us. I really, really appreciate your pastor and appreciate this church. Uh I come back it's like old home week and everything. But uh it I'm just so I'm glad to see what God's doing here. Granted, because God has certainly blessed you. Why don't you take your Bibles tonight and go with me over to the book of John, if you would please. Ma when I met my wife and I preached in the preaching the first time I preached on Sunday morning, I didn't know who she was. I'd met her. She sat in the same pew. where I sat and uh while I was preaching she would say, Amen, Pharaoh, preach on, Amen, Pharaoh. Man, I thought, how strange. And then So and she kept saying, Amen, Pharaoh, Amen, preach on, Pharaoh. So I came down and I talked her a few minutes ago. I said, by the way, I really appreciate all the Amen and everything, but why do you call me Pharaoh? She said he wouldn't let his people go either. I'm just teasing. All right. John the seventh chapter, if you would please. John the seventh chapter. And uh verse number 37. John seven, verse number thirty-seven In the last day, now this is at the Feast of the Tabernacles, Jesus is there at the temple. So in the last days, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink. And he that believeth on me, as the belly hath said, out of his uh as the scripture said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe on him should receive, for the Holy Ghost was not yet given, because that Jesus was not yet glorified Let me have prayer. Father, it's just good to be here in this good church with this dear friend of mine. This church has been such a blessing, not only to me, but Missionaries literally all over the world. And I pray that you'd help me to be a blessing. I really want to be a blessing and a help tonight. Please fill me the Spirit of God and help me, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. This particular scripture, uh just to give you some background, this is not where I'm what I'm going to preach on, but I want to use it to kind of give it some give uh some background to what I believe the Lord's This, of course, is Jesus' ministry. Jesus here is giving some information about the Holy Spirit that is going to have an effect on those who believe on him. He's preaching to lost people. What he sees is the people coming into the temple. They're carrying the water pots and the reeds and they're going to partake of the Feast of the Tabernacles, and he stands up and cries to them, if any man thirst, let him come unto me. And he gives the invitation for the But that would not happen until Jesus was glorified. And we know that when Jesus died upon the cross of Calvary and was buried and rose again ascended back to heaven. Then on the day of Pentecost, the Holy Spirit was poured out. And the Holy Spirit then started this ministry in what we call now the church age. And what that means now, if I say I go over to somebody and I witness to them and talk to them about the Lord, and they bow their head and heart before the Lord and repent and trust the Lord Jesus as their Savior The Bible said Jesus, remember John the Baptist said that there's one coming who I'm not even worthy to tie his shoes. He said will baptize you with the Holy Ghost. And so then he he when when let's say uh this young man here gets saved, at that very instant Jesus baptizes him with the Holy Ghost of God, so the Holy Ghost comes in him and indwells him and about him. He becomes his parakletos. He seals him. He regenerates him. He births him in the family of God. and empowers him and he now is the temple of the Holy Spirit of God and Christ lives in him. By the Holy Spirit. And that's what that's all about. And of course, when you look at the book of Acts and you see what happened on the day of Pentecost when It's amazing to see 3,000 people saved, and every one of them got baptized, and every one of them continued steadfasting the apostles' doctrine and breaking bread and so on. And that's amazing. But also we see what happened in our lives, the joy and the excitement and the thrill of being saved and so on. And we literally can see by the scriptures and the result of salvation in their life, we can see the rivers of living water and we can see the excitement and everything that took place in their life. See when you get saved you become a new creature in Christ. Old things are passed away and all things become new And God changes your life. Now, may the change may not be as obvious and open and fast growing as some, but there is a change. Your life is going to be changed. I heard somebody say one time, preacher, if you is what you was, you ain't. If you is what you was, you ain't. And so but what happens to you get saved? Now look at if you would uh in John the uh fourth chapter. Would you please, John the fourth chapter? You're familiar with this scripture about the Lord Jesus. He's in in verse number six it says he goes to Jacob's well. And he said, Now Jacob's well was there, chapter 4 and verse 6. Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well. And it was about the sixth hour, and there cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. For his disciples were gone away into the city, unto the city to buy meat Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it thou, being a Jew, ask drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him. And the woman said unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the will is deep. From whence then hast thou that living water? Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well and drank thereof himself, and his children and his cattle And Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again. Well watch this verse now. But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst, but the water that I shall give him shall be in him, watch as a well of water springing up into everlasting life. It's kind of like Jesus becomes the well. And when you get saved, there's a well And that you put that with down the seventh chapter, and you talk about the springs of living water, and you talk about you talk about the joy and you talk about how that you never thirst again. It seems to me something really wonderful happens when you get saved. Amen. Now I was some of some of you probably remember I've given my teacher probably here at times, but I was not raised in a Christian home I was raised in southern Michigan. My mother and father were not Christians. I never saw my mother pray. I never saw my dad pray. I never saw my mother in church. I never saw my dad in church. I never even saw the inside of a church, any kind of church, until I was sixteen years old. And the only reason I got to see that church is because I got my driver's license and at sixteen and I was just looking for ways to beg the car so I just wanted to drive, you know. And I got up and asked my dad if I could take my sister and go to church And uh yeah, I don't care. So my I took my sister to this church in Belleville, Michigan, my hometown, and um we went in. Now we did have a Bible in our house, a little white Bible with a zipper around it And uh and I remember, and I never saw anybody read it. I didn't nobody ever talked about it, nobody ever mentioned it. But I did have enough sense at 16 to know that that Bible had something to do with church Okay, I didn't know that. I didn't know it was God's word. I didn't know what holy Bible meant. In fact, I didn't know until I was eighteen that that little baby that was born and cr we uh celebrate his birthday on Christmas day, that little baby grew up, died upon the cross, and that's what Easter was all about. I didn't figure that out until I was about 18 years old See? And cause Christmas was Santa Claus and and R Rudolph the Red Nose reindeer and so on. And we didn't have God in our home and God in our life And so I go to this church, I be honest, I was a little bit apprehensive because I'd never been to a place, didn't even know what door you went into, I didn't know what to do when I got there, but I but I took my sister And uh somebody said you need to go to Sunday school class with a teenager, so we went to teenagers, and there were teenagers in that in that Sunday school class that I went to school with at the public school, and none of them had a Bible And I had that white Bible. So I sat on my Bible through Sunday school. I was ashamed. I brought that. Oh, I thought that had I Boy, I shouldn't have brought that. So we went into the into the auditorium for the morning service and uh and we sat there and pretty soon they the organ was playing and so on. They started the service and this guy came out in a dress. Walked out and I what's he doing what's a dress? What's he wearing a dress for? And uh and he he you know he had to had a bunch of papers and stuff in his hand and he uh opened up and he started talking and what it sounded like That's all it sounded like to me. I couldn't understand anything he's saying. Sound like he's growling. And I thought what in the world is it? I yawned so many times my my jaws got stiff and sore. And I tried not to yawn because I knew it was in Polite to yawn, you know. And I couldn't wait to get out of there. And when I walked out, and nobody said hello, goodbye, glad you came. Who are you? Will you come back or anything? I thought I broke the trespass law So we left. And I said, I ain't never going back there again. In fact, I never went back anywhere. Because I thought every church was like that. I didn't know Catholic Church were different than Methodist Church. Methodist Church different to Baptist church. I didn't know anything of that. I had no idea. I never could see it in the people that I was around at school or anything. I had no idea. I knew some were more religious than others, but I never had anybody walk up to me and witness to me. Nobody ever told me about the Lord. And so there I was. And then we I got married and I was working at Ford Mortar Company and People began to witness to me, guys at work. And I'd get mad, all upset, you know, and I'd cuss them out, run them off And uh you gotta understand how funny that is if you knew that when I got married at twenty-two years old, I only weighed a hundred and six pounds. I was so skinny I had to tease the hair of my legs to keep my socks up And I and I was there at Ford Motor Company and there was a man, I watched him, though I was not I don't know that I was under conviction, I don't know anything about what was going on in my life, but I remember it. And now I look back and said, I believe it had to be the Holy Spirit working on me because I was watching this man named Bill Van Buren. Now he wasn't a religious quack or kook He was a very polite young man. Everybody seemed to respect him. He didn't cuss, and he didn't, you know, and everybody, I knew he went to church. And I knew there's something different about him, but I didn't know what it was. But I kind of liked him and I respected him from a distance. I didn't want to get around him But he'd come by and every once in a while give me a track, talk to me. And I'd cuss him out, say, ah no, Bill, I don't need that. I got my own religion. Blank bling blang blang. But this time he came up one day and he kind of backed me up against a steel beam He stuck his finger in my face. He said, Fred Sheller, don't you know you're going to die and go to hell? And don't you know that God loved you and Christ died for you your sin and you need to be saved? Man, I tell you what, he laid on me. But he had these two tears coming down his cheeks I couldn't get away from those tears. I couldn't get away from those tears. And then I went home and I said, Wow my goodness. I laid in bed and boy in the darkness, I put my hands behind my head and looked up into the darkness and I said Wow, who is God? What is God? Where is God? Boy, if there's a heaven, oh, I'm not going there. Oh, if there's a hell, I'm going there. Man, I didn't know it was under conviction. I didn't know anything about conviction Nobody could walk up to me and say, are you under conviction? I wouldn't know what that meant. But I was under deep conviction. God was working in my heart. God was dealing with my heart. But I didn't want anything to do with it. But it went by weeks and I moved into a brand new house. My wife, my wife, and I bought a brand new three-bedroom ranch house. We had to pay twelve thousand two hundred and forty dollars for that monster. Can you believe that? My payments $89. 27 a month for 30 years. And we bought that house and moved right in across the street from a young couple going to a brand new church meeting in an elementary school. I'm going somewhere with it Okay? And uh so they took an interest, started witnessing to me. I want to play a guitar. I want to tell you something. I am about as spastic playing a guitar. And I tried and he used that guitar to get me to come over and he was witnessing and talking to me and dealing with me and so on like that. But I was still stubborn. I didn't I wouldn't listen. So one day, finally, I said, I'll go. So we went to the church. Now it was meeting in an elementary school building And uh so I'm I'm thinking, you know, guy in a dress. I'm thinking about this morgue this m m this morgue uh morgan music, you know, kind of Instead I got uh amazing grace and all you know all these good songs. And I'll sit there and say, wow, this is different And so I'm sitting and uh the the my wife is sitting next to me and the guy who started that church came and sat on the outside aisle. We're only about three rows back, and he's sitting there and in a folding chair, in this public school classroom And he's sitting there. The preacher's preacher is going to become my pastor. He's candidating, but he becomes my pastor. And he he said, and so in the imitation, they're singing, just as I am, without one plea. But not thy blood was shed for me, O Lamb of God, I come. I didn't know what it was about, didn't know what the Lamb of God was, didn't know what in the world that song was all about. But my wife started crying, and he leans over and said, Why don't you go forward and get saved? I thought, saved, why don't I get saved? I'm not drowning. What are you talking about? didn't say what. And so my wife was crying. I hit her, what are you crying about? She cried all the harder. Next thing you know, we're stepping out, we're going forward. I said, Where are we going? I want to join this church. We only came about there to hear So they took her off that way. They took me up on the platform. I'm not the platform, but up here where the chairs and the pulpit was. Here I was up in front of the whole world, man, all 35 people now looking at me like that So he opens up the Bible and I thought, what's he scribbling his Bible like that? I couldn't understand why. He's a preacher. I had all this intelligence. So anyhow, he says the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. I never heard that verse ever in my life. And he said to me, he said, now Fred, it says here God loves the world. He said, now you make up the world. He said you didn't come in the last spaceship, did you? I said, no, sir He said, well let's put your name in here. He said, for God so loved Fred Schindler that he gave And man I said, what Wow. And I said in my heart, I'm going to listen. And I said, I'm not going to fight. I'm going to listen. to what he has to say. He went through the scriptures, told me how to be saved, and I got saved. Now folks, I'm one of those that really got saved. You know you get saved. Say, Oh, praise the Lord, he got saved. Then they say, Well he got saved. But then they say, Whoa, he really got saved. Man, I tell you what, I really got saved I mean I didn't know anything other than the gospel. I knew that God loved me and Christ and if you'd walked up and said, I hear you just got born again, I said, What? I wouldn't know what you're talking about. He said, Get washed in the blood. I said, What I wouldn't know it. But I knew one thing. I was lost and now it's found. I knew that my sins were gone and I knew I was a Christian. And I want to tell you something. You talk about rivers of living water. You talk about excitement. You talk about joy. Glory, God, man, He changed my life. I couldn't believe it. I got me a my pastor gave me a New Testament. Leather-bound Christian workers. I got that thing. I didn't know you could read Matthew Then Revelation, and then the Galatians, and read John. I thought it was a book. So I read it from Matthew to Revelation. Matthew to Revelation. Matthew to Revelation. I read it till the pages fell out I didn't know what a concubine was. I didn't know what an epistle was. I thought the epistle was a wife of an apostle. I was reading in there and I see I see this word kith. What's a kith? Tith. So I go to my son and school teacher, Don Mason. I said, Don, what's a Tith? He said, I never heard a Tith. What's a Tib? What are you talking about? I said it's in the Bible. He said, Where's in the Bible? And I opened up there and Luke, I think it's Luke 19 or Matthew. 22. And I said, right there, I said, tith. He said, no, that's tithe. I said, tithe. What's a tithe? He said, well, you're supposed to give a hundred, give ten percent of your income to the Lord's work to your local church. I said, what He says you're supposed to give 10% of your income to the Lord's work through your local church. I said, I can't do that. I'm in debt. He said, is it easier to get out of out of debt by obeying God or disobeying God? I said, I don't like you And then like him or God for a little while. But I want to tell you something. Boy, God put something in my heart. Man, I want to tell you something. Then God called me to preach. And what happened there? Here I am. Now my pastor What a great man he was. Great pastor. He really was. Great soul winner. He took that little 35 people in two, two and a half, three years, he took it almost 300 Sunday schools. And most of it by soul winning and most of it through his own personal soul winning. He was a great man, but he wasn't very much of a preacher. Now you have to understand the only preacher I heard was whatever that was And my pastor, who was very teachy and very low-key, in fact, the only way we knew if he told a joke, we'd watch his wife, and if her shoulders would shake a little bit, say he must have told a joke And he never never raised his voice or anything. Well he had a di a guy by the name of Dr. Staley Sherrell come and preach for us. Dr. Sherrell, he'd been pastoring probably at that time maybe twenty, twenty-five years. He was real skinny. He had a jet black suit, black horn rimmed glasses, he had this black hair with a big wig when it was big when you stick your finger in I saw him about oh fifteen or twenty years ago and he doesn't have the wave, he's got the beach but not the wave. But he came and he'd he'd take his Bible and he's preaching revival for us. And I'm say Waiting. He'd put his Bible down, he'd read his text, and he went to hollering. Boy, there was his face got all red, and the veins of his neck stood out, and he'd just go on that. I said, Why is he hollering? Why? Why is he hollering like that? But it wasn't why he's hollering, what he's hollering. Because I came forward, got on my knees, and I said, God, I'll go anywhere you want me to go I'll do anything you want me to do. I'll be anything you want me to be. God, I'll give you my life. The best I know how I'll give you my life. Man, I want to tell you something. It was exciting Soul winning. I didn't know soul winning from eating paper ducks. I d I wasn't the world soul winning. Kept talking about soul winning when I first got saved. Three weeks after I get saved, I go out soul winning with the chuck, the guy across the street. And we're going out soul winning. And he had me gave me a little Gideon's New Testament. And I wrote on here Romans 3. 23. on the and so then he opened up Romans three twenty three and I put Romans six twenty three right there. And I put a little map of so when he told me do how to do that. He says and that's something we went over two or three times. Okay And I said, you don't expect me to do the talking to you. He said, no, I'll do the talking. You just pray. She said, you just be a good southern. Okay. So we're going out and knocking on doors, door after door. And I'm re-getting into this, man. This is exciting Look down the street and there's this guy leaning on a freak in the medium. Watch this. Like that, just kind of watching it. And I thought, what's he gonna do? See, you know, what's gonna happen when we get to him? So we got down to him and Chuck said, How you doing neighbor? He said, Doing good. Started talking to him a little while, and he said, I wonder if I could ask you a question. He said, Sure. If you died right now, you a hundred percent sure you'd go to heaven? He said He said, no, sir. He said, well, if we could take a Bible and show you how you'd be interested, wouldn't you? He said, yes, sir. He said, here, Fred, show him. Three weeks old in the Bible. I mean that and in the Lord. And I I'm trying to turn the Bibles, I'm trying to three three twenty I don't know how I got through it. I don't know. But he just stood there and patiently watched me and listened to me. I got to the end and I said, You'd like to be saved, wouldn't you? He said, Yes or I would. I said you would And he bowed his head and got saved. I want to tell you something. The word of God was alive. The things of God. Church was so good. We'd sing around the piano. I didn't want to go home. The church came, I didn't want to go home. I wanted to stay there. Preacher kept asking for beef. I gotten everything Preacher says, you want to be a Sunday school teacher? I was six months old in the Lord. I said, what's a Sunday school teacher do? So well I'll show you. Well he showed me an office of about a half hour, gave me some material. I started a junior more class, met in the room right here off the because we'd build a building. So it must have been a year after that. The year after that, because we built the building and he put me in the it wasn't even finished. The building wasn't finished. And I was in that room and I had a junior boy, had six boys in there Little Ricky, 12 years old, was there. And I couldn't have taught a story about Samson. I couldn't have talked about David Goliath. I didn't know anything about the Bible. I didn't know that Jesus died for me, so I got Jesus being crucified, and man I just painted a picture of his crucifixion and so on like that. Guess what? Little Ricky got saved. Whoo man a lie. I'm telling you, preacher, it lit a fire in me, my wife, and all my family. We didn't have anybody saved on my wife's side of the family, uh and or my side. We're full we're our first generation. Christians. I never saw anything like it. My wife, I never saw anything like it, but God did in my life. And I got news for you. It hasn't changed much. Hadn't changed much. Well, I want to tell you something, that well is still springing up inside me. I've been in some meetings this week this summer, man. Glory to God, I got in a camp meeting. Jubilee. Man preacher got the preaching, and I got the sucking air. Glory to God. Many of my heart got hot. Tears started down my face. Hallelujah. It hadn't changed a bit Is still exciting. If the word of God is still alive, the s the singing of the old song still touched my heart. I'm telling you, the glory is still there in the night As far as I'm concerned, I hope I never I never never lose that hot heart towards God. Huh So well. Bubbling forth. Remember when you got saved? Remember how your life changed? It did change, didn't it? If you is what you was, you ain't. But if you got truly born again, there's a fire litting in your soul. Mm? Yeah. But we have to kind of watch out now in these last days, especially later in the scene, church, while the Bible says that there are many who are hot and many who are cold. He said, I'd rather you be hot or cold, but because you're lukewarm, you make me sick. The Ephesus Church didn't lose its first love, it left It's first love. I've gone through seasons. My heart got cold. It's come on, a mechanical Christian. Just kind of going through the motions. Bible didn't come alive when I read it. I'd read it though. If I didn't get anything, I'd read it Not your soul winning, hope nobody's home. Yeah. Now I never have been about this preaching, though honestly. Honestly, I God has been good to me. If I got asked to preach, I couldn't wait to get there and preach. I'd love preaching. I know many people love my preaching, but I love my preaching. I love preaching. I know many love my preaching, I'd have loved Braits It's never lost excitement, never lost that joy. Say that well. Jesus. Boy, Jesus, so good. Jesus forgave me of my sins. Jesus died and forgave me of all my sin. He changed my life. He saved my wife. He changed her life And uh and my children, my great grandchildren. I have eleven great grandchildren now, man. Eleven. You're supposed to look where's the disbelief? You're supposed to look Well I'm gonna tell you something. God has been so good, God is so sweet, and the Lord is so blessed and so precious. The will is Bubbling. Let me show you something. The Bible says Jesus was a well of everlasting life. Take your Bible and go over to Genesis, the 26th chapter. Let me show you something. you something. Genesis the twenty-sixth chapter. Abraham had dug wells. I want you to notice the setting, chapter 26, verse number 1. There was a famine in the land. Besides the first famine, that was in the days of Abraham, Isaac went under Abimelech. there's a famine. Now it says here in verse 15, for all the wells which his father's servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them. And filled them with earth. And Abimelech said unto Isaac, go from us, for thou art much mighter than we. And Isaac departed thence and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there, and Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father, for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham, and he called their uh he called their names after the names by which his father had called them, and Isaac knows his Isaac's servants digged in the valley and found there a well of springing water. It's kind of interesting about these wells. It says that the Philistines in verse 15 had stopped them up and filled them with earth. And Isaac had to redig those wells. And I got to thinking about sometimes in my life There wasn't any springing up, and the well of everlasting life and the joy of the Lord and the goodness of God was not swelling up in my life in appreciation. And it wasn't the joy in my heart and the thrill in my heart for my Bible and so on. Because my well was full of earth. Somebody may have come by and kicked a little dirt in my well. Maybe somebody gossiped about me or criticized me. Maybe I just filled it up with earth, with sensual earthly wisdom, as it talks about in James 4:15, 3. 15. Maybe there was earthly fellowship or earthly entertainment. You see, if you fill your well up with the earth, the things of this earth, you're not going to have a well springing up And everlasting life. You're not going to have the joy in your life that you once had. You're going to lose the thrill of serving God. You're going to lose the thrill of the Word of God being alive in your heart You're going to lose the joy. You're going to lose your song. I think one of the saddest things about the church today, the church today is the loss of their song. People lost their song. No joy. Now we get around a bubbling Christian, excited Christian, and we think he's a little bit abnormal. He's normal. We're so abnormal and we're subnormal because we've lost our joy. Even a spiritual Christian, the Bible says in Ephesians chapter, that a spiritual Christian is singing Christian, singing hymns and spiritual songs He has a joy in his heart. And the joy is fellowship with the Lord. And when we lose our fellowship with the Lord, and we lose that joy, we about lost everything, folks. Because our well gets filled with the earth and earthly things. Maybe we ought to stop every once in a while. Check it out. You have the joy bells ringing in your soul? Is the Bible alive to you? Is serving God exciting and thrilling? Huh? Are you seeing God answer your prayers? The real truth preacher. You sh we if we gave an opportunity for God's people to give a testimony of what God's doing, may have to jump up like like jack in a box everywhere Because man, God's working their life. God's working their loved ones. They're excited. The Bible's alive and real to them. But what's wrong? Where is the living water? Where's the joy? You still have the Lord, the well. But maybe your wells Full of earth. Maybe somebody come by and kick some earth in your well. And Isaac did. Watch this. Isaac said, we've got to get these wells We gotta redig these wells. They didn't have backholders back in them days, I don't believe. So I think Isaac had to get down on his knee. That's the best place to clean out the well. And then he's gonna have to start digging the well Digging a well and oh sometimes it's difficult and a dirty job. It's not comfortable. Sometimes you just Just get so sick of yourself, it's kinda hard. But you know if you gotta keep digging. You gotta get all that earth out of there. And then all of a sudden And the the ground kinda gets wet and muddy and you keep digging and digging, oh now, water starts seeping in and you keep digging You can't be satisfied because you've got to get to the well. You've got to get to the spring water. You've got to get back to where you were. So you keep digging. Digging. Digging. And if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And we keep digging. And all of a sudden, here it comes. Here it comes. Oh glory to God. Here it comes. Thank you, Jesus. Glory to God And the joy comes. The joy comes back and the thrill comes back. And oh the Bible comes alive again. And guess what they call that? Revival comes. And your life is changed again. And you come back to those days Oh, when things are so precious and real and right, and all the relationships in your life are made right, and all the promises are fulfilled, and restoration is made, and the well is dug, and the waters flow Again, and the joy bells are coming again, and all of a sudden it's just like it ought to be. Huh? How about you tonight? Is your well plugged up? Is it plugged up? You need to come to an old-fashioned altar and get on your knees. Take whatever time you have to take Big it out. Get it out. Let's stand to our feet. Father in heaven, Lord, thank you. Oh, what joy there is And Jesus, how good you've been, Jesus. How wonderful you forgave us of our sin. You cleansed us and changed us, gave us a new life. Lord, it's so wonderful. I'm afraid sometimes it's what it used to be and not what it is. Because our well filled with earth, plugged up. God tonight, maybe there's some that ought to come to an old-fashioned altar. Father, they ought to just start cleaning the well out. My takes n Time might take some phone calls. Might take some visiting calls, phone calls, letters, whatever it is. Down to those days when the water is bubbling forth in your soul. Lord help us please. Every head bowed and every eye closed. Don't ask the pianist to just play. And as she plays, if God spoke to your heart, would you just come and talk to God? That's it. God bless you. Come on, let's get the well cleaned up. Let's get the well cleaned up clean down. That's it. God bless you. Come on. Come on, that's it. Let's get it clean all the way. Don't stop until the until the joy comes. Peace comes. Come on. Let's get the joy bells ringing again in your heart. If you're here tonight and you're not saved Two of the saddest words in any language in this world. Not saved. You come, we'll take a Bible and show you how to be saved. How to know the Lord. Maybe you've been a religious lost church member, I don't know. But if you've not been born again and life changed by the Lord Jesus Christ, you need to come And let us take a Bible and show you. Can you look back to a time in your life where you say, I repented and trusted Christ? And God saved my never-dying soul and changed my life. You come. Father in heaven, thank you for a good message for speaking. God, we pray that we would not allow anything into our lives, that we quench that spring, quench your precious Holy Spirit Fill us, Lord, on a daily basis. Work through us. Use us for your glory. We thank you, Lord, for what you're going to do. Help us to follow through now in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you