I had packed all my belongings. They all fit in about two suitcases, I think, at that point. I was twenty-one year old young man. I had been saved uh little over about a year and a half, I think, nineteen twenty maybe two years at the most, uh, I was saved at that point. But I packed my belongings up and my father And his parents, my grandparents, drove me down to Chattanooga, Tennessee. I enrolled in Tennessee Temple University and We got down there, I think if I remember correctly, we got there on a Friday. Saturday I moved into uh the dorm, moved my belongings in the dorm, got settled. Dad and my grandparents spent the weekends, spent a few days and helped me get settled in. We had church Sunday, Monday. We had registration. They stuck around till I got registered and then classes began if I remember correctly Tuesday. They headed back So they dropped me off. I knew nobody there. Um I mean nobody. I'd never been that far away from where I was born in my life And um we uh uh they got back, and that Friday at the end of the week, I got a letter in my little mailbox there on campus. I got a letter from my father And in that letter is just brief. He just said how their trip home was. And he expressed to me his support and his prayers. For this new endeavor in my life, this new chapter of my life off the Bible college. And um he signed his name, and at the underneath his name he put Philippians chapter 1, verse 6, what we just read here a few moments ago. And at that point, I didn't know what it said. I didn't have it memorized, so I looked it up and I read, being confident of this very thing. That he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. I thought that's encouraging. I praise the Lord for that. I underscored it in my Bible The next week, towards the end of the week, I got another letter from my dad. Said a little bit what had taken place, how things went to church the previous Sunday. He was praying for me, supported me, was happy that I was studying, and signed his name, and under his name he put Philippians chapter 1 and verse 6. I read it again. The next week, I got a letter from Daddy. Just brief few words, praying for me, signed his name, put Philippians 1. 6. For 37 years, 37 years, without fail, I got a letter from my father every single week. He just briefly, a few words, what was going on, never was long. He's praying for me. Eventually got in the ministry. He's praying for the ministry. He'd sign his name and he'd put Philippians 1, 6. Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Every single week I got a letter. Unless I was home, happened to be home for a week visiting, or if he was wherever we were, he'd come and visit. Of course I didn't get a letter then, but whenever he was home and I was away I get a letter from Dad, Philippians 1. 6. Philippians 1. 6. God used my father To take this truth from Philippians chapter 1, verse 6, and drilled that truth into my heart and mind. I can be confident that when God begins, He will see through, He will finish it. Now, I'll be honest with you, I never got uh there was never any money in those letters. I take it every now and then, maybe on my birthday, there would be a card. Well, I always got a card on my birthday, and there might be a five-dollar bill, you know, in there. Um and dad wasn't stingy. Um and he wasn't poor, he wasn't rich, but he wasn't poor. It just um he just didn't do it, you know. And um it was a different day back then. You know, it was just kind of assumed you're going to earn your keep. You know. But I tell you, in dad Giving me that verse week after week, month after month, year after year, no matter where I was, I'd get that letter, and Dad giving me that verse. That did more for my well-being than any amount of money he could have ever sent me. Being confident Of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Being confident. There are some things in life that we can be absolutely confident about. We can be absolutely sure we don't have to question, we don't have to doubt. We don't have to waver. We can have unshakable confidence. There are some things in life. Now, what does it mean to be confident? When Paul wrote this under the inspiration of God, God recorded it down for us through the pen of Paul, and he says, being confident, what does he mean by that term confident? Well, the word itself means to be absolutely certain of a truth. It means to be absolutely persuaded. That something is true. No doubts. No wavering about it. I'm convinced. I'm persuaded. I'm certain. That this is true, being confident of this very thing. It has this idea of having unwavering trust in a person In a truth or in a thing. Um, I'm confident we maybe you approach a uh a bridge across a river and a little walk bridge, a swinging bridge, if you ever been and you get up there, somebody says, somebody that knows it, that's walked it back and forth, they're Maybe they're some sort of engineer. They know all about it. They can say this, I am confident I can trust this bridge. I can walk across it. Absolutely certain. No fear, no hesitancy, no worry, no doubts about it. I am confident I can cross this river on this bridge. That's the idea. behind this word. Or absolute unwavering trust in somebody. Somebody say, I am confident. I have confidence in them I trust them. I don't have any doubt that they're going to be true. They're going to keep their word. They're going to do what they say they do. They are what they are. They're sincere. They're real. I have confidence in them There are some things in life that we can be confident about. There are some things in Christianity, in our faith. That we not only can be confident of, we must be confident about. I looked up that word confident as I do. I got these definitions that came up with these definitions. I looked how it's used in different things. I found this, the word confident here, is used 55 times in the New Testament, in one form or another Sometimes it's used in a different form, but 55 times in the New Testament, the word confident is used. That idea of confidence, confidence, that idea, we find it all through Scripture. All through Scripture, when it's addressing our faith, my relationship with God, my standing before God, my service to God, this idea of having confidence, of being sure The fact of the matter is, biblical Christianity is a confident faith. It's a confident Christianity. Our faith in God Is, at least it should be, a confident faith. Confident faith. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to 2 Timothy. Now, Paul was the penman of Philippians here. He's writing to the church there in Philippi. Of course, God's inspiring him. Paul is also the penman to this letter to Timothy. So the second letter, this is one of the, this is the last recorded writing we have of Paul under inspiration He's going to die shortly after he pens the book of 2 Timothy. He's going to be beheaded for his fate. And he says there in 2 Timothy 1, look with me if you would at verse number 12. Paul is kind of giving a testimony of his faith. He's sharing his heart here. And notice what he says, 2 Timothy 1. 12, he says, for that For which cause I also suffer these things. Talking about the c the gospel. He was persecuted intensely because of his faith in God, his preaching of the gospel For the which cause I suffer, I also suffer these things. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed Not ashamed of the gospel. I'm not ashamed of the fact I'm a Christian. I'm not ashamed of the fact that my faith is in God Look what he says, right? Nevertheless, I am not ashamed. Look at this, for I know whom I have believed. And am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. That word no there means to be certain of. No doubt, I'm persuaded. I know whom I have believed in. I know Jesus Christ is my Savior. I know He has forgiven my sins. I know whom I have believed. Then he uses another term, the word persuaded. That word persuaded comes from the very same word that in Philippians chapter 1, verse 6, being confident. comes from the exact same word. I am persuaded. I am confident. There is no doubt in my mind that that which I that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. Paul had a no-so salvation. He had a certain faith, a confident faith. There is, biblically, there is no such thing as a hope-so salvation. It's not there. The Bible knows nothing about uh, I think so, salvation. Uh maybe. Are you saved? Are your sins forgiven? Do you know for sure you're going to heaven? Is Jesus your Savior? Do you have a has God forgiven your sins? Well, I hope so. You will not find that teaching anywhere in Scripture That our salvation is some sort of hope. So I get out, like I said, uh I knock on doors, I talk to people all the time, every week of the year, I try to t Talk to people about their soul, about the Lord Jesus Christ. And over and over and over and over, many times uh church members, various churches in our community They will say, I'll ask them very pointedly, do you know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven and you go to heaven and you don't go to hell? And the answer I get overwhelmingly is, and you know what I'm going to say, I hope so. Well, preacher, I think so. Well, uh, I don't know. Uh maybe. I tell you what, a hope-so salvation is not a biblical salvation. Paul said, I know. I know whom I have believed. I know, I'm certain of that. Hope so, uh there is there's no hope-so Christianity in Scripture. And uh let me just take a little swipe of those that are in my uh vocation, uh if you want to use that term. But these preachers that preach that you can't know whether you're saved or not are either doing one of two things, either they're incredibly ignorant of Scripture or they're lacking integrity Because the fact of the matter is we can know for certain our sins are forgiven, we're on our way to heaven. Now, may they may be sincere. But did you anybody here anybody here realize, ever learn this? You can be sincerely wrong There is no there you can't I've read this book through, I'm working on my 50th time reading through Scripture, and I can't find anywhere in Scripture where salvation is presented as something, I hope so, or I think so, or I maybe so It's not there. Um it's a confident our fa biblical Christianity is a confident Faith. A confident religion. I know, I'm certain it's established, no doubts, persuaded That this is true. There are some things that we can be certain of. Now, there's a lot of stuff in the world that uh we're not certain about And there's a lot of people maybe we don't have much confidence in. There's situations, stuff, all that, but there are some things we can be certain of. We can have unshakable certainty. I look through the Bible, I study my Bible, and I find I like to do character studies. I like to uh take different individuals that are presented in Scripture and the information we're given about these individuals in Scripture, I like to study that. I like to try and see w I like to try and see what makes them tick. Right? What who are they? What are they like? How do how did they interact? What was their relationship with God like? And again, looking through there, and I find I find that all the great men and women of God in Scripture, without exception, The ones that were used greatly of God, without exception, were men and women of great certainty. They were confident. In their God and in their relationship with God, their standing with God. They were very confident. There weren't doubts and questions. Let me give you a few examples. In Abraham. Abraham. In Romans chapter 4 and verse 20, it says this about the faith of Abraham. Now listen to this It says, he staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith. He staggered not. God approached him there in uh back in Genesis and his wife and said, You're going to have a son. Abraham's a hundred years old, Sarah's ninety. He says, You're going to have a son. What? Uh yeah, uh and uh the Bible says, God said it, boom, that settles it And he didn't stagger at that promise. No, I'm not going down that road. I thought of something. But um uh He staggered not. Confident. Unshakable confident. God said something. God promised something that humanly was ridiculous. God promised something that humanly was impossible. God promised something that made no sense. How can this even be? But Abraham had absolute confident faith in God, staggered not. At the promise of God. Abraham. And we go all through scripture. I could give scores and scores of people in the Bible had common to faith. I thought about Job. Would you agree with me? If anybody would have a reason to doubt God, it would be Job. Right? Good heavens Listen to what he says in Job in chapter 19, verse 25, he says this, I know that my Redeemer liveth. I know that God is alive. And you study what He says. I know that God is wise. I know that God knows what He's doing. I trust Him. I have confidence in Him. That he'll see me through, he'll see me through. I tell you, what a testimony of unshakable faith in God Unshakable faith in God. My daddy used to quote Job, and then I don't have the reference on the tip of my tongue. I think it's 23, but he says, I know that when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. Job had unshakable faith, unshakable confidence that whatever God allowed in his life, even if it made no sense, it hurt deeply, but God allowed it. I have confidence in God. He knows what he's doing. And I trust him fully. Would you agree with me? That's pretty confident faith. That's pretty confident faith. And then David He says in Psalms 18, verse 2, he says, The Lord is my rock and my fortress, my deliverer, my God, my strength. David knew who God was, and he knew he could trust him completely. Confidence. I tell you, we could use a good dose of confidence in our faith in God. Our churches need to learn to have faith in God and to be confident in that faith, not doubt, not waver, not question. Did you ever see that little bumper sticker? God said it? I believe it. That settles it Now, I'm glad you believe it, praise the God, but I'm here to tell you, if God said that, that settles it, whether you believe it or not Listen, if God said it, just settle it in my mind. It's true. I'm going to have confidence in it. And so confidence, it's all through Scripture, this idea of confident faith. If I'm going to be a victorious, if I'm going to live a victorious Christian life, I have got to establish some unshakable confidence in God. I will never be victorious in my Christian life. I'll never have victory over sin. I'll never have victory over doubt and discouragement I'll never have victory over this uh the things of this world until I learn to trust God and trust Him completely. Confident. Um if I'm going to have God's blessings In my heart and life, if I want uh anybody here want God's blessings? I will more than anything in the world, I want God's blessing on my life And whatever that entails, whatever the Bible defines that blessing to be, I want it. And if I'm going to have it, I have got to learn to be confident in God. To be confident in my faith. I want God's blessing on my home. Can I get anybody here with me on that? I want God to bless my family, my marriage, my children, my grandchildren. I want God's blessing. But I I must learn to have unshakable confidence in God if that's ever going to happen. I learned I've I've got to put aside doubts. And say, yes, I trust you, God. I believe that. I'm confident in what who and what you are. We're going to have God's blessing on our church. If we're going to see God use us, if we're going to make any kind of difference in this world for the gospel of Jesus Christ, if we're going to see people saved, if we're going to see people Find the will of God for their life and then live for him and serve him. If that's going to happen, we have got to establish some confidence in our faith in our God as a church. We see God do great things, I think, in our church. Last Sunday with our faith promised jumping up, 92 missionaries out of our church. Listen, we've got to trust God. We've got to trust Him completely, have confidence that He can use us, He can meet those needs. He can multiply who and what we are and use us for His glory If I'm going to have the joy of the Lord in my life, I've got to put away doubts. I've got to have confidence in God. If I'm going to be effective in witnessing to others, I need to have unshakable confidence. Let me give you a few thoughts about What the Bible teaches about having confidence in God, being a confident Christian. Number one, I put it this way, consider, now I'll explain what I mean by this point here, consider some banned confidences. If something is banned, what's that mean? Talk to me. It's what? It's forbidden. It's not allowed. Did you know the Bible tells us as Christians, as believers, there are some things that we are not to have confidence in? There are some forbidden confidences that we are not to put our trust in. The Bible says there are some things we shouldn't have confidence in. If we put our confidence in it, our trust in it, or uh our rely upon it, it's going to end badly. For instance, in Proverbs chapter 28 and verse 26, listen to what the Bible says. He that trusteth has confidence in, depends on, he that trusteth in his own heart is a fool. Whoa. Do you agree with me? That word fool is a pretty strong word. God calls me a fool, that's bad, right? And some people call me a fool. Oh, Lotherman, you're a fool. That doesn't bother me too much. God says I'm a fool, that bothers me He says if we put our trust in our own heart, we're full. Anybody ever hear this? Maybe you've given this advice, and sincerely. But ever hear this? Well, just trust your heart. Anybody ever hear that? Big thing in the world is follow your heart. God says you do that, you're a fool. You're foolish. You say, why would that be? Why wouldn't you follow your heart? I'll tell you why. Because Jeremiah 17, 9 says, the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. This old sinful heart, this old heart of mine is awfully sinful. Has anybody here ever been shocked by how a sinful thought that comes to your mind? Anybody? You say, what in the world? Yeah, well what's wrong with me? I'll tell you what's wrong with you. Same thing wrong with me. We got simple hearts. And if we trust that There is a way, the Bible says there is a way which seemeth right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of what? Death. Yeah. Oh, it seemed right to me. I was just found my heart. And it ended bad. So one of the banned confidences, God says, listen. Don't you trust your heart. Don't you put confidence in your heart. Your heart's deceitful. That's what we read it. Jesus told the disciples, out of the heart proceed adulteries and murders and deception and wickedness. Out of our heart. And so one band at confidence is our own sinful heart. Don't trust your heart. Proverbs 11:28 says this: He that trusteth in his riches shall fall. Trusteth in his riches. The Bible says don't put your confidence in riches. Don't put your confidence in your bank account. Maybe you found this out. If you haven't already, you might. I hope not. But that bank account can fall apart awfully quick. Economy can go bad awfully quick. Say, well, I got it made. Uh I've got much goods I'm going to tear down my barns and build bigger barns and I have much goods, I'll be able to live. And Jesus said to that fellow, Thou fool, tonight thy soul shall be required of thee All the money in the world can't keep a soul out of hell. All the money in the world can't bring the blessings of God. All the money in the world can't bring peace of heart and forgiveness of sins. He says, don't you put your trust in money. Now he's not saying money's bad. We designed, we need it to interact. It's part of life. But I'm not putting my confidence in it. We need to put our confidence in the Lord. In God. In God. We have on our dollar bills it says, In God we trust. I think for a lot of Americans It should say, In this I trust, this dollar. And it's going to fail us every time. It's going to fail us. So abandon confidences, my own heart, riches. Listen to Proverbs 3, verse 5 and 6. Trust in the Lord. with all thine heart. Listen, and lean not unto thine own understanding. That word lean there means have have confidence in, trust in, depend on. My own understanding Anybody here ever think you had something figured out and then you found out you were completely wrong? Yeah. Man, I thought, well, that wasn't anything what I thought it was Would you agree with me? If we think our relationship with God, we got it all figured out and I understand we find out we're wrong, would you agree with me? That'd be bad. I stay, I I die and I stand before God and found out. I lean on my own understanding, I was completely wrong. I was completely wrong He says, Trust in the Lord with all their heart. Lean not into thine own understanding. Listen to Psalms 118, verse 9. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. in government leaders. In government. Listen, government's designed by God. But he says, don't put your trust in those government leaders. Don't you put your trust in presidents and governors and mayors and senators and representatives and all that. Don't you put your trust in them? You trust in God And how many Christians got messed up because they got drawn into politics and got so caught up and they put all their trust in this man, this politician, this, and they ended up disappointed when we really should have trusted God the whole time. Amen or not? I believe in voting. You know that. We believe being active involved in our government. But I tell you, our trust is not in White House, it's not in President Trump, it's not in President anybody. Our trust is in God That's what we're taught. Don't put your trust in princes. Um, you know, be active, be involved, try and influence them for right every way you can. But our confidence is in God. So there's some band of confidences. Listen to Philippians chapter 3, verse 3. Have no confidence in the flesh. Have no confidence in the flesh. Um we were talking somebody just recently, we were talking about uh people serving God and being in different things, and um Sometimes we'll ask somebody, will you take this class or will you do this? We'll have something we'll ask them to do. And I tell you, if that person responds back, says, oh yeah, I can do that. I got that. If they say that, I'm a little worried. Right? Why? Because it sounds like they're doing what? Trusting in themselves. Oh yeah, good God, I can that's cake. I can do oh man What I sometimes uh what would ask somebody and say, preacher, I don't know that I could do that. Man, I just don't know that I the I don't know if I'm able to do that. I tell you, bingo, you just met the qualifications. We have no confidence in the flesh. It's not my abilities. I have no confidence that I'm able to pastor a church and preach the word of God with the power of God. That is in me. I need to put my confidence in God. Anybody here ever hear me pray before I preach, Lord, I can't do this myself. I need you to fill me. And you do anybody ever hear that? That is where our confidence needs to be. In Sunday school, on buses, in the choir, anything we're doing for God, our confidence is not in ourselves. It's in the Lord Paul, the great, great apostle, the great man of God. He said, I have no confidence in my flesh. In me, that is in my flesh, there dwells no good thing. I need a Lord. What did Jesus say? Without me ye can do nothing. So our confidence, there's some things God says, don't put your confidence in. Don't put your trust in. Ban the confidence. Number two, I want us to notice. Oh, by the way, let me back up. We can put unshakable confidence in the wrong object And be tragic, be costly. I've been watching these, uh I have these uh little uh videos of scams And yeah, I love it. It's people that scam the scammers. Did you ever see them? And they'll you know and they'll mess with them. And then they'll get in their computer and mess their computer all up. And uh I love it. And the tragedy of that is there's innocent people. A lot of times it's elderly people will get this message. They'll get a phone call. They'll get some email and they'll say, oh, you've got these problems. We need to help you. And they'll put their confidence and they're sincere and they're trusting these dear people. And they're being scammed. And this guy has uh accounts where people lost everything, lost all their investments, all their life savings, everything at the end of their life because they put their confidence. Unshakable absolute confidence in something that was wrong and it cost them dearly. And I hate to say this, but there are millions and millions, billions of people around the world that have utmost confidence in their church, in their religion, in some unscriptural teaching, and they're trusting it completely. We get to the end of life and find out we were wrong. We were wrong. So there are some things God says don't put your trust in them. Don't put your confidence in them. Number two, the basis of our confidence. The basis of our well, what do I trust in? How can I trust God? How do I trust God? Well, the basis of our confidence Is first of all this inspired, infallible Word of God. The Bible is God's Word And again, we could do a whole series on this if you in Bible Institute. We go into depth on this. But the Bible is historically accurate. There are no errors in the Bible. Geographically, historically, archaeologically, if the Bible says there are mountains somewhere, you go there, guess what? There's mountains there. The Bible says there was a city in a certain area. You go there and excavate that area. Guess what you're going to find out? There was a city there. I say this uh fairly often. Uh we're not afraid of the archaeologist's shovel. We'll say, well, they might dig something up and find something that contradicts the Bible. Never has happened, never will happen. I say to the archaeologists, dig, baby, dig. All you're doing is just confirming the truth of Scripture over and over and over and over for hundreds of years. This book is infallible. This book is inspired by God. The principles of God's word are proven, are without error, they're powerful How many millions and millions of lives have been changed simply because they believed what that book said They simply did what that Bible said. I'm telling you, I stand before you, a 65-year-old testimony to the power of that book right there. What God has done in my life, and all across the auditorium, all across our church and churches like ours around the world, people can stand and testify. That book has the power of God upon it, and it's changed my life The basis of my confidence in God is the inspired, inerrant Word of God. The Bible is the sole authority of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We believe it. Our confidence is in it. It's powerful. Our confidence is not in the men that penned the book. I talk about Paul and These different ones. Our confidence isn't in the men. Our confidence is in the author that inspired the men to write it. And so, one, the basis of our confidence is inspired, infallible Word of God. The second basis of our confidence is in the perfect character of God The integrity of our God. God's power is infinite. If God says that He can or will do something that seems impossible to us You mark it down, God can and will do it. He's able. Mary said when she found out she was with child. She goes, how can this be? I've never known a man And the angel replied, one of the great statements in Scripture, that which is impossible with man is possible with God. Jeremiah, we memorize this verse. Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast created the heaven and earth. by thy great power and stretched out arm, there is nothing too hard for thee. My confidence is in the power of God. You say, Preacher, how could God do that? I don't know how he can do it, but I know he can if he said he will. Amen. So our confidence, the basis of our confidence, is in the integrity and character of God and who he is and what he is. God's wisdom is flawless. We can trust his wisdom. You say, why? We ask this a lot. And there's nothing wrong in and of itself. Why would God do this? Why did God allow this to happen? Why did God allow my daddy to die? Why did God allow this? And my answer as a pastor, 99. 9% of the time is, I can't tell you why, but I do know this. God is perfect in his wisdom. He knows what he's doing. I can trust him. I can trust him. Job said, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. The basis of our confidence is in the integrity of God, his power, his wisdom, his knowledge. In his uh his love for me is unconditional, it's unlimited. I heard a preacher years ago preach the simple message, and I don't remember the message. But I remember the three points of it. I don't think I'll ever forget them. Number one, God wants what's best for me. He loves me and he wants what's best for me. I'm glad. His second point was: God is all-knowing and he knows what's best for me. He loves me. He wants what's best for me. He is all-knowing. He's omniscient, and he knows what's best for me. And God his third point was this God is all powerful and He can do what's best for me Any parent that's any decent parent at all want loves their children and wants what's best for them, right or wrong. But sometimes we don't always know what's best for them, right? Man, I want what's best for my child, but I don't know. God never has that problem. He knows what's best. Sometimes, in some situations, we love our children, we and we want what's best for them, and we know what's best for them. But I don't have the ability to do for them what is best for them. I'm limited. But I'm here to tell you the God that we have confidence in Loves us, wants what's best for us, he knows what's best for us, and he can do what's best for us. And so we trust him. Our confidence is in God's Word and in God's integrity, God's character. I can have complete confidence in God and his word. There's a great illustration of this, and I can't go to every passage I want to, but it's a great illustration of this when a young boy back in the Old Testament in 1 Samuel A young boy comes out to visit his brothers on a battlefield and they're fighting it's the Israelites, the Hebrews, they're fighting the Philistines, and the battle has come to a standstill, and they come up with this uh challenge where uh a champion out of the armies of the Philistines would challenge a champion out of the armies of Israel And the Philistines had a champion and they sent him out. Who was that champion? Goliath, the giant And they challenge the armies of Israel. You send out your champion, you fight our champion. If you kill our champion, we'll submit to you, we'll surrender to you. We kill your champion, you surrender to us. Here's the tragedy. The Hebrews had no champion to send out. They had no confidence in God. They had no trust in God. They were afraid. And a little boy shows up, checks on his brother, says, what's going on? They said, Oh, there's a champion out there. Uh challenge whoever uh can kill him, then they'll submit to us, they'll surrender to us And he looks around and he says, Is there not a cause? What in the world? We're the people of God. We got God Almighty on our. What in the world? Of course, that little boy was who? David. And on wavering confidence in the power of God, that little boy walks out there with a sling and a stone. The giant comes down. You know what that was? That was confidence in the power of God Almighty. He says, You've not defied me, you've defied the God of Israel. And he stands up. That's confidence. So the band confidence, some things we shouldn't put our trust in. The basis of our confidence is the promises, instructions, the word of God. and the integrity of our God. Number three, quickly, uh consider how do I build my confidence? Say, preacher, how in the world do I get well I don't have these doubts where I just have confidence in God where I can have this what Abraham had and Job and David. How do I develop that? Well I think there's a few simple things. I'll just give them quickly. Number one, I think I need to just decide I'm going to trust God in the Bible Just decide. I'm gonna trust God. We talked about that little swinging bridge and you come to it and man a lie, that's a canyon down there, this bridge, I don't Yeah, you can do it. I've been back and forth a bunch of times. I'm an engineer. It's true you can trust it. At some point, I've if I'm gonna get across that bridge, I've just got to make a decision that I'm gonna step out and walk across that bridge, right or wrong. I've got to decide, just standing there, and I can believe all I want, but if I don't decide to actually act on it, I'm never going to get across the bridge. And at some point, I've got to just say, you know what? I'm just going to believe God. I'm just going to put my confidence in Him. I'm going to plant it there in God and His Word. There has to be a decision. I have to decide. I'm going to trust God. I need to establish a personal relationship with my God. Trust Him. Trust Him. First of all, trust Him as my Savior. I got to come to the point where I realize I'm a sinner. Jesus Christ died for my sins, was buried, rose again. And if I call on him, if I trust in him, If I receive him as my personal Savior, He will forgive me. He will save me. He will give me eternal life. He will take me to heaven someday. And I just decide to trust him. Amen? I mean people all the time. I think Uh uh I gotta be careful here because I don't mean to be critical. I uh we're responsible for ourselves. But I think there's a lot of churches in our community and they'll preach about being saved And they'll say you need to be saved and Jesus died for you and rose again. They'll do that. But they never challenge people to decide to trust Jesus as their Savior. They just talk all about it, just talk about it, talk about it. And there's never a decision point. Where I say, all right, I'm going to put my confidence, I'm going to trust the Lord Jesus Christ my Savior. I can believe and know the gospel and believe its facts all I want, but until I make the decision to put my confidence in Jesus Christ, I will never be saved. And so I've got to decide. How do I have this confidence? One, just decide you're going to trust God. Just decide I remember af this was after I got saved. I was in college and I started having some questions and doubts a little bit, nothing serious, but some of the classes I got and I talked to some people, I said I'm really struggling with some things And they helped me. And I still remember one night I went to the altar. Dr. Robertson was preaching. I went to the altar and knelt down and said, God, I'm just deciding from here, for the rest of my life, I'm going to trust you. That you are true, I'm going to trust your word. And I tell you, God has not failed me. I've failed him 10,000 times over. I hear tell you, he has never failed me one time. So, how do I build this faith? How do I develop this confidence? One, decide to trust God in the Bible. Number two, I put this down: dig into God's Word. I mean, just get in, find out what He says. Find out his instructions. What does he tell me to do? What does he warn me about? What does he promise me And just dig in and learn this book, and learn this book. Romans chapter 10, verse 17. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. That word faith there has the idea of confidence. Trust in God. Dig into the Bible. The more I understand this book, the greater my confidence in God, and this book will be. The more I found that people generally people that doubt the Bible are people that know very little about the Bible. I did a funeral years ago for a fellow and um It was kind of tragic. His mother had passed away. It was a fellow. He was probably in his twenties. And uh he had come here as a child. And they'd asked me to do the funeral, and I got talking to him uh after the viewing one night, and I was trying to share some scriptures with him, and he says, ah, he goes, I don't believe that Bible He goes, uh I don't think it's I don't think it's true at all. And I asked him, I said, uh, well, how did you come to that conclusion? How'd you come to the conclusion that the Bible is not what it claims to be, that it's not true, it's not reliable? What process did you go through to come to that conclusion? Here was his answer. He goes, oh, well, I watched a documentary on TV one time and it said the Bible wasn't true, so I don't believe it. What a knucklehead. So you're going to base your eternal destiny on some documentary that perverts in Hollywood came up with? Are you kidding me? I found that people that come to this book and take it for what it is and take it for what it claims to be develop great confidence in that book. People that say, well, they know very little about it. They know very little about it. So dig into the Bible. Decide, I'm going to trust the Lord. Trust Him as your Savior. Say, I'm going to decide. I'm just deciding I'm going to believe the Bible and trust it. Then dig in and find out what it says. And then three, I put this one down. Develop the ability to wait on God Develop the ability to wait on God. Again, Job said, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. Job didn't know how things were going to play out. He didn't know what all was happening. He said, I don't know that, but I'm going to wait on God. I'm going to trust him. He's going to see me through this. Here's the problem is Well, oh alright, I'm going to trust God, I'm going to believe the Bible, I'm going to have confidence in God. Then some trials come along. God allows them in our heart. And rather than waiting on God and seeing how He works this thing out, we give up and walk away before it's over. In Luke chapter 24, again, I wish we had time, but Jesus was crucified, he was buried. The disciples scattered, they were all disillusioned. Three days go by, and what happens? Jesus resurrects from the dead, he rose from the dead, he's alive, and shock waves go through the Middle East around the world. But there's a few disciples that heard that Jesus rose again, and they're walking down on their way. And Jesus comes up beside them. This is after his resurrection. They're talking to himself. He says, What are you doing? I'm putting this in my own words. He said, uh basically he said, What are you guys talking about? And they're like, what are you new here? You haven't heard about Jesus, who was a great prophet of God? They crucified him He's dead. They buried him, and now they're saying he rose from the dead. And they make this statement. Listen to the statement they say. They say, we trusted. That he was the Messiah. We trusted in him. Past tense. We don't anymore, but we did. You know what the problem was? They quit trusting one day too soon. They'd have just waited. They'd have seen him. And eventually they did. They saw Christ, the resurrected Christ. What I'm trying to say is this. If I learn to wait on God, I'll learn I can trust him more and more and more and more He's faithful. He's faithful. He's faithful. Say, oh, I'm going through it. I don't know. You just be patient. Trust God. Trust God. And the more I do that, the more I do that, the more I do that, I find out, yes, God is faithful. And my faith in Him will grow. And my confidence will be stronger. Let me end with this The boldness of my confidence. Some confidence were banned. Don't trust these things. Don't put your confidence in these things The basis is God's Word and God's integrity. Building it, getting in the Word of God, waiting on Him, trusting Him. It builds, strengthens, and then the boldness When I get to the point where I'm absolutely know for sure my sins are forgiven, I don't doubt that, I'm saved, it's settled, God's Word is true, I'm confident in God's word, in God Himself. Number one, I can boldly rest in the assurance of my salvation. 1 John 5, he says this: these things have I written unto you, the Bible, God's word. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God that ye may know that ye have eternal life. Not hope so, not think so, not maybe so, but know that my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. I don't hesitate for one moment when talking to someone, they ask me Brother Leatherman, do you know for sure you're going to heaven when die? I don't hesitate one moment. I know absolutely for certain when I die, my sins are forgiven, I'm going to heaven. I've had people say to me, well, LaDida, who do you think you are? You really think you're the catch meow, don't you? I said, no, I don't. I deserve hell as much, maybe more than anybody else. But God promised me that if I call on him, if I believe Jesus died for me, I call on him, turn to him for my sin, trust him as my Savior, that I have eternal life, and I have absolute confidence that what God said is so. The assurance of my salvation is not based upon me or how I live my life or anything I do or don't do. The basis of my assurance of my salvation is in God's word, His promise, that if I call on Him, He'll forgive me and save me. And I found that when we get that settled, we live a more godly Christian life than those that never have that settled. They'll call on the Lord, but I can't know I'm saved. I can't know I'm saved. You gotta live it or you're gonna lose it. You know what I found? Most of those people do a very, very poor job of living it. Overwhelmingly. But I get it settled. God saved me. I'm secure. I have assurance. I found that helps me to live it a whole lot better than not having that. So, boldness. Uh I know for sure. I visited Phil Sherman uh years ago. How many people remember Brother Phil? What a guy Blind. Always he sat in the back there. He he wasn't tending when I came but they started from back. He always sat in the back row back there. And um Uh and he he loved our my preaching, he'd listen online, uh everything we had. And uh w we'd shake hands when we go out the back Um, he would come and shake my hand, Carolyn walk him up there. He'd say, Preacher, you're looking pretty good today. He's blind as a bat. I mean he can't see a thing. You're looking good today, preacher I said, Phil, coming from you, that means something, I'll tell you. Nobody else, nobody that could see said that. He was the only one that said that. But the first time I visited him after I came here as pastor, we were visiting his house out in England. I was sitting there and I said, Phil, and we just met and were kind of talking a little bit I said, Phil, let me ask you a question. Do you know for sure when you die your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? And without hesitation, he looked at me and he says Preacher, do you know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven, you're going your way to heaven? And without hesitation, I said Phil, yes, I do know for sure. And he had been saved, but he was just turning it around on me. The ba the boldness of having confidence in God I can have assurance, but unashamed of assurance that I know God saved me, He's forgiven me. When I trust Him as my Savior, unashamed assurance. And then I can boldly proclaim the gospel of Christ. I can tell people with absolute confidence that if they'll turn to the Lord Jesus Christ and trust Him as their personal Savior, He will forgive them, He will save them. Paul put it this way, Romans 1:16, for I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. You and I can go to the sorriest center in Garrett County. We can go to some foreign mission field and find the lowest of the lowest of humanity. And we can share with them with confidence the gospel of Jesus Christ. And if they'll turn to Christ and trust Him, God will forgive them and save them. We do not apologize for the gospel. I've been criticized for preaching the gospel too much. I don't apologize one minute for preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. The power of God unto salvation. Whosoever calls the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's our message to this world. The boldness. I can be through the deepest trial, the darkest night, the most horrific storm in life. And yet I can say with confidence, I know that my Redeemer liveth. I know God is good, and I trust Him. And God can give peace in the midst of the storms. 1930s, I think it was 1933 to 1937, about four years, they were building the Golden Gate Bridge out in California. I don't know if you've ever been across that thing. It's quite an accomplishment. It's a four-year project. The first two years, now this was back in the day, so the first two years they had no safety mechanisms. in building that bridge. I mean they're out on those I beams, they're out there on those cross beams, and wind's blowing. It's and uh And in that first two years, the first half of the four years it took to build it, the first two years, over twelve men fell to their deaths, seven hundred foot drop, as I as I understand, seven hundred foot drop into the uh the river And 12 men lost their life. Finally, they stopped construction. They said, hold it, we've got to do something. They built, they designed a huge net that they stretched underneath the construction area of that bridge, that if someone would fall, they would fall into the net. They found that when they put that net up, not only did people stop falling, It's interesting, when they knew there was a security there, there was some confidence that they'd be okay, they didn't fall as often And the second thing they found was this. Production increased significantly. One, they didn't fall as much. And number two, they got a whole lot more done. And what I'm trying to say is this: when you and I get confident in our Christian life that I'm okay, God's got me, I'm in his hand, I'm secure. I find out I'm not going to be messing up quite as much. I'm going to be a much more effective Christian. Confidence. Father in heaven, pray you'd take these thoughts on this snowy day. I pray you'd help us just decide we're going to trust you. Lord, I pray your Holy Spirit would help us put out doubts and uncertainties And just rest in full confidence in you and in your word. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if some would say, preacher, I need to just decide in maybe a specific situation, a specific circumstance. But you say, preacher, I'm just going to decide I got it, I'm going to trust God. I'm going to put my confidence in come what will I'm just going to trust him. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I'm just going to trust God. God bless you. Hands all around. I'm just going to put my confidence in him. I'm going to push aside doubts. And I'm just going to rest in his promises. God bless you. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I've got some folks that need to be saved, maybe friends, family. You know, I've just been timid. I didn't know, but but I'm going to ask God, just give me confidence and share the gospel with them in compassion. But in absolute confidence that if they'll just believe, they'll be saved. Is there any like that? Preacher, I've got some folks. I want them. God bless you, hands all around. Now, maybe there's some here in auditorium, maybe some online. You don't have assurance that your sins are forgiven. That when you die, you go to heaven. You say, I hope so, I think so, I maybe so. I'm here to tell you God wants you to know so. And if you're here now or you're online, contact us one way or another. But you'd say, Preacher, I'm not sure. I just have questions about whether I'm saved or not, whether God's forgiving. I need to get them settled. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Any at all? Father, I ask you bless now our invitation. God help us to develop this faith, this confidence. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand