2 Peter chapter number 2, I just want to look at verse 14, and I want to look at one little phrase in verse number 14. Peter, of course, is exposing these false prophets, and he says in verse 14, having eyes full of adultery, and describing these false teachers, these apostates And they cannot cease from sin. And look what he says here. This is their tactic: beguiling unstable souls. Beguiling unstable souls. I want to talk tonight for a little bit about unstable souls. Unstable souls. Let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us this evening. Father, we come to you again. Lord, it's the end of your day, the Lord's day, and we have a good day. You've blessed us, and we're so grateful. And I pray now as we finish out the day and finish out this service with the Bible, I pray you'd teach us tonight, help us to learn from this little statement that's in your word. and what it means to us and how we should respond to the truths here. Again, every single time I preach, I w I desire and I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Spirit, that you take my mind. As I yield to you my mind, my will, I present my body, pray you take me and use me as a conduit tonight to communicate the information you want us to have. And the changes we need to make, the decisions we need to make. Communicate that through me tonight is my prayer. In Jesus' name, amen. Of course, we've been looking at chapter 2 here for a while. It runs parallel to the book of Jude, which we are studying in Sunday school. And as I've said numerous times, I did not plan it that way. It just God's scheduling worked out. And uh both of both Jude and Peter here are Giving some strong warnings about false teachers, about false prophets getting in the church. And um he doesn't pull if you've been paying attention here the last few weeks in these last few verses that we've been studying. Peter does not pull any punches. I mean, he uses some really strong words and makes some very, very almost harsh statements About these fellas that are coming in. Notice there in verse number 13. Look at how he's describing them. He says, these Oh, well verse 12, but these as natural brute beasts, I mean they're just animals, he's saying. made to be taken and destroyed, speak evil of things, they understand not, and shall utterly perish in their own corruption. Man. Verse 13, and shall receive the reward of unrighteousness, as they that count it a pleasure to riot in the daytime. Spots are they, blemishes Sporting themselves with their own deceivings while they feast with you, having eyes full of adultery. They cannot cease from sin. Would you agree with me? That's a pretty strong description. Man, a preacher get up, stand behind a pulpit, and start describing people that way, say, man, that's a that's tough preaching right there. But he's speaking all of this under the inspiration of God. And this is how God wants us To understand what false doctrine and ungodly living produces. What it is, how we should view it. And so um he's he's emphasizing to his audience that he's writing to, and then through the inspiration and preservation of God's word to you and I, he's communicating the fact that we we need to take very seriously uh correct Bible doctrine That ought to be high, high priority in every New Testament church I'm telling you, if you get involved with a church that does not believe that correct Bible doctrine is important, you get out of that church. Now I'm not in habit of I'm not in the habit of telling people to leave church, but I'm telling you, if that church doesn't take Bible doctrine right, you need to get out of it. God takes this stuff seriously. God doesn't play. And he addresses their lifestyle, as we just saw some of the terms he uses here. And if a church does not stand for, preach and promote and stand for godly living and pure living, that church is disobeying God. Right or wrong? Now church might not uh there's no perfect church in the world. And by the way, if you if you find a perfect church, please come and tell me, uh, and so I can keep you from joining it and ruining it. Alright? There's no perfect church. We're not everything we should be, of course. Every believer and every church is a work in progress, right or wrong. Sure. But we ought to stand for godliness. And we ought to preach and promote righteousness and pure living. And that is the that is not what these guys were doing. And Peter's telling me, you better take this seriously. That's why I believe he's using such strong language here. And as I said, even harsh in some of the some of the things he's saying. And so we come to verse number 14. And right smackdab, in the middle of verse 14, he has this little phrase that I emphasized here a moment ago. Beguiling unstable souls. The other week I was studying through this, and that phrase kept kind of coming to my attention, and unstable souls God wants his people to be stable. Now we're going to look at a bunch of verses, all right? You got your Bibles there? Let's use them a little bit tonight. And we're going to buzz through a few of these. Go with me. Keep your place here. We're going to come back and look at it. But um Romans chapter number 16. Would you come over there with me real quick? Romans chapter 16 The last chapter of the book of Romans. And if you would, come down to verse number 25. Romans 16, verse 25. Notice what Paul, now he's writing to believers in Rome. And um verse number twenty-five, chapter sixteen, verse twenty-five, he says, Now to him that is of power. Now look at this. Now to him that is of power to what? Stablish you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ. He says that God wants to establish us, or establish us, we might say it today. Stablish it. That means he wants us to be stable. The word establish there means to make stable, to stabilize. And he's telling them they need to be stabilized, they need to be established in the gospel. Listen, the gospel is not open for debate. The gospel of Jesus Christ, our church ought to be firmly established, very stable on what the gospel is, and the preaching and the propagation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's not something we waver on. That's not something we uh um uh uh what's the word I want uh b uh Huh That's my level words right there. Listen, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we ought to be very established on what the gospel is. Amen? And we ought to be very established that our purpose is getting the gospel to every single person in this whole world that we possibly can. Come with me, if you would, over to 1 Thessalonians. Now we're working our way towards the back of the New Testament. 1 Thessalonians. And chapter number three. First Thessalonians chapter three, and look with me at verse number thirteen. Notice the notice how he words this here. First Thessalonians three thirteen. To the end That he, God, the Lord, to the end, that he may establish your hearts unblameable in holiness Before God, even our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Here's that word establish again. It's the exact opposite of unstable. This is stable. Be stabilized. Be established. Now here he tells us we are to be established in holiness. In holiness before God. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be a holy church. Now, we nowadays people don't know what the word holy means. They think it's some sacred uh relic or something. Oh, that's a holy chandel, that's a holy chalice. That's a that's a holy vase. Uh uh no, when he says we ought to be holy, that means we ought to be godly and righteous and pure in our lives. We ought to be established on that. We stand for holiness. I think it would do our country good if we get a bunch if we get our churches back to preaching the holiness of God and living holy, godly lives. And we ought to be established on that. That's not something we debate. Hey, we don't debate the idea of whether fornication is right or wrong. That's not open for debate. We're established it's wrong. In all circumstances, any type of physical intimacy outside of marriage is sin. And by marriage we mean a husband and wife, period. And we ought to be established on that. That's not something we waver on. It's very clear. It's very established. By the way, we were talking about this. That's one of the things. I praise God that we are an independent Baptist Church. We don't have to deal with this nonsense that goes on in these denominations and trying to alter our church and tell us what to preach and what not to preach and what to accept and what not to accept. We answer to Christ and Christ alone. The Bible's our authority, not a denominational creed. The Bible is our authority. And so we're to be established in holiness. Come with me over to 2 Thessalonians. Chapter number two. We're looking at God what I'm trying to say is God wants us to be stable. He wants us to be established, unmovable, unmoving in some things. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 and verse 17. He says, Comfort your hearts. Look at this, talking about what our Lord Jesus do for us. Comfort our hearts and establish you in every good word and work. We ought to be established on serving God. Well, I don't know if we should serve God or not. That's not even a question. Yes, we serve God. We serve his word. We teach his word. We run buses. We have radio stations. We give out gospel tracts. We support missions. I don't want to be established. I was talking to somebody, a fellow here not long ago. Every year the church votes on whether he's going to be the pastor the next year or not Every year they vote. All right, are she is still gonna be the pastor? Now I don't want to be unkind, but that's foolish It ought to be established. All right, this is God's man, God called. Now if he's stupid, if he's teaching false doctrine or live in bed, then you deal with it. But it ought to be established. We ought not to vote every year whether we support missionaries or not. Now we decide how much we support what we can do, but that that ought to be established. Are you with me? We're not debating whether we should run buses or not. Good night. That's settled. That's established. And then you could go down the line. So God wants us stable. And I'm just pulling out some things in the Bible that he says directly. You need to be established on this. You need to be stable on these issues. Come with me to 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 and look with me at verse number 3. But the Lord is faithful, who shall establish, shall establish you, stabilize, establish you, and keep you from evil. We ought to be stable and established on our separation from evil. Separation, that's the most neglected teaching in Scripture: separation. Come out from among them and be ye Separate, the Bible says. We're not better than the world, but we're not to live like the world. We're not any better than the world. We don't have the same values as the world, we don't have the same priorities as the world, we're to come out from that, and we ought to be established in the fact that no, we are in the world, but we are not of the world. That's what he's saying. Um come over if you would to James chapter number five. James chapter five, and notice with me if you would, verse number ten. I'm sorry, ver verse number eight, James five, eight. He says, be ye also patient, stablish your hearts, it's settled, stabilized. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Now I think what he's talking about here is just being faithful to God. Just being faithful to God, being established. I'm settled in, I'm going to be faithful. I'm going to be where I should be when I should be there when I should be there doing what I need do what I should be doing. How many people think our soldiers on the on the on the c on the battlefield ought to be established in what they're supposed to be doing. Soldier ought to be where he should be, when he should be there, doing what he should do. Amen or not. Nathan knows that. Others Well, I submit to you, we are in a battle just as real as the warfare is going on around this world. Our battle is a spiritual battle, and we ought to be established in our roles and our responsibilities in that battle Until the Lord comes back. And so God wants his people to be established, to be stable. One more, back to 1 Peter and chapter 5. Alright, First Peter chapter five and verse number ten. But the God of all grace who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while Make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. I think God wants us to be settled in our place, fixed, established. When things are going well and when things are not going well. Say, oh, uh Ben, things never been better for me. Bills are paid, doctor gave me a good report, house is nice, cars running fine Kids are obedient. Oh, everything's going great. I'm going to be in my place. I'm going to be established, settled in my walk with God. Wonderful. Praise the Lord. Amen. But when the bills are high and the funds when the debts are high and the funds are low and uh the kids are naughty And the house is a mess and you're behind on the bills and uh your health, your back hurts, your knees hurt, your head hurts, your tooth hurts, you got ingrown toenail We ought to still be faithful in our place, established, settled, living for God. I always tell uh young when I get a chance, uh talk to young preachers, I Try and advise them, listen, when things are going good, don't get too high. And when things are going bad, don't get too low. Just stay even keeled, stay the course, stay focused on Christ, establish yourself and go on. And the other advice I give just for young men uh young preacher like that I said you get where God calls you you find where God wants you to be and you put your feet down you put your roots down and you stay there until God drags you away kicking and screaming So, established. God wants us to be stable. Now, let's come back to our text. I'll give you a couple of quick, real quick thoughts. Number one, he says there, he says, um beguiling, verse 14 of 2 Peter 2, he says, these false prophets beguiling unstable souls. I want to Give a definition of what an unstable soul is. What do we mean by that? The word unstable here means what I've kind of been implying already. Is it to be unstable means you can be easily moved. It's easily moved. It means something that is not anchored down. A few years ago we had quite a bit of snow out in the parking lot and uh the guys running the snow plow or pushing it and what happens is if we get a good bit of snow in the winter If we don't push the snow back into the yard far enough at the beginning of winter, it starts piling up around the edge of the parking lot, and then you don't have room to push it. So in the beginning of the winter you've got to push it way back into the yard so you have room for snow throughout the w for the rest of the winter. Well, for whatever reason it didn't get pushed back and man that was piling up, piling up, and we were running out of room to push the snow. And so I hired a fellow, one of the men in the church, said I know somebody, and they had these big snowblowers you put on a tractor. It has like two augers across it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Do you ever see them? Man, those things are cool Hey, he's just running that thing, brrrrrrr. Snow's blowing 50 yards out in the out in the yard back. And before he started, I said we had the guy wires back there for the tower, radio tower And I said, no, listen, I appreciate it. Showed them what we wanted. I said, you've got to watch out for these guy wires. And I had little streamers on them. And uh I said, watch out. You gotta watch out. It's bad And I'm working in the office and I hear the snow blowing. I look out, snow's blowing everywhere. A little bit later it's went quiet. And soon a guy came in, I was working in the office, he came in the office and he says, uh I think we got a problem. I said, What? He's come out, I looked. Oh no, he had caught the guy wire and pulled the anchor up. out of the ground. I mean holding that tower up, pulled the anchor up out of the ground. Oh no I'm telling you, that is one of the biggest miracles I've seen in my life. That tower just stayed up there and did not fall down. I called I called Dave Robinson, our technician down in North Carolina. I said, Dave, you won't believe what happened. I told him He goes, the tower's on the ground, right? I said, no, it's standing there. He goes, you're lying. It's on the ground. I said, no, it's standing. I'm looking at it. It's standing. He said, that's impossible. And we went on and on and on until finally I convinced him it's not on the ground. He goes, well you need to anchor that thing down fast. So I got in my pickup truck, got a ratchet strap. And the whole thing pulled my pickup truck right up in the air. No, it didn't do that. The point I'm trying to make is this, an unstable soul is somebody that's not anchored. They're just hanging there loose. Nothing holding them down, nothing holding them in place. Unstable souls. The word unstable has the idea of being fickled. What does it mean if somebody's fickled? They're just here there changing their mind, not settled on anything, wavering, unsteady. Unsta unstable Christians, unanchored, easily moved, fickled, wavering. In, out, on, off, hot, cold, here, there. An unstable Christian tends to be undecisive. It's difficult for them to make a commitment to anything, because as soon as they do, they question it. An unstable Christian tends to have a difficult time not just making commitments but when they do keeping those commitments. Because there's nothing they're not anchored to it. They're not stabilized on that commitment. I made this commitment. I'm anchored to it. But they're unstable. There's no anchor there. There's nothing tying them down. They're not they're not uh settled on it. In Luke chapter 9, verse 62, Jesus said, No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom. He's unstable. He starts out and he says, well, I don't know, maybe I'll I want to be back here. Well, no, I need to plow. And he's unstable. He he can't decide. Are you going to live for God or are you going to live for the world? Are you going to do right or are you going to compromise? Are you going to stand on the Bible or are you going to lean on your own understanding? He says you need to get settled. You need to get anchored. Unstable people tend to be undecisive in their It's not that they don't know what's right, they just can't constant consistently do what's right. Because their mind's not fixed on doing right. In James chapter 5, verse 12, James tells us, under the inspiration of God, let your yea be yea, and your nay be nay, lest ye enter into temptation. I mean, just decide. One way or another, then hold to it. Be stable in that. Torn in two directions. I had a young man in when I was youth pastor years ago He got saved, and I think he wanted to live for God, but he wanted the praise of his classmates. He wanted to be a Christian for the Lord, but he also wanted to be cool in the world. And he could never settle on one. He lived for God for a little bit, then he'd go back into the world. And then he wanted to do right, and then as soon as that cost him something, or it may cost him some friends, then he goes running back and there And he never got stabilized, he never got anchored, he never got fixed, he never put his roots down in living for God. He was unstable. He was unstable. He's constantly looking back to the world. A stable soul is a decisive soul. This is the way I'm going to walk in it. I have chosen the way of truth. That's stability. Fixed. I know what I've decided. I know where I'm going. I know where I'm going. Number two, I put this down, and unstable Christians tend to be inconsistent. Turn with me, if you would, just quickly to James chapter number one. Just a few Pages towards the front of your Bible, James chapter number one. And James talks about an unstable soul. He addresses it He doesn't use those exact words, but notice in verse number 5 of James 1, if any of you lack wisdom, Let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally and abradeth not, and it shall be given him. Simple statement, simple promise. You lack wisdom, ask God, He'll give it to you. But look at verse six, let him ask in faith nothing what? Wavering, huh? Nothing wavering, for he that wavereth, unstable, he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. Oh, he's here, he believes it, then he doesn't believe it. Oh, he's on, then he's off. Oh, he's got great faith, then he's doubting. No, he's in for the Lord. I'm all in. Then he's out. Inconsistent. Look what he says. He's like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and toss. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. Now look at verse 8. A double-minded man is what? Unstable in all his ways. He's inconsistent. He's double-minded, just like a wave of the sea, up and down, up and down. I tell you, one of the great goals, one of the great objectives for a Christian is to get to the point where I can consistently live for God. How many people agree with me? That's a bit of a challenge. Just to be consistent, just to be consistent. That's a challenge. But we've got to get stabilized. We've got to become consistent and decisive. And this is what I am. I'm a child of God. I want to live like it and act like it and talk like it at home and at church. At work and at school. Listen, either you're living for God or you're not. That's stability. That's inconsistency. A stable soul is a consistent soul. A stable soul is a decisive soul. I put this down, and unstable Christians tend to be unfaithful or unreliable. Proverbs 25, 19, I shared this with the deacons' trustees on Friday night Says confidence in an unfaithful man in a time of trouble is like a broken tooth and a foot out of joint. You put your confidence in someone that has uh that's unfaithful, that's not stable, that's inconsistent, wavering You don't know if you can trust them or not. You don't know if they're gonna be where they should be or not. You don't know. He said, that's just like having a tooth that's uh uh broken and man that thing hurts. You know what happens? It distracts you. You're thinking about the driving down the road, your hoof tooth is hurting. Next thing you know you drive through a red light You gotta put out a joint. And it hinders you. It handicaps you. You can't do what you want. Listen, uh uh an unstable soul is unreliable. You can't trust them. It's like uh a a foot that's out of joint. A stable soul is a faithful soul. A stable soul is a reliable soul. You can trust them. I think one of the best ways to promote the success of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, you say, what can I do to promote the success? Of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, one of the most basic things we can do is just get faithful, get stable Settle in. That's my church. That's where I'm going to be. I'm going to be faithful. I'm going to be in my place. I'm going to be involved. I got responsibilities. I'm going to fulfill them. Yeah, but I don't feel like it. Doesn't matter. You're anchored. You do it. Oh, I'm getting tired of it. Keep on doing it. Just press on, press on, press on. It's stability, it's being anchored. 31 years, yeah. You know, there's been occasions, I'll be honest with you, it's very few, because I love what I do. I love it But you know, there's been a few Sundays you got up in the morning, I really don't feel like going over there. I told my wife, I don't feel like going. She goes, you got to. I said, why? You're the pastor And I tell you 100% of the time when I do what I should do, whether I feel like it or not, afterward, I'm glad I did it. There's fulfillment that comes with stability. There's confidence that comes with stability I get frustrated with some of these young preachers just hop around church, church, church. They go to church, a little trouble comes up, zing, they go running somewhere else. Then a little trouble comes down, then they run somewhere else I thank God. You know, our Sunday school teachers, 99% of our Sunday school teachers have been teaching a long time. Am I right or not? I mean, faithful, in their place, stable. Just staying at it. Our members, faithful, faithful. And so, what the definition of an unstable soul is someone that's easily moved. They're not anchored down in the Word of God, the will of God. They're fickled, wavering, unstable. Then last of all, I end with this real briefly, because I'm really looking forward to that ice cream. The danger of instability. Unstable souls, the primary tactic Of a false teacher, an apostate, a false prophet, the primary tactic is to beguile Unstable souls. That's what Peter's saying here. He says, beguiling unstable souls. Now I got looking at that word beguiling. What's it mean to beguile an unstable soul? We don't use that term very much. I got looking it up, it's very simple meaning. We all understand it. It means to bait. Or to entice. Or to trap. One dictionary. I was looking up the definition of the Greek word it comes from, the original word it comes from. They said it's actually a fishing term. To lure. To bait in Turn with me. Look notice uh Second Peter chapter two, verse fourteen. That's not what I want. Go to James chapter one Oh no, chapter eight uh uh hold it, stop. Second Peter two eighteen It's four verses later, 2 Peter 2, 18. Notice what it says. Speaking of these apostates, he's still drilling on these guys. When they speak great swelling words of vanity, they allure Through the lusts of the flesh, through much wantonness, those that were clean escape from them who live in error. They allure them Same word as that word beguiled comes from the exact same word, allure them. Now, if you would come to James chapter 1. James gives a beautiful description of what it means to be beguiled. James chapter 1, verse 13. Let no man say, when he is tempted, I am tempted of God For God cannot be tempted with evil. Now get this, neither tempteth he any man. Listen, you're tempted to do wrong. Don't you dare blame God. Verse 14. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and Enticed. Same word as the word beguile. It means to lure, to be to bait the hook. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Don't mess up on this. Don't let the devil, don't let sin entice you, lure you, bait you into it. Because the end of it is death. And that is the exact tactics Peter says that these false prophets, these apostates, use They'll work their way into a church. They'll find unstable souls, Christians that are not anchored, people who are not settled, committed, anchored in. State of course, I mean they are fixed. When things are going good, they're settled in their place. When things are going bad, they're in their place. When the church house is packed out, they're doing they're doing their thing. When the church house is empty, they're there doing their thing. Whether it's popular or not, and they come in and they find these unstable souls that are in and out, on and off, won't commit, and they beguile them. into their false doctrine and their ungodly living. False teachers thrive on weak Christians. Cults thrive on weak, unstable souls. Apostates thrive On inconsistent believers. That's why these yard birds on TV, I mean some of that stuff they preach and teach is absolutely ridiculous. And did you ever notice the crowds that they have? And they make literally millions and millions and millions of dollars, not for the advancement of the gospel, but for their own luxury For their own advancement. And they do it by beguiling unstable souls Listen, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and I know I'm a broken record, but Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we need to be anchored in this book right here. I mean we don't budge from it. We don't move from it. We take uh when that when that guy wire in the tower came out I made some phone calls, got Mark, I said, Mark, we're in trouble. And he came out and looked at it. I'm telling you, uh he dug a hole down in there and poured five thousand yards of cement in it. I don't know what how much, it was a bunch A big I-beam. Uh how long was that I-beam? Eight-foot I-beam down in there filled that thing with some. . I'm telling you the space shuttle couldn't pull that thing out of there SpaceX rockets couldn't pull that thing out. And I tell you, just like that guy wire anchored there, that's how we need to be anchored in this book. In godliness and holiness and righteousness and advancing the gospel, we're not moving. We're not moving. And um I know, like I said, I'm a broken record, but uh listen, don't if you're waiting for us to start using another version, you're gonna be waiting a very long time. You're waiting for us to start not preach the gospel anymore. You're going to be waiting a long time. Say, oh, I'm waiting for that, I'm waiting for them out there to not preach against sin no more. Ah, you're going to be waiting a long time By God's grace and with his help, we're going to stand anchored. And what was true, what needs to be true about our church needs to be true for each of us as individuals. Get your home anchored on the truth of God's word. Know what that book says. Don't budge from it. Determine to do right. As for me and my house We not might serve the Lord. We will serve the Lord. We're stable there. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I pray you'd help us. Not to be unstable souls, help us, Lord, to be established and grounded in the Word of God and in the live righteous living and And uh winning souls and and serving the Lord. I wonder with heads bowed eyes closed. How many people would say, Preacher, I want to work and getting it being established. I don't want to be unstable. I don't want to waver. I want to be anchored. Any like that? Join me. Say, sure. God bless you. And let's pray for one another. Let's pray for our church that we'll stay true and we'll stay strong. I believe God will help us if we mean business. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.