So much. Let's get our Bibles and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. He brings a message tonight. Thank you, Pastor. Amen. All right. Tell ya, I think our meeting was sabotaged there yesterday, wasn't it? You know, it's amazing through the years that we've been in the ministry, I've seen all kinds of things that have uh have hindered uh the services for the week. And you can always count on it. Uh there've been a couple of places we've gone where the The uh pastors one of the pastors' family passed away during that time and and I hope that doesn't happen here, you know. Of course everybody could have passed away yesterday, I mean. That would have really been a major one there, you know, if we'd that had happened. But we have we've had this unusual thing. This is the first time though that I I know that the the uh services had uh been depleted somewhat because of uh turkey sickness I don't understand that. Anyway, uh it's been good. We got another chalk drawing done and uh this is a second one. Now I am curious uh Uh how many like this in the best of the two? Let me see your hands. Okay. I I What is that? Can I see the hands again that like this one the best? Okay. Oh okay that's better at least half a dozen there. How many like that one then the best? Is that it? Okay, well that is still the best. Is it because of the b of the eagle? What is the what is the reason why? What are you grinning at? He likes it. The one that's laying on the thing there. There's always got to be one. Alright. Well anyhow, uh we've got two of 'em done and uh tomorrow night we'll this one will be up on the wall. We'll start on another one. And we have uh uh you know, uh uh there'll be s seven all total, counting the one on here because we're gonna put it on the wall with We'll use that also to to give away to people who bring the most visitors. I hope I hope you've been praying for the meeting and uh uh that you're inviting and doing all the things that's that's important. uh in order to you know to get the visitors in. Uh we can we can preach to Christians all week long, but we sure would like to get the gospel to people who have never heard the gospel or that uh have never trusted Christ as their Savior, you know, give it the Lord another opportunity to uh to reach out for after all. Isn't that what he's he came for? Seeking to say that which is lost not seeking to say that which is already found. Okay? So what we need to do is uh is uh reach out and see what we can do for the rest of the week. Uh but I do thank the Lord for each one of you that's here and uh praise uh praise the Lord that that uh no more were uh affected by the uh by the turkey poisoning. Is that good to call that that? No, we don't want to call that that. Okay. So anyhow, uh uh you might stop and think who's trying to get rid of who? If the pastor had been the only one sick, I would have understood, but bad. Okay. Erase that one. Take that one out. Take that out of the The recording, okay? All right. We're in Luke chapter uh chapter fifteen, if you'll take your Bible and turn there. We're gonna uh read uh I guess the first uh uh first few verses here, uh just seven of them, in Luke chapter fifteen. And it says, And then uh then drew near unto him all the publicans and the sinners for to hear him. And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. And he spake this parable unto them, saying, What man of you, having a hundred hundred sheep, if you lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness? And go till uh and go after that which he uh lost until he find it. And when he has found it, he uh lays it upon his shoulders, rejoicing and and when he uh cometh home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost. I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in the he in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over 90 and nine just persons which need no repentance. Let's pray. Our Father, we pray tonight that you'd help us as we preach and we ask you to bless the chalk on as we show it a little bit. Uh Lord, I think there's probably all of us here would have to say that that we've all, even after we were saved, have uh become wandering sheep. From time to time and and uh need the shepherd to seek us out and find us, bring us back into the full, uh beaten and bruised. And Lord, I pray that you'd uh help us tonight. If there's any sheep out there that need to be found, I trust that uh tonight that uh the Spirit of God would uh find them in their hiding place and and uh bring them to yourself. So we ask you to bless the service tonight and the preaching of specially help us evangelists. We pray that you'd uh bless the chalk room once again in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. This is such a familiar portion of scripture it's almost like you don't have to even read it because we've all uh heard this the story. It's actually there's three stories here. He's dealing with a bunch of Pharisees and a bunch of people that that uh are so self-righteous they don't feel like they need it. Sometimes I feel like that when I I preach to the Monday night crowd, that uh there's a a lot of good people out there and most of the time on Monday night particularly you have most of it just saved people out there And bless your heart, I'm not trying to run you off or not trying to say you're bad people. I'm just saying that a lot of times the the Christians sit in services, whether it's Sunday, Monday or Tuesday or Wednesday through whatever They'll sit in services and and they'll be feeling like, uh, well I wish so and so was here and I w to hear that message because they really need it. And probably we've all uh thought that same thing at different times uh in services. But uh the truth is we all need to hear the word of God any time, all the time, every time It's just something that's important. I guess that comes from turkey, does it? So anyway, I want us to just look at these verses here and just take a few minutes and And kind of remind us ourselves of what the Lord has gone through to find us. He found every one of us, you know. It wasn't us running around looking for him, it was him running around looking for us. He had to go in the beer joints to some of us and Some places uh you hate to even talk about, but he he found us wherever it was. He found us and uh put us on his shoulders and brought us home. What a wonderful, wonderful Savior we have. We don't think a whole lot of it. But I want us to to think about uh the fact that number one, uh This is not a hunter that's out after some wild game. This is a shepherd. And he's after the sheep, a sheep, a particular sheep that has gone astray. It's his sheep. That's the reason I say we're all sheep here. All we like sheep have gone astray So uh the shepherd's looking for a uh uh a sheep. Now I don't know whether uh like I say we uh we have a tendency not to think of ourselves as as being bad people But the truth of the matter is there's a little rottenness in all of us. Because we still have that old nature that's there that's still contrary to the Word of God, still contrary to the Spirit of God, and still contrary to the will of God. And so uh we have to realize that that whenever we tolerate sin in our life, no matter how small and insignificant it may seem to us, it alienates us from God. No matter how small it is. And uh we uh uh well This is the we'll drop that part up. But I want you to understand, this is not a hunter out looking for blood and meat and something to eat, but this is a shepherd that's concerned about one sheep Now he's got ninety-nine others in the full, and he's not concerned about them because they're in a place of safety. Some people say, well You know, he went after this one, he left that a hundred or ninety-nine out there uh at the uh at their own jeopardy. I I want you to understand that that's not the case. What he's doing here is just simply he's put the the 99 in a safe place. Now he's concentrating all his effort on one individual You know, uh, we have to realize that there are people out there that don't want to be found. I I don't know about you, but uh I'll tell you uh for for a good portion of time, uh after I became aware of heaven and hell and and salvation and Jesus and all that. I mean uh having gone to church off and on uh in my young life and in getting into my uh teen years not going to church at all. I think I did go to the Catholic church one time for a wedding or something like that, but that's all I can really remember But I know one thing that that uh uh God was He was seeking me out. And I know I I was I was doing the hiding. I tried to keep out of church, tried to keep away from Christians, tried to stay away from preachers, and if I saw the preacher coming, I was gone. I mean, I just did that's just the way it was. So we're we have a tendency, uh sheep do, and I I noticed this uh and there may be some here. I know Brother Paul may have uh have you had sheep, Brother Paul? Do you did you ever have sheep? Yes or no? Nod your head. I don't think Paul heard me here. Okay. I I know there's some of you in here that probably have had something to do with with sheep. And and I know one thing about sheep, and that is that that they will f find a hole in the fence. If they can get out, they'll find it Uh I spent a lot of time over in uh uh over on the in the Sawyer area. And uh there was a gentleman over there that allowed me to hunt on his his land. Uh uh And he uh at that time years ago he had uh had a lot of sheep, had these tremendous herds of of sheep that ran his And I I would uh as I hunted his land and would cross the fields and so forth, the one thing that I tried to do as I as I hunted on his land was to kind of watch his fence. He had a lot of rail fences And i and I found something that if if there was a uh one of those rails was down, that there'd always be sheep on the other side. They're going to find a hole in the fence. That's a whole lot like a lost person is, and it's a whole lot like a Christian who's backslid, who doesn't want to doesn't want to hear the word of God, doesn't want to be involved in it And perhaps there's there's some folks that's not here tonight. Uh I'm I'm not trying to point fingers, but I'm just saying there's maybe some who have lazied out this week simply because they don't want to hear it. They don't want to be found. And maybe a better word would be they don't want to be found out by the Holy Spirit. They don't want to be caught in their trap. Sheep are I hate to say this, but sheep are stupid, okay? I don't know any other way to put it. They're not very smart. They just uh you know uh They're c they're concerned about basically one thing, and that's where the next morsel of grass is that they can get their their tongue and their lips around and pull it off. That's what they're really concerned about It's a whole lot like a carnal Christian who who is uh more concerned about the the physical, more concerned about the carnal, the fleshly. uh more concerned about uh you know what makes them feel good and what makes them enjoy life more uh than they really do about spiritual things that count more in eternity. Cheaper sort of, like I say, maybe you could say they're ignorant, I don't know, but but the truth of the matter is they do a lot of dumb things. And just like You know, I was listening uh this past week on the news and uh General Petraeus, you know who I'm talking about? He'd been in the news all week because he had a an extramarital affair. He said he made a stupid decision. That's then that's true. There's anything that's going to destroy a home and destroy the people around you and people that you love more than something like that. And I thought, here's a man who is the head of our intelligence apparatus. Here is a guy who is a general in the United States Army. And obviously he as far as intellect, he's probably above average all the way around. I mean there's no question about that. And I think he was uh good in the job that he was doing But he made a stupid mistake. Stupid, you know Sheep do stupid things. Even even Christians do stupid things. Even even Christians who are You know, they go to church and they carry their Bible and do us they be we do stupid things sometimes Because we disregard uh how it how what we do is going to affect people that we care about. Ought to be the very first thing. Uh Lord, how's this going to affect the uh uh uh uh our fellowship, our relationship? Talking to the Lord. That ought to be the very first thing involved. But of course, when you get sort of backslid, you don't really care about that. Because you kind of shovel it in the back because it's getting in the way of things that you want to do and and and uh where you want to play, and the things you want to see and the things you want to say Sheep do stupid things. Concerned about what's going to fill their their stomach, just like Christians who want to fill their appetites. Only concerned for the present, not concerned for eternity, not concerned about what's on out there in the future. He'll find that hole in the fence so that he can he can slip out there and and he thinks that on the on the other side of that fence uh is going to be uh s a pasture I guess where there's really good morsels of of grass and and food for him, but uh he doesn't really consider that there was at least some protection within the bounds of the fence row. The thing about a sheep is that they they tend to wander farther and farther away. They never find they can't tell me why a sheep does not find his way back through that fence hole. They just don't do it. They never will find their way back into the field where they came out of. They always go further and further away, and even though they can hear the bleeding of the sheep behind them in the field, they'll still wander on a little bit farther and a little bit farther and nibble here and a nibble there. Isn't that a whole lot the way it is with sin? When we get involved with some sin, we crawl through that hole, that uh uh that barrier, that uh Uh that discipline that we once had, that that uh uh that fence of protection that God has placed around us, we find the hole, we crawl through the thing, and then Uh we just keep going farther and farther away, sin by sin. Because once you break through that barrier of discipline And once you break through that getting past what the law of God says, what the Bible says, what your parents told you, and what common sense tells you, once you get past that, you're free, free to go. The prodigal is probably the best example of that. We like to think of the prodigal as being a person who has lost knowing way to hell, you know. But that's not what it is. He's the father's son He goes into a far country far country further and further away. That's the that's the dire that's where the sheep go. They just keep going farther. Person who's uh away from God, one sin leads to another. It's isn't it silly that they would legalize marijuana out of California? A known addictive drug and they're they now they put on the market. You say, well how about liquor? Well how about liquor? It was stupid to put that on the market too, okay? I'm just saying that that once you break through those those barriers that you know is there for protection, once you get through that, then you feel free, that you can get away with just about anything And so it's farther and farther away that the sheep goes. Don't let the first one begin. Don't begin to look for the whole. Don't whenever you s whenever your mind is starting to figure out a way to get out of going to Wednesday night prayer meeting or visitation or uh Sunday night or Sunday school or whenever your mind begins to think of ways to find a hole through the fence, you need to stop right then and say, wait a minute, this is the this is where it starts It's easier to stop then than it is once you get through. Easier to stop before you get to the fence. They tend to go farther and farther away, and and here's here's the problem. Once you know a sheep is not only stupid, but it's helpless too. It just, I mean I mean let's face it, a sheep really I mean even a stink bug has more defenses than a than a sheep, isn't that right? I mean if you pick a stink bug up where you go, phew, ooh, I wish I hadn't done that. If you stomp on one, it's even worse. But a sheep? Nothing. I was out one time I was squirrel hunting over in on uh Mr. Schillenberg's land and and uh I came across a sheep. It was out of the fence, laying on its back. That's right. Feet straight up in the air. You think I'm simply I'm telling the truth. And probably some of these have seen this This sheep laying with his feet straight up in the air, just kind of a little bank like, and there was a rock here, and he was laid in a little dip right next to against that rock Feet straight up in the air. It was a female. Feet straight up in the air. That stands the reason. Feet straight up in the air. You know. I lost half the crowd there. And uh so I I thought poor old thing, I I'll help it back on its feet, it's fallen over and got hung up because it was about this big a round. I mean it had a full Wool. I was gonna say hair, but that's not right. Wool. It was I mean it was filled out and it may have been pregnant. I can't tell. I couldn't tell that. But it was fat, big, large. And uh so I went over and I grabbed a hold of that thing. It's it was a pretty big, you know, wasn't It was a pretty big sheep, and I grabbed a hold of that thing and and with just a little bit of effort, you know, I thought Twist that thing got up on its feet there, like that, and I let loose of it. Oh, that thing was over on its back just that fast. I thought, did I just see that? And I grabbed a hold of that sheep again and I twisted her and rolled her over on her feet, you know, picked her up so she'd be standing straight up That first time I just kinda rolled her over, you know, where she could she would l get her feet out like this, but she could have got up. This time I picked her up So that her feet was on the ground. And I said, okay, gal, it's up to you now. And I let loose, she was upside down again You think I'm silly? I'm telling that's the honest truth. It's not evangelistically speaking. So I made a couple more attempts at it and I thought this is ridiculous. Apparently it has, you know, its its inner ear has got all messed up from being upside down apparently for a long time And it just absolutely would not I wouldn't let me turn it over on its feet. It just flopped back over. And I had to go get Mr. Schellenberg and and Lee and I came out and grabbed a hold of him, uh her, picked her up, put her on her feet, and then he had a hold of one side of her and I had a hold of another, and we walked her back to the barn and he strapped her up in a uh where he could where stayed on his feet long enough to you know where it got got right again. I thought, good night. Well that's really dumb. No, it wasn't dumb. It's just that once once you get out of the protection of the fence, anything can happen. The sin, one sin leads to another, and eventually when you flop Then it's difficult to get straightened back up. And you need help to get straightened back up. And that's what the shepherd, you know. That's why the Bible says that he searched for him until he found him. Until he find him, until he find him, the Bible says. Sheep. Man's ignorance is only is only matched by his arrogance. I thought that was a pretty good saying there I was thinking about this uh how they're not so smart. And they got thinking about about wisdom and how how the how the the the backslidden Christian has a tendency to keep going on in sin and how they they lack wisdom So I was thinking about that and and I remembered uh over in the in the book of Proverbs, of course, deals with this matter of wisdom uh quite a bit over there. And it says seek wisdom and so forth. Get wisdom, get understanding, forget it not, and neither decline from the words of my mouth. Forsake her not, speaking her of wisdom And she shall preserve thee and love her, and she shall keep thee. Wisdom is the the principal thing. Therefore get wisdom. Well, I tell you, I think God wants us to have some wisdom about us. And the the the beginning of wisdom is uh what is it? The Say again, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom and of knowledge also. Exalt her and she'll promote thee, and she shall bring thee to honor when thou doest embrace. And then if you just turn the page in my Bible and read over here and in chapter seventeen, it talks about about this other woman. And this is a woman you're supposed to stay away from. And it says the best way to stay away from her is uh Say unto wisdom, thou art my sister, and call understanding thy kinswoman. In other words, if you get wisdom Wisdom will keep you from the strange woman that will entice you in that whole chapter of Chapter 7 of Proverbs Talks about the strange woman who who perfumes her bed and and has all these flattering words and would entice you. That's the way sin is. It says the best thing to do is to get wisdom Fear God, the beginning of wisdom. Well, let's just take another couple of minutes here and then we'll show the chalk drawing. Where is the shepherd until he find it? Let me go back here and read that again. It says, and when he uh let's see, I'm looking at verse four. What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety-and-nine in the wilderness and go after that which is lost until he find it? And when he's found it, he lay it upon his shoulders, rejoicing, till he finds it, where is the shepherd? Where is the shepherd until he find it? Well, he's he's seeking the sheep that's lost. This listen this is this the job the most important thing for us to understand is that Jesus is seeking that lost sheep. If you're one of those who has a tendency to slip through the fence every once in a while, understand Jesus is on your heels. He, until he finds you, he's going to hunt for you. I think of the lost person that's out there. He came to seek and save that which is lost, and he's not willing that any should perish, but all should come to repentance. He is seeking that lost person. We have an opportunity this week. We already know Jesus is after these people. He is he is he is putting on a a a A search that you wouldn't believe, and he's seeking out these individuals who are lost and on their way to hell And since he relies upon us, our feet, our hands, our mouth, uh to do his work for him here, since since he's gone, we're the light of the world. Amen. And that being the case, then it behooves us to be involved in this process of of seeking the lost, the lost sheep. And I believe if if we are where we ought to be with the Lord, that's what our desires will be to seek the lost. And he'll keep on seeking till he find it. He seeks the children through the hymns that they hear and memorize. He seeks the children through the through the uh Bible schools and the Sunday school teachers and these children's crusades you have in the summertime. He he seeks them through godly parents and and people who are godly that have influences on their lives. He seeks through those people, through us He seeks uh young men and women uh uh through a church bell that they may hear on Sunday, or or maybe as somebody that hands them a tract. God is using everything that he can to seek. And he's using you and I to do the seeking. We like to think that, you know, we've got this desire to see people saved. That desire comes from from the Holy Spirit that lives within us. It has that that desire to get out and to go and to and to witness and to give out tracts and to and to talk to people and and be faithful in the house of God, be an example So that people can see and know there's a difference between the Christian who lives by the Word of God and the lost person who lives by his own carnal desires. He seeks him out through revivals just like this. Hundreds of ways he seeks until he finds it. Until he finds it. I remember my brother, and I've told this before. My brother was used to get me saved. And then God used my brother and I to get my sister saved. And then he used my sister, my brother, and I to get mom and dad saved. But there was a lot of people involved in that process, not just us three. There were people who were praying for him. There was his mom and dad who was saved before uh you know, before they passed away. Their prayers were things that God used. Where is the shepherd? When he finds a sheep, where is the shepherd then? Here's the wonderful thing about when he finds that lost person. I'm talking about the lost person now. When he finds him, he's where the sheep is. I know that's simplistic. I understand that. That's just common sense, right? But I mean it even more than that. Because He was made sin for us who knew no sin that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. He literally became that one. That he found that was a lost person. And he imputed to him his righteousness. And so we have eternal life because he gave himself for us. He doesn't stop until he finds it. Until he finds it, that sheep is in a in a terrible strait. Just like the you know, the even the Christian who gets backslid on God, I don't know of anybody of more miserable, more bitter, more angry, more nasty. Than a backslidden Christian. When they get out of sorts with God, they're out of source with everyone. It's just the way it is. That Jesus is looking for you. And he's gonna find you. The Bible says, till he find it. He found it. In the hard place, out in the wilderness, outside the fence, outside of his protection. But whenever he finds it, there's something that takes place When he finds that he reaches down, and I'm sure the sheep, when he looks up at that shepherd, there's fear in his face He's scared to death. He's been out the the wolves, the predators are have been probably surrounding him, and the shepherd comes just in time uh to ward off the the attack of the wolves. And I see this sheep laying there and he's shivering and shaking, he's scared to death, and the s and the shepherd comes up, and instead of rebuking it, saying, Well, you dumb sheep, if you hadn't got out of here, come on, I'll kick you back to the fold there, it's not like that at all. Jesus is so happy when he finds his sheep, he picks him up and lays him on his shoulders and he carries him back. You've got to remember, the shepherd has been hunting all this time. Up the mountains, down the mountains, in the valleys, across the rocks, through the bogs, uh, swamps, everything. Wherever it took him, he went until he found it. The shepherd's going through all this process just to find that one lost sheep. Doesn't that tell you how important that you and I are? Doesn't that speak tons to the fact that God places a high value upon each one of us as individuals? That he would go and go, that he would do whatever it took in order to pr provide what he what he did for us. I'm going to read just these verses of scripture and then we'll close. You couldn't help whenever you uh whenever you start talking about sheep and shepherds, you can't help but read Isaiah 53. It says, Who hath believed our report, and to whom is the the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall uh grow up well I tell you between my eyes and my glasses. I have a hard time reading. He shall grow up before him as a tender plant, as a root out of dry ground. He hath no form nor comliness. And when he shall s when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we shall desire him. He despised and rejected a men, a man of sorrow and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him, and he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Isn't that pretty much the way it was when we first saw Jesus? We didn't want to get saved. We didn't want to be part of religion. We saw him as something that was despicable. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, and yet we esteemed him, we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, and he was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep. Have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid upon him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, he was, and he was afflicted. And yet he opened not his mouth. He's brought as a lamb to the slaughter, as a sheep before the shears is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth. We have a wonderful Savior. He seeks the lost till he finds it. We need to be out there this week doing the work that he has called us to. We can go into all the world through our missionaries, but home here, it takes that personal touch. Takes the personal touch. Heavenly Father, I pray that uh you'd help us today. Realize what a privilege it is to be one of his sheep. Out of his soul, even when we we break through the fence and do our own thing, he he's hot on our trail. profide us and bring us back into the place of safety and the place of security. Place that he where he can protect us. And I pray, Lord, that uh this week maybe maybe we sheep will be able to see uh uh an area that we can be involved with that will help you to seek out those ones that you are searching for right now. Bless the chalk drawings. We showed here in just a moment. In Jesus' name, amen and amen. If we can have the lights out, we'll show this chalk drawing. So if I have the principle it's a don't I need to find these