But uh uh 2 Samuel chapter 11, uh we've been looking at this here. We uh the first couple verses, first five verses there, we pointed out that this was David's darkest hour. That's when he failed horribly And we looked at the steps, the stages of that progression into sin, into spiritual sin, and how that happened Now we're looking at his cover-up, his attempt to cover up this sin. And we notice, just a brief review before we read our text here tonight, the one thing that I suggested. That the worst thing to do, whenever you f you and I find ourselves that we've sinned and it's inevitable, we have to deal with it. We have sinful natures, it's part of our spiritual walk Our Christian walk. But whenever it does happen, the worst thing we can do is ignore it or deny it or try and justify it. Amen or not? That's a worst thing to do It must be dealt with, and the sooner the better. Somebody put it this way, I said it often over the years, I don't know who said it originally, but somebody put it this way: keep short accounts with God And so that is exactly what David did not do. He tried to cover it up and uh to try and get by with it. So the first thing we considered the other week was the cause. For David's cover up, why in the world would a man after God's own heart try and cover up his sin? Why didn't he own it? Why didn't he confess it and forsake it? Well There's various reasons, and uh we boiled it down to most likely his motivation would have been to avoid the shame of being found out And number two, avoid the consequences, and they could have been severe, particularly for Bathsheba, both of them really, considering the law's uh punishment for adultery And so his the causes for it. Then we looked started looking at the content of David's cover-up. How did he go about trying to cover up sin? And that's a good question. How in the world Do you cover up sin? People have been trying it from the day mankind fell, all through human history, trying to cover up sin, cover up sin. And so we're looking at David's attempt to cover up his sin. And if you notice, last week I think it was, we looked at verses 6 through 8, and that was the hypocrisy of David. If you remember, he called back Uriah, Bathsheba's husband, from the battlefield. And he put on this show that he was real concerned about Uriah and about Joab and how the soldiers were doing and how the war was going. Now You and I looking at this back 2,000 years ago, 3,000 almost years ago, we're looking at this. Um we're saying, no, he didn't care about how Joab was doing or how the soldiers were doing or how the battle was going. Uh the only thing he cared about at this point was avoiding the shame and the consequences of his actions. And so when we try to cover up our sin, one of the one of the um Uh one of the characteristics of trying to cover our sin is we become very hypocritical. And that is a very real danger for Christians. Jesus warned the disciples not to be like the Pharisees, be hypocritical, put on a show, put on a front. when in reality something things are another way. So David became hypocritical. And that leads us to my next observation in David's attempt to cover up his sin. And that is this, the honor of Uriah. First, the hypocrisy of David, now the honor of Uriah. Look with me if you would at verse number 9, and I'm going to read down through verse 13. The Bible says, but Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his Lord, and went not down to his house. And when they had told David, saying, Uriah went not down to his house, David said unto Uriah, Camest thou not from thy journey? Why then didst thou not uh why thou didst thou not go down unto thine house? Now listen to Uriah's statement. This is a tremendous statement in my mind. And Uriah said unto David: The arch and Israel and Judah abide in tents. And my Lord Joab and the servants of my Lord are encamped in the open fields. He's talking about out in the battlefield. Encamped in the open fields. Then shall I go unto my house to eat and to drink and to lie with my wife? As thou livest, and as thy soul liveth, I will not do this thing. The honor of Uriah, the hypocrisy of David, now the honor of Uriah. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak our hearts tonight. Father in heaven I thank you for the Bible. Lord, I am so grateful for the promises and the passages that are a blessing and uplifting and positive. But Lord, we want to thank you also for the passages that show the dark side of humanity and show the real s the real issues that we struggle with, the spiritual warfare that goes on for thousands of years. I pray we could learn from this event back in David's life that maybe you could help us avoid disaster, avoid Making these mistakes and Lord, maybe help us if we have made some bad decisions and foolish decisions that you'd help us deal with them correctly biblically. And be able to get up and go on. So please fill me with your Spirit, Lord. I yield my will to you. Present my body anew. Pray that you would teach us. You be the speaker through me tonight. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. David had, as we said, David had sent for Uriah, Bathsheba's wife, and brought him back from the battlefield. Now I suggested next week. Now I'm not a military guy. I've not been in the military. I'm no expert on military to say the least. But I would imagine bringing men back and forth from the battlefield was not that uncommon There'd be various reasons where he might have called somebody off the battlefield, come back, maybe other issues came up. So in my mind and my imagination as I'm trying to visualize this a little bit I don't know that Uriah being called back from the battlefield was that uncommon. It may have raised some question in his mind, what does he want with me? Apparently things were going very well on the battlefield. Earlier in the chapter we picked that up. And so uh I don't think it was that unusual he brings them back, but as we said, David's whole motivation for bringing Uriah back from the battlefield wasn't to get any information about the battle or any of that that he's putting on. He wants Uriah to go home and sleep with his wife And cover up David's actions. Of course, we remember Bathsheba finds out sometime later she's with child of David. And so he gets Uriah back home and tries to cover up his sin. Of course, if he goes home, spends the night with his wife comes out Uriah uh Bathsheba is expecting well you know praise the Lord oh this is wonderful Uriah and Bathsheba are gonna have another baby oh that's great have a baby that's great It didn't quite work out that way. And that's where a man with some integrity, a man that had some honor and some character about him, foiled A man who's playing the fool and playing the hypocrite. And Uriah's actions threw a huge wrench And David's scheming. Uriah, I believe Uriah is one of the most honorable men In David's military of the soldiers. Now he's got a lot of honorable men. He lists great men in his military later on. Uriah is without a doubt one of the most, if not the, one of the most loyal soldiers in his military. Now I don't know about you. Again, I wasn't in military. I don't know. I just know what guys tell me and what I watch on TV military shows, John Wayne uh stuff. You know, and I I know those are very accurate and uh But I would imagine if you brought just a regular soldier, a grunt, back off the battlefield and say, ah, go home, relax a little bit, enjoy, you know, enjoy your wife, enjoy a good meal I would imagine your everyday run-of-the-mill grunt soldier would say, yes, and be thrilled. uh to get a little reprieve. They're sleeping out in the tents. I can sleep in my bed. They're eating sea rations. I can go home and eat turkey. You know But Uriah doesn't respond that way. Uriah's heart, Uriah's loyalty, is back on the battlefield there with his commander, Joab, and his comrades out on the battlefield, and he says, I ain't going to come back here and live in luxury while they're out there sleeping in tents and out there in the heat of the battle. What a man, what integrity, what character, what honor And loyalty on the part of Uriah, he has here. Now it's interesting, you contrast David's thinking and David's actions at this point. And by the way, David knew what loyalty was. He had been loyal to a very ungodly king over him. Remember Saul. David was very loyal to him, even though Saul had not earned his loyalty, yet David honored him and was loyal in his place. Now the tables have turned, haven't they? And here we have David. Now think about this. David is using his position as king. He is using his authority as king for his own personal advantage He is manipulating soldiers who have given their lives to defend his country and defeat the enemies of God, putting their own lives at risk For David's country, the country of Israel, God's people, really, but and David is using that authority and using that loyalty for his own advantage, to cover his eye. David is using his position as king and using his authority as king for a personal advantage. Whereas you have Uriah is setting aside his personal privilege For the good of the kingdom, because of his loyalty to the kingdom. So I don't know about you, and I've never, to be honest with you, I've read this scores of times Preached on various passages through here, but I never really preached on Uriah before. And I never really gave him a lot of thought other than I thought, man, this guy got the short end of a stick here on this deal And I got it looking at him, and I'll be very honest with you, I'm impressed with this man, Uriah. He's a man of integrity, I believe. He's a man of honor and a man of loyalty. And I'll tell you, I'm Probably wasn't much different back then. But you and I live in a day when integrity and loyalty and honor is in rare supply, in short supply. And so we can learn from him And uh you say, well, there's not many people with honor, integrity, and character anymore. But how about you and I decide that we're going to be loyal? And we're going to have some honor and learn from Uriah and incorporate that into us. Now who is Uriah? Who is this guy? Well, he's mentioned five times in this chapter. Notice in verse number three It says David sent and inquired after the woman, and one said, Is this not Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliah, the wife of Uriah the Hittite? And then in verse 6 he's mentioned again. In verse 17, verse 21, and verse 24. He's referred to five times in the chapter he's mentioned here. But what I want to point out in these verses is this, he's referred to as Uriah the Hittite Did you notice that? Now let me look at these again. I rushed through that, but in verse 3 it says, this is wife of Uriah the Hittite. Down verse 6, David sent to Joab saying, Send me Uriah the Hittite In verse 17, and the men of the city went out and fought with Joab. This is later on, David's second attempt to deal with Uriah. He's going to try and kill him now. The servants of David. And Uriah the Hittite died also. Verse 21. Who smote Abimelech the son of Jerapam? Uh cast the woman down. Then say thou at the end of at the end of the verse it says, Say thou, thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also And then verse 24 again says, some of the king's servants be deadened, thy servant Uriah the Hittite. Five times they mention Uriah, but they don't just say Uriah's name, they say Uriah the Hittite Now, there's maybe various reasons for that. One may be maybe there was a heap of people named Uriah. They're just trying to identify which one. I don't think that's necessarily the case. I think the fact that he was a Hittite is significant in the role he played, in the position he held in David's kingdom, in David's, in David's uh military machine, so to speak. So who are these Hittites? He's Uriah, the Hittite? What a what's the deal about the Hittites You study world history, and I have, if you go to high school and take world history, you go to college, you have world history. I'm minored in history. You're going to find very little, if any, mention in world history of the Hittites. They were not very significant as far as the world history is concerned But you read the Bible and you read Old Testament history, and the Hittites become very significant in the nation of Israel, in the life of Israel Opportunity uh middle for the eighteen of the preachers and people of the church And the Bible was ridiculed because there was no historical record of Hittites. And they said, That proves that the Bible is wrong. But then through archaeology and have to realize that Absolutely. In fact, uh for years they mocked the Bible, saying the Bible referred to these people as Hittites. world history hard little record of 'em. But like he said, they got digging and lo and behold they found records of the Hittites and actually they have, I believe I'm correct on this, they have uh archaeological accounts of the interaction of the Hittites with the Israelites. And the people of God. And so, again, we say this so often. As Bible believers, we do not have to be afraid of the archaeologist's spade. Say, oh, they're going to dig up and find stuff the Bible's not true. Every time, without fail, it's the exact opposite. And so one of my favorite sayings comes into play here: dig, baby, dig. Go after it. Dig it up, brother. You'll just reconfirm that the Bible is so. And so the Hittites are very interesting as far as that goes. Now here's something about the Hittites is they were not a tribe of Israel. How many people knew that the Hittites were not one of the twelve tribes? No, they're not. There was no Hitt uh that the Hittites are named there. It's not a tribe of Israel. Uriah the Hittite was not Jewish as far as his nationality was concerned The Hittites dwell were natives of the land of Canaan way back when Abraham showed up. Remember when he left? God called Abraham out. He shows up in the promised land into Canaan. The famine hit. He went down to Egypt for a while. But when he showed up there, guess who was living in Canaan when he showed up there? It was the Hittites. That was their native land. That region there is where they were, and there were very, very many of them. In fact, when Abraham buried Sarah, He bought a plot of land. He bought a cave. It was a cave tomb type thing. Guess what national guess what nationality the fellow was that he bought the cave to bury his wife Sarah in? Hittite. So they were there. They were very well established. Back in Abraham's time when he showed up. The Hittites were there. In fact, Esau married some wives of the Hittites. And so the interaction with the Hittites and the Jews goes all the way back when Abraham first showed up. And to be very honest with you, as far as I can tell, their interaction for the most part was pretty positive. Now having said that, when Joshua led the children of Israel into the promise What was God's instructions to Israel concerning the nations that were in the promised land When they showed up, they were to do what? Destroy them all. Exterminate. All of them Wipe them out. You say, man, that's awfully cruel. Well, if you understood the wickedness of the people that lived there, you understand there was a little justification behind this. And the Hittites were no exception The Hittites worship, their worship, now I want to give a little background on this guy Uriah here a little bit, because it makes it significant. You understand this, the role he plays, the position he found himself in. And so the Hittites were not worshippers of Jehovah. Not initially, anyway. They were what we would call pantheistic How many people are familiar with that term? Pantheistic. If you came to Bible Institute, you would know what pantheism is. Oh, there's a good advertisement for Bible Institute right there What is pantheistic? If someone is pantheistic, what do they worship? Well, that's polytheistic. Pantheistic is the worship of nature, the worship of creation. Romans chapter 1 says they worshiped and served the creature more than the creator. He's describing pantheism. A lot of your natives and uh of you know uh uh uh Native Americans initially, and you get into some of these tribes, they will be pantheistic. They'll worship the trees, the thunder, the sun And that's what the Hittites were. They were pantheistic. They worshiped creation rather than the true God. Now here's the thing with pantheism. You replace the creature, you replace the creator with the creature, and that will inevitably produce ungodly living. Pantheism is known, is characterized by very perverse lifestyles, by very twisted behavior. By very immoral actions and behavior and lifestyles. It's a fruit of worshiping the creature rather than the creator. It produces that. Do you not see that in our culture? And society, the more we worship this earth and and that, the more perverse things get. Well, that was the Hittites And so Joshua shows up and he enters the promised land. He's got his armies of Israel with him. And man, they're going forth and conquering. Little hiccup here and there, but for the most part, they're invading the land and they're they're conquering the land. But one thing they did not do is they did not exterminate the Hittites along with several other groups for whatever reason, neglect They got in there and they had v uh Did you ever notice this? Anybody here ever get this way? Things start going good, then you get a little slack On what should be done because everything's going good and you kind of back off. Anybody can I get a witness? Y'all looking at me like you don't know what I'm talking about. I think Israel got that way. Man, we just conquered so much, and rather being very thorough In their obedience to God, things went so well, then they kind of relaxed. And the Hittites escaped extermination And so now you have Israel in the land, and you have these Hittites, these pantheistic people, very wicked, but for the most part, they got along fairly well with Israel, unlike the Philistines. And guess what happened over hundreds and hundreds of years, all during the age of the judges and the book of Judges, and Saul shows up, and now David is king. Over there's several hundred years. The Hittites and the Israelites began to, the Hittites kind of got absorbed into the Jewish culture. And even to the extent of the Jewish religion. And from what I studied and what I found out about him, that it was not uncommon for Hittites to be worshippers of the true and living God, Jehovah. And they had turned, had turned from their pantheism, from their ungodliness, and were worshipers of Jehovah. And so the Hittites are mentioned 50 times in the Bible. So they played a significant role in Israel's history. Now we come to Uriah the Hittite. Who's this guy? He's married to Bathsheba, one of the Israelites. He's one of David's great men. Later on, he's listed as one of the 37 great men that David had in his military. Now, he had hundreds of thousands of soldiers, and so you're one of 37 of the great men. That's somebody. He'd worked his way up the ranks. So I got looking, all right, who is this guy, Uriah, and how did he end up in this position First thing I did was I thought, well, what's his name mean? That tells us sometimes a little bit about his parents thinking when they named him and uh give us a little maybe some background there on the guy I found out that the name Uriah means literally Jehovah is my light. How many of you agree with me? That's kind of an unusual name for a pan somebody coming out of a pantheistic nation. Jehovah! That's the true and living God. The only people knew about, the only way anybody knew outside of Israel knew about Jehovah was because of the witness of Israel. And so his parents named him Jehovah is my light. So what does that imply about his parents? They're converts. They believed in the true God, Jehovah. They had abandoned and forsaken and repented from their a false religion and they apparently worshiped the true and living God. We study his life here and we're going to see here is if I get to it eventually. He's a he's committed to the king of Israel. I mean to a a a significant extent He's a great warrior for Israel. This guy is not someone to be trifled with. He can handle the spear and sword. He can handle himself on the battlefield. He's no coward. He's no timid weakling. He's someone that needs to be accounted with. A great, one of David's great men. To hold the position he held, to be that considered one of the great men, he's highly respected. He's greatly trusted. In fact, we're going to see here. I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but we're going to see here in just next week probably David sends him back to the battlefield with his death order, and he sends it with Uriah to tell Joab, put this guy where the battle's the hottest, make sure he's taken out. Guess who delivers that message to Joab? It's Uriah himself. And David trusted him not to look at it. How many people would imagine if he'd have looked at that and saw that, he probably would have changed his plans He's trustworthy. He's reliable. He's brave. He's strong. He's smart. And he worships Jehovah. He's a good God. David, what are you doing? You're messing with a good man And I'm again I'm getting ahead of myself. But David, you're trying to get a good man drunk You read later in the prophets, it says, woe unto him that giveth his neighbor to drink David's having a good man that worships God, that is committed, has character, integrity, he's going to try and have him kill. So that's the other message, the hardness That David's heart, how hard his heart had become so quickly. I tell you, we have to be careful, don't we? We got to be careful. We got to stay close to the Lord. We got to keep that spiritual armor on. So let me quickly, in a little time I've left, let me share three outstanding characteristics About Uriah that I see in our passage here. Three outstanding characteristics. The first one, and I need to explain what I mean by this here, but the first one I see is this: Uriah had clarity He had clarity in his thinking, in his understanding. Now, what do we mean if somebody has clarity? Anybody want to take a shot at it? If someone has clarity, it means they what? Well they see clearly, yeah, clarity. Uh they they understand the situation. They they can see it, they grasp What's what's what what the situation is. Now I'm not suggesting, you'll see here in a bit, I'm not suggesting that Uriah knew what David was up to. I'm not convinced Uriah ever knew On earth, what had happened between David and his wife. He may have suspected, we're not told, but I don't know that Uriah ever knew that. But Uriah did know some things He had some clarity. He had a I looked up the word clarity. It means freedom from obscurity To have a clear understanding. Now this is where I get this. Now look here, verse number ten. Look what David says to Uriah. He brought him back. He tried to get him To go down and spend the night with his wife. He didn't. He slept at the door of the palace. So David confronts him about why didn't you go to your house and spend the night with your wife? And when they were told, verse 8, verse 10, and when they had told David, saying, Uriah went not down into his house, apparently David had some spies. I want you guys to watch, make sure he goes in there. Somebody was paying attention and knew that David would want to know that he didn't go into his house. So he says, David said to Uriah, middle of verse 10. Now look at what he says. Camest thou not from thy what? Journey? Why then didst thou not go down into thy house? Question, what journey was Uriah on? He wasn't on any journey. He was out in the battlefield. David says journey, and then you look at verse 11. Particularly the first part, and he doesn't use these words, but Uriah responds back to David, basically saying, I wasn't on no journey, I was on the battlefield. Now I'm adding to this, this is my little license here. And maybe he's thinking, what journey are you talking about? Now I don't know how you consider a journey But to me, a journey is you're taking a trip somewhere. You know, we're gonna go on a cross country journey We're going to see the sights, you know, we're going to take our time. I don't know what David meant by the term journey, but Uriah wasn't on no journey He was in battlefield. He says, and again, I put this in my own words here. He says, I ain't on no journey. I'm on a mission. I've got tremendous responsibilities here. Now here's the question that comes to my mind, and I'll try and answer. We have to speculate, I think, but uh was David trying. To downplay in Uriah's mind the responsibilities he had on the battlefield. Oh, your journey. How was your journey? Rise like it ain't no journey. Ah, you know, just you know, if you're on a journey, you can take a little break and spend the night there and get a good meal. If you're on a battlefield where lives are at stake, you don't take a break. See the difference? And so Urias clearly, David says, how was your journey? He says, uh, one a journey, the tenth The Ark and the Joab, my captain, and my fellow soldiers, they're sleeping out on the battlefield and the field. This wasn't no journey. This wasn't no journey. I'm not a big fan of Alice in Wonderland. I'm not a big fan of that story. But there's a little, there's a little interaction there between that stupid cat and Alice. Does anybody at all know what I'm talking about? And the cat makes this statement to Alice. Again, this is total fiction, but it makes a point. The cat said to Alice, where are you going? And Alice said, well, which way should I go? And the cat said, depends where you're going. And Alice said, I don't know. And the cat said, then it doesn't matter which way you go. You get the point? If you don't see clearly your purpose in life, if you don't see clearly your responsibilities and who you are as a child of God, Then we're going to end, it doesn't matter where we go, we're going to get messed up. I don't know if you follow what I'm trying to illustrate here But Uriah knew exactly who he was, and he knew exactly what his responsibilities were, and he knew exactly where his place was, and it wasn't eating steak and enjoying his bed at night. I think David's trying to play. Oh, how was your journey? Just a journey. Don't think about that. Just in your eyes. No, no, no. He saw this very, very clearly. He understood who he was. He was a mighty man in Israel. And that brought with it responsibilities. He knew what his purpose was as a soldier. It was to defend his nation and defeat his nation's enemies. And David was not going to distract him from that, and David was not going to cloud who he was and what his responsibilities were. This wasn't a journey. This is a warfare I'm in. And I have responsibilities. I think Satan uses that tactic. I think Satan tries to get us confused as to who we are. I want to remind you, how many folks here tonight you're saved and you know it? Say amen. I want to remind you that you and I, we are children of the king. We are children of God. And we are ambassadors. We are the only ambassadors that heaven has here on planet Earth. If anybody is going to be brought to Jesus Christ, if anybody is going to escape hell, if anybody is going to find eternal life, it is because of God's people obeying God's instructions. And if Satan can cloud our thinking as to who we are and what our responsibilities are, and if Satan can get us to downplay, well, you know, we're just one of the world, we're just on a journey, we're just no, no, no. We're ambassadors, the Bible says. And the only hope of this world, of this course, is the Lord Jesus Christ. But God has commissioned you and I To represent him to this world and bring the gospel to the people of this world. And if we lose sight of that and we downplay that and we lose our clarity on why we're here and who we are Then we're going to fail in our mission. We're going to fail in our mission. And that is exactly what Satan tries to do for you and I. Isn't that what he did with Adam and Eve? Yay, hath God said, and got them questioning, got them clouded their mind, got them thinking out of whack. Satan is a master at that, at getting you and I confused. Satan is a master at clouding issues. Didn't he attempt to do that with the Lord Jesus Christ? Oh, your God command these stones to be made into bread. And he says, no, no, no, don't tempt the Lord your God. Jesus had perfect clarity. As to who he was, what his mission was, and Satan threw his best at him to cloud that and minimize that. And of course, the Lord Jesus Christ didn't give an inch. Didn't give an inch. And that's what he does in our day. You know we have churches that have no clue what their purpose is They're playing games and horsing around and no revivals and no evangelism and no world missions and no, they don't even know what they are. They don't even know what they're mentioning like this. Listen, the local church, the Church of Jesus Christ has primarily one purpose, and that is to take the gospel to every creature on this planet Now included in that is glorifying the Lord and building up saints. But we lose sight of that, we lose sight of our mission. And so, Uriah, my hat's off to Uriah. He had a clarity exactly who he was and what his mission was. He wasn't on no journey. He was a soldier in the army of Israel with tremendous responsibilities. Was David adopting Satan's methods? And trying to cloud and minimize who Uriah was at this point and what he was doing I put this statement down later on. I was reading over my notes and this thought came to me. I jotted it. I injected it in here later on Just because we can do something doesn't mean we should do something. Could he have gone and ate a good meal and messed a meat that David sent with him and slept with his wife that night? Yeah, he had permission from the king. In fact He was urged by the king to do that. Yeah, he could have done that. But just because we can do something Doesn't mean we should do something. And Uriah saw that. He says, no, this won't be right. This won't be right. So number one is clarity. Let me quickly give you my second two, which are much shorter. Second thing I noticed, he had confidence. Again, look with me at verse 11. And Uriah said unto David, The ark in Israel and Judah abide in tents. And my Lord Joab and the servants of my Lord are encamped in the open field, so he's saying, no, this ain't no journey. We're on the battlefield out there. There's a lot at stake. I got responsibilities, David. Now look what he says next. Then shall I shall I then go into mine house? And to uh to eat and to drink and to lie with my wife? What's that sentence end with? A question mark. Do you get what Uriah is doing? He's questioning the king. That's not a light thing to question the king. In fact, he's questioning in a way that is a veiled rebuke. Uriah is rebuking the king. What you're asking for me? Are you kidding me, David? That whole situation out there? And should I do what you're asking me to do? Does anybody see a veiled rebuke in that? Yeah. I'm telling you, that takes, well I'll try to be a little more dignified, that takes intestinal fortitude. You know what that means? Guts. Uh old Uriah has some confidence about him. That's for the point I'm trying to get at. But one, he has clarity. He understands who he is. I'm a mighty man in Israel. He understands the responsibility. Out there defeating the enemies of God. Next thing he has confidence. David, are you serious? You're suggesting I do this? In these circumstances? You're asking me, should I do this? A timid, insecure person doesn't talk to a king that way. He stands up. Uriah knew that he was doing the right thing. And almost like he seems confused by David's instruction. David, you're a soldier, you're a warrior, you've slain tens of thousands of Philistines. You know what this is about? What are you talking about? It seems that uh he sensed that I I think Uriah at this point is sensing that David's trying to manipulate him for some reason. I can't defend that, but I just kind of get that sense. Should I do this? What are you talking about? Take your Bible real quickly with me if you would. Turn to Proverbs 28. Everybody doing alright? Everybody hanging in there? Alright. You guys online, don't turn it off yet. Look to Proverbs 28 and verse number one Now I'm suggesting to you, Uriah had some guts about him. He had some confidence about him. He knew In this situation, in these circumstances, uh he could stand his ground against the king. And he could even question What the king was suggesting. Proverbs chapter 28. Look at verse 1. A good verse to underscore in your Bible, in my opinion. Verse 1, the wicked flee when who pursues them? No man. They're scared to death. They're running and hiding every little thing. Do you ever notice do you ever notice you're driving across 68 and you're going faster than the speed limit and there's a car along the side of the road and what is what's your first instinct? That the breath might be a cop. It ain't a cop. Anybody know? No, you all don't do that, I so. The wicked flee when no man pursue it. But look at this next statement. But the righteous Those who are doing right, those who are standing on the right ground, in the right position, are as what? Bold as a lion. I'm telling you, Uriah standing up to David and saying, Should I do what you're suggesting I do? I'm telling you, that's the boldness of a lion right there. Because Uriah was righteous in his position, and he knew it, and he could stand with confidence. I'm telling you, there's one, there's a great thing about being right with God. It brings tremendous confidence. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I'm right with God. Boy, that's great confidence. Paul, the Apostle Paul was one of the most confident men. I've ever read of. I mean you talk about the opposition, the adversaries he had, what he went through, and he says this, I know whom, I have believed And am persuaded that he's able to keep that which I've committed against God. He says, What mean ye to scare me? I'm willing to die for the gospel of Jesus Christ. He said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. You talk about confidence. Apostle Paul, Uriah, what do you mean by saying I should go? Would I do this? I tell you what this whole world, again, I bring it back home, I tell you what this whole world needs. Needs some Christians that are thoroughly right with God and have confidence to stand for what is true and what is right. And we need churches like that also. And so in one, I see the clarity of Uriah. Number two, I see the confidence that he had. And last of all, very quickly, he had conviction. I love the last statement. Come back there to chapter 11. And look at the last thing. Think about who he's saying this to. And think about this is not even an Israelite. Not by nationality. He's a Hittite. He's got he come to know Jehovah, and he's right with God, and he knows his position is right. And look what he says. As thou liveth. He's talking to the king. As thou liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not do this thing. He had some conviction about him. It did not matter who was telling Uriah to do this. It wasn't right, and he's not doing it. Wow, how about that? Could we use some conviction? How many people say, yeah, we could use some conviction in our politics. Yeah. Hey, we could use some conviction in our business world. Yeah. That's fine and good. I'm all for that. But hey, how about let's get we some get some conviction in our churches Say, no, we're not doing that. We're doing right. As thou livest, I will not do that. As thou livest, we will not compromise what we know is right. How about we get some conviction in our homes? Say, no, that that's not going to happen in our home. That's not gonna happen. You know, uh you know what I found out? Now I raised boys, so I know I I know I I I'm right in there in the with it with everybody. But you know who I found out is the best parents, you know who the best parents in the world are? Those that don't have any kids. Yeah. Why have I had kids? If they were my kids. Yeah, wait till you get your own, then uh we'll see how that plays out. You know who else is really good at raising teenagers? Those that have toddlers. Anybody agree with me? Dealing with teens and dealing with toddlers is two different animals. Completely When they're a little toddler, you say, Oh, I'm pulling the belt off. Okay, daddy. It seems you're I'm pulling the belt off. Oh yeah, I'm pulling mine off too. That wasn't that bad But I think I think we could use a little conviction in our homes. Say it ain't happening in this house. Sorry. It ain't happening. I will not do that thing. I tell you, I studied, I can't when I'm done studying Uriah, I'm thinking, he's got something. Uriah's got something. And he's got something we need. He's got something we need. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from Uriah, what a man. And so I pray that you would teach us to see clearly who we are and what our mission in this world is. Don't let Satan cloud that. I pray you give us some courage, some confidence to stand up against the kings of this world if need be. And Lord, help us to have some conviction. And we do right. If the stars fall, we'll do right. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed, how many would say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart tonight And I need some of these characteristics we saw in Uriah. I need some of them into my life also. I need some of that. Anybody here like that? God bless you. My hands raised I want this. In my ministry and in my personal life. These characteristics of Uriah. Lord, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.