And take to uh turn to uh Second Samuel. Uh and we're going to start reading in verse one. We'll just read a couple of verses here to get uh get our thoughts together on it. Second Samuel verse eleven. Most of us uh recognize uh the story as we start. I'm sorry. Oh did I say eleven? Second Samuel eleven The Word of God says, and it came to pass after the year was expired, after the time when kings go forth to battle That David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel, and they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Rab Rabbah. But uh David tarried still at Jerusalem. Our Father, as we approach this message, Lord We're all familiar with David and and uh Besheba. We know the story, we've we've heard it preached and Our hearts are always sad when we think of of the great man of God, David, that that uh succumbed to temptation and and even went beyond And uh Lord, this morning as we approach this message, I pray that you just uh open my mind and uh and allow me to preach what you want me to. And uh I pray that it'll be a blessing. And I pray, Lord, I pray, Lord, somehow that you would you would get up our hold of our hearts and uh Perhaps we need to see ourselves in David's life and Pathsheba's life. And we'll trust you to do that for us in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We know the story about David and Bathsheba and and I don't even like I don't like to even preach on it because uh uh we look at David and and his his whole life And he was a f if you read the Psalms, your heart just just it bursts with love because of David's love for God. He loved him So we see somebody here that fell and uh uh it it sends a message to all of us who know Christ as our personal Savior But there's no one that's exempt from temptation. It's how we respond to temptation that makes a difference. And David had saved himself up for a loss. I notice in the in the chapters prior to the one we just read here, and I'm not going to go back and read all of them, but I d I I was just uh I I went back and and every place where there was a victory just prior to to uh chapter eleven there. I noticed there's three or four different ones there uh where he won a battle The great victory. I wrote the word victory out beside of it. And then I I turned the page and read another chapter and here it was another victory. And then there was another victory and another victory and another victory. There was three or four victories in a row. And then it says and then and then it came to pass after the year was expired He just had a victory, by the way, and a year had expired. And at that time At the time when kings go forth to battle that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel and they went to destroy the children of Ammon and and the besieged Rebba. Uh and uh says, but David Tarried still at Jerusalem. What a what a remarkable uh How can I say it? A remarkable um I have one of those thoughts, you know, that slide through your hair. Yeah. As I used to say I use too much Vaseline on my hair as reason it goes over, but I don't say anymore 'cause nobody uses Vaseline today, you know, for their hair. But anyway What I'm getting at is that that uh David now has uh he's had all these victories and uh I've if that's the thing to me it's this That Christians need to be careful as they walk this walk of the Christian life And they're enjoying the blessings of God, and enjoying the blessings of God, and enjoying the blessings of God, with victory after victory in their Christian life. Uh that they don't get laxadaisical and uh the next thing you know, uh they let their guard down and next thing you know why the uh the temptation comes and they're un unable to take care of it. I want us to look at some things about the one that actually we're going to talk a lot about. And that's a guy called Uriah. Here's what I know about Uriah. He's mentioned like twenty times in the Bible not every name that uh of Uriah is the re Uriah the Hittite, but there's only a couple of those. And I think there's there's somewhere close to twenty times that that the name Uriah is mentioned in the in the Old Testament. That's a pretty good hunk of uh of Bible scripture there, uh for one person. He was a man of valor, one of the thirty mighty men of David's army, one of the elite warriors. of the nation of Israel. Most of what we know about him is in the the the the chapter 11 that we started to read. He was an honorable and righteous and an honest man, a man with character and integrity. He was a just a a a special human human being He's also a very disciplined soldier. He wouldn't indulge himself with the comforts of home while the Ark and the fellow soldiers were asleep in the field Which gives us a a high notion of the character of of uh David's soldiers. His his thirty mighty men were were awesome individuals And if you go back and and read about those thirty mighty men you you say, wow, we need you know, who needs an army when you got guys like that out there? You just need those thirty guys that could whip the whole bunch of 'em Because they were awesome, and he was one of them. He married Bathsheba, a woman of extraordinary beauty. The daughter of Ilel Eliam, uh possibly the same as the son of uh uh Ahithop. And and uh one of the brother officers and um Hence perhaps uh Uriah's first acquaintance with uh Bathsheba is probably how they met they they met together. It may be inferred from Nathan's parable in 2nd Samuel chapter 12, verse 3, that he was uh passionately devoted to his wife. And that their union was celebrated in Jerusalem as one of the peculiar tenderness. In other words, they had a You know, around town they they look uh isn't that a sweet couple or they're holding hands and they've been married for six months or something, whatever whatever In the first uh uh part of the war that uh they had with Ammon, uh he followed Joab to the siege. And with him remained encamped in the open fields. And then he returned to to Jerusalem at a at an order from the king on the pretext of asking news of the war and really in hopes that he'd return to his wife and uh that m so that he covers uh the shame of his own crime So the king met with an unexpected obstacle in the austere soldier-like spirit which guided all uh Uriah's conduct and which uh gives us a and high notion of the character and discipline of David's soldiers, uh officers particular On the morning of the third day, David sent him back to the camp with a letter containing the camp command to Joab to cause his destruction in battle. So Joab was to put Uriah in the heat of the battle, withdraw his men, and allow the arrows from the enemy to take his life. And just as Joab had forewarned, the the uh he they sent a messenger. David told uh Joab to send a a messenger back and tell him uh he give a report on the on the what the how the war was going and he was supposed to uh have a certain word in there about uriah And just as Joab was forewarned, the messengers, the king broke into a furious passion on hearing of the loss. of his soldiers. And then the messenger, as instructed by Joab, calmly continued, and he ended the story with these words. Thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also. In a moment, David's anger is appeased. It is one of the touching parts of the story that Uriah falls unconscious of his wife's dishonor. Thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also. What what must die for you to enjoy sin for a season? We see uh uh we see three or four people involved in this whole process. Of course we see David and Bathsheba and we see David as the as the main character here. Bathsheba is a picture of of the desires that we have. You and I, we all have desires. Some are good and some are bad, and and It just uh you know it depends on uh your heart right with God or not right with God. Depends uh makes the the determination But uh you have uh Joab, which is like a picture of the flesh for for David. Then you have a picture of the new man that's mentioned over in the book of Romans and throughout the scripture talks about the new man. You know that that that person who was born in you when the Spirit of God came in to born you into the family of God, the Spirit of God that That part of you that that yearns after God, the part of you that that uh enjoys the reading of the scriptures and and uh that enjoys fellowshipping with uh those of like precious faith So you have Uriah a picture of that good man. We just read about him and and certainly he he's a good man by all spe uh a m a stretch of the imagination as far as man is concerned. He was a a man of character and and uh and integrity So he's a picture of the new man, and Joab's a picture of the flesh, and you have David in the middle here, and there's the desires. You see, we're told that we're supposed to uh uh what is it in Hebrews chapter twelve and verse two, where it says that we are to Uh I'm trying to remember the the verse. I know what I'll do. I'll read it and that way we'll know for sure, won't we Is that in the New Testament? You think I'm kidding, don't you? I am. I'm just really kidding. Alright, I finally found it. In chapter twelve in verse in verse uh uh two or verse one, it says, Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with with so great a great a cloud of witnesses Then here it says, it says, Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which does so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. So uh what I'm what I'm saying is that that uh uh that the sin which does so easily beset us is something that that each of us uh n must be concerned about And that is a picture that that I see of of Bathsheba. Bathsheba is David's desire. She was a a very attractive lady. And uh she provided the enticement that that he needed to uh to start this ball rolling. And uh uh So as a result, there's a good man that must die for you to enjoy your sin. And that good man is that new nature that's in you. And when I say die, I don't mean that the Holy Spirit dies, but I'm talking about the the input that the Holy Spirit has for you to live a Christian life So I want us to look at some of the things that that uh uh that you that will die if you decide to enjoy that sin for a season. That sin that thus so easily beset you. That thing that keeps cropping up in your life that that uh shows that you don't have total control of your life. That sin that's kind of slips in there and uh and you you say no to it for a a many times and then then all at once it catches you uh on a weak moment Maybe it's like David and he just had all these victories and he started sticking his chest out and thinking, Huh, you know, I am a pretty good king and I do have, you know, a pretty good army and I think I'll just stay home and let the guys just take care of this next battle. And so he just stayed home when he should have been out with the men, uh, fighting a war. So don't, as Christians, we have to be careful we don't get to the place where we say, well, let somebody else fight the war. We are in a spiritual warfare, aren't we? We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers and rules of the darkness of this world. So we need to be careful uh about this sin was just so easy beset us. The first thing that I I believe that we we would do would kill if we're going to accept our uh our fate and and go with the the sin of thus so either beset is is the cons the care and the consideration of others You know, I I somehow or another, I see David as he walks on the on the roof that night and looks down uh across the the city there and and all at once he spots uh Bathsheba I've often wondered about uh why Bathsheba s you took a bath on the roof. Uh I know that was a common thing that the you know, it's the heat and so forth in the in the those countries But uh I often wonder why why she just happened to be there at that particular time. Uh but David as he uh uh lusted after this this beautiful woman. I can't help but think that that uh he wasn't too concerned about uh the rest of his family or other people, people who uh looked up to him and expected him to always be the the man of integrity and and honor But uh whenever he started looking and lusting, he came to the place where that lust turned into something more than than just lust and eve. He took an action to it. And a as a result, uh, he starts down the wrong road. Well And then uh the second thing I think Uh if you don't care about uh your families, don't care about your friends, don't care about people, you don't care about your testimony. Uh Your commitment and determination to serve God or to please God is something that that you uh that dies in in that uh scenario You remember when you got saved and the joy was in your heart? You knew that everything was alright between you and God and And all that sin has uh been washed away or uh blotted out, however you want to put it, but God removed it and it's you're not accountable for it any longer because Jesus died for your sins You remember the joy that took place then? And the joy that takes place when you've enjoyed the fellowship and and uh of his presence in your life To please God. A shame when that dies in your in your life. where it no longer is a part of you. You're just not interested in serving God. And so the Bible reading sits by the wayside and your prayer life starts to go the wrong way and and uh you're visiting and your concern for other people. It's kind of fades away. You're rather hit tight. It's dead also. How about your conscience? That conscience at one time was very sensitive to to things that that uh were offensive to God. I remember the times when we used to watch the TV And uh we first got saved by uh uh we watched the TV for a while, and you know that uh there was things on that TV that it was contrary to to uh things uh things of God. And so we just got rid of the TV. And that was the way we we were for quite some time until until the football season started and I don't like football, but you know who does, don't you? That's right. She's sitting right back there. It's Miss Football. Or Green Bay Packers, I should say. What I'm saying is that is that uh that uh when we yield to sin, it it kills, it kills the good man in you. Whenever when you yield to sin, it it uh destroys that part of you that that God has been working to build and and and uh to make uh uh a a Christ-like individual. Remember what the scripture says says, put on the put on the mind of Christ. Well you you put on the mind of Christ and then you you see a the the the desire of your life there a some sin that just so easy to be set you. And when you set your your uh uh sights on that sin and start down that avenue, it kills that desire to serve God. It kills The ability to discern. Another thing that when you start down that road of sin, another thing that is is killed. Is your character, your integrity? I still think that it's important that Christians act like Christians. I think it's important that Christians dress like Christians. I think it's important that Christians talk like Christians. I think it's important to say Christians act like Christians, walk like Christians, talk like Christians, and be like Christ, because that's what the Bible says. We're to be like him. So that character, that integrity that was once based on Bible principles Is sent to the slaughter block and dies with Uriah. Uriah the Hittite is dead also. Character is built over time through trust and loyalty to Bible principles. In Psalm 119, verse eleven says, Thy word have I hid my heart. We all knew that verse. sin against thee. Oh how how we need a revival of of just of of just uh being a Christian, not just acting the part while you're here at church, but I'm talking about on Monday and Monday night and Tuesday and Tuesday night and Wednesday and Wednesday night and Thursday and Thursday night and and all Week long all month long every year until Jesus comes back. We ought to have the mind of Christ. We ought to put on the mind of Christ. We ought to live uh so that we don't shame him. Another thing that's lost is loyalty. You know, I I thought about the loyalty of Uriah. Boy, there was something about him Uh uh he was he was uh you know um he was a convert to Judaism. He wasn't uh you know, he wasn't an Israelite, he was a Hittite And yet uh he was uh converted to Judaism. And so he was a man that that accepted this this uh new religion And uh David was his idol. He had to be. David had to be the one that he looked up to and and every day when he put on his uniform, uh, his his armor or whatever he wore Uh I imagine he looked at David and says, I'm gonna wear it just like he does. Because I looked up to him because it was someone special. And every one of us has someone that's looking up to us as Christians, someone, some little guy I have I have little guys coming up to me all the time and they hand me a piece of paper and on it there is a scribble this way and a scribble that way and a scribble this way and a scribble that way. And they're just so proud of that picture and they'll bring it over and and present it to me. And I've got them hanging on my wall Not all of 'em 'cause I've just been paved with but I have pictures, these the little sc scribbles But they're loving scribbles. Because they're saying, I'd like to be like you, Brother Williams. Wow, what a tragedy. If I if if I would let Uriah die in my life If I if the good man in me went astray, what that would do to that little person that was looking at me and waiting for watching my my strokes and my walk My talk with the with the Lord. So loyalty. That's how I feel about you know Uriah was loyal to David, but David wasn't loyal to Uriah. Wasn't that tragic? That was tragic. You see, we have a responsibility both ways. Psalm 139, verse 23 says, Search me, O God. And know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. God knows the heart. Knows our hearts. The last thing here is I th I thought I just threw that word last in there just to give you some hope. The Holy Spirit's still small voice Must die if you pursue the the walk of sin in your life. No more comfort, no more leadership, no more fellowship. I think some of you know what I'm talking about. When uh when uh when you've somehow you you have disappointed God And the Spirit of God is withdrawn, just like in the in the old days when the Spirit of God departed from the temple because of Israel's sins. The Holy Spirit moves away, and then that verse becomes real to you that says, um Well I had a couple of verses there and I when I find them I'm gonna read them. I must have to use some news uh no, okay. And Romans uh Romans 1 28 says that even even they did not like to retain God and their knowledge, and God gave them over to reprobate minds, to do those things which are not convenient. A lot of people get upset with that chapter of the book of Romans, but it's still in the Bible. And it's still uh uh uh it's uh Uh can't get the the word out that I'm trying to get that get out. It's It's still in the Word of God, and it must be listened to as coming from God. In Psalm 37, verse 40, it says, And the Lord shall help them and deliver them, and he shall deliver them from the wicked and save them because they trusted in him. We have a God that w that we can totally trust. And we're going to have to uh understand that that uh Satan is doing his best. to send the Ahabs and our uh or Jo Joabs rather into our lives, which is that old nature that wants to he's the one that put the Uriah to death was that old nature. But a Mura Uri in the in the path where an error would take his life All the characteristics that make a Christian Christ-like must die on the spiritual battlefield of your heart if you choose sin. When the temptations come, we have you know the promise of God there's no temptation taking you But such is a common demand, but God is faithful and just to forgive you and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. God uh uh It says in in Psalm chapter 66 and in verse 18, If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. The Holy Spirit wants so much to conform you to the image of Christ He's working day and night. He's shoving a little bit here and he's taking a little bit there. But he's working in your life. Day after day after day, to build the Christ-like character in your life, to build the Uriah that we all know and love as we read about his characteristics. And it's God that works to build uh the Christlike character in your life. Uriah the Hittite is dead also. I hope that I hope t today does the perhaps the Holy Spirit We'll do a work here though that I can't do. I can give you the scriptures and you point to the principles. But you still have to make that decision. And just as David did there on that rooftop that night, he looked down and he saw something that he desired. And if he if he would have just uh realized all that he would lose, it never even dawned on him, I don't think his lust was too great You made the mistake that you don't have to. Today we have the Spirit of God that lives within us. Today we have the Word of God that we can read and and we hear the read the promises of God that gives us victory over sin. Sin shall not have dominion over you, the book of Romans tells us And so there's things in the in the Word of God that helps us that that David didn't have. And yet today, you and I, we need to Pay attention to what God's trying to teach us. Our Father in Heaven, we're asking you, Lord, uh, to take uh The message. Elvis Florida to see Uriah the way you see him as a as a picture of as a good man that each of us who know Christ as our Savior has within us That new man, that new mind that that that uh desires to serve and love you. Help us, Lord. To believe the scriptures and take the scriptures for what they they say and and give us the victory over sin in our life. But if there's one here that helped them to realize it what they'll lose if they continue down the road of the path of sin. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. Let's all stand to our feet, with our heads bowed and our eyes closed, as the piano begins to play soft