Working our way through this book of Ecclesiastes. And uh I didn't know exactly what I was getting into, I think, when I Started the study of this. I've enjoyed it. Uh it's been helpful to me. I hope that uh we're getting something out of it. It's a pretty dark and bleak book, isn't it? And uh you get through here. But if we understand What Solomon is saying, if we understand the approach he's taken, then it helps us understand the book. It starts to make sense. And the key phrase in this whole thing is what? Three were uh three words. What is it? Under the sun, under the sun, under the sun. Life under the sun. I don't know how many people I've had to me since we started this study in some situation or some scenario somewhere out, they'll come and say, Pastor, that's under the sun, isn't it? What they're talking about, that's something temporary. That's something here. It's and the guy God's out of it. And uh so that's what he's addressing. Verse number one of Ecclesiastes chapter 6. I'm going to read six verses. We're going to look at these and I'm going to try and just it's just a simple couple simple thoughts really in this whole section. It's a little repetitious. He kind of keeps coming back and uh touching on the same subject. But look at verse 1. He says, There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is common among men. A man to whom God hath given riches, wealth, and honor, so that he wanteth nothing for his soul of all that he desireth. Look at this. Yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but a stranger eateth it. This is vanity, and it is an evil disease. If a man beget a hundred children and live many years, so that the days of his years be many and his soul be not filled with good, So that he uh so that he have no burial? I say that is an untimely b I say that an untimely birth is better than he For he cometh in with vanity, he departeth in darkness, and his name shall be covered with darkness. Moreover, he hath not seen the sun, nor known anything. This hath more rest than the other. Yea, though he live a thousand years twice told, yet hath he seen no good, do not all go to one place. How many people say, man, you look at that, that looks awfully dark, doesn't it? Well, I've called it meaningless money, and I'm going to try and pull some thoughts out of this that maybe would be helpful to us. So let's pray. And ask the Lord to learn something from this passage. Father, we do ask that you would teach us. This is your word, Lord. You've inspired it and you've preserved it for us here to this day. And so you promised in the New Testament that all scriptures given by inspiration is profitable for us. So we're asking you to make that true in our study tonight. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and with all my heart I ask, dear Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think you'd agree with me. Solomon knew a little bit about money Right? He was at his in his day, he was the wealthiest man on earth of of any record. And so he knew a little bit about handling money. He was king over one of the wealthiest nations on earth. Well, at least during his time, it was extreme Israel was extremely wealthy And he managed his finances just under the sun, humanly speaking. He managed his finances uh tremendously He was very, very good at managing his finances. He managed the country very, very well. They were very prosperous. They increased in prosperity. Of course it was God's blessing, but God was using him And uh you know, sometimes you read about somebody that has a lot of money and they squander it away and blow it, they can't manage it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Or maybe somebody will get in the uh government position and they'll squander it and waste it away and uh And the city will b you know go into poverty and be bankrupt and kind of like Illinois, you know, the whole place is just uh so overwhelming in debt. Uh uh but that wasn't true for Solomon. He managed it very well and um he was gifted in that area. God gifted him that area. I think if somebody of this caliber, humanly speaking now, bear with me, humanly speaking, if somebody of this caliber and uh this experience and this success And they're going to talk about money. How how many of you agree with me it'd be wise for us to pay some attention to that? You know, if he's going to talk about the role of money is, the value, what it means to me and And uh where it uh the what it pla what it role it plays in my life, I ought to bend I ought to bend my ear a little bit and pay attention to what this guy has to say Now back in chapter 5, this is a continuation of the subject back in chapter 5, and in chapter 5 he had made several statements that relate to what he's going to talk about here. If you would look in verse number 10 of chapter 5, he had pointed out, and we've already preached through this, but I want to glean a few other thoughts here. He pointed out in verse 10 of chapter 5 That the more money we have, the more we want. Look at verse 10. He that loveth silver shall not be what? satisfied with silver, nor he that loveth abundance with increase. This also is vanity. What he's saying there, I believe, is the more we have, the more we want. Who was the fellow on his uh somebody was it a Rockefeller somebody They asked him, they said, uh, when are you satisfied? How much money is enough? What'd he say? Just a little bit more. Just a little bit more. And uh seems like the more we have, the more we want. Then verse eleven, he makes this statement. He says, the more we have, the more we spend Look at verse 11. When goods increase, they are increased that eat them. And what good is there the owners thereof, seeing, saving the beholding of them with their eyes? I think what he's saying here, the more I get in this hand, the more goes out this hand. Uh they said the um uh uh the successful woman is the one that finds a man that sh Uh she can s spend what he makes never mind, forget that, I forget what that is. But um uh how you know, some people they the more they get, the farther in debt they go And uh and so the more we get, the more we spend. The more we get, the more we spend. Sometimes the debt ratio for the millionaire is the same as the average Joe Blue guy. They just spend more Uh then he made this statement, verse twelve, the more we have, the more we worry. Verse number twelve, he says this The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much, but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep. The more he's got, the more he worries. Back during the depression Uh millionaires were jumping off bridges and jumping off buildings because they were losing their fortunes. I don't remember ever reading any poor folk jumping off. Didn't matter, didn't faze them a bit. They weren't any rich poorer than they were before And so the more we get, the more we worry. And then number four, he says, the more we get, the more we lose. The more we have, the more we lose. Look at verse 13. There's a sore evil which I've seen under the sun, namely riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt, but those riches perish by evil travail. He begeteth the Son, there's nothing in his hand. And so the more we get, the more we lose. And then he makes this statement, verse 5, and this is pertinent, the more we have, the more we leave behind. Look at verse number 14. But those riches perished by evil travail. He begetteth the Son. There's nothing in his hand as he came forth. Of his mother's woo, naked shall he return to go as he came, and shall take nothing of his labor, which he may carry away in his hand Uh I've noticed uh I've bury I've done funerals for very, very wealthy people, I've done funerals for very, very uh poor people, and I noticed both of them took the exact same stuff with them The rich man doesn't take any more along with him than the poor man does. And so the more we have, the only difference is the guy that has a lot leaves a whole lot more behind. And so um what what's that saying? My goal is to spend up all my children's inheritance or something like that. And so I'm not sure that's the wise. But um get to chapter number six, he continues discussing this matter of gaining and possessing wealth. But here's the point he makes in our passage here, and this is what I think the message is. They're gaining wealth, they're possessing all kinds of things, but they're leaving God out. Do you notice that verse number one? There's our phrase shows up again. Under the sun. Under the sun. They're living as if there is nothing more than what we see here under the sun. This is all there is to life. What I make, what I experience, my all of this. And they're living under the sun. Um he print prints a dark picture here of man. Um now he's not we have to be careful, and I've tried to emphasize this through here. He is not suggesting He's not talking about the wealthy man in general. He's not talking about just being wealthy. There's a lot of wealthy people through the Bible that had a right perspective. And had a right valuation of what wealth is and understood its role in God's plan for it all. He's talking about the fella that's just living for wealth. That's what he's investing his life in. That is what he is living for. Wealth has become his God. Wealth has become his master. Wealth has become everything he's living for. And so that is the fella he's addressing here. Uh somebody that is living life well entire life is invested in wealth and pleasure to the exclusion of God. And um he's not he's not just living his life, we all live our life. uh under the sun, but he is only living his life for what is only under the sun. You follow what I'm trying to say here? So uh that's what he's addressing. So I got two observations Let me give these real quickly. Number one, he presents an evil scenario. An evil scenario. Again, verse number one. There is an evil. which I have seen under the sun, and it is common among men. So then he gives two illustrations, two examples of this evil The first one is verse 2. A man, this is the evil he's seen under the sun, a man to whom God hath given great given riches, wealth, and honor. So that he wanteth nothing for his soul. Of all that he desires, look at this, yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but a stranger eateth it. This is vanity. It's an evil disease. Then verse 3, he gives another illustration of this evil scenario. He's just presenting these scenarios out here to illustrate what the point he's trying to make And he says in verse three, If a man beget a hundred children and live many years, so that the days of his years be many and his soul and his soul be not filled with good And also that have no burial, I say that an untimely birth is better than he. So what's he saying? Here's a guy, uh one fellow He has God's blessed him and provided for him all kinds of wealth and honor. I mean, he has everything, his soul desires nothing, and he dies and never is able to enjoy it. And you have another guy, he lives a thousand years, if he lives twofold, a thousand years, he's got a hundred kids, he has this tremendous family, a long, healthy life, but he isn't able to enjoy any of it, and he dies and it's gone What good does that do him? So he has this evil scenario. Look in verse um in uh verse number two. There's a little statement I just want to throw in a little aside. It says, a man to whom God hath given riches, wealth, and honor. I put in the margin of my Bible, God's ultimately the one that gives us our wealth. God makes one rich, he makes one poor. God provides, God's the one that does it. Now he didn't this guy doesn't see that. He didn't see it at all. But uh it's God that gives it to them. It's God that gives it to them. God gives prosperity. By the way, uh that'd be good for America to remember, huh? God is the one that made this all possible. And uh we forget that and we could lose it in a moment. And so um uh we we should work hard, we ought to be wise How we use our finances, our time with our family, our work with our family, we ought to work very, very hard, but we need to understand ultimately it is God that blesses us. It is God that makes it possible for us to get well. This man completely disregards God's role. And so here's the evil scenario. He says, number one, it's a common occurrence. Verse number one. He says, There's evil which I've seen under the sun, and it is common among men. The word common means it happens often. We're familiar with this. Anybody that's been around Garrett County for any length of time, I think uh a lot of us would be familiar. There was a fellow across town years ago, a very, very wealthy man And he spent a lot of money to build a mansion. Beautiful mansion. How many people know who I'm talking about? Beautiful mansion out there. Multi-million dollar mansion. He invested millions of dollars into that house. He invested all kinds of time and effort. Now I'm not trying to I'm not making any judgment on the man at all. I don't know him. He was gone before I showed up. I don't know anything about it. I just know his story And if I understand it correctly, it wasn't but a couple months before it was time to move in. He developed cancer, died. Never lived in that house one night, is the way I understand it. And that is exactly what Solomon is pointing out here. Listen, we need to be very, very careful. If we're living, we're investing our lives and everything in homes and wealth and stuff and things And stuff under the sun, if that's what we're investing our life in, we need to understand God could take us away and we never enjoy one bit of it. And I'm not saying we shouldn't lay up a nest egg. I'm not saying we shouldn't put aside for future. But we need to understand we if all we're living for is that what we're putting up, what we're putting up, it's very possible we're never going to enjoy that So we better live for something what? Beyond the sun. We better invest and look for fulfillment and uh and meaning in life, not for what finances and what's down here. We may never actually enjoy all that We better lay up our treasures where? In heaven. In heaven. And so that's what this guy messed up. Then he points out not only is it a common occurrence, but it is a crushing or sorrowful occurrence. Verse 1, there is an evil that I have seen under the sun. He uses that term evil. I looked that up. We think of evil as morally bad. This person's evil. Right? We think of evil like that. Nobody does. Okay. Um Robin was laughing at me for that. But uh when I read evil, I thought of the evil guy, you know, and he's got schemes and evil scientists. That's not what it's talking about That word evil there has the idea of being very, very sad. It's a sorrowful thing. I've seen something that is very, very sad. This guy has invested his whole life. Into something that he never has an opportunity to enjoy, somebody else ends up enjoying it. And he says, that's sad. It's a sorrowful, a crushing or sorrowful. Look down at verse 2, the last part of verse 2. But a stranger eateth it. This is vanity. It is an evil disease. That phrase evil disease is translated to other places a plague. It's a plague. Here's a plague. Here's something, an evil disease that plagues mankind, and that is this. We find no fulfillment in stuff. Material things. You and I, mankind is it was created by God, designed by God, with a God-shaped hole in our soul. And we can try and stuff that hole with money, we can try and stuff it with houses, we can try and stuff it with cars and clothes and things and stuff and stuff and stuff, And you know what? Never fills that hole up We live our whole life investing in that, and then when it's all said and done, we don't enjoy a bit of it. And so it's an evil disease. Look at verse 3, the last part of verse 3. I say that an untimely birth is better than he. What do you think he means by an untimely birth? Anybody take a shot at that? What's he mean by an untimely birth? He said this guy, now that verse 3, he's talking about this guy has this huge, wonderful family. He's got a hundred kids, and uh he lives a long time But all he's doing is under the sun. God's out of the picture. He says an untimely birth is better than that. What do you think he means by an untimely birth? Stillborn. Exactly. It's a miscarriage. In fact, the word is used also in the in the Hebrew, it uh is used for abortion. He said it's better to be aborted than live your whole life without God, just living for what's down here, and then go out in eternity without the Lord. Better have been miscarried. Do you agree with me? That's a sad condition to be in. To live my life and invest my life in in fortune and in family. And never know the Lord and never have real eternal purpose and never have spiritual fulfillment. And end up the end of my life. And he says, you know, it's you're no better off than the one that's never been born. So it's a very sad, very sorrowful occurrence to invest my whole life in only that which is under the sun, and even in good things. There's nothing wrong with finances, absolutely nothing wrong with family That's all I'm living for. It ends up being a sad, empty ending. I like what Curtis Hudson said. Curtis Hudson said, you can succeed, you can be the most successful man in business. You can be the most successful father of the most successful family in the world. But if you don't have the Lord, your life's a failure. Your life's a failure And so that's what I think he's describing here. It's a very common occurrence, a very crushing or sad occurrence. And then so that's the uh that's the uh evil scenario, and then verse number four through six, I put this down. He points out an empty settlement. And what I mean by that is an empty ending, a vain ending. Look at verse 4 with me again. For he cometh in with vanity And departeth in darkness, and his name shall be covered with darkness. Moreover, he hath not seen the sun nor anything. This is describing the one that was untimely birth. This hath more rest than the other Yea, though we live a thousand years twice told, yet hath he seen no good, do not all go to one place. All the money in the world will not fill an empty soul. All the children in the world will not fill an empty soul. And when all is said and done, if that is all that I lived for, was stuff, was fortune and family. Now these are both good things in and of themselves. Don't misunderstand what he's saying. But if that's all I live for, when it's all said and done, He ended up empty. He ended up empty. He expected more, I put this down, he expected more out of life than what this world could ever give him He was looking the fortune, he was looking the family to do for him what only God could do for him. And he ended up a very empty like. This coming week, let's work hard. Let's work hard. Let's be grateful for the possessions that God gives us. At the end of the week, you pick up a paycheck. Let's do this. Let's bow our heads and thank God for providing that for us. Amen. We go to bed tonight. You got the kids there? You got the family? Let's bow our heads. Let's get the kids and family together. Let's thank God for the family He's given us. Let's thank God for the spouse and the people that He's brought into our life Let's thank God for the church family. Amen, Helen. Let's thank God for it. But let's remember this. All the family, all the fortune without God ends up empty. And nothing. We're designed to live for God. We're designed to live above the sun. Above the sun. Let's love our families. Let's thank God for them. But let's live for God this week. And let's keep eternity in mind. This world is not my home. What? I'm just passing through. So don't park it here. This is what this guy did. It was a terrible, terrible thing. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us keep eternity an eternal perspective on the things of life, even our families. But we don't want them to replace the Lord. We don't want our fortunes to replace the Lord. All this under here is very temporal, but you're eternal. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how we would say, preacher, pray with me. And uh I'm praying with you the same thing, but you'd say, pray with me, preacher, that I'd keep my eyes on the Lord this week, that I'd keep in mind. That there's eternity out there, and I'd lay up my treasures and my investments and my love on the Lord and the things of the Lord. Is there anything like that? Say, preacher, I need the Lord to help me with that. Sure. That would be the desire of any Christian that loves the Lord. That we live with heaven in mind and eternity in mind. How many folks would say, preacher, and again, we need to be careful. We're not trying to be judgmental of other people, but you'd say, you know, I know someone, and their life is consumed. By that which is under the sun. And they don't know the Lord. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that my life would be such a testimony. And I could speak the gospel in such a way that they would see the reality that there's more than what is under the sun, that none of this is going to meet their needs. And you say, Preacher, pray that my testimony would point people to Christ. Is there anybody like that? That's what I would look that's what I want for my life That I point people to Christ in this old here under the sun, under the sun. Would there happen to be someone tonight say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved? I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die, and you certainly don't want to go to hell, trust me. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need that settled. I need to know for sure, like we sang, I need to know that my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Anybody like that at all? Anyone like that? Now let's finish out the Lord's Day. Maybe at an altar. Maybe you want to pray over these books up here as they send it down to Panama. Maybe you just want to ask the Lord to fill you with His Spirit as you go into this week and keep our perspective right And I believe God would help us if we do that. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. Catherine. Jennifer's playing the invitation. And how about it on the end of the