I just got a message. It's from my wife. She sent it through Jerry. Really? From the Lord. I forgot to put my light up. I'm glad she noticed it Are you happy now? That's right, exactly, bro. Yeah. I'd rather rather be like that than like it has been. The reason that she does that is because there's times when I do forget it. I just don't put it up there And uh if there's any black light effects in the bottom half of the picture you just don't see very much of it. You know, you it's very very dim with just the setup above. So So I said, she said, I hate to interrupt you though. I said, interrupt. It's all right. Interrupt. No big deal. You know, we're it's not like we're in uh some Episcopalian church where everybody sits around like this and nobody for the Episcopalians here, I'm didn't mean to offend you. All right. Take your Bible, if you will, and turn me at uh with me to uh 1 Chronicles chapter 13. 1 Chronicles chapter 13. We've got a story here that uh We've all heard and and uh a message that perhaps we've heard before, but uh maybe it's something here we can we can glean something new from So good to see you out there. Uh I was looking early as we came in and got snow coming down, not much. And uh I know that uh I know the preacher is is wanting to get home early because of the football game, so he he gave me ten minutes. That's uh all I've got here. And uh and my wife said amen to it. So ten minutes we're gonna be p out the door there. Anybody listen to the white sense. All right. Let's start reading in uh in verse 3. We'll read down through uh several verses here as we get uh into the message. The word of God says in wait a minute, let me see if my my thing is on here. I I don't know why we have so many different things we have to fool with here. There we go. All right. Okay, got it. Now we're on 1 Chronicles chapter 13, and we're in verse 3, where the Word of God says, and Let us bring again the ark of our God to us, for we uh we inquired not at it uh At it in the days of Saul. And all the congregation said that they would do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people. So David gathered all Israel together from Shihor of Egypt even into the entering of Hema. uh to bring the ark of God from Kilethjarum, and David went up and all Israel to Baal, that is, uh to Kir at Kirgith Jerem, which belongeth to Judah To bring up thence the ark of God, the Lord, that dwelleth between the cherubs, whose name is called on it. And they carried the ark of God into the uh in a new cart out of the house of Abinadab, and Uzzah and Ahio uh drave the cart. And David and all Israel played before God with all their might, and with singing, and with harps, and with psalteries, and timbrels, and with cymbals, and with trumpets. In other words, they had a I mean they had a band going there. And it says and when they came into the threshing floor of uh Chiddin, uh Uzzah put forth his hand to hold the ark for the oxen stumbled And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Usa, and he smote him because he put his hand to the ark, and there he died before God. And David was displeased because the Lord had made a breach upon Uzzah, wherefore that place is called Perez Uzzah to this day. pray. Father, now as we uh get into this message, we pray first of all that you declare our thoughts, our minds. And I pray, Lord, that you'd uh fill me and use me tonight. I yield myself best I know how and ask you to uh to bless in this service. Uh Lord, you've been so good to us. We are grateful uh for your visitation upon us and and uh the way you speak to hearts. And uh I pray that you'll bless the chalk drawing. We'll show it in a little bit. And I I believe that you'll get honor uh for all that's done. I pray for that one who may be here without Christ. Once again, if they have never trusted you as their Savior, I pray they might come this evening and be born into the family of God and never have to fear death or hell again. So bless our time around your word. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. The Ark of the Covenant, uh, there's it has a great history Uh of course this was uh the ark that uh uh God gave the the plans to back in the book of Exodus, you know, when he went up on Sinai and there he got the com commandments and the you know the law and and there he was uh uh given the dimensions to the tabernacle and everything that uh pertained to that and everything that the that the Israelites were going to need in this new world that they were going to This new land that flows milk and honey. God's making sure that they had a good foundation, and so uh he gave them the law and everything was necessary. Well, to make a long story short, uh uh the Ark of the Covenant was uh a uh I'm sure most of you are familiar with it, but it was a uh I guess you could call it like a chest It was uh uh so long, you know, and so wide and uh so high. It had uh had rings on each corner so that you could put staves through it and and the priest could uh t hold and carry it like this where they could put those the uh the rods or the the uh uh staves up on their shoulders, you know, and and the ark would be between them and they could carry the ark on their shoulders. So the Ark of the Covenant Uh what was his purpose anyhow? Well when you when you read back in in the book of Exodus, it tells you why uh what the Ark of the Covenant was supposed to uh uh be about. And it's found there in Exodus 25 and verse 22, where it says this, and there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy seat From between the two cherubims which are upon the ark of the testimony of all things which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel. So the purpose for the ark was a place for for God uh God's presence to reside Uh when the ark uh when the ark was placed in the tabernacle and and uh would and God would come down, you know he came down in a cloud by day and a and uh pillar of fire by night. When God was present in the in the tabernacle And uh uh he his Shekinah glory uh manifests itself between the two cherubims on the mercy seat on the Ark of the Covenant And so uh the Ark of the Covenant speaks of the of the very presence of God. And so here uh did you notice what it's what it's set up there and In the early part of the verse he says, uh, but let us bring again the ark of our God to us, for we inquired not at it in the days of Saul. Now we're talking about a long time ago These are the days of David here, so King Saul is dead and off the scene. But we're talking about a time when the Ark of the Covenant became Almost a good luck charm to Israel. Because it would represent the very presence of God. There was a time when the Philistines were were going to uh do battle with them and they said uh you know and they they were afraid of losing the battle so they said let's take the ark of the covenant with us and we'll fight this battle with God's presence with us Well, you know, that's nothing more than just having a you know a a rabbit's foot in your hand or uh you know a forty clover stuck in your wallet or something like that, hoping to get some good luck in the in the battle. That's that's what they were doing. Well, the result was that the Philistines said, uh, quit you like men. That was the the quote in the in the scriptures, which means Uh uh don't quit. Quit like men. Don't quit like children, you know, give up the first little opposition. But quit you like men means Hey, we need to fight and just never quit, just keep fighting. Well, what happened was the the Philistines won the battle, won the day, and took the ark And so the ark was in the presence of the Philistines back in those days. And uh God didn't like that, and so he smote them with emerods. And you can figure that out yourself. I don't know what it is exactly, but it sounds a whole lot like something else I know of that's not pleasant And that's what happened. Apparently they they were struck with uh this uh uh malady and and uh they finally got to the place where they had to uh had to get rid of it. And so they put a bunch of of jewelry in it and uh some diamonds and pearls, stuff like that, precious stones, and uh they put it on a cart. We just heard about a cart. Hey, put it on the cart and uh with uh an oxen and and sent it down the road and and I'm not gonna go through the the whole history of of the uh Ark of the Covenant, but the but the point is That it was actually from that point to uh to this point in David's life when he says, let's go get the ark and bring it back to Zion or to Jerusalem. He's it's been almost a hundred years. I'm letting it soak in. Almost a hundred years. According to uh Usher's uh uh chronology, it's it was like ninety-nine years That the ark had not been in Jerusalem, which tells me that the people were not really too spiritually minded. So it's no wonder that they made mistakes all along the way and uh chose a king rather than let God be the the uh uh the dominant uh leader in in their uh nation. Uh they they said we want a king like you know all the other nations and And so they kept making mistakes because the very presence of God was not in that whole thing. But David was a man after God's own heart. And his desire, his I mean, I believe it was he had good intentions, and I believe he wanted to do it right. He just didn't pay any attention. And the Bible says that he says, let's get together everybody and let's bring the ark home. Everybody says, Yay, let's do it. And so They just got up a bunch, got 'em a cart, and went over to Abinadab where the Ark was residing at this particular time and and they uh put it on a cart and started down the road with it. Well, Uzzah, which is the son of Abinadab, where they'd been staying. was walking along beside the ark, beside the cart. And the oxen apparently has stumbled. And if you know anything about how the oxen and carts are hooked up, uh the rods go uh on either side of the of the uh of the oxen and and uh uh on a y to a yoke and whenever the oxen goes like that why the the cart is just liable to go along with it So Uzzah is very, uh he's watching what's going on. They're walking down this rough road and uh the the oxen stumbles. Uzzah goes, oops, and puts his hand on the ark. And the Bible says that because he touched the ark, God smote him. He killed him. He brought a breech upon him. In other words, it he it was just like a bolt of lightning hit him and and uh it blew a hole in him. It it killed him instantly. They were trying to do the right thing, but they were doing it the wrong way. There's a lot of lessons that can be done in there, and all the basic lessons we've already heard and and probably won't get to some of them tonight, but but I want us to look at the four or five things here in the next five minutes that we have. And uh and see if we can just glean some things that maybe it will keep us from making some mistakes. So let's read it a little bit more in the scriptures here I'm looking at verse 9. See, verse 10 says, The anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and he uh smote him because he put his hand on the ark. And there he died before God. And David was displeased because the Lord had made a breach upon Uzzah. Wherefore that place is called Perez Uzzah to this day. Usually when uh uh when somebody is displeased with God or something that God did, I find it usually God is already displeased with something they did. It's just the way it seems to be. I have I've had people that got displeased or upset or down and uptight about some particular instant that came into their life and that uh would appear like an accident and they get all mad at God about the whole thing. But the truth of the matter is that God was already mad at them because of something that was in their life that was uh uh you know that uh brought it all about to begin with. Don't you think that God could have kept the ox from stumbling? Or do you think perhaps uh God went like this and the ox uh just stumbled over his foot? Because he's trying to teach a lesson. Why was it 99 years that they didn't have the ark there? Why was 99 years passed by that the nation that is God's people? God's people, God's nation, Israel. 99 years, and they didn't have the Ark of the Covenant that represents the very presence of God. What's going on here? Well, I think probably it's because it takes a long time to teach some lessons to some people. If you keep having if you're if you're constantly in in I mean things are just happening to you over and over and over and over and you're And you're, you know, you're you're just frustrated with what's going on in your life, maybe you need to check your life out. Do you realize that that that sometimes we uh we are, how can I put it? Uh We get desensitized to certain little sins that are in our life, to the point where we don't see them as sin any longer. And the Bible says that your sin has separated between you and your God and your iniquities has hidden his face from you, that he will not hear your voice. And you wonder why? Why has God got a deaf ear towards me, it seems like? I know I'm saved. I remember when I trusted Christ. But you've allowed something something in your life that just uh uh and and now you've smoothed it over. You've you know it's But it's still there. You know, you've taken the plaster and you've plastered the hole and you've taken paint and painted the hole, but it's the hole still there. It's just plugged up And it needs something done about it. One of the things that that frustrates uh uh me as an abandonist and perhaps as a preacher, I don't know, uh Brother Lennon, but is the is the fact that that that people can go on and on and on in their life from revival to revival with with things in their life that God's not pleased with, and they won't recognize them as being sin. Sin is a transgression of God's law, but he that knoweth to do good and doeth it not to him in a sin. When we don't do things that are good, things that God wants us to do, it's sin. And it needs to be recognized as such. And if as long as we keep plastering over it, and as long as we keep going through the motions and not acknowledging that That's why David says he says, search my heart. Search me, O God. See if there be any wicked way in me. And the tragedy is that we will not take the moment to pray and ask God to search our hearts because we're afraid he's going to find something that we're going to have to deal with. Uzzah paid a terrible price, and it seems almost unfair. Because he was trying to do good. He was trying to, you know, he didn't want the ark to fall. But he paid the price. Why? Because the people who had set this whole thing up organized this return to the ark, made it a big show, made it a big ceremony. Made it, you know, they just had a lot of hoopala, but it was for show. It was for ceremony. It wasn't from the heart. Listen to what David says. Verse 13 over in chapter 15 he says this. He's talking about the ark once again. And he's talking about bringing it back. He says, for because ye did you did it not at the first. I'm sorry, let me get it up here where I can read it. For because you did it not at the first, the Lord our God made a breach upon us. For that we, listen. For that we sought him not after the due order. We didn't ask God about this. You see, God spent all that time with Moses up there in the mountain laying out all the plans of the tabernacle. Each piece and how it was to be used, how it was to be made, everything that was needed. God gave it to Moses and it was passed down and of course it was built and the tabernacle was made and that whole thing But there came a time when when all that got too civilized. We got two up town. That's what happened to Israel. They got two uptown Give us a king like all the others. We want all the the hoopala, we want all the pomp and the glory that kings have This old prophet over here is Samuel Gidden. He's just an old decrepit guy who walks around all humped over. He doesn't look very glorious to me. We need a king. One we can put a crown on. One we can be proud of and say, look, this is our king up here. Look at him. Isn't he a magnificent thing to look at? Man, we put him on horses and put him in a chariot, and he just he is grand, is he not? That was Israel's problem The pomp and and the and the glory and the ceremony got to them and they said, uh, we don't really need this ark And they just sort of sat back here and gathered dust until uh finally uh David says, listen. Let's just bring the ark home. That was a noble thought, a good thought, and a and the right thing to do. But he did it all wrong. Back in the book of Exodus, he tells them exactly how the ark was to be dealt with. It was to be placed back in the Holy of Holies. And the Holy of Holies is a place where the presence of God was, and there was only the high priest could even go into the very presence of God and only then once a year. So this wasn't just a a piece of furniture you can go set on if you want to, or or you know, it wasn't like that. This was something more This represents the very essence, the very presence of Almighty God, the creator of the universe. And they treat it like a like they're hauling a a dab court back to Jerusalem. Any way that the ark was to be looked to be moved was through the Levites That chosen tribe that that was pulled out, that that was to handle all the tabernacle, was to make sure it was packed perfectly and taken care of the right way. Did you ever wonder how the ark got moved from place to place if nobody could go in and see it? Did you ever wonder that? Huh? It is a curiosity, isn't it? But if you notice, there's not a dimension given for the Holy of Holies. Which means that the veil that covered between the Holy of Holies and the Holy Place The veil there could have been put any place. So how did they move the ark? How did the Levites finally put the staves in and still not go in and see the Ark of the Covenant in the presence of God and be smoked? Smith smoted. Hit, killed, smacked They they take the they took the the veil down. They hold the veil over their heads as they walk closer and closer to the ark. They fold the veil. Keeping the veil between them and the ark. The veil represents Jesus Christ and it's he between us, the one mediator between God and man that keeps the judgment of God away from us. They fold it up, they place it over the ark, so that they don't even have to see the ark. place the veil uh the veil over top of the ark and they can carry the ark any place they want to and that's how they could do that They treated it like an old piece of furniture. Put it on a knox cart and take it back to Jerusalem. They went through the whole fun thing, you know, and the symbols and the tabrets and I mean they they really blew it up to be something great and grand. And God's up there like this. It was a stench in his nostrils. And because of their disobedience, Uzzah died. So David finally comes to his senses. I want you to see that the attitude difference in in the first time they tried to get it back and the second time. The first time, remember what they said at verse 4? And all the congregation, they said that they would do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of God. That's not what it says. In the eyes of all the people. We'll fix this thing, we'll make this gonna be a great thing we can I won't go down at McDonald's and have burgers after it's all over. I mean, this is going to be a great thing. But listen to it differently over in chapter 15 By the way, there was something happening in chapter 14 too. He went up against the Philistines, and there he had learned a lesson. And he went to the Lord. He said, Lord, should we go up against the Philistines? Lord said, nope go up against the Philistines. You're not going to win. He said, okay. He backed off. So he inquired again later on. He said, Lord, should we go up and get the Philistines now? He said, Yeah, go up and get them. You'll take them this time. And he obeyed. He obeyed God. In other words, he learned the lesson to talk to the Lord about these things. You know that there's no shortcuts to spirituality? There are no shortcuts. There's only one way to get it, and that's that's spending time in the Word of God, spending time in prayer, spending time witnessing, spending time. . You know, studying the that's the only way you get there's there's no shortcuts to spirituality. Though some would like to get it that way. And that's what these people were doing Let's just bring the ark up. But notice the difference now. I'm looking verse three well I I don't want to I don't want to read the whole chapter, but I'm going to try to pick out uh pick out some verses. And David made in the verse one. I'll tell you where I'm at. And David made made him houses in the city of of David and prepared a place for the ark of God and pitched for it a tent. That's the first thing he did. He made a preparation where he's going to put the ark. Before they had they didn't have a place apparently because he just made one. Then it says, and then David said, none ought to carry the ark of God but the Levites. Oh, that was a breakthrough, wasn't it? He finally finally figured out the right way of doing it. I'm going to skip down through here. And so verse 11 says, and David called for uh Zadok and uh Abathar, the priest And for the Levites and for Uriel and uh Isaiah and Joel and Shemaih and uh Eliel and Eliel. They're the Eliel. Okay. And uh Amenadab. And said unto them, Ye are the chief of the fathers of the Levites. Now listen, sanctify yourselves That's the first time that had been mentioned. In other words, set yourself apart a period of time when you can get close to God. A period of time when you can when you can uh when you when you yield yourself to his will. A period of time where you where you look into the Word of God, where you where you find what God wants out of you. A time that you just set apart you for God. And not just God for you, but you for God. And so he says uh uh and he says I w I want you to to to sanctify uh yourselves, both ye and your brethren. that you may bring up the ark of the Lord uh Lord God of Israel into the place that I have prepared for it. For because you did it not at the first, the Lord our God, see you figured it out. God made a breach on us. And so, because we sought not after uh the due due order. So the priests and Levites, they sanctified themselves and they Went and got the ark and they brought it. You know they did have celebration, but now it was sanctified celebration. You know you can do things the same way, and God will bless on some and not bless on others. And it all has to do with one thing, and that's whether or not what is being done has been sanctified Don't let that word scare you. It just means being separated or set apart for God. A lot of times I think we try to do things in a spiritual way without really going through the steps. And when we do that, we uh we offend God. God wants to be in on everything that we do. He wants to be in on us. He wants to be a partner with it. And whenever we do things that's contrary to him, we make him a partner to sin. Everybody's got real quiet. I don't know why. That was the introduction. The truth of the matter is that's not even the message. The message is over here. And this was out of here. There was a difference. The basic lessons I can give you out of this over here that would be good for us to at least know. God judges sin. Different the than what we do. He sees things differently we do. That all changes from the written revelation are wrong I'm just reading out the the uh the main points. When we start improving on God's way, it leads to more and more corrections. Let's add this, let's add that, and we just get more confused. Refutes a common error. And that error is this. That if we have the right motive, God accepts it even though it's wrong. Isn't that isn't that much of what people think? But this story repudiates that common error that God is not pleased. If it's not done right, then it's wrong. And God sees it that way. That kind of thinking opens the door for all religions, you know We could get into Christian rock and Christian rap and Christian talky talk and you know, Christian whatever, contemporary, some of that. We can get into all that stuff in this kind of a message because it's it's it's there. It's people trying to do things, trying to be spiritual without going through the process. Want to feel good. As long as they can as long as they can feel good. They think that's spirituality when it's just carnality. said. It's tragic. Large cargo ship with an experienced crew and a captain ran off course and onto a reef one night, the cargo and everything, all the lives were lost. When they did an investigation at the end of the tragedy, they uh went through all the navigational equipment to find out what had been going wrong. And when they took the compass apart, they found that there was the the steel tip of a of a knife blade. Where the guy had been cleaning it with it and the tip of a of a knife blade was found in one spot there that made the the compass off course all the time The ones that tell you. They just simply tell us that that sometimes the compass that we that we go by, there's something wrong with the compass. And the world has a good compass that he wants you to follow. The world dominated by Satan, his compass will take you off course every time. You can depend on them. There's only one real compass that we can depend upon. And that's this one right here. This is the compass that we go by. It'll never point you wrong. It'll always point you the right way. If these people would have have taken the moment to read back in the book of Exodus where it told them exactly how they could uh suppose to handle the ark. They would take in the time. The Levites were still there. You know, the they still had priests. It's just that they were just going through the motions. There was no sanctification in their lives. But once they put that, put everything in order the way it was supposed to be, according to this, then God blessed them. And David brought the ark home. You're here tonight and maybe there's some things that's been questionable in your life. You've been smearing over them, you know, and and hiding them and But God knows about them and and you know about them. God's pointed them out. You've just been been saying, well, it's just a little thing, and I don't think it's that big a thing. Well that's what Uza Uzza thought It was just a little thing, not that big a thing. I know you're not supposed to touch it, but after all it's gonna fall, it should be all right if I didn't say, but it cost me his life Don't wait. Don't let that happen. Search your heart. Let God search your heart. See if there be any wicked way. And if there's some little thing in there, remember it's those little foxes that spoil the vines. The little foxes. Let's have the lights out and I'll show this charter.