To the end of this message, the sermon he's preaching, I'm referring to it as a sermon. God's preserved it for us, has inspired, he's preserved it for us here to uh in uh in the Word of God. And Solomon is restating. His thesis. He says, verse 8, Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher, all is vanity. Now is that his conclusion? No, we're going to find out next time in verse 13. There he gives his conclusion. What he's doing here is he's restating his opening thesis that under the sun, a life without God, a life disregarding the Word of God, a life disregarding The presence of God in my life is uh vain and empty. Vanity of vanity, always vanity, saith the preacher. Verse 9. And moreover, because the preacher was wise He still taught the people knowledge. Yea, he gave good heed and sought out and set order many proverbs. The preacher sought to find out acceptable words. And that which was written was upright, even words of truth. Look at verse 11. This is what we're going to look at tonight. The words of the wise are as what? Goads. Huh. And nails fashioned by the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd. And further, by these, my son, be admonished. And further, by these, my son, be admonished. Of making many books, there is no end. And much study is weariness of the flesh. And the young people that just finished school said, Amen. Much studying is weariness of the flesh. Let's pray. I want to look at this, and um we'll pick up where we left off and and I'm gonna try really hard to be brief tonight And try and get right to the point. Father, bless now our time in this passage of Scripture. Teach us, Lord. Lord, I need you, if, and I plead with you, to fill me. With your Holy Spirit, I present my body anew, yield my will, pray you would speak and teach through me, and that we could see how desperately we need you, Lord. in our lives, how desperately we need to trust you, have faith in you. And so please help us and prepare our hearts for Lord's Supper here in just a moment. In Jesus' name, amen. As I said, Solomon's restating his opening thesis, his contention that life under the sun is empty and vape. My first point is I began, we started this a couple weeks ago, but verse number eight, as I said, he's restating his contention. Verse number nine and ten, I put it under this head, he rehearses his credentials. And if you remember, it's been several weeks. We pointed out that in the first part of verse 9, he states that he was wise. Now, question, was it braggadocious of Solomon for him to say the preacher was wise? No, he's not bragging here. He's not claiming any kind of superiority or anyone else. He was a wise man. God had supernaturally gifted him with wisdom And so it was, don't misread into that, him suggesting that he's bragging on this. By the way, every one of us can be wise. Proverbs gives us the formula for wisdom, particularly chapter 2. And we ought to be wise. In fact, God tells us wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, listen to this: get wisdom. And so he's not bragging here. He's simply making a statement that God had taught him some stuff. He had learned to see things from heaven's perspective. which is what wisdom is, and so he makes that statement. So part of his credentials for this whole sermon is that he was wise. Second thing he points out here as far as credentials, he was a teacher. He was a teacher. And uh he had taught. In Proverbs, uh we see that in Proverbs where He is a teacher. Then number three, he pointed out that he was a student. Look at the verse nine. Because the preacher was wise. He still taught people knowledge. And look at this. He gave good heed and sought out and set in order many proverbs. He studied these things out and he found these truths. And uh he shared them with others. I found that in teaching I learn more myself, I think, than the students under me learn. And so he was a student of Scripture and of truth. And then number four, we pointed out from verse number 10 that he was careful Now, we get to verse 11 and 12, and here's my third point in this section: Solomon reveals his confidence. He makes some statements here that tell us that he is very, very confident that what he is saying is true. How many people here want a preacher that what is confident that what he's preaching is the truth Sure, I I want a preacher that way. I want to be that kind of preacher. I want to know that what I'm preaching is the truth. I've tried very over the years to be very, very careful. If I was giving my opinion or I wasn't certain about something, I tried to make that You know, make that clear. This is my opinion, this is what I think. And so Solomon is uh uh he is very confident that what he said is true. Look at verse number 11. He says, the words of the wise Are as goats. He says the words of a wise have an effect on other people. I want to suggest to you that words of fools Have effects on other people. In fact, words are tremendously powerful. The power of words. I came across this quote I thought was pretty good. Words are free. But how I use them may cost me. Anybody here ever say something and boy, it cost you Anybody know I'm talking about me and uh anybody here ever say this? Man, I wish I hadn't said that. And uh he says the words of the wise, and then he describes the impact of those words. And I and I got thinking about words, how powerful, powerful words are Uh they changed the course of uh words can change the course of nations. Um I don't believe he was a saved man. It's pretty rough in a lot of ways, but Winston Churchill was an amazing man in a lot of ways And one of his most effective uh uh one of his uh one of his greatest contributions, I should say, to England during World War II was his words he would say to that nation. He gave a speech one time at a university, I don't remember this the The setting exactly. But this was his speech. Never, ever, ever quit. That's a powerful statement Commencement, big university, prime minister of the nation steps up and he says, Don't you ever quit. And the statements he would make, words, words are powerful, and uh words of the wise. Did you know that God brought everything that exists into existence with words? Hebrews chapter 11, verse 3 tells us that. Just the word of God, just the spoken word of God, brought all this into existence. Wow, that's mind-boggling. In Proverbs chapter 18 and verse 21, Solomon tells us, he says, life and death are in the power of the tongue. I wonder how many people would still be alive tonight if they'd have just learned to keep their mouths shut. Huh? Life and death in the power of the tongue. In fact, words are so powerful. Words are so powerful. With power comes responsibility. If somebody is given great power, They have a great responsibility. Words are powerful. God has given us the ability to speak words that are very, very powerful, that affect people. And in Matthew chapter 12, verse 36 and 37 Jesus said, and I believe because of the power of our words, he says, we will be held accountable for even the idle words that we speak. Now how many people that puts a chill down your spine? I'm going to have to stand before God and give an account for the words, even the idle words that I speak Why would God be so concerned? Why would God say, All right, you're going to be held accountable for the words you spoke? Why would He say that? Because of the power of our words The influence that what we say, how much influence that has on others. So he says the words of the wise are as goats. I put a list of four things here. That what the words of a wise person, uh the words of wisdom and God's wisdom, when that is spoken the impact it has. First of all, true wisdom, the words of the wise, number one, provoke us to wise action. When we hear somebody wise speaking, they're speaking to us words of wisdom. That will stir us to be wise. Look what he says here. The words of the wise are as, what did we say? Goads. What in the world is a goad? Anybody know what a goad is? What's a goad? Not a goat A goad. When I worked on the farm, uh we milked cows, and um I don't know if you didn't know much about cows. Some of y'all know more and I a lot more than I do, but uh one thing I found about cows, they can be stubborn. And you're trying to get those cows out of the meadow into the barn to milk them, and they decide they don't want to And you're pushing them, you're kicking them, you're pulling them, you're trying to get that stupid cow into the stall in the barn. That thing decides it doesn't want to go. So we would go and we would get us a goad Now the modern goes are a bar about that long, filled with batteries, has two little prods on the end. You mash that thing, and it highly motivates the cow to get in there. We'd stick that thing right behind the back hindquarter there, and that thing would take off and he'd get moving Now in Solomon's time they didn't have electric goats. What they would get would be just a stick and they'd sharpen the point of that thing. And they just stick that thing and it was uh what it was, it was a high it was a great motivational tool. And stir pe stir that cow or that donkey or whatever they're dealing with, stir that thing to action. Goad it and get it gone. Provoke to action. And what Solomon is telling us here is that the words of the wise, when someone is proclaiming or declaring True wisdom, or let's just put it this way, declaring the Word of God, those words can provoke us, goad us, motivate us to live for God, to do right Um, I don't know about you, but I like to go into a church. I like to go to preaching. When that guy's done preaching, I'm stirred up to do something for God That's what I like. I pray God helps me. Be a preacher that stirs people up, that goads people, get them going, get going. Brother Hummel was here a few weeks ago. I love Brother Hummel He's a dear friend. He was preaching. I was sitting up here. He was preaching. My heart was just being stirred. At the end of that day, we had our devotions there at home. And I prayed in my heart. I said, God, help me to live for you like I should. And a wise man proclaimed wise words that day in the services of this church, and I was goaded, I was motivated, I was provoked. I want to live for God and be the kind of Christian I ought to be. And that's what the Word of God does. That's what Words of Wisdom does. Somebody put it this way: Raise your words, not your voice. Rain grows from f uh rain grows flowers, not thunder. And do you get that? I didn't quote that correctly. Exactly right. He says, instead of raising your voice at somebody, raise your words, the quality of your words. Because it is rain that produces the flowers, thunder doesn't produce flowers We were up four wheel on Thursday night. We were up on top of the mountain. We were what about five miles you think? We were way up there. And uh clouds started coming in and uh I had a rain suit. Uh Uh Ken had a rain suit, uh Tom had a rain suit, and uh Byrne did not And so we're Christians, brotherly love, so we all put our rain suit on and said, meet you at the bottom, Byrne. That's pretty much the truth. And uh we're flying down there. And I mean it was raining and overhead it was taboom, taboom, taboom Oh, that loud thunder didn't do a thing for the flowers, didn't do a thing for the plant life. It was the rain. And the point is this, wise work, you can You can ha holler and shout. You can yell at those kids. You can yell at your spouse. You can yell at that co-worker. Holler and yell and carry on. But you're not going to do much to help them. Why don't we lift the quality of our words up? And have words of the wise. Am I making sense? We w the to today the language is so coarse and so crude, you can't go anywhere hardly without hearing some of the most filthy language that has ever been known to man. And it accomplishes nothing as far as as uh as uh helping people and and raising uh the quality of our society And so he says here, the words of the wise are as goads. They provoke people to live for God. They provoke people to do right. They provoke people to live for the Lord, to be wise in their actions. Um I've often prayed, often thought, and I'm failing this so much, but I often thought I would really like for that when I'm done spending time with somebody, when I'm finished talking with somebody Their faith in God is a little stronger than it was before I spoke to them. That when I leave, their confidence and trust in the Lord is stronger than when I arise. than when I arrived. And so the words of the wise are as goads. They provoke to wise actions. Somebody put it this way: words move hearts, and hearts move limbs. In other words, it produces action. So number one, he says, wise words are as goads. They provoke to wise action. Number two, look what he says here. The words of the wise are as goads. and as nails fastened by the masters of assemblies. I put it this way, wise words will plant us on security. Now the nail here, I believe he's referring to here when he mentions nails, I believe he's talking about tent stakes. Tent stakes. They would take the refer to it as a nail and they'd have some sort of tent there and they'd stake that thing down. They'd drive that nail down into the ground and it would hold that tent securely in place. It would secure the tent. And he says fastened as nails, fastened by the masters of assemblies. Well that guy, that tent maker, that guy putting that tent up, he knows what he's doing And he'll stretch that thing out and put it and he'll take that nail and he'll fasten that down into the ground securely and that thing won't come out and the wind can blow and the rain can come And sitting inside under that thing, they are safe and secure and sure. And he says that's what the words of the wise are. They help people. They secure people. Now I'm thinking along the the words of the wise as being the word of God. And I got thinking about that, the security of God's word. I tell you, um Dorothy gave testimony here a little bit ago. I think she mentioned, she's touching on what he's talking about here In that when I learn to just take God at His word, just trust God, and let Him deal with this. He has given me promises, He has given me instructions. I'm just going to let him deal with this. I'm just going to follow what he says. And you know what we find out? God takes care of us. There's security in that. Somebody says, how can you be so calm in this situation? How can you be so secure in this, and all that's going on? How can you have that peace and be secure? You know why? I'm trusting in the words of the wise. I'm trusting in God. I'm going to make a statement. I know you've heard me make this before. I'm going to make it again. I know for sure, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that when I die, I'm going to heaven, not to hell. I know that's true. I am secure in that. You say, well, who do you think you are? I tell you who I think I am. I think I'm a sorry sinner that deserves to be in hell right now. And my assurance, my security of my salvation is not in anything I've said or done, anything in me. The security, assurance of my salvation is in the words of Almighty God. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God that ye may know That ye have eternal life. That's security. That's assurance. That is a nail driven by the masters of assemblies down in, holding that salvation's secure. I'm glad I'm glad my salvation's not based on me and anything I do. I'd lose it like that. Ouch. I cut, did I tell you, I cut my finger. Bam. I tell ya, it just made me hate beer even more. Everything about it. That'll sound good on the internet, I'm sure. But let me put it, let me say this. The Word of God will hold our lives in place. Solomon had sought everything wealth, accomplishment. uh debauchery, wicked, sinful pleasure. He sought all that wisdom and educ he lost all the education and he said it's all vain, it's all empty, it I'm frustrated, it hasn't met my needs. And then he comes and says, you know, and I heard the words of God. The words of the wise, boy, it nailed my life down. It brought security, it brought fulfillment, assurance there. The word of God is powerful. Powerful. Then he says here, I notice it points us to the one shepherd. Look at the last part of verse 11. Now this he he kind of throws this in here. He says, as nails fastened by the masters of assemblies Which are given from one shepherd. Now who is this one shepherd? It's only one I can come up with. That's Lord God Almighty I put in the margin there. I put this, Psalm 23. The Lord is my shepherd. Now I got thinking here. I wonder if he isn't suggesting this. That when uh the words of the wise are going to ultimately at some point point the hearer to the one shepherd, to the Lord Jesus Christ. I tell you, we talk about everything in the world, don't we? What would we talk about if we didn't have weather Well it's nice out. Well wait five minutes, it won't be bad. You know, we talk about we talk about everything else in the world, politics. Oh, this guy, who, she, uh, huh. But you know what? But I think he's saying here, listen, the words of the wise Are somehow at some point going to get around talk about the Lord. Talk about the Lord. Why is it so easy to talk about everything else in the world that we have a hard time talking about the Lord? The one shepherd. And he says, the words of the wise point us, I believe he's teaching here, point us to the one shepherd. Wouldn't it be wonderful? Let's just take our church Let's just say everybody's here tonight. We have a fair crowd here tonight. Let's say everybody's here tonight. We would go out here and we determine I'm gonna I want my words to be wise. I want to I want to speak the word of God and we determine that we're gonna do everything we can. To point people with our words to the one shepherd, to the great shepherd of our souls, the Lord Jesus Christ. How many people think that might have an impact on our community? I guarantee it. I guarantee it In fact, we can, there's simple little things you can do. Go to the market or somewhere, go to Walmart or Sheet somewhere. Are there any other stores around between Walmart or Sheet? McDonald's. Go to one of those places and say stuff like this. How are you today? Oh, Lord's been good to me today. Just that little statement. Powerful. Lord, oh yeah, mm. Here's a freak. Well, uh, here you go. Oh, actually that price is cheaper than what it says there. Well, praise the Lord. What if they do this? Well, actually, it's a little more than what it says. Well, praise the Lord. The words of the wise, I believe, are going to point us to the Lord. Now, what would the words of the foolish do? Draw away from the Lord. Draw away from the Lord. I want to be a neon sign. I want my life to be a neon sign pointing to the Lord Jesus Christ. Pointing to the Lord Jesus Christ So uh he uh he reveals his confidence. He is confident that the words he is saying are wise words, they are the word of God, and they're gonna provoke people to wise actions They're going to plant people secure in the Word of God. And it's going to point people to the Savior. And last of all, I put it this one down. It prioritizes God's truth. Now look at verse 12 And I'll be honest with you, this verse here you've got to look at a little bit. And further, by these, what's these? The words of the wise, my son, be admonished. Let these wise words, these words that have been given throughout the book of Ecclesiastes, these words he's been giving, that you need the Lord, that without under the sun it's empty and vain and frustrating. Let these wise words And be admonished. Be built up. Corrected. Grow. Get on the right track. And he makes this statement By the making many books, of making many books there is no end, and much study is weariness of the flesh. Now is he Now, you first you look at that and you think, is he is he minimizing studying Reading and studying. Is he saying that that's a waste of time and it just wears you out? I don't think that's what he's saying. Because you go back to Proverbs, he says over and over again, get knowledge, get understanding, gain understanding, gain knowledge. That requires studying. That requires a lot of reading a lot of times. So he's not minimizing the idea of studying and reading of books and all of that. I think what he's saying is that he learned this. Throughout his experience, now he's bringing this message to an end, and he has learned that there is no end to man's ideas and man's theories about life. There are man can come up with every possible theory, every possible concept of life. I mean, it is endless. Now, I'm not as bad as I used to be, but I was a I used to be a book fanatic. And I just go to book and used to be years ago there'd be used bookstores. There was one down in Hagerstown. It was massive I'd spend all day long in there just going through books and looking at this and that and the other. And you know what? Every possible theory you can come up with about any aspect of life, there are thousands of books on that theory And I believe what he's telling us here is this, that under the sun, under the sun, man comes up with all kinds of ideas. But those ideas, man's books and man's theories, and man's ideas about God and life and death and purpose and meaning, all his theories If it's just under the sun, if God is excluded, it brings weariness. Brings vexation. It's empty. They have Buddhism, you have Confucian, you got all these ideas, Hindu. I heard about the one Buddhist. He went down to the hot dog store and he says, um Um and he says, what do you have? He said, make me one with everything. Make me one with everything. Get it. Make me one. Okay. Um That bomb. They bring no peace. And I think that's a real danger. And I want to end here. I think that's a real danger with our young people And we send them off to a secular university. And they hear ideas and they hear theories And they hear concepts that they never heard before. And I'm telling you, this old lost world can make a lie sound awfully true. And this old lost world can take something that is absolutely meaningless and sound so profound And they've never heard this before, and it's all new, and they get enamored with this, and they get captivated with these new ideas and these new theories and these new morals and these new concepts of what is right and wrong. Boy, they just take all this books that are ideas, these concepts, and they get so far from wisdom, and it wearies their heart and soul. And it's empty in vanity. Words of the wise. I have tried all these many years, I have tried so hard to lift up this book. This is the meat of life. This is the substance of our soul. This is the manual For our life. This these words are the words of wisdom And we must live by this because we get outside and away from this and we get all these ideas. And it is weariness of the flesh. It is emptiness in his vanity. We live in a day when we know more about what's going on on social media than you do what's going on in the eternal Word of God. We live in a day when we know more about President Donald Trump than we do about the Lord Jesus Christ. We live in a day when we know more what's going on on Hollywood than you knew what's happening up in heaven. God have mercy on me. I learned something years ago. We were talking to somebody. Somehow the subject came up about all the actors who played James Bond. Boy, this Christian named them off. Boom, boom, boom, boom. They knew all these actors that played James Bond. And it just hit me And I wasn't trying to be smart, but it just came to my mind, I said, can you name the 12 disciples? Uh Peter Named a handful, a couple three of the twelve disciples. But this Christian knew every single ungodly, adulterous actor. But they couldn't name the twelve disciples. That ain't right. That ain't right. Not for a child of God. This book is the words of the wise And so I'm going to challenge us. Let's let the Lord speak to our hearts. Let's get our nose in that book Let God lead us and direct us and find security, confidence and provoke us to live pure, godly lives Because of the power of God's word. Amen. We have more information today than we've ever had in the history of the world. And it seems like we have less wisdom. But wisdom is in that book. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you take these thoughts, maybe challenge us, provoke us, goad us, Lord, to live for you and trust you and find purpose and meaning and fulfillment. A life of surrender to our God. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I need to take heed to the words of the wise I need to listen to God and trust Him and let His Word lead me and direct me and control me, the Word of God. So I can be where you want to be. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Oh preacher, I need to take more serious my time in God's Word. God bless you. Now a lot of hands were pe Bibles raised a little bit ago, people reading their Bible. Praise the Lord for that. Now let's let it get in our lives and direct us throughout the day. You're here tonight and you're not saved, you don't have security, your sins are forgiven, you have a home in heaven. That's why the Bible was given, one of the reasons. You can settle that. Is there any say, preacher, pray for me? I've not been saved. I need to know for sure that God has forgiven me, accepted me in Christ. Any like that? You've been saved, you've not been baptized. That's such an important step for a new believer to follow the Lord in baptism. Father, bless her. Invitation as we prepare for Lord's Supper I pray you'd have your way in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.