Chapter 12, last chapter of our study of the book of Ecclesiastes. Chapter 12, we're going to uh begin reading in verse number 8 in just a moment. Yesterday I was out visiting. My dad was with me. We were out visiting. Anybody drive by the lake yesterday afternoon? Anyone drive up by there? You'd think it was the beltway around Washington, D. C. It was cars and vehicles everywhere. We got up on the other end of the lake And come around and lo and behold there was a tractor trailer that had overturned and it had a load of VIX vapor rub. Anybody know what That thing rolled over and there was VIX vapor rub everywhere. I thought, oh no, but I was surprised there wasn't any congestion in that there with uh all of that You gotta admit they're pretty good. Verse number eight, Ecclesiastes chapter twelve. Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher, all is vanity. We've heard that before, haven't we? I meant to ask this a little before. How many folks have a, you in you, at least in your mind, you feel like you have a clearer understanding of the book of Ecclesiastes now? We've been studying this a while Starting to make it make sense, doesn't it? After you see what it is. So he says, Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher, all is vanity. Verse 9. And moreover, because the preacher was wise He still taught the people knowledge. Yea, he gave good heed and sought out and set in order many proverbs The preacher sought to find out acceptable words, and that which was written was upright, and even words of truth. The words of the wise are as goads and as nails fastened by the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd. Further, by these, my son, be admonished of making, be admonished of making many books, there's no end. And much study is weariness of the flesh. How many students in school agree with that last statement? Much studying is weariness of the flesh. I want to speak on vanity of vanities this evening. I don't think I'll get the whole message, but we'll get started in it. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now. We come to the end of this book, and we come to the conclusions of Solomon's sermon. That's recorded for us here. So help us to learn. Lord, we've learned a lot from this. Lord, we see things maybe hopefully in a little clearer perspective, maybe heaven's perspective. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit as I yield my will, present my body anew at this moment. I pray you'd teach us. Be our teacher tonight. Be our preacher, Holy Spirit, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Solomon's giving his final statements. You remember we learned early on as we began to look at Ecclesiastes, this is actually, I believe, a sermon that Solomon preached at Jerusalem to the people of Israel is later in his life. And uh so he's coming to the um the the he the end of his sermon and he's kind of wrapping things up. Did you ever hear a preacher say, and in conclusion And an hour and a half later, he finishes the message. Well, Solomon is winding down. He's landing this plane of a sermon. He's bringing it in. And it's interesting that throughout this message, that throughout this book, this message he preached, he really made some disturbing confessions. If you think about it, we looked early on. He was seeking for purpose and fulfillment under the sun, and he got pretty desperate measures. If you remember back in the early in our study here, he admits, he confesses, that he sought for purpose and fulfillment and meaning in wealth. Well, if I get enough money, if I get enough money, then I'll be happy. If I get enough money, just a little more, and then I'll be content, then I'll find fulfillment. And he says uh he confesses that he did that. We have a lot of people in the world today that think money is the answer. Money's the solution. Money will meet my spiritual needs, and it never does. It never does Then he confessed that uh he sought for fulfillment in building, doing great works. If I just work a little harder, if I just accomplish a little more, if I just uh produce a little bit more, make a bigger house, make And Bill, work, work, work, work, work. Anybody hear of workaholics? I think sometimes it is simply trying to find purpose, trying to find fulfillment. I just got to, I guess gotta, if I just a little more And Solomon admitted that. He admitted that he sought for fulfillment and purpose in great education and great wisdom. And he sought to learn all things. If I can just understand a little more, if I can just learn a little bit more, and he said that fell short. And then the disturbing confession was the wickedness that Solomon got into. And he says very plainly, I sought to find fulfillment in every pleasure man can know. And the debauchery that goes along with that, and the and the uh the wickedness. That goes in, that went into that. And I'll tell you, it's very disturbing for me when a number of years ago when I began realizing what Solomon was saying here and what he had gotten involved in. It's very very disturbing And so he makes this confession in this message. He confesses these things. He asks some very difficult questions. You go through there. He asks some questions about God, about life. That um sometimes maybe we would be afraid to publicly ask I don't want you to respond in any way to this, but I'm pretty sure I'm correct on this, that a lot of times questions come to mind about things. That sometimes we're uncomfortable asking out loud. Right or wrong. Sometimes something comes out, how can that be? And Solomon He asked some questions in here. Anybody ever read through uh uh uh Ecclesiastes before you really understood what it was saying and said and think, why in the world is he saying? Why would he say that? That's that doesn't sound right. And the fact of the matter is, sometimes we do have to deal with questions inside our hearts and minds that we would be uncomfortable asking out loud. Because what people might think if I ask that, Solomon says these things. He's pretty transparent. And then he makes some troubling statements He makes statements like life has no meaning. Can you imagine a seasoned preacher getting up and making a statement, I found that life has no meaning. And people would be bothered by that. That would bother me. He makes that statement repeatedly through it. Life is unfair. Life is a waste. And so Solomon has been preaching this message, and I tried to, as I was reviewing in my mind, things that he said, and things that we looked at. And I tried in my mind to imagine the the congregation there in Israel outside the Solomon's temple as he is standing up and preaching this message and how they would be responding To hear their king making these statements, asking these questions. He is, there are things sometimes I said that we're hesitant to say and ask in public hard questions, and they're there. Sometimes we have doubts Sometimes we our faith is very weak. In fact, sometimes unbelief is something that we have to deal with. And Solomon is dealing with these things, some difficult things, in a very public way. I found, the older I get, and some of you maybe agree with me on this, but I've found that there's not always easy answers to life's questions. I don't know about I don't know how you are, but I like an easy answer. I have a problem, I have a question, I have an issue. I want an answer just very simple. But sometimes there's things in life that the answer isn't real simple. Some you know, sin can make things awfully complex. And people get themselves we get ourselves sometimes in such a mess. And I think maybe it's a affliction of us Americans, but We want it fixed, and we want it fixed now, with minimal effort, and a very simple solution. And life is not always that simple, and solutions aren't always that easy. And so Solomon is addressing all of this. I read about a professor, I think it was in Florida, I believe it was it was a testimony of uh someone had said of a young lady was in um in a university in Florida somewhere and she was studying medical science of some sort And what the uh professor was saying and what was being taught in the textbook did not mesh. The professor was making statements that were contrary to what the textbook taught, and the textbook was making teaching things that were contrary to what the professor was teaching. And so the student was bothered. He was in a and he was perplexed by this. And so he came up to the teacher after one of the classes and he said, and he pointed that out, that what you're teaching and what this book is teaching are different. And the professor said, Well let me see the book. Show me where there's uh where there's conflict between the two of us. And he said, Okay, and he had them marked, and he got him, he showed him this and this page and there. And the And the teacher looked at it, and so he took the one page that had where uh it disagreed with him, he tore it out. He tore the other page out, and tore the other page out, and handed the book back and said, There, now it agrees with me. It's not always that simple. We can't just tear the pages out and say it agrees with us So Solomon in his message is making these statements that are disturbing. He's asking hard questions. He's confessing things that we wouldn't admit. But then he makes it very, very clear that there is no answer, there are no solutions, and there is no meaning and purpose to life under the sun Under the sun. If I'm looking for answers, with the exclusion of God, I will never find those answers. If I'm seeking for purpose in life, if I'm looking for fulfillment and contentment and meaning in life, simply what exists under the sun, with the exclusion of God It's going to be vanity and vexation of spirit. And that has been his message all through here The answers to these issues in life when we he confesses the things he's done that would many would be ashamed to admit He asks questions that are hard to answer. And under the sun there are no solutions to that. But when we this is what I'm trying to get at, when we bring God into the equation, that changes everything. Then there's answers. Then there are solutions. Then there is forgiveness for sin. But under the sun, none of that exists. None of that exists. Our answers must come from something or someone beyond our five senses and someone that is above the sun. You know what he's doing in this message? This is my conclusion. I'll write it in my Bible. What he's doing, he's refuting the failure of materialism. His whole thing has been materialism. What exists under the sun? What is material? What I see, stuff I can feel and touch and experience, all this here, and he's looking at that and it fails him completely. The failure of materialism. And don't make any mistake about it, America is a materialistic country. And let me make this statement. Christianity, at least in America, and no doubt around the world, is becoming a materialistic religion. We are looking more and more and more to our finances, our materials, stuff that appeals to our flesh, and we're getting our eyes off of the one that is above the sun. And so this has been his message. Now, my first point is, and I'm not going to have a chance to get to all of them, but I notice in verse 8, he restates his contention. Now by contention I mean this, what he is trying to prove. He restates his uh how many people know what I mean when I say this, his theses. Anyone know what I'm talking about? This is the point he's trying to make This is the contention he has. This is his argument. Look at verse 8 with me. Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher, all is vanity. Now he's coming to the end of his message And what he's doing here is he's referring back to his opening statements of his message. Would you turn with me back to Ecclesiastes chapter 1? Now think about what we just had in our message last week, this old house And come to chapter number one and look with me if you would. I'm going to read the first four verses. Now, he's at the end of the chapter. He says, Vanity and vanity saith the preacher, always vanity. Look at verse 1 of chapter 1. The words of the preacher. Alright? Chapter 12, verse 8, he said, Vanity, vanity, saith the preacher. The words of the preacher, the son of David, king in Israel, look at this: Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher. Vanity of vanity, all is vanity. He restates his opening thesis. Look at verse 3. What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh, but the earth abideth forever. What's he saying? In chapter 12, the first Seven verses, he pointed out that youth is such a vital period of life. Youth is such an important time in our entire lives when we learn, when we're influenced, when decisions are made, that we live with the rest of our lives. And then he points out that life goes by so rapidly, and before we know it, the quote-unquote evil days will be upon us. When this old house starts breaking down, when this old house starts failing us, and we eventually go to our long home, And he's reiterating what he said in the first few verses where he says, one generation passeth away to another generation. What's he say? He's saying this. He says uh he's saying life goes by so quickly, we fill the years that we have of our life with everything we possibly can. We're trying to be happy We're trying to find meaning, we're trying to find fulfillment, we're trying to find purpose, and before we know it, we grow old and die. And the next generation comes on and does the same thing. And then the next generation comes on and does the same thing. And the next generation comes on and does the same thing. And his whole attempt, as I said, was to expose the failure of materialism. That because life is so brief and it goes by so rapidly To live for temporary things. The things which are seen are temporal. And to live for that is going to provide a vain, empty uh frustrating life. And so he's reiterating this statement. That's his contention. Under the sun, materialistically It has completely failed. Second thing I notice here in verse 9 and 10, he rehearses his credentials. Now remind, remember, he's winding this message down. He comes back Did you ever hear a preacher when he preaches, I'll do this sometimes, not real often, but a lot of times a preacher, when he gets the end of the message, he restates what he said at the beginning of the message. Did you ever hear a preacher do that? It's a tactic It's used to re-re-emphasize the point we're trying to make. And he does that here. He makes that statement in verse number eight, and then he gives his credentials here, as if they needed it. Look what he says. Come back here to chapter 14. Look what he says in verse number nine. He says, Vanny vanity, saith the preacher, all is vanity. All right, that's been his whole contention. Under the sun, it's all vanity. Verse 9. And moreover. Because the preacher was wise. And he begins referring to himself in the third person here. And he's putting, he's setting himself up, he's talking about himself, but as if as in the third person. And he says, here's the preacher, here's his credentials, why you ought to listen to what he has to say. This is why what he says has uh is credible And he gives several reasons. One, he says, because the preacher is wise. He's wise. Question Was Solomon wise? Yes. He was supernaturally wise. In fact, he's referenced as the wisest man that has ever lived. Solomon was wise. Now, it's amazing how stupid a wise person can be. How foolish a wise person can act. And he had his experience, he had his share of that. But Solomon was wise, and he repeatedly, he continually emphasizes the importance of wisdom. I like Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 7. I think someone in conversation earlier today brought it up. Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 7 says this wisdom is the principal thing. That is the basis. That is the beginning point. That is what absolutely has to be in place If my life is going to count, if my life is going to be something, if I'm going to succeed, there must be wisdom. It is the principal thing Solomon continually emphasized the incredible importance of wisdom. Think about Solomon's experience. Should we listen to him? Should we listen to Solomon? Yes, absolutely. He's wise. He was raised up, listen to this. He was raised up at the feet of the man who the man after God's own heart. I'm grateful for a godly daddy. How many folks here had Christian parents or at least a Christian parent? We ought to be very grateful for that. Amen. Solomon was raised up after a man that God said was a man after his own heart. Wow! And then he is given this supernatural wisdom. What I'm trying to say is this: we ought to listen to what Solomon has to say. He's telling the people, listen, the preacher, referring to himself, the preacher is wise. He knows what he's talking about. I found out it's a good thing to listen to people who are wise. I found out it's a good thing to listen to people who know what they're talking about. It's an old illustration, I like it. It was and it's a I think it's a true event. Back years ago when uh anybody recognize the name Henry Ford? Force. And as the story goes, I think it was in Michigan or Ohio somewhere, this guy was driving a Model T-40 along the road and something went wrong, it broke down alongside the road, and the guy had the hood up and he's working on that thing trying to figure it out And a car came up behind, saw what was problem, pulled over, and he said, Can I give you a hand? And the guy with grease on his hands and his head under the hood was there working away, he says, No, I don't need your help, I'll figure it out. He was all frustrated. He says, well, I think I could help you. Get out of here, leave me alone. And the guy cussed out and ran off Henry Ford. The guy that made the thing. How many people agree that was dumb? You know what? So many of us do that exact same thing with God. God sends people by our way. God sends people by who've been around for a little while. I tell you what, one thing we as a church, now we have a focus on youth. Anybody notice that around here? We're trying to reach the next generation and train them and disciple them to live for God. But I tell you one thing, we have a valuable, valuable treasure in our church. And that is a bunch of Let me say it the right way here. We have some folks been around for a while. And have learned a few things and saw a few things. And if we got any lick any ounce of wisdom in our hearts and minds, we're going to listen to what folks have been around for a while, what they have to tell us. Amen or not. And by the way, if you're an older folk, you can say amen there. How many people how many folks that are my age or older you learned a few things in life? Yeah. Hold your hand up. Everybody, hold your hand up. Young people, look at this. You have a tremendous resource to be successful in life. You have a tremendous resource in this church to be successful in life. There are wise people in this church They've been around for a while. They've walked with God for a while. They know some things. Can I be a little blunt? A young person, any any any age really, that thinks they know it all And has all the answers to life and will not listen to folks that have been around for a while is as big a fool as that guy that's running off Henry Ford when he's got a car trouble. Am I right or wrong? Well, there's generation oh, these folks they just don't understand our generation. I'll tell you one thing. The old folks in our church know a little bit more about your generation than you know. I like what the one preacher said. Your your dad, your grandpa, your grandma has more wisdom in their little pinky than you've got in your whole body And Solomon's saying to the people, you ought to listen to me. The preacher's wise. He knows what he's talking about. He's been raised up at the feet of David, the man after God's own heart. He has supernatural wisdom from God. Listen, what I'm trying to say is this. There's some people we ought to listen to, and there's some people we ought not to listen to. There's all kinds of voices out there. In this day and age, we have so much media, so much information, so many voices screaming, we ought to be very, very careful who we listen to and who we do not listen to. And so he's given his credentials for giving this advice, addressing materialism, and he said, first of all, he's wise. He's wise. Second of all, he says he was a teacher. Look, moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge. He was a teacher. He took the lessons he learned and he passed them on to another generation in an understandable way, knowledge. Can I make an appeal to our senior citizens? Don't be quiet. Share with the next generation what you've learned. Encourage them. And the things of the Lord, particularly us as a church. If you've learned that God answers prayer, then communicate that to the next generation. If you've learned from the sting of sin Communicate that to the next generation. If you've experienced the love of God and the blessings of God in your life and you've seen how God has led you, communicate that to the next generation. They need to hear from human voices the reality of that book and the power of God. Solomon says, I taught people. The preacher is wise. And he taught people what he learned. He communicated that on. Then he says he was a student. Yea, he says he still taught people knowledge. Yea, he gave good heed and sought out and set in order many proverbs. Solomon was a student. He studied diligently. He studied thoroughly. He gave good heed. He studied thoroughly. He set in order many proverbs. This is how I visualize that statement I see Solomon in his study, probably very ornate. He was incredibly wealthy. He had access to the greatest writings, human writings of the day. Of course he had the Word of God that was up to that point. And I see Solomon have a table, and I just see open books scattered on that table. And he's researching and he's studying, he's looking, and he's learning. He's setting in order many proverbs. He's getting these truths, these statements, and he's learning. How many folks do we have in here that have taught, either in Sunday school or school or some way you've taught? How many? How many? A lot of folks Will you agree with this? When we teach, we learn more than our students learn. Every great teacher is a great student. And teachers learn more in teaching than the students get in studenting. So he's a student. He was a great student. Good teachers are great students. I put this down in my notes. Ignorance may be bliss. Anybody ever hear that? Ignorance may be bliss, but I'll tell you this: it doesn't do anyone else any good. An ignorant person can't help other people too much, right? Now I'm ashamed of this, and I know Tom and some of you guys tease me about this, but I tell you very personally, I'm a very sensitive man. And it makes me very sad and it hurts me when you guys say this. But to say, don't let pastor have any tools Don't let good night, don't let the preacher fix that. That hurts me. The fact is my ignorance in these areas, these fix it, what do you call that? Handyman areas, my ignorance in that area doesn't do Tom or anyone else, this church, a bit of good. Now it's kind of bliss for me. I don't know. But it does absolutely, there's absolutely no benefit to the church, my ignorance in that area. And so ignorance may be blessed, but doesn't do anybody any good. Can I throw this out to the young people? Learn to study. Learn to study. Learn. Read Proverbs, how much it says about getting knowledge, gaining knowledge, understanding. I tell you, this is just me. One of the things I treasure the most are my books. Knowledge and understanding that I can learn from these great men of God from years gone by and read that and devour. I'm reading a book right now on the names of God. I'm telling you, just blesses my heart. Solomon was a student. His credentials, he's wise, he's a teacher, he's a student, and I'll end with this, and we'll look at the verse 11 and 12 next time. But he was very, very careful. Look at verse 10. The preacher sought to find out what? Acceptable words. And that which was written, and that which was written was upright, even words of truth He says, listen, the message you've just heard that's winding down, let me say this: materialism is empty. You're living for the here and now, you're living for your flesh, you're living for uh anything under the sun. It is empty, it is vain, you're going to be frustrated. And let me tell you why I have the authority to say that. One, because the preacher is wise. Number two, he's a teacher. Number three, he studied Number 40 is very, very careful in the words he uses. Look what he says here. The preacher sought to find out acceptable words. The word acceptable has this idea. Now, it can be misconstrued, so I have to be careful. The word acceptable means pleasing. Words. In other words, this is what I, as I studied that, this is what I took away from that. Solomon tried to be very, very careful that in his teaching and his preaching, he connected with the people. They accepted it. It was, yes, I understand what he's saying. There's a connection. Some of you teachers know what I'm talking about when you're teaching, or some of you preachers when I'm preaching, there's a connection takes place. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Boy, it's connecting. And Solomon tried to be very, very careful that he didn't speak above people's heads, that he spoke to them, that people understood what he was saying I'm telling you, the greatest preachers in history were people that connected with their audience. They understood they were preaching to where they were at. It had an impact in their lives. It was acceptable to them. They received it. And it affected them. And he says, I was very careful that my words that I connected with my hearers. I can't teach anything to people if I'm not connecting with the audience. Sometimes I'm preaching and I can tell it's an egg. I'm laying an egg. I can tell when I'm preaching it. And um to me, from my perspective, folks are, you know, when ninety percent of the people are like this There's not much connection going on, Brother Heimball. And so and and Solomon tried to be very, very careful. Try to be very, very careful that his words are acceptable. So he wanted to connect with the people, and then he wanted to be correct in his message. Notice what he says, and that which was written was upright, even words of truth. And this is particularly, well this is true in any area of communication, but I think particularly in teaching and preaching, what we are saying needs to be true I tell ya, there are pulpits across this land that are full of false doctrine, that are full, that are false prophets standing behind those pulpits. And they're preaching their own ideas and they're preaching their own visions and they're preaching their own thoughts and their own concepts. And they are so far from the Word of God and it is killing our country. I'm telling you, I am so skeptical of ninety-nine point nine nine nine percent of these TV preachers It has to be true. It has to be true to the Word of God. I mentioned in Sunday school the other week, and studying it, this encouraged my heart as I was studying in Corinthians there, and this thought came to my mind, I don't have to be clever. I don't have to be cute and I don't have to be sensational in my teaching and preaching, but one thing I have to be is true to that book. True to that book. Because that is the truth. And that will impact the next generation more than any concept or idea or theory I have. The word of God, the word of God. So Solomon's winding down. He restates his Initial contention that under the sun it is vanity, it is vexation of spirit, there is needs in the hearts and souls of peop mankind that any nothing under the sun can meet. Only God can do that He gives his credentials, and then next time we'll have to look verse 11 and 12, he reveals his competence. He is very confident that what he is saying is going to have an impact. It is going to goad and it is going to be a nail hammered in. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us, dear Lord To be very, very careful that we don't become materialistic in our desires, in our thinking, in our living, in our worldview, our values. Help us to see beyond that which is seen. God help us to see your hand, your presence. And I pray that those of us are in the older end of life, the old house is starting to show where, that you would give us a heart for the next generation. That we would be willing and able to communicate to them in acceptable words in a way that they can connect with that help them see the Lord. And see reality and not squander their life and get to the end of the life and have nothing to offer to you and worse yet end up in hell. God, I pray you give our young people a teachable heart, an open heart to the Word of God and to the influence of men and women who've walked with you for many, many years. Help us, Lord, I pray. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, how many of us older folks would say, you know, I want God to use me? I want my testimony in such a way that this next generation can know and experience the blessings of God that He's done for me. Any like that, how many older folks you feel that way? That's what we want. We want God to use us to influence the generation to come. Let me ask, let me address our young people How many young people, our heads about, eyes are closed, how many young people would say, Pastor, I want to be teachable I want to be willing to listen and learn from God's Word and from those who know a little bit more about life than I do. That requires humility. It requires faith. How many young people say, Preacher, pray for me? That's where I want to be. I want to be able to open and willing to learn. How about it, young people? Just slip your hand up. Huh? Maybe kneel in an old-fashioned altar. Say, Lord, make me teachable. Father in heaven, please bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the