Scripture, if you would turn to Ecclesiastes chapter one, that's our series that we began last week. Ecclesiastes chapter one. When you find that, if you would also turn to First Kings chapter eleven And mark that, and then also, if you would, mark First Chronicles, chapter number twenty-nine. So we have Ecclesiastes, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes. So if you go right to the middle of your Bible and turn towards the back, you'll hit Proverbs. You'll be open up in Psalms if you're in the middle of your Bible. Turn to the back, you'll hit Proverbs after Proverbs you hit Ecclesiastes. Of course, 1 Kings and uh 1 Chronicles is earlier in the book, in the historical books Turn my mic on. I think I'm on. And uh so find that there. Keep your Bibles handy. We're going to um uh be using them a little bit tonight as we get into this book. A little with school starting tomorrow a teacher noticed on the first day of school a little girl after recess was uh rooting around her desk and looking around on the floor and looking all over and the teacher said Jane what are you looking for and she goes well I left my pen here on my desk before recess and uh it's missing and it must have fallen down. And the teacher said, well, maybe somebody stole it. She goes, oh no, nobody would steal my pen. The teacher said, You're quite an optimist for thinking that way. And she said, Uh no, I'm a Baptist. And so All right, there we go. So Baptists aren't always optimists. I think Song of Solomon Ecclesiastes might be a Baptist. Notice, if you would, I want to read verses 1 through 3. I know we read this last week as we introduced the book, but now as we want to get through start get into it, start working our way through it. I want to read these verses again. Notice verse number one, Ecclesiastes chapter number one. The words of the preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem. Alright, we know that's Solomon. So that settles that. Now look at verse 2. Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher. Vanity of vanities. All is vanity. What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? Wow. And I titled the message, and again, this is because of lack of creativity on my part, perhaps, I just entitled it, Vanity of Vanity. Let's pray together. Father, as we look into this challenging book, I ask, Lord, that you would open our hearts and minds, that we would understand what you are trying to tell us here, what you're saying to us I pray, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would apply what you say to us to our lives in a very practical way. We don't want to leave here tonight, Lord, just with head knowledge. We want our hearts changed. We want our lives changed. We want to be an effective witness in this old simple world that people can come to Christ, be saved from sin in hell. And so we're looking to you this evening. I'm looking to you, and I am asking you with all my heart, dear Lord, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. Present my body anew. I yield my will to yours. And pray again that you would speak through me to each of our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Now, if you would keep your place here. Come back to the 1 Kings passage, 1 Kings chapter 11. And I want to read the first ten verses. Of 1 Kings 11. The reason being, what we have in 1 Kings chapter 11, I'll just tell you up front, we have the record of Solomon's downfall. What was Solomon known for? His wisdom, tremendous wisdom, God, supernaturally God, supernatural, God-given wisdom to Solomon. Now look at this sad story in verse number one of 1 Kings chapter 11. But King Solomon, look at this. Loved many strange women together with the daughter of Pharaoh, woman of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Zidonians, and Hittites. That's bad right there, right? That's bad. Of the nations concerning which the Lord said unto the children of Israel, ye shall not go in unto them, neither shall they come in unto you. For surely, look at this, for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods. God is concerned about our hearts Solomon went bad from the heart out. They will turn your heart. Solomon clave unto these in love. And he had 700 wives, princesses, and 300 concubines, and his wives turned away his Heart. I circled down through here. For it came to pass when Solomon was old. Ah, what did we learn last week? Ecclesiastes is probably written. In Solomon's later years. When Solomon was old, for it came to pass when Solomon was old that his wives turned away his heart after other gods. And his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. For Solomon went after Astareth, the goddess of the Zidonians, and after Milcom, the abomination of the Abominites. And Solomon did evil in the sight of the Lord, and went not fully after the Lord as did as did David his father. Then did Solomon build him a high place for Chamosh. the abomination of Moab in the hill that is before Jerusalem, and for Molech the abomination of the children of Ammon. And likewise did he for all his strange wives, which burn incense and sacrifice to their gods. Look at verse 9. And the Lord was angry with Solomon, because his heart was turned from the Lord God of Israel, which had appeared unto him twice, and had commanded him concerning this thing. That he should not go after other gods. Look at this. But he kept not that which the Lord commanded. We have recorded here the tragic downfall of Solomon. You wouldn't expect this. We don't think of this behavior coming from Solomon, the son of David, one of the wisest men. I believe, and I read that for this reason. I believe in the book of Ecclesiastes, Solomon is at the end of his life, and he is recording for us the mindset. That brought about this downfall. The way he was thinking, his view of life, that produced this tragic result in his life. I believe Ecclesiastes. The more I studied it, and this week as I was working on it, I kind of come to this conclusion that the book of Ecclesiastes is actually a sermon. That Solomon preached. Do you notice he referred to himself, and I'll touch on this here in a minute, but he referred to himself in those first two verses as what? The preacher. And I think Solomon is preaching this sermon to Israel. Of course, it's inspired by God and it's recorded for us. But he's recapping what he had learned through his downfall. He's coming back and he's telling the nation of Israel through this sermon that he as king, he is also a preacher, he's preaching to them, and he's telling them this is how I fell. This is the mindset that brought about this tragedy. What a contrast that is to David's, the end of David's life. Now I would like for you to now to turn to 1 Chronicles chapter 29. You have that there. And I want to notice a few things we just want to work our way through. This is the end of David's life. And this is how David winds his time down here on earth. Question, was David perfect? No. Did David mess up? Yes. Tragically, on numerous occasions. But one thing about David is God always had his what? Heart. David was a man after God's own heart. And therein is the difference. Solomon lost his heart for God. Though David messed up, he was a man. The simple nature, but he was a man after God's own heart. He never lost his heart for God. And notice uh the record of the end of David's life. Verse number one of 1 Chronicles 29 says, Furthermore, David the king. said unto all the congregation, Solomon my son, whom alone God hath chosen, is yet young and tender. And the work is great, for the palace is not for man, but for the Lord, God, for the Lord God. Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God, for gold, uh the gold for things to be made of gold, the silver for things of silver, the brass for things of brass, iron for things of iron, wood for things of wood, onyx stones and stones. to be set glistening stones and all divers colours and all manner of precious stone and marble uh stones in abundance. Moreover, look at this because I have set my affection to the house of my God. I have of mine own power uh good uh I have of mine own proper good of gold and s of and silver which have given to the which I have given to the house of my God over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house, even three thousand talents of gold, the gold of Ofar seven thousand talents of refined silver to overlay the walls of the house with all, the gold for things of gold, the silver for things of silver for all manner of work And to that who then is willing to consecrate his service this day unto the Lord? Wow, what a difference. Here David is winding down and he's handing the kingdom over to Solomon and he's saying, I have invested my time and my treasures into the things of God. I've invested my life. This has been worth it. My life has had meaning. It's had purpose. I've been messing in. And he comes to the end of his life. And I don't know about you, but that sounds like a man uh who has found fulfillment in life. That sounds to me like a man that has purpose. He's lived for God. And now he's at the end of his life. And unlike Solomon, who uh in saying vanity of vanity always vanity. David is uh David is saying, I've invested myself in the house of God, in the things of God. Who'll join me in this? Look with me if you would down at verse number 11. He goes on. He says he's praying here to God. He says, Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. For all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom of Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come of thee. Thou reignest over all, and in thine hand is power and might In thine hand it is to make great and to give strength. Now, therefore, our God, we thank and praise thy glorious name. What did Solomon say? Solomon said, vanity, vanity. All was vanity. David is saying, God is great. God has been good to us. We're praising his name. I don't know about you, but I would like to get to the end of my life and be able to say what David said rather than say what Solomon said. I don't want to get to the end of my life and say, you know, it's all been vain. Everything I live for is meaningless. Everything I've invested in is produced nothing. It's no profit. Who in the world wants to live their life and end up that way? David, on the other hand, this has been good. I've invested. This has been fulfilling their purpose. Look with me if you would at verse 26, 1 Chronicles 29. Thus David, the son of Jesse, reigned over all Israel. And the time that he reigned over Israel was 40 years. Seven years reigned he in Hebron, and 33 years reigned he in Jerusalem. Look at this. And he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and what? Honor. What a difference. What a difference. What we have here is Solomon in Ecclesiastes, if you would come back there now. Now we have this contrast. Here's how David died Rejoicing in the Lord, praising God, a heart that's full. No, he wasn't perfect. Yes, he messed up. He made some horrendous decisions. But he dealt with it, he got it right with God, he manned up and faced his sin and manned up and faced his failures, acknowledged it, took whatever the consequences were, trusted God, went forward, and he gets to the end of his life and he says, God's been good to me. My life has had purpose. My life has had meaning. Solomon preaches this sermon. And this is a record of how his life ended up. Here's my question. How do we want our life to end up? When it's all said and done, How's it end up? In fact, there in verse 3, and I Lord will, and I'll preach on this in two weeks when we get back to it, it says, What prophet hath a man? The word prophet there has this idea. When it's all said and done, what do you have left? Let's look at this sermon. This is the opening statement. Verse number two, I believe, and three are the opening statements on this fairly lengthy sermon. And I want to look at these opening statements. My first thought is this, as I look at verse 2, this is a very abrupt statement. I mean, he's not beating around the bush. These are his first statements in his sermon. He gets up and he says, Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher, vanity of vanity, always vanity. That's his opening statement. He's not beating around the bush. He doesn't tell any funny jokes. I don't tell funny jokes, I just tell jokes. But he's not he's not uh um Like I keep saying, he's not beating around the bush. I mean right off the bat, he throws it in our faces, everything is vanity Everything is vanity. What's a profit a man for all that he does in all his earth to get there? What profit is there? What is good? Obviously, this is something eating at Solomon. This is eating away at him. If somebody has something on their heart and it's eating away at them, it's very very uh heavy on their heart and you talk to them and you just give the slightest open door about what the issue is boom it all comes pouring out. Do you know what I'm talking about Did you ever deal deal that somebody? Somebody's bothered? What's the matter with you? Oh, nothing. Something's eating at you. No, there's nothing wrong. Come on, tell me. All right. Then you're sorry you asked, right? It's almost like that way with Solomon. I mean he just pours it out My impression is, as I'm studying this, that Solomon is lamenting his own failures. He's lamenting his foolishness. Get through here and get the idea. He says, man, I messed up. I messed up bad. And let me tell you what I learned from this. The fact that Solomon fell and fell so badly and so far from God tells me a few things. To me, it proves the sinfulness of our own hearts. To me, this is a classic illustration of the fact that our flesh is incredibly weak When it comes to living for God, if I'm going to trust in my flesh, if I'm going to lean on my own understanding, if I'm going to trust in my own sinful nature, I am setting myself up for a horrendous fall. Because our flesh is incredibly weak. Sometimes people say, uh, you know, if I just had more information I'd be a better Christian. If I knew more, if I had a better education I'd be a better person. No, some of the most horrendous crimes committed in history have been by highly educated people. So education is not going to keep the flesh. From turning against God. Education is not going to keep my heart from turning against God, turning away from God. Solomon was the wisest man ever. Solomon had phenomenal resources. I mean, he was at one point the richest king on earth. I mean, unbelievable resources. He could literally get whatever he wanted that was available at that day. Sometimes people think, boy, you know, if I had a better job, if I had more of an income, if I didn't have to worry about finances, this, that, and the other, I'd be a better Christian, I'd be stronger in the Lord. No, you won't. It's not how much money we have that determines the kind of heart I have. Solomon had great wisdom. He had great resources. He had a great environment. Man, his father set everything up. He had tremendous counselors around him, men of God, prophets of God to counsel him and help him and work through these things. But he had a sinful nature. He had a sinful heart. And in his case, these strange women, ungodly women, immoral women. drew him away from God and he fell in amazing, amazing ways. We have such a simple heart. I'd like you to turn to another passage, if you would, Jeremiah. And chapter number 29. Of course, we know what Jeremiah 17, 9 says. The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Who can know it? We see that in Solomon's case, but look with me at verse chapter 29, and I'd like you to notice, I'm going to read verses 23 and 24. And I think what Jeremiah is saying here under the inspiration of God applies to Solomon. Jeremiah twemia Let me see, make sure I got the right verse here. I think it's Jeremiah chapter 11, if you would. Turn there. I'm sorry. I wrote the wrong passage down, I believe. Jeremiah chapter eleven. I'm sorry. Jeremiah chapter eleven. Look at verse number twenty-three. Are you there? Notice what it says. Thus saith the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Neither let the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man, am I still in the wrong passage? Jeremiah chapter 9. I wish y'all would pay attention Good, great. Jeremiah chapter nine verse twenty-three. My wife doesn't write clearly when she writes these sermons out for me and can't read what she says there. All right, now Jeremiah chapter nine verse twenty-three. Is everybody there? Here we go. Verse twenty-three. Thus saith the Lord. Now now let's get back into our minds back on what we're doing. Solomon is preaching a sermon. It says opening statement, very abrupt, vanity or vanity, saith the preacher, vanity or vanity, all is vanity. He's throwing this right out there, right in our face, right up front. It's eating at them, no doubt. If anybody had the resources to be victorious in their life, it was Solomon. And he failed. Now look at but look at this. Now with that in mind, let's look at this. Verse 23. Thus saith the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Ah, sounds like Solomon, huh? Let not the mighty man glory in his might. He had thousands of chariots and soldiers. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. Solomon had riches beyond imagination. But let him that gloryeth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me. This is the Lord talking That I am the Lord, which exercise loving kindness and judgment and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, saith the Lord. Solomon messed up because he got his heart off of God. He had all these wonderful things. Would you agree with me that in the United States of America we have been blessed with prosperity? We have information available to us like never before in the history of man. You can sit there in the pew while I'm preaching and with your phone you can access more information than has been available to mankind as a whole 50 years ago And some of y'all are doing it right now, I'm sure. We have been blessed with all kinds of riches. Now I know what you're thinking, you're saying, preacher, I'm not rich, I'm poor. I'm telling you, some of us have been around the world a little bit. The poorest person in this building right now is richer than a vast majority of the people out in the world. That's the truth We have riches, we have all this available to us, but I'm afraid we're losing our heart for God. And what we see happen to Solomon, we see happening in our nation. Horrendous fall into horrendous debauchery and ungodly wickedness and abominable acts. And we're following the same thing. So Solomon begins his sermon. And he puts this right after the abrupt opening statement. Vanity of vanity, saved the preacher. Vanity of vanity always vanity. So not only is it an abrupt statement, but it's also an intense statement. Five times he uses the word vanity in one verse. Now when I was a kid, if my mom told me something five times and it didn't have an effect, there was something else gonna be applied. God is saying through Solomon to us, vanity of vanity, saith the preacher, vanity of vanity, always vanity. Whatever he's going to discuss Whatever he's presenting to us, one thing he feels very, very strong about, he wants us to understand, it is vain He's attempting to make a powerful statement. Anytime in the Bible you have something repeated just once or twice, it means God is telling us, listen, you really, really, really need to pay attention to this And here he says it five times, God to us. He does not want us to miss what he's talking about. He does not want us to forget what he's talking about. Now, what does the word vanity mean? We touched on it a little bit last week, but I want to stop touch on it again. The word vanity simply is uh, well actually I'm told as I was looking up uh different uh dictionaries and words from the Hebrew where it comes from, and I'm told that the word vanity here is the strongest word available. That expresses the emptiness of something. Solomon is reaching into his vocabulary and he is pulling out the strongest word available to him that expresses How empty this is that he's talking about. The purposelessness of it. There was a fellow who wrote a book, and I'm not an advocate of it in any way, but he wrote a book that became a bestseller, it's called The Purpose-Driven Life. Solomon is addressing here, and he says, from the perspective of under the sun, as we pointed out last week, it's not a purpose-driven life, it's a purposeless life. He's using the strongest word available to express the meaningless of a life lived simply under the sun. The idea here is something, the word vanity is often used to refer to something that's of a very temporal nature. Only lasts for a brief period of time. And I thought this was interesting as I was looking up the word vanity and how it's used and the words it comes from. One of the ideas behind it was this, and I thought this was interesting. It has the idea of being very fragile. In other words, the slightest disruption can destroy it. Something very fragile. It's kind of like a uh kind of like a porcelain teacup You have to be very, very careful with that because if you jar it, if you bump it too hard, what'll happen? It'll crack and break. It's very, very fragile. And Solomon is saying, listen, if you live your life, all you're doing is living your life what's under the sun. God is excluded. God is not a factor in your life. You're just going through things. Listen Not only is it meaningless, not only is there no purpose to it, but everything you're building on can be destroyed in a moment very, very easily. Uh the slightest disruption can end it. Uh back in 2008, I think it was, we went through somewhat of a financial crisis and a lot of the stock markets collapsed, especially in the um real estate area and different things like that. Some of you all remember it and we were dealing with stuff. And there was people that of no actions of their own had invested huge amounts of their resources into these various stocks and with a matter of moments because of some stupid decisions other people made they lost what they've invested their life in. You know what? That's what Solomon's talking about Vanity of vanity. It's fragile. You've invested your time and your resources and everything into the things of this world and materialism and you've left God out. And you know what? The slightest little thing can take it all away from you. I am glad that when we invest ourselves, we put our faith and trust in the Lord above the sun, we put our faith and trust in the Lord, it cannot be shaken. I am glad, now this may be reading into it a little bit, but I am really glad that when I put trust Jesus Christ as my Savior, I can never ever lose that salvation. That is secure. My standing with God is secure. My relationship with God is secure. And he says, under the sun you exclude God from your life, nothing's secure. It's vain, it's fragile, can be gone, can be lost. Earthly things seem so wonderful Oh, that's I'm going to give my life to this. Oh, I want to be that. Oh, I want to be this. And we have running after this, that, and the other, everything under the sun. And it looks so wonderful. And the things of God seem so irrelevant. I remember before I was saved, the already thought of going to church was ridiculous. Why in the world would I go to church? Why in the world would I read my Bible? Why in the world would I care about God or anything like that And then my whole world came crashing down. I realized everything I was living for, everything I was investing my time and effort was vain, was empty And suddenly the things of God, the things of heaven above the sun, suddenly they took on a whole new significance. They became very important to me. You follow what I'm saying? And so trials come a lot of times. I've seen it as pastor. A lot of times trials have come. Somebody not living for God. They could care less about the things of God. They never give a thought They go visit a doctor's office. The doctor says, I hate to tell you this, but you've got cancer. You don't have a long time to live. We might can do something. We might cannot. All of a sudden, God becomes very important. Follow what I'm saying? All of a sudden the Bible becomes precious. And thank God sometimes that, you know, God uses that to bring people to Christ. But Solomon is saying, listen, it's vain if you're living without God, you're living with uh just for what's under the sun. There's nothing. It's empty. Nothing in this world is sufficient to meet the needs of our soul. Nothing in this world So, number one, it's a abrupt statement, and he starts off right away. Vanity, vanity, say it to preacher, vanity, vanity, all it's vanity. It's an intense statement. He says it five times. He really wants us to get this. But last of all, I notice here it's an authentic statement. And look again at verse number two with me. Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher. Vanity of vanities, always vanity. In the middle of that, he puts this little statement, saith the preacher. Look at verse 1. The words of the preacher. Twice he reiterates his credentials. He says, I'm the preacher. Question: What do preachers deal with? What what issues? What do preachers deal with? Would you agree with me? They deal with the issues of life. The purpose of life. The meaning of life. The value of life. Of course, a preacher, a good Bible preacher, will deal with it from the Word of God. God does have a plan for your life. The preacher understands God does have a purpose for your life. The preacher understands that God does have that life does have meaning. And so he's approaching this not as some false prophet. That is Using wrong information and saying, hey folks, there is no meaning in life, there's no purpose, there's no uh everything's vain. It's not some false prophet saying this. This is somebody that's legit This is somebody that has credentials as a preacher of God, and he's saying this. This isn't some immature philosopher. Telling us the way life is, the way it's gonna be. You know what I found? You're the best. You know what I found the best parents are? Those that don't have any kids. Right? They'll tell you how it is. Well, if I was a parent Yeah, right. Uh you know who the best pastors are? Those that have never pastored. Uh we had a fellow years ago who's an evangelist sometimes, he's a young evangelist, and There's one guy we brought through a few times back early, a long time ago, and I know what some of you are doing, you're trying to think who it is, so don't try and think of it. But uh he'd come through, he never pastored in his life And uh the whole week long he was with us. The whole week long he'd be telling me, you know, if I was pastor, if I'd be telling him, I w uh if I was pastor, I wouldn't do this. If I was pastor I'd be doing that. If I was pastor, I said, all right, you pray for me that God will give me wisdom. He's not in the ministry today at all Now I'm not saying I'm the greatest pastor, but I'm saying this. Those who haven't dealt with it sometimes know more about it than those who are in the thick of it. Those that don't have kids sometimes know more about raising kids than those that do. And this isn't, when Solomon is saying this and he's giving this sermon, this isn't some uh uh some young kid that has little or no experience telling you telling the world how it is This is somebody who's been around. This is his life. This is his credentials. He has the credentials. I was down at McDonald's several, it's been a year or two ago probably And I just had a little time and I had a couple of my books and I thought I'll go down there. Uh I had uh I was so it had to have been within the last year and a half because I was able to get a senior coffee. And you get re free refills on this thing. So if you hang around, you can get two or three free refills on a senior coffee and it ends up being a large coffee. Get the same amount. So I said, I'll get the senior and I'll hang out here, I'll read my book. And so I went up and paid after I waited 15 minutes and went up and paid. And um I said, I want to see in your coffee. Alright. He brings it to me, 59 cents, gave it to him. I said, by the way, here's a little gospel track. And I handed him a gospel track. I said, that'll be a blessing to you. Tell you I know for sure you're going to heaven Actually it was a lady I gave that to her, a young lady, I gave that to her. She said, Thank you very much. And she took it. I got my coffee. And I was sitting there not too far from the counter. I wasn't on purpose. I was just Sitting there reading, sipping my coffee and doing some studying. And uh lo and behold, a young fella came up, probably mid to late teens maybe And uh however old you have to be to work at McDonald's, and they got talking, and I noticed she was showing him the gospel tract that I gave to her. And he started running his mouth And I thought, this is interesting. So I listened. And this guy had to be maybe 16, 17 years old. Now think about that. 16 years old, five of those years he was practically an infant. Right. The next twelve of those years he was uh uh what do you call it, adolescent. He was uh I mean he he he couldn't do anything on his own. And so the last five years he was a teenager and uh the our own government doesn't trust them to drive a car Our own government doesn't trust them to have a say in the elections. Our own government doesn't trust them with a gun out on the battlefield. But this guy knew everything about God, everything about life, everything about everything So I sat there a little bit and he was going on about sin, how ridiculous that is and there is no such thing as sin and God doesn't exist and all this stuff. He's just going on and on. So finally it was time for a refill. In fact, I went like this. I said I couldn't help but hear you talking about that gospel track. Have you actually read it? Uh-huh. Said did you read? I'm Pastor Leatherman and I gave that tract to her. Have you ever read that? Did you read the tract what it says? Well he says we were looking at it. I said I couldn't help but overhear what you were saying. Have you ever read the Bible? Huh I didn't think so. And I tried to be very, very gracious and I went through the plan of salvation. And the point I'm trying to make is this. Here is somebody that knew everything about life, knew everything about everything, and he really didn't know anything. He had no experience to go by. He had nothing to base his ideas on. And what I'm trying to say is this: that is not the case with King Solomon. He'd been through it. He was the preacher. He had credentials. He had God had taught him these things. And Solomon is overwhelmed, I believe, with how badly he had messed up. And he's communicating to the next generation of Israelites, listen, if all you're living for Is what you see and have under the sun, it's vain. There's no profit. If you are leaving God out of your life, if you are making life-changing decisions, and factoring God out, you are looking for disaster. And he's communicating that and he feels very strongly about this. And he has credentials. He's legit. He knows. God did not design us to live our lives simply under the sun And he had to be here last week to understand what I'm talking about. He did not design us to be materialistic. We do not function properly when all we're living for is the flesh and for things and material things, whatever is under the sun. If that is all we're living for, we're not designed to live that way. We're not going to function properly. Because that's not the way we're made. We'll find no fulfillment in life if all we're running for is the gratification of God. And having things and having stuff, and God is out of the picture. We will find no fulfillment in life. As Solomon said, our life, when it's all said and done, will have been vanity. There'll be no profit there. We are spiritual beings. We are designed by God first and foremost as spiritual beings. When God created Adam, he formed him from the dust of the earth, but then he breathed into him the breath of life, and he became a living man. And we have a world that is trying to live just on that body and deny there's any spiritual aspect to our beings. And even within our churches, we have people who will acknowledge with their lips the spiritual realm, but they do not live their lives. In the spiritual realm. And everything is lived, and all my reasoning, and all my values, and all my priorities are based upon stuff that's under the sun. And Solomon is saying, that is vain. That is vain. If you would turn with me to one passage of scripture, and I'll end with this. Colossians chapter number three. Colossians chapter number three. Now I know nothing about this man, so I really can't make judgment on him. All I know is what happened. And some I think uh Some folks here, maybe Bob Morgan might know more about this fellow than I do. I'm sure he does. But a number of years ago, there was a very wealthy man built a huge mansion Out off of Harrington Manor Road. I think I have the basics of this correct. And he invested a tremendous amount of time and resources and effort into building this mansion. And if I'm correct, Bob, before he ever got to move into it, he passed away. And all that time and all that effort and all those resources He never got to enjoy it. Now, I know nothing, I'm not trying to make any kind of judgment on man, but I am trying to say this. All of that was vain. for him. And what happened there to him in that situation is exactly what happens to the person who factors God out of their life and they invest everything in this life and when it comes to the end they have Nothing. We had a boy, and I've mentioned him several times over the years, a young man, and I believe he's serving the Lord today, so I thank God for that. But he was in our youth group in Indianapolis. He had a considerable amount of wealth and um he had been in Iraq and had uh and huge insurance when he was young and it was in some kind of trust and he would get so much a month he couldn't just access all of it. It was restricted so much a month he had access to, but it was a pretty significant amount. And we would take trips and we go sometimes we go down to Cincinnati to the um Flags. Six flags. Is that six flags down Cincinnati? Something like that. A big amusement park. And inevitably, I mean he was loaded. He had his income for the month and he had tons of money. And we, you know, there was quite a few girls in the youth group, so that meant we had to stop every three miles. At a rest stop. And of course every three miles you stop. Every rest stop there's convenience stores and they got coke and they got snacks and they got gifts and they got all this stuff And old Steve would go in there and he'd buy everything. Everything he saw. I said, Steve, you know it's gonna cost. Back then I think it was like 15 bucks to get into the business. Oh, I'm good, I'm good. We'd go three miles down the road, Pastor Dennis, we need a stop. Keep biocussing up. You know what happened? We get to the fart Pastor Dennis, can you spot me some money, man? I said, what are you talking about? You get more in a month than I make in a year. I spent it all on the way down here. I don't got nothing Said you knucklehead. That's the word of the day, by the way. That's the way a lot of people live their lives. Just everything here and now, and then we get to the end and it's all vanity. See what he said there in verse three? What shall it profit for all that a man hath under the sun? Look at Colossians chapter 3. Now, if we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, we get a different perspective. Now remember he said in Col in uh Ecclesiastes, under the sun, under the Sun, under the Sun. Look at Colossians. If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. Where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God, set your affection on the things Above, not on the things on the earth, under the sun. For you're dead and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Solomon is preaching a sermon. He's saying, listen, if all you're living for is here and now, under the sun, it's empty, it's meanness. When you get done, you have nothing. But if you and I will trust Jesus Christ as Savior if we haven't, and then once we do that, we set our affection on things above as David did. When our life is run, when we run the time of our life, when we get to the end, we stand before God, we find out it's not vain. Amen? It's not So I want to challenge us tonight. Let's stop and evaluate our priorities. If you're here this evening and you don't know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven, I plead with you with all my heart, trust Jesus Christ as your Savior. The worst thing that possibly happen to a person is die in their sins, be separated from God for all eternity in hell. Don't let that happen. You don't have to let that happen. You can trust Christ and trust Him tonight. And find forgiveness and have a home in heaven. Those of us that have trusted Christ who know that we're saved on our way to heaven, don't make the same foolish mistake Solomon did. And squander the phenomenal opportunity God has given to you as a child of God to live for Him and to seek the things that are above. And when we get to our life, be like David said, God has been good. My life has had meaning, I have purpose, rather than Solomon. Vanity of vanity. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, that you would use these thoughts tonight to challenge us. I pray as we look go into this new week. That our hearts and minds would be set above, on the things above, and not on the things of the earth, as we live our daily lives. Help us keep in mind, dear Lord, that there's more to this life than just stuff. There's more to this life than just immediate pleasure. Stir us, Lord, to invest in others. To be a witness and testimony and live for God. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say tonight, preacher, I want this coming week to count for God? I want the things that I do and the things I say and how I live my life to be more than just a temporary thing, but I want this coming week to count for God. And you say, preacher, pray with me that God will give me wisdom. And that the decisions I make and the actions I take will count beyond just this life. But will be eternal in their nature. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray with me. I really want. I like to count for God. I don't want it to be vain and empty. How about it? All around. God bless you. Young and old. Wonderful. Now, is there someone here tonight say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven? I'm telling you, you don't want to go to hell. God doesn't want you to go to hell. Jesus says if you'll simply trust me, accept me as your personal Savior, I'll forgive all your sin. I'll give you a home in heaven, make you my child. Is there any here tonight say, preach or pray for me? I don't want to go to hell, I want to know I'm going to heaven. You're concerned about that. Would you slip your hand up? Any at all? Preach or pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm on my way to heaven. How about it? Any at all? How about it? God working in your heart, stirring your heart, any at all? Now Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. Help us. Give us wisdom. And I pray this coming week would count for eternity. We ask this in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed