Amen. Thank you, Pastor. My goal at eighty is just to shoot my bow. Oh my. Oh, well here we are again. One year uh year ago I was doing the same thing. It's on Veterans Day and doing the whole thing I I tell you it's a privilege to be here in this place. Uh the excitement and everything that's going on all the time. I don't know how you folks you know, I don't know how you survive it. This guy keeps you busy the way he does But uh I thank the Lord that I had have the privilege of of uh being here one more time. Uh uh God has been good to us uh through this past year Let me turn my hearing aid down there a little bit. There you go. I've when I hear myself bouncing back at me, it does something for me. But uh but anyhow um we uh we did this uh this chalk drawing in honor of the of our vets and tonight uh we'll be doing uh the uh the chalk drawing for the evening service And we're going to continue the the uh uh the Veterans Day uh theme in it. I think you'll really like it. Uh in fact I don't even have it done yet. I'm gonna have to do that this afternoon. I I've just come up with it uh uh just uh overnight and so uh I'm trusting that it'll be a blessing to all of you. But uh God's really been good to this country. You know, it uh the way it started out, uh it's obvious that God had his hand on the whole thing and and uh there's some you know questions uh about whether or not uh America was a Christian nation. or not. Uh one thing I would I would have to say, it wasn't the Muslim religion that uh uh started America. And it wasn't the Hindus But it was the influence of the of the Bible, the Word of God, and people who knew God that uh got things started here. It uh started in the heart of people. There was a dream, a dream of of freedom. And that freedom is is something that is carried on and that freedom is the cause for which these veterans. Don the the uniform and go into harm's way many times and sometimes they don't come home So it's really it's really a a privilege and an honor for me to to just uh uh uh uh praise the veterans of our our great nation. There's a bunch of bums in there too. I saw them when I was in. Uh they just uh came in just uh to lazy on the on the cot and uh do KP and and just piddle around and there was those guys in there. But there was also guys like like the fellow I want to read about. And through this message, I'll be taking you through a scenario. of a fellow called um Ronald L. Coker. Nobody ever heard of his name, I doubt. Unless you uh was reading the right stuff. But he was born and raised in Alliance, Nebraska. And then shortly after high school graduation he received his uh he received his his draft notice. I remember that. I wasn't thrilled about that that thought. But instead of uh waiting for the draft while he enlisted in the Marines. He went to to his basic training and and uh uh then he was deployed to Vietnam. He served he w he arrived there in November of 1968. Private Coker was committed. to the cause of freedom. You know, I don't know when a young man raises his right hand and swears allegiance to the American flag or s and allegiance to his country. I don't know whether the thoughts of freedom are going through his mind or not. I d I don't really remember that myself. But I do I do know that when they committed and when I committed and when I raised my right hand to defend the United States of America, that uh I love this country and I would have done anything for it. I didn't like the army. I didn't like to be told what to do. But I loved this country. And I would have fought and died for. I don't know about uh about this young man, but I do know that he demonstrated a quality that that uh is found uh I believe in every veteran, really, down deep in the core. And that is a commitment to a cause. And we have a cause in this nation of ours. And the cause is freedom. Now this is not a patriotic rally. I'm tired of those, aren't you? I'm tired of the politics of it all, that's what I meant to say. But I do know this, that we have a a nation that is the is the last bastion for freedom in this globe we call Earth. If we fall, then uh the dominoes fall all over the world. But if we keep the the dream alive, the dream of freedom. alive. And if we're willing to commit to that that cause, uh I believe that Americans can st Americans can still have some great days ahead. Over in the book of Luke in chapter uh twenty uh twenty-three, I'm going to read a few verses of scripture. Because we're talking about a couple of things here this morning. One of them is this this commitment to a cause And as I read in verse 32 of Luke chapter 23, it says, And there were also two other malefactors led with him to be put to death. And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him and the malefactors, one on the right hand, one on and the other on the left. And then said Jesus, Father, forgive them, for they know not what to do And they parted his raiment and cast lots. And the people stood beholding, and the the rulers also with them deriding him, saying, He saved others, let him save himself, if he's uh if he be Christ, the chosen of God. And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar, and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. Now let me just stop right there. If Jesus, since he was who he was, the reason that he could not save himself was because of this cause that he was committed to. The cause is is simple. If you read anything in the Bible, you find that God has always had a cause. There's always something that is greater than any individual that God is concerned about. I hear David as he s as he sees the uh the uh uh as a young man he sees the the disarray of the Israeli troops. And Goliath out in the middle of the field there, uh the valley, uh, you know, uh beer deriding uh the nation of Israel and the God of Israel. And David looked around and said, Is there not a cause? And we could say that same thing today, and then my heart cries, yes, there is a cause. The Apostle Paul knew the cause was the furtherance of the gospel. And that's what we as Christians, what this church is involved in, is the furtherance of gospel. It's a cause worthy of our commitment. Jesus was committed to a cause, and this young man was committed to a cause. On March the twenty-fourth, Private uh Coker was walking point for a patrol. To walk point means that uh you're out in front of the patrol. You're out in front far enough that if you run into enemy, why that uh you're apt to take the the first shots. Sometimes they let the first guy, the guy who's taking point, to go ahead and pass the enemy and then they trapped the the those who are coming behind. So the point man uh it's a very important place to be. PFC Coker was on point for a patrol along a narrow jungle trail in the Quang tribe uh province. Suddenly, decamped on five Vietnamese soldiers. A firefight broke out. Enemy troops fled into a nearby cave. The rest of the second platoon, they pushed toward the cave and began to take and fire from from the cave and and from other hidden enemy. One Marine was wounded in the initial burst and went down. As the rest of the patrol scrambled for cover, Private Coakley didn't even hesitate. He rushed forward to rescue the fallen Marine, but was hit by rifle fire. He was knocked to the ground. Still, he ignored those painful wounds and crawled forward. He lobbed a grenade into the enemy position and silenced the guns, and then he he crawled to the side of his comrade. Enemy fire was continuing. He began to pull him to cover. Private Coker was demonstrating his commitment to a cause greater than himself And that cause at that moment was not the freedom of the Vietnamese people, even though that was the initial Commitment, but it was to rescue a fallen comrade. Another characteristic Is the is a heart that's dedicated to changing the course of the future. Verse 42 and verse 43. It says, let me go ahead and read verses 39. It says, one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us. But the other, answering, rebuked him, saying, Dost thou not fear Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art the this under the same condemnation And we indeed justly, for we receive the due uh reward of our deeds. But this man has done nothing amiss. And verse 42 says, And he said to him, Lord, uh Jesus, he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today shalt thou be with me in paradise. You see, Jesus was not just committed to a cause, but he was dedicated, he had a heart that was dedicated to change the future or the course of the future. See, that's what the gospel does. The gospel promises a new beginning for those who will receive it. To change the the future destination, the future destiny of individual lives. That's why he came He came to die for our sins, according to Scriptures, but it was for our future to be changed. Well, I I don't know about you, but I know that that when I trusted Christ as my Savior back nineteen sixty two. Boy, it changed, it changed so many things in my life. It changed my direction, it changed my destiny, it changed my family. It changed the way I thought, it changed the places I went, it changed the things I did, it even changed man. I couldn't change her, but the Lord did, see, for which I'm uh eternally grateful. Well now that didn't really sound right. I I know that. Yeah. He seemed careful. Careful. But this is this is this is what Jesus does. He changes things. When he comes into your life, it's a whole new world out there. Amen. Be in Christ. We know that verse. All things, all things become new. For these three men on the cross, they were running out of time. They were uh getting ready to meet their maker. Both of them initially begin to rail upon Jesus. You find that over in, I think it's uh uh John and and uh one of the others too, I think Matthew. Records that one of them actually both of them were on to Jesus. But then the one rebuked the other and repented. And that brought about the words that Jesus spoke that made the difference in the man's life. This day thou shalt be of me in paradise. What a change of direction, a change of destiny for that man. Jesus desired to make changes in all of our lives. It just requires an open heart, a willingness to allow him to do the work. He changes us from bitterness to joy, from uh hatred to love, from fear to peace. He works in our life and makes those changes, and they they come not as uh as a a result of our effort. But our willingness is important. The effort is his. We are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus. But it does take a willing heart to say, Lord, I want change. Maybe you're out there this morning and you know things are not going right in your life. The question is, are you willing? To allow Jesus Christ to make changes in your life. That's what He's here to do. He's dedicated to change the future. Dedicated to change the direction of your life. Dedicated to change the destiny of your life if you're willing. If you'll be just like this thief on the cross, Lord remember me when you come into your kingdom. And a told turnaround from rebuking him on the cross. However different our nation's history may have uh have been without the contribution of our vets, yet nothing can compare With the change that Jesus made through the cross. He came to rescue us for time and eternity. Now let's get back to Private Coker. Private Coker is dragging a fellow wounded Marine. Just then an enemy grenade lands on top of the wounded man that he's dragging. Private Coker grabbed it and turned away from the other marine, but the grenade exploded before he could toss it away. Miraculously, the blast did not kill him, but showered his face and his body with fragments. Even then he didn't stop. Proud Coker took hold of the wounded marine and again began dragging him to safety. Two more grenades exploded nearby and further peppering him with hot fragments. But Coker continued pulling his fellow Marine from their uh from their positions in the jungle. The other members of the second platoon watched in disbelief as Coker steadily crawled along the f jungle floor, pulling the wounded marine. Inspired by his actions. The rest of the platoon surged forward and and picking apart the enemy defensive line until they were able to grab Coker and his comrade and move into safety. That was the heart of a veteran willing to put his commitment to action. We talk about commitment a lot, preachers do. And we're good at quoting Romans chapter uh twelve and verse one, you know. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, to present your body, a living sacrifice, a willingness, you know, to give it all. We talk about that a lot. And sometimes we make commitments, but but the problem is that we don't carry through on our commitments. This week there'll be some of you that will kneel down at this altar of prayer. You'll make decisions. And I believe that there will be decisions from the heart. You see the need and you'll make decisions. You'll say, yes, this is what I want to do with my life. I want the changes to come in my life. I want Christ to do something In my life, it's different than what I've been in the past. And then a few days will go by and things will sort of slip by the wayside, and you'll find that your commitment isn't solid. And that you fall, begin to fall short. Can I say this? We all fall short. We all fail. And that's the reason why God is placed in the scriptures, verses of scriptures, that tells us that God is not finished with us when we fail. All you have to do is is go to Psalm 51 and read his prayer, David's prayer, and David's uh as he talks to God about his his uh his situation. And you see that in spite of David's failures, and they were bad, but God wasn't finished with him. And it all depended on one thing, and that was his willingness, David's willingness, to come to God and say, I'm sorry. I failed you and I know it. Cleanse my heart. Blot out my iniquities. Take me back. And God says, come on back. A picture of the prodigal son and the father to ought to tell us that God is not finished with us because we fail It's only when we fail to come back to him, when we when we when we're not willing to to say I'm sorry, not willing to say I I failed, and admit our our uh our failures. That's that's when we fail. That God will accept us if we'll just simply come. A heart, willing to pay the ultimate price as a final thought. Verse 46. When Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said to his father, Unto thy hands I commend my spirit. And having said thus, he gave up the ghost. Anywhere along the line, Jesus could have stopped. Angels could have come down and pulled the spikes out of his hands and and uh lovingly led him and uh Carried away into heaven. I mean, there was so many areas where j where Jesus could have just said, Hey, you know, it's not worth it. Look at these people. I mean, they're they're ready to stone me. What have I done to them? I've you know, I've I've healed their sick and I've caused the blind to see and the deaf to hear and I've done uh all these these miracles and I've fed the multitudes and I've given the Word of God and and I've taught him and all this and all they do is is they cry crucify him. And any wonder this any area, any time in during this whole period here, he could have said, that's enough. I you know, I don't have to go through this. Not for this bunch of people who are ready to crucify me. But the amazing thing is what he says in Romans chapter 5. The Apostle Paul, as he says, for when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. Isn't that something? For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, and yet, preadventure for a good man, some may even dare to die. But God commended his love for us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. For if when we were enemies. We were reconciled to God by the death of His Son. Much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by His life. Our veterans, if there's one thing that you'd have to say about our veterans, is that they're willing to pay the price. There's something like I think it's three thousand four hundred and fifty-nine medals of honor that have been given out since they began giving those out. Three thousand four hundred and fifty nine people who were willing, willing to give their life. A heart willing to pay the ultimate price. That's what we're talking about. Not just a commitment, not just a dedication to change the future. But also a heart willing to pay the ultimate price. Many of our veterans come out of the wars. Maimed and crippled for life. You know, one thing that I've noticed, and I've I've talked to a few, they're not bitter about it. They're not bitter because they have a limb missing or they can't walk or they can't see. There's there's not that bitterness. It was it's like a an honor To give a part of themselves for a cause that's worthy, that's bigger than themselves. Oh, that we could have as Christians have that same burning desire and that same that that same uh same feeling about the cause that we're involved with. The furtherance of the gospel. Private Ronald Coker. He succeeded in his mission He saved the life of a wounded Marine. However, PFC Ron Cokers had suffered serious wounds, and he died in the field of fire. In the arms of his comrades. His body was taken back to his home and he was Posthumously given awarded the Medal of Honor. He's one of those three thousand four hundred and fifty-nine. Paid the ultimate price willingly. Willingly. So I commend and I thank our veterans. Those who wear the uniform in any of the services, they're all honorable. We need to hold them up in prayer. We need to be consistently praying that our president and those in leadership will be backing those who are wearing our uniforms. You know, I could have I could have talked about two fellows, a guy named Glenn Dartrey and Tyrone Woods. They just gave their life. They were retired uh former SEALs, Navy SEALs, that went into uh what was it, Benghazi and uh tried to rescue the ambassador. I could have talked about them. There's a all these stories, over 3,000 of them, I could have talked about. We just talked about this one. But let me finish with this thought. Let us not forget the one who not only died for mankind. But uh he went beyond the grave and paid uh suffered man's penalty in hell, then raised him from the dead to claim the victory for all. They might change your life here on this earth today and have your eternal destiny change tomorrow. So I trust that today as we think about our veterans, they will remember to pray for them and remember that there are people who who have uh committed to a cause greater than self. Who are dedicated to the change of the future and also willing to pay the ultimate price. We have a wonderful Savior. Did it all for us. The question is, you know, are we committed What are we committed to? Have you ever thought about it? What are the things in our lives today that we are committed to? Now, Monday night football? Our hobbies? Our sports? What are the things that, you know, are we willing to die for? Did Jesus even get on the list? Think about it. It's important. It's important. Heavenly Father, I pray that perhaps something, Lord, has been said that will challenge our hearts. Thank you, Lord, once again, for these vets who have given their lives and given all they have in some cases. I pray that you continue to bless their lives. May they, each one of them, come to know you as their personal Savior and see that they had a place in the plan that you have for this world. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Let's all stand to our feet with our heads bowed and their eyes closed. We're going to have a verse of invitation if God has spoken to you. This will be your opportunity. If you're here tonight, you've never failed