Mark chapter 2, and um I want us to notice verse number 5 this morning. Mark 2, verse number 5. The Bible says, when Jesus saw, now these next two words are the basis for my message, is what prompted this message, when Jesus saw their faith He said unto the sick of the palsy. Now he sees these four guys that we're going to take a look at here in a bit. He sees their fate. And then he says to the sick of the palsy Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. He sees their faith, these four guys, and he says to the sick of the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee What we have here, and I'll explain the title here in a little bit, but what we have here is what we call vicarious faith. These four fellas' faith in Christ had a positive and powerful impact upon the man taken with palsy. And this is kind of the premise of my message this morning. When God's people have faith in Christ like we should It has an effect on the people outside the family of God. It has an effect on people around us. And I'll explain what I mean here in a little bit. Let's pray together And ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, I thank you for the opportunity to be in the house of God again this Sunday morning. Lord, you've sure been awfully good to us. We don't deserve the least of your blessings And so we come to you with very grateful hearts today, I do. And you've been good to our church for 60 years, Lord. You've blessed this body of believers And we are asking now that you would stir our hearts once again this Sunday morning. Help us to have faith in you, dear Lord. Holy Spirit, stir us. to trust you and step out in faith and live for you and serve you and be a witness in this old sinful world. I ask, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will And as always, I present my body anew and pray that, dear Lord, you'd speak through me, open our hearts and minds, and change our lives, and revive us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. For sixty years, sixty years, the fall of nineteen sixty-two. As we've been saying, we're going to keep talking about this a little bit because we're excited about it. Fall of 1962, fellow by the name of Edwild and his dear wife. It's some small children, I believe, showed up in Oakland. And they began talking to people about the Lord Jesus Christ. There was a handful of believers here that met together. And um God used Brother Wilt to start what was then the first Baptist Church of Oakland, Maryland, now Mountain Lake. And the concern of the church from day one, the primary concern of this body of believers from day one has been, I'm going to say, twofold. Number one was to get the gospel of Jesus Christ to as many people in the world as we possibly can. That was from day one. Get the gospel of Jesus Christ to as many people in our community, in our nation, and around the world. The church started sporting missionaries almost from day one. World missions. The second aspect of the purpose of our church was not just get the gospel to lost people, but do all we could. To get the lost people to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ as Savior. Now, our concern in this hour, our concern today at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is the same. We want to get the gospel of Jesus Christ to everybody in the world, as many people in this world as we possibly can, through our missionaries, supporting missionaries, through our mission trips we take, through our fingerprints ministry. All we can to get the gospel, but we also want to do all we can to get those that hear the gospel, urge them, persuade them to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ and be born again. Paul said, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, I persuade men. He didn't just deliver the message, he did all he could to get them to receive it, believe it, and accept it. If you're listening in online or you're in the service here this morning and you've never trusted Jesus Christ, we want you to know that God loves you and he died for you. Jesus died for you, is buried, and rose again. If you'll turn to him and trust him, he'll forgive your sin, give you eternal life, and save you from hell. And we want to do all we can to urge you and persuade you to make that decision to trust him. Amen or not, church folk That's what we're about. That's what we're about. So for 60 years, that's what Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church has been about. I read about a German soldier was wounded during the war and he went to a military hospital to get some treatment. When he got to the hospital, he was uh a huge building. He got to the front door And uh there was two doors there at the front. One was said what was marked for officers, and the other was for non-officers. Well, he was not an officer, so he went in the non-officer's door So hallway went down there. At the end of the hallway, there was another two doors. At those two doors, it was marked the one door said for uh um uh for the slightly wounded and for the seriously wounded. So he went in the non-officer's door. Then it said slightly wounded seriously wounded. He went in the slightly wounded door Open that. There's another hallway went down. Got down that hallway. At the end of that hallway, it said for party members, and there was another door that said for non-party members. So he went through the non-party member's door. When he opened up, he was out on the street. He wrote back to his mother and His mother wrote him and said, How are you getting along at the hospital? He said, Well, mother, to tell you the truth, the people didn't do anything for me, but they have tremendous organization here. I'm afraid sometimes churches are highly organized, and if we're not careful, we can get everything, all our ducks in a row, get everything organized, but really don't accomplish a whole lot as far as the gospel is concerned. Now nobody has ever accused me, I have never been accused of being a highly organized person. When we were in Indianapolis, when we were in Boulder, Colorado, I'd go out witnessing, and one of the things we heard out there a lot, people would say to me is I'd try and share the gospel and they say something like this, well I don't believe in organized religion. I said, well brother, you ought to come to my church. You'll fit right in. There is Our purpose is twofold. Get the gospel to everybody we possibly can, and then try and persuade people to trust the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Our Lord's last instructions to the church are given to us at the end of the book of Mark. We're in chapter 2. We won't take time, but if you'd go back to chapter 16 and verse 15, he said this. He said, Go into all the world. And preach the gospel to every creature. That's our instructions. That's our commission as a church The world's greatest need is the gospel of Jesus Christ. You say, preacher, you say this all the time. I know, hang around. I'm going to keep saying it all the time The world's greatest need is the gospel of Jesus Christ. The world's only hope is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Would you agree with me? We live in a world that's in a mess. We don't have a world that doesn't know if it's coming or going, can't get along, can't uh doesn't know uh up from down, top from bottom I tell you, Jesus Christ is the only hope for this whole world. Jesus Christ is the only hope for homes and communities and families and individuals. Have made such a mess and are so eaten up with sin, and our lives are so empty, and there's no purpose, and fear and anger and frustration just grip our world. Yet in the midst of all that darkness, Jesus Christ is the hope for this whole world. And that's our message To get Jesus Christ out the folks and persuade them to come and trust Him. That's our primary message. Now, if you would, look at our text here. Look down there. At verse number one, the Bible says, and again he, speaking of Jesus, entered into Capernaum. Now I just want to say a word or two about Capernaum. That's an interesting little village. That was there on the north northern part of the Sea of Galilee. How many people ever heard talk of the Sea of Galilee? Sure, Jesus out. You read a lot about Jesus on the Sea of Galilee and storms and fishing and all that Capernaum was a little village just on the northern end of the Sea of Galilee. The word itself means uh the word um uh means a village of troubles. Capernaum, a village of troubles. Now I don't know why it got that name, but uh it's never mentioned in the Old Testament, not one time. In fact, it didn't even exist until just a hundred years or so before Jesus was born. It's mentioned throughout the Gospels numerous times. Even later in the New Testament, it's mentioned. Capernaum, this little village on the northern end, that means a village of troubles. ended up becoming the kind of the hometown, or you could say the home base for the Lord Jesus Christ. He was in Nazareth before, and he kind of got run out of Nazareth by the leadership of that town, and he grabbed and he gravitated up to Capernaum and kind of made that his his home base. He would come and go from Camperdium a lot. It was where Peter and Andrew grew up, we believe, and where the Lord called them to be a disciple. Matthew, tax collector, Jesus says, follow me to the tax collector. He dropped everything. He was in Capernaum. He had set up shop in Capernaum. That's where he did his tax collecting Jesus did numerous miracles in this little village, not a big town at all, little village, he did numerous miracles there. He preached scores of messages there. Capernaum knew about Jesus Christ. They knew his power and they knew his message. But there's a tragic end to the city of Capernaum. Though they knew who Christ was, they saw his miracles, they heard his message, as a whole, the town rejected him. And in Luke chapter number 10, verse 12 through 15, Jesus pronounces upon Capernaum a horrendous judgment of God. In fact, he makes the statement. For sake of time, we won't turn there. But he makes the statement if Sodom and Gomorrah had seen the things you saw and had heard the messages you heard Sodom and Gomorrah would have repented and turned to the Lord. Yet you've heard so much more and you've seen God's power in such greater ways than even Sodom and Gomorrah, and yet you will not believe the message of the Messiah, and he says, your judgment will be greater than Sodom and Gomorrah's. There's a message in that, and that's this, that to whom much is given, much is required. And somebody that has heard the word of God and they know the truth of God's word and they've seen what God can do and they've seen what God does do And they turn away from that and they reject the obvious known truth to them. God says, I'll hold you to a higher standard than those that never heard, than those that never heard. I tell you, a person grows up in a church or a person lives in a area where they've heard the gospel and heard the gospel and heard the gospel and rejected and rejected and rejected. They die in their sins. I tell you, that's a fearful condition to be in. I don't know, but I may be talking to someone. You know you're not saved. You know you should be saved. You've had many opportunities to be saved And you've turned it down and turned it down and turned it down, I'm simply saying this, you're in fearful condition. You're in a fearful condition. So Jesus comes back to Campernium, his hometown. And notice there he's preaching the word. Look at verse Rest of verse 1. He entered into Capernaum after some days, and it was noise that he was in the house. And straightway many were gathered together. Now look at this. Picture this in your mind Insomuch that there was no room to receive them. No, not so much as about the door. I mean the inside of the house is packed, they're looking in the windows, the doors are jammed all around, the outside of the house And it says he preached the word unto them. As he's preaching, these great crowds gather together. And a strange event takes place. Something unusual. Four men show up. Now picture this in your mind. I like to visualize this. Jesus is sitting and What we would probably what we would maybe refer to as the living room area, the open area of the house. No doubt there's some bedrooms and maybe the kitchen area, cooking areas in the back and the main open area of the house and Maybe he's sitting on a stool or some type of uh arrangement and this place is jam-packed. You can't hardly turn around People have crammed themselves in there. They're hanging out the windows and out into the front foyer area and the outside patio area. And I mean the place is absolutely crowded And Jesus is preaching and teaching the Word of God to them. And the people are captivated. And as he is doing this, these four men show up, and they're carrying something. They have some sort of cot or uh um uh what would you call it, uh stretcher type thing, and on the stretcher is this fella who is sick of the palsy. A palsy, I'm not a medical doctor, but as I understand it, a palsy is and often is a uh a deadly ill ailment. And many Bible scholars speculate that this guy was probably on his deathbed. He probably did not have long to live. And these four guys, they show up and they want to get this man sick of the palsy to Jesus Christ. And when they get there Uh no doubt as they're making their way down the street, they're probably rushing. They come around the corner and they see the house where Jesus is, and there's literally thousands of people all around And they're trying to figure out how to get in. Now I'm going to take a little bit of license here and use my imagination, but I can see first of all they showing up And uh the great crowd is there, and I can see them saying something like this, pardon me, excuse me, can we get through here? And nobody will give an inch. I mean they are not giving up their spot And the thing that impresses me here with these guys is when they could not press their way through the crowds, they didn't give up. They didn't turn back. They didn't quit. Look at verse number three. And they come, and they come to him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was born of four. And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, now to me that implies they're trying to get in, they're trying to make effort to get through this crowd. Nobody gives them an inch And so instead of quitting, instead of turning back, instead of giving up, it says they uncovered the roof where he was. And when they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay. Now I don't know about you, but can you picture that in your mind? I don't know how they got on the roof. Maybe uh there was a way to go to the neighbor's house and got up there. Often they would have a stairway up the outside and then the roof would be like a patio area, part of their living area sometimes And maybe there was a way to get across from one uh building to the other. Maybe they came around the back where there was no windows and the crowd wasn't so Somehow they got up on the roof. Would you agree with me? It would require effort to four guys to get a guy laying in a bed up on the roof. Would you agree with me? That would require some effort So instead of quitting, instead of giving up, they make their way, and somehow they get up on top of the roof, and they begin tearing the roof up And they drop this guy down. Now can you imagine the people in the crowd down under that part of the roof? They're sitting there and plaster starts falling on them. You know, there's this noise above them and then pieces start falling down. I don't know how you tear the roof up s from the top without materials falling down into the crowd. And the people are all of a sudden they're pushing away and no no no doubt there's a commotion. And lo and behold, oh, I almost came down. Here comes this guy floating down on ropes right in front of the Lord Jesus Christ. What an amazing event. I've been preaching now for 37 plus years. I've never had anything like that happen in a church service. And yet here it did for the Lord Jesus Christ. And notice what it says. I pointed this out and I was reading scripture. When Jesus saw their faith, he saw their faith. I think it's interesting. Jesus doesn't comment on how clever they were. Now that was pretty clever. I'd not have thought about going on the roof, tearing up the roof, and dropping down. I wouldn't have thought of that. But they did. But he doesn't comment on how clever they were. I don't know. I would assume these guys were fairly strong fellows To be able to one get the guy up there and then lower him down safely, he doesn't comment on their strength. He doesn't say, oh, uh, it doesn't say he saw how clever these people were. No, that didn't interest the Lord at all. Doesn't say, oh, look how strong he noticed how strong they were. Nope, one concern about their physical strength at all Um they were very disruptive. Would you agree? If somebody drops someone down through the roof here while I'm preaching, do you think that would disrupt the service a little bit? Yeah. Bible doesn't say how disruptive they were. He doesn't comment on their wealth or their level of education or how high their IQ was. You know what he comments on? Their faith. Their faith. Now there's a whole nother message there. But I want to say to you, you and I, we may not be the s we may not be the brightest light in the chandelier. We might not be the sharpest knife in the drawer. My IQ may not be that high. I don't have maybe not have that greatest education, but I tell you That's not what the Lord's looking for in his people. What the Lord is looking for in his people is faith in God. God will use somebody regardless of their cle how clever they are, regardless of how strong or physically they may, or maybe weakly they may be. He's not looking at our intellect or our wealth or our education or how clever we are. He's not looking at our muscles. What God is looking for is some people, a mother, a father, a teenager, a grandma, a grandpa, a church who will believe him and trust him and put their faith in him And that's what the Lord is looking for. It says he saw their faith. Their faith. Um Not how clever, not how strong, not how compassionate even they were. These guys wanted their friend to get to Christ. But it was their faith that caught our Lord's attention. Now, another observation here, real quick, is that fellow with that was sick of the palsy, he plays a very small part in this whole event He's very almost passive in this whole thing. He's on the bed. He's being carried by four. He's let down through the roof. He's laying there helpless, powerless. And the Lord sees these four guys' faith, who I'm assume is up on the roof still, and he sees their faith, and he says to the sick of the posey, thy sins be forgiven thee. Now, obviously, this man sick of the palsy had to have at least an element of faith in Christ. For without faith, it's impossible to believe him. He that believeth not is condemned. So somehow this fellow, sick of the palsy, did have faith in Christ, made some sort of decision to believe and trust He uh obviously agreed with them uh to bring him. So there was an element of saving faith on the part of this man sick of the palsy, but that's not the point of the event It's the four men. And their faith in Christ to bring this man to Jesus. Vicarious faith of these men. The focus is on these. I want to give us three observations from this, from these four men, that I think can help us reach our community. For the with the gospel for Jesus Christ. How many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. How many folks here you say, preacher, I know I'm saved. God saved me by his grace. I don't deserve it Just an old sinner, but I believed and accepted Jesus my Savior. He forgave me and saved me. And you'd say, preacher, I know someone, maybe a family member, maybe a lifelong friend. Maybe a neighbor, a co-worker, but you know somebody that needs Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Anybody here like that? Preacher, I'm saved, I know I'm saying, I know somebody, I'm somebody dear And they're without Christ. They need the Lord so bad. They need the hope that only Jesus can bring. I think there's some lessons here from these four guys that will help you and I. In reaching these people that we care about for Christ, bringing them to Christ. I think there's some lessons here to help us reach our community. Would you agree with me? Oakland needs Jesus Christ. Mountain Lake Park needs Jesus Christ. Garrett County. This whole Appalachian region needs Jesus Christ. We think of the big cities. Hey, the big cities need Jesus Christ, but I want to tell you the little towns. Outside the cities need Jesus also. And so I think there's some lessons here that we can learn from these four guys that will help us as a church in our 60-year endeavor to reach people for Christ And help you and I as individuals reach our loved ones and family members. Number one, some things about their faith that can help us. I noticed, first of all, their faith was visible Their faith was visible. Look here at verse 5. I keep saying this. But when Jesus saw their faith, he saw their faith The word saw there simply means this, caught his attention. There's perhaps thousands of people here These guys bring this one man sick of the palsy and he looks at them and he doesn't see their how clever they are he doesn't see their big muscles But he sees their faith. Now the word faith here means a conviction that something is true. In fact, it goes a little farther than that, but it has this idea to rely upon something that I am absolutely convinced it's true. Jesus saw these four men. And he saw in their actions the fact that there was something they believed to be absolutely true. That they were relying on. He saw their faith. Again, it wasn't how clever they were that caught his eye, intelligent. It was their faith. They had what I'm calling visible faith. Would you take your Bibles, real quick, everybody with me? Everybody's doing all right? Take your Bibles, keep your place here, go with me to the book of James, all back towards the new end of the New Testament. You get to Hebrews, James And in James chapter 2, James is talking about having visible faith, faith in God that people can see. That becomes obvious. That catches people's attention. James chapter number two. Keep going until you hit Hebrews. If you get to Peter, you're going too far. If you get to John, you're too far. And chapter 2, James chapter 2, and look with me, boy, we'll just look at verse number 18. I'd like you to turn there to see this yourself in the Bible. Yea, a man may, what's that next word say? This is verbal faith he's addressing. A man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. James goes on and says this, show me thy faith without thy works. And the implication is what? Can I show someone my faith without works? No, I can say I have faith all day long. But if it's not visible, how does anybody know that what that faith really is? Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have worked. Show me thy faith without thy works. Look at this. And I will show thee my faith. I'll show you what I am convinced is true. I will show you what I am relying upon. I know this is true, and the way I show it to you is by how I live my life, my works, by my behavior, by my actions. Jesus saw these men's actions. He saw what they were doing for this man who was unsaved and very, very sick, perhaps on his deathbed On the edge of eternity, this man is about to go out into a Christeless eternity. And he saw what these four men did For this dear man, not giving up, not going back, but doing what they needed to do to get him to Jesus Christ, he saw that conviction, that faith, and he commented on it Visible faith. How do you see faith? How does somebody look at your life and my life as a believer? How do they look at my life and say, oh, I see his faith? Is it just because I sing Christian hymns? No. Is it just by how I talk, I can quote verses and I can say the right, give the right answers, I can give all the religious jargon I've learned? That's not what displays my faith. He saw their actions. He saw their behavior. And he saw their faith. These men have these men believe something. They know it's true and they're acting upon it. I put three things down here that displayed their faith, revealed their faith. Number one, it was their concern for this man. Come back here if you would. Says in verse 3, they came to him bringing one sick of a palsy. These guys cared about this poor man. They cared about his spiritual well-being. They cared about whether he got to Jesus Christ or not. Their highest priority. Their highest priority was getting this dear man to the feet of Jesus so Jesus can help him No doubt there were other things they could have been doing. This took time, this took effort, this was an investment on their part to get him there. It was a priority. And when Jesus saw their concern for this man, He saw their faith. They were convinced that Jesus could make him well. They were convinced that Jesus could forgive his sin. They were convinced that Jesus could save his soul I tell you, I'll tell you the church that tells me, I tell you the church where I see faith in a church is a church that cares about unsaved people getting them to Jesus Christ. You say, I'll show you a Christian that has faith in God. Say, how do you see that faith? In their concern for getting other people. They're convinced that Jesus is their only hope. They're convinced that Jesus is the only Savior. They're convinced that Jesus is the only way to eternal life, forgiveness of sins. And they begin to work and they care. And a priority is getting people to Jesus Christ. He saw their concern for this man. When we become convinced that Jesus is the only Savior, that He's the only hope of salvation, it changes our priorities. You were on your way home today. I don't think there's a one person here. I don't care how whole cold or hard-hearted somebody may be. If you were driving home today and you went by a house that was engulfed in flames And in the top floor, you saw a little child looking out that window, about to be burned alive. There's not one person here that wouldn't make every effort to get that little child out of that house and get them say, Am I right or wrong? It becomes a priority. We care about people. We say, I cannot let that little child be burned up in that fire. Everything else has dropped. Everything else has become secondary. I must rescue that child. That is change of priorities. And when you and I as believers, we read this book, that anyone outside of Christ, anyone that doesn't know Jesus Savior, is lost and under the judgment of God and on the brink of eternity in hell, suddenly if we believe that That'll change our priorities. I tell you, I've been in churches where the priorities were everything except reaching lost people for Christ. I was in church, I know church where priority was playing softball in the spring and summer. Brother, everything was softball, so and I like softball. I'm all for it But brother, when that becomes the priority of the church, there's something wrong. I thank God for our building. I thank God for the activities that go on here. I'm all for it. But they must never be a priority. Number one priority for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church must be reaching the lost with the gospel. And Jesus saw their concern for this man, and he saw their faith. Then I noticed their commitment. He saw their commitment. Verse 4. And they could not come for uh unto him for the press. They uncovered the roof where he was, and when they broke it up, uh they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay There is an urgency here behind that. This may be the only opportunity this man has to get to Christ He may be on his deathbed. I said in Sunday school, today is the only day that God promises salvation. He doesn't promise tomorrow. Boast not thyself tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth Today's the day of salvation. They said we got to get him to the Lord today. Urgency. They were undaunted. They had no doubt Jesus could save them. They had no doubt Jesus could make them well. They just had to get him to Jesus. And they refused to turn back. They refused to give up. They refused to quit. In spite of difficulty, in spite of obstacles, in spite of inconvenience. I tell you, we get to the point as a church, we say, listen, there's uh I'm telling you We live in a world that is increasingly hostile to the gospel of Jesus Christ, right or wrong? We can do one or two things. We can say, all right, the world doesn't want it. The world makes fun of us. The world says we're nuts. The world says it's a fairy tale. We'll just give up phooey. We'll just do our thing. We can do that, or we can do what these four guys did and say, I don't care what the world thinks, we're preaching the gospel. We don't care what the world says. We're preaching that old book. We're getting after it. We're going to do what God tells us to do. Now we can walk away. Or we can do what these guys say, and no, no, no. We're committed. We're going after this thing. They refuse to give up. And then they were unworried. I kind of I didn't think about this at first until I studied for a while, and I thought, you know what? I wonder if there was some people kind of ticked that he messed up their church service. What in the world? Who do those guys think they are? I wonder what the owner of the house thought. Wait a minute! You know how much that's gonna cost the big These four guys they didn't care what everybody thought Most important thing was getting this guy to the Lord. You know what? I'm including myself in this. You know what sometimes my big problem is? I worry what people think. Boy, if I give that gal a gospel tract, what's she going to think of me? She might think I'm nuts. These guys, they didn't care if they I'm sure there were some people here who thought they were nuts. What in the world? They didn't care about that. This guy needed to get to Jesus. And when you and I, and when we as a church get to the point that we really don't care whether the world approves of us or not Well our concern is whether God approves of us or not. I saw a little picture the other day, it was some article or something, but it had a little picture of a boy, it was an old picture, black and white And it was lunchtime in the public school and he had his little lunchbox there. Remember those little metal lunchboxes? Had mine had a rocket on it. And um Had those little munt lunch boxes and he was sitting there his lunch box open and he had his sandwich laid out and I think there was a banana there and a little uh soda pop or something sitting there and uh he had that out and he had his hands like this. And behind him is about eight or nine kids, and they're all laughing and pointing at him. But he didn't care. God been good to him. He folded his hands. He's bowing his head. I saw that and I said, God, help me be like that little boy. Help me not be afraid of what people think. Let them say what they want. Let them make fun of me. Let them laugh. I'm still convinced that old book is the Word of God. God has a plan and a purpose, and Jesus Christ is the only Savior of the world. And when we get to the point where our faith is so s We're so convinced that that is true and Jesus is who he says he is that we don't even care what the world says anymore. We just give ourselves to the Lord. Jesus saw that and he says, ah, their faith. He saw their faith. Their faith was evident in their concern. Their faith was evident in their commitment. Their faith was evident in their cooperation. Look at verse 3 and 4. Five times the word they is used. They come to him. They could not come nigh. They uncovered the roof. They had broken it up. They let down the bed. These guys are working together. Imagine if two of them said, no, I ain't tearing up the roof. The other said, yeah, we're tearing up the roof. And they're pulling, no, we're going this way. No, we're going that way Some said, ah, we're quitting. Let's take them home. The other two said, no, no, we ain't quitting. They're pulling that poor guy. Yanked around and jostled around and they don't know if they're that would he ever have gotten well if they if they wouldn't have cooperated? No. I tell you what, a church That cooperates and gets along and is convinced that Jesus is the only hope of the world, that is a powerful, powerful church in the hands of God. But we get fussing, we think this, and we think that, and I believe this, and I should do that, and we ought not to do this, and we ought not, and we get all fussing with each other. I tell you, we're not gonna, nobody's gonna see our faith Nobody's going to see our faith. But they see a body of believers that is focused on Christ and determined to reach the world with the gospel. They say, those folks got something. They have something. So he saw their cooperation, their cooperation. I tell you, the Great Commission is not a one-man show. The Great Commission is not for Lone Rangers. Paul said in 1 Corinthians chapter 13, he says, I planted Apollos water But God gave the increase. You know what it is? It's God's people working together for a common goal of reaching the world with the gospel, and God puts his hand on that thing, and God uses them. And so their faith was visible. Let me quickly, I got a couple minutes left. Let me give a second of all, their faith was vicarious. That's the title of the message. This lost man was saved because these four guys had faith. The sick man was healed because these four guys had faith. Their faith was vicarious. In other words, their faith affected another person. Their faith was in place of that man. Because they believed he was saved. I'm telling you, a lot of people get saved because a Christian believes in the Lord and is persistent and God will use them to save another person. You follow what I'm trying to say? I don't know if I'm getting this across A soul winner believes in the reality of hell. A soul winner believes that Jesus died for sinners, suffered hell for him, was buried, and rose again. He believes that, he's convinced of it. He has faith in that. And he gives himself, and I'm going to reach people because I'm convinced that that gospel is true. And people get saved because of his faith. You follow what I'm saying? That soul winner, that church, that mother That believes the Bible with all her heart. She believes in the power of prayer. She believes that God is a good God and God is a holy God. And her faith in God. God uses that to touch a wayward son or wayward daughter. The faith of a mother is a vicarious faith many times And God uses that to reach a wayward child. I believe in the prodigal son. Remember the story prodigal son? That boy was out in a far country wasting his life and riotous living, living in the pigs, with the pigs. The Bible doesn't say this, but in my heart and mind, that old daddy back home, he had faith in God. When that boy finally came to himself and starts coming, daddy's the first one out there and meets that boy Vicarious faith. The faith of these four men are what brought this man to salvation. I thought about a missionary. He believes with all his heart that God can save some person in a foreign country that's never heard of God, never heard the name Jesus, and he's convinced that God can use him to go there and uh teach those people the word of God. Teach those dear people of the Lord Jesus Christ. Go to some Muslim country or some uh European um uh New Age country Because of his faith in God, churches are established and people are saved. Vicarious faith. Faith of a Sunday school teachers. I thought about Ed Wilt Came showed up in Oakland, Maryland, 1962. Handful people started meeting together. I was reading his account. He had told me this in person one time before he passed away. He said, when I showed up, he said, I was there a few weeks. We just got unpacked, got things put away. One of the men from the church showed up, and he said, Brother Wilt, we will help you pack up and load your stuff And he says, well I don't, we're already unpacked. We already were unloaded. We don't need any of that. He goes, no, no, no, you misunderstand. We'll help you repack it up and load it so you can leave. They were wanting him out of here And Ed Wilt said, I'm not leaving. God called me here. This town needs the gospel. I'm not going. I don't know about you, but I'm glad Ed Wilt didn't leave. I'm glad he planted his roots here and stuck it out and got a good church going. I thank God for Brother Edwill His faith in God. You and I are sitting here part of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church because of that man's faith in God. Follow what I'm saying? I'm a saved man today. There is no doubt in my mind, you will never convince me otherwise. I am a saved man today on my way to heaven, not to hell, because my daddy had great faith in God. He believed that God could save his son. He believed that God could change his boy's life. The faith of my father. The faith of these four men brought this man to Christ. Who is it you're trying to win to Christ? Why don't you trust God? Just follow, do what God says. Maybe God will use your faith. To bring that wayward child or bring that unsaved friend or loved one to Christ. And I am with this. Their faith was victorious. Their faith was victorious. The old boy got saved. Look at the end of verse 5. Jesus saw their faith. He said to the sick of the palsy, son, thy sins be forgiven thee. You know what that is? That's salvation. The forgiveness of sins. This man got saved. Not only that, he got healed. The Lord healed him as his palsy. Christ was exalted Listen, it's not going to be the faith of an unsaved world that makes a difference, but it's the faith of God's people that'll make a difference I'm calling Mount Lake, as your pastor, I'm calling Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm saying this. Let's trust God. Let's do what He says. Let's be convinced. that the Bible is true and the instructions God has given us we must carry out. Victorious faith. I was reading about a cheetah. A cheetah, of course, lives in the African plains, and the way it survives is the cheetah runs down its prey and captures it and feeds on that prey. A cheetah, you probably may be aware of this, a cheetah is the fastest land uh fastest animal on the planet A cheetah where I've read, a cheetah can run 75 miles an hour. I never raced one to find out, but that's what I understand. Seventy-five miles an hour. That's five miles over the speed limit on Interstate 68. That's that's uh fifteen miles under the speed Nathan drives on Interstate 68. No, I don't know, I just said it But that cheetah can run 75 miles an hour. Would you agree? Impressive But that cheetah can only do it for a very brief period of time. It's in birth. And if he has to run that fast, if he doesn't catch his prey in the first few moments of that burst of speed, he has to quit. And the reason being, according to this article I read, the reason being is the cheetah's heart is too small To be able to endure that amount of energy being exerted for a long period of time. After a while, that heart can't keep up. It can't get the oxygen to the muscles in the brain And he has to slow down because that heart is not big enough to maintain that speed for a length of time. So the cheetah can run very fast, very impressive, but not for very long. He has to quit. Listen, God isn't impressed with how wealthy we are and all our big fancy buildings. But God is impressed with people who will trust him and keep trusting him and keep trusting him and keep trusting him and keep trusting him. I've seen it over and over. A church in the community or a Christian gets uh somebody gets saved and boy they burst on the scene and oh it's everything and oh that guy's the greatest and and then after a while they fade out But serving the Lord, faith in God, reaching a community with the gospel isn't done in birth. It's done in long-term, long time, enduring faith in Christ. These guys didn't give up. They wherever they came from, they traveled away, they got there, they couldn't get in. So they figured out a way. They got up on the roof. Somehow, that was an endeavor. Then once they got there, they put time and effort and energy into tearing that thing up. Then they had to let that thing down. And they just stayed at it and stayed at it and stayed at it and And stayed at it and did what they had to do to overcome obstacles, and finally the old boy got saved. And my challenge to Mountain Lake is let's just stay at it and stay at it. stay at it and stay at it. We might have to climb some roofs. We might have some obstacles. We might have some delays and difficulties, but just stay at it And see if God won't use us. Sometimes the crowds are up, sometimes the crowds are down. Stay at it. I'm saying to you every Christian, you're trying to live for God, you're trying to be a witness, you're trying to win souls, stay at it. Sometimes we're victorious, sometimes we're defeated. Sometimes we we're on top of the roof, sometimes we're behind the crowd. But we just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. And we get knocked down, we get back up We stay at it because there's a world that needs Christ. I'm not trying to answer for anybody else, but I'm saying that's if we quit, there's people not going to get saved. If we walk away, there's kids, families who won't be reached with the gospel. We've got to stay at it. Father in heaven, please help us, challenge us, stir us, to press on. Press on. When it gets difficult, just press on. When there's obstacles to press on. I wonder, with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some this morning, say, Preacher, there's someone I love dearly, and it just seems like they're so far from God. And sometimes I just wonder if God if they'll ever be reached. And you'd say, preacher, I'm not going to quit. I'm just going to stay at it. If I have to dig a hole in the roof, I'll dig a hole in the roof. Whatever it takes, I'm not going to give up on reaching my loved one for Christ. Is there anybody like that, preacher? That's where I'm at. I don't want to quit. I don't want to quit. Maybe a Sunday school teacher. Maybe a bus worker. Say, man, what do I got to do? I gotta reach these people. They need the Lord. Stay at it. Stay at it. There's someone here this morning, say, preacher, I'm not sure my sins are forgiven. I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I'm here to tell you you don't want to go to hell, my friend. Jesus loves you. He died and suffered hell for you. Rose again. I'm telling you, if you'll come and trust him, he'll forgive you and save you, give you eternal life Give you a new life. He changed my life so drastically. He can change your life. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me I don't want to go to hell and know my sins are given. Say, preacher, help me get that settled. Pray that God will help me get that settled in my heart. Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. How about it? Any? Father, bless our imitation now I ask, help us to stay at it in Jesus' name