Make a mistake as Christians and um it's a very foolish mistake to be honest with you, and that is to exalt sometimes in our minds uh people that God are God is using and maybe in exceptional ways, we exalt them to unrealistic positions. We put them up on a pedestal and we think that somehow they're so different than us and their their very makeup is different. And uh we think we can never be like them. And uh we get the idea that sometimes people like the Apostle Paul and some of the apostles and the even uh preachers and great Christians we think of, we think that somehow they don't struggle with sin. The way I struggle with sin, and they don't have uh issues with uh obedience to the Lord and trusting God like I do, uh, when in reality, even the greatest of God's men and women Struggle with this issue of sin, struggle with a sin nature. Notice with me, if you would, verse number 24, and this is the Apostle Paul speaking. Am I on, brother? Okay. This is the Apostle Paul speaking, and look what he says in verse 24. This is surprising maybe for some folks. Look what he says. O wretched man that I am. Who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Then he says in verse 25, I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So with the mind, I myself serve the law of God. But with the flesh, the law of sin. Paul struggled with sin No different than you and I. But he found victory in Jesus Christ. That's the title of my message. Victory in Jesus. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. Or is it an exciting time for our church here this week in particular as we look forward to hundreds of kids and teenagers coming onto our campus? We have the opportunity to teach them the Word of God. Lord, we have this ongoing struggle in our hearts and souls as believers with the flesh, the old sinful nature, with the sin and unbelief. I pray maybe there'd be a thought or a principle or a truth from your word that helps some of us to get victory in our lives and grow and go forward in our walk with you, that we'd be a little bit more like Jesus. uh in our in our spiritual life. Fill me, I plead, Lord, with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew, I yield my will to your will With all my heart I ask you to speak through me. Open our hearts and minds, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Fact of the matter is, I believe, and I think I've seen this that a closer a person gets to God. Now I'm talking about a saved person. The closer that person gets to God, the closer their walk is with God, the more grievous their own sinful heart becomes to them. The closer a person gets to God has been my experience and my observation and the Bible clearly teaches this, the closer I get to the Lord The more I am sensitive to how sinful my own heart and nature really is And things maybe when I was far from God, maybe uh maybe when I first got saved really didn't bother me a whole lot, and they didn't seem to be real um uh much of an issue. But as I grow in my Christian life and I learn to trust God more and I understand who God is and God works in my heart, I think I'm having a problem here with this. And uh the closer I get to the Lord, um Boy, I just get those little things that never used to bother me before. Now they bother me. And little sins that seem so insignificant. Now they have great significance. The closer we get to the Lord, the more intense our sin nature seems to be. Our heart becomes more sensitive. Now, I started by saying this. We often make a mistake. Of taking men and women whom God uses and putting them up, and we think, well, they don't experience life like I do. They're on a different plane. They've attained to some level of spirituality where they don't have the struggles I s have. They don't deal with sinful thoughts and and actions and deeds and habits like I do. They're on some high level. And the church has a history of doing that. Uh the Catholic Church in particular is uh notorious for taking ordinary sinful men and lifting them up and giving what they call sainthood to these men as if they are some sort of super Christian, some sort of superhuman uh Christian. The fact of the matter is none of that is in the Bible The apostles were no more saints than you and I are. In fact, every person, this is another message, but every person that is saved genuinely Trusted Jesus Christ as Savior in the eyes of God is a saint as far as God's concerned. The word saint simply means to be set apart unto the Lord. And so you could very biblically refer to me when we go out and shaking hands, you should you could go by and say, uh, praise the Lord, St. Dennis. And uh that is a nice ring to it there. I kinda like that. And you could refer to each other as Saint Bill. Lisa, call 'em St. Bill when you get home. See what happens. Yeah, I ain't doing that. Ain't no way Fact is, if we could meet Paul, if somehow we could bring Paul into here and maybe have a fellowship together with with St. Paul. You know what I think? I think we would be amazed at how much like us Paul really is Really was. I think we would be amazed at how similar similar our spiritual experiences were If we could sit down alone one-on-one with Paul and just talk about our spiritual life, our walk with God, our struggles, you know what I think we might hear him say? We might hear him say, you know, Dennis, I struggle with that same thing. You know, Dennis, I was tempted in that same area. You know, I I I had that same issue I had to deal with. I think we'd be a surprise. At how similar our spiritual experiences would be. Now, don't misunderstand me. Was Paul exceptionally zealous? Absolutely. May you read very few people that were as zealous for the gospel as the Apostle Paul was. I'd like to have some of that in my life Uh don't misunderstand me. Committed to the Lord Jesus, absolutely. He was willing and he did die for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I would like to think that if I came, push came to shove, and I had to make a decision whether to die, deny the Lord, or die for the Lord, I would like to think that my faith is strong enough that I would be willing to die for the Lord. Paul absolutely was. So don't misunderstand what I'm saying. He was exceptionally zealous. He was exceptionally committed. He was exceptionally holy. But that does not mean that he did not face the same struggles, the same type of temptations, the same sort of issues that you and I face. I'm suggesting to you this morning that any one of us and every one of us can be just as holy as Paul was. In our lives. We can just be just as zealous and just as committed to the gospel as the Apostle Paul was. We do not face any greater struggles than Paul faced. And he did not face any less struggles than you and I face. We have the same instructions he had We have the same Holy Spirit dwelling within us that the Apostle Paul had dwelling within him. We have the same resources available to us in prayer. And the word of God that the Apostle Paul had, there's no reason, justifiable reason, that we cannot be just as committed to the Lord Jesus Christ, just as holy in our personal lives, just as zealous with the gospel as Paul was. We can be. There's nothing different between him and us. We have all the same resources. But it's interesting in our text and what I read in the Bible reading time. We have a record of Paul revealing to the church at Rome, he's writing to them. And in Romans chapter 7, that portion I read, it's almost like Paul is opening up his heart And he's sharing with them an ongoing struggle in his own personal walk with God, an intense battle. In his heart and soul. Now, as you read down through there, the wording, it's kind of difficult to really follow what he's saying. The wording is a little bit awkward What I would, that I do not, and what I would not, that I do. Just to try and simplify it, uh what he's saying here in this passage is very basic, and I think every one of us that know the Lord Jesus, our personal Savior, We can relate to what he's saying. This is what he's basically saying. The things that in my heart and soul that I know are right and that I know would please God, I want to do them so bad But I find myself not doing that which I know God wants me to do, and that what I want to do. And I find myself not doing it. And he said, the things that I don't want to do, the things that I know are not pleasing to God, that are not of the Word of God, that are not of the law, those things that I know would displease my Lord I find myself doing them. And I don't want to do them and I end up doing them. And he repeats this several times over, the things that I would, the things I want to do, the things I uh that I want to please God as a believer. I don't do it, and the things I don't want to do as a believer, and I know we're not pleasing to God, I find myself doing them. Can anybody relate to what Paul's saying here? This battle that goes on in the heart and soul of every child of God Now I want to have a little outline here, and maybe this will help us a little bit. Because how many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen. That's the case, then I know this to be true. You know exactly what Paul's talking about I know exactly what he's talking about. He is no different than you and I when it comes to dealing with the sinful nature that's in every one of us. Now here's my outline. Number one, I put this down. I want us to consider the reality of the Christian's struggle with sin. The reality of the Christian's struggle with sin. Hey, Get this. Christians struggle with sin. Anyone tells you differently, they are either delusional or they're lying Christians struggle with sin. It's a reality. Paul says very clearly here. Now, for an unsaved person, let's say by chance there's someone here this morning. And you don't know Jesus Christ the Savior, you never accept that Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. You do not have assurance in your heart and soul that uh according to the Bible that God has forgiven your sins, saved you from hell, and uh taken you to heaven. For an unsaved person, that person has one nature. And that is a sinful nature. You say, well, what makes you think by the way, all of us that know the Lord, at one time we were in that same condition. There's a point where we just had that one sinful nature. We inherited it by our parents, but an unsaved person has one nature, one nature within them And it's called, it's referred to in Scripture as the natural man. It is a sinful nature. We inherit that from our parents. They inherited it from their parents spiritually. They inherited it from their parents all the way back to when Adam and Eve disobeyed God. That sin nature was born in the was established in the heart of mankind and it's been passed on to every generation. You say, but preacher, I know some unsaved people that are pretty good people I know an unsaved lady, she's not saved, but I tell you, she lives a good life. I know some folks live unsaved people live a better life than some saved people do. And that is shame. I work with a guy, he's lost as can be, but I tell you, he's honest and he works hard, he's a good guy, he helps people. Listen, when I say that an unsaved person, when the Bible teaches that an unsaved person has one nature, a sinful nature, it doesn't mean that they can't do some good deeds and they can't have some good characteristics about them. But it does mean this: that those good characteristics, those good actions that that unsaved person does, have no benefit for them in their standing before God. Isaiah says that even our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. For an unsaved person that's never accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, they can do all the good things they want. They can put money in the offering plate, they can help out the church, they can get baptized. They can be an honest upstanding citizen, all that, but if they never humble themselves, acknowledge themselves as a sinner before God, accepting Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, trusting Jesus And Jesus alone, all that good stuff they do, all that fine, honest integrity characteristics about them, as far as they're standing before God, is meaningless. Does them no good. Nobody is ever good enough to be accepted by God. Why? Because we have a sinful nature. A sinful nature. So an unsaved person has one nature. As I said, the Bible refers to him as the natural man, a fallen, sinful being, at enmity with God, separated from God. In spite of maybe these good things one might do. However, let's take that same unsaved person. They have one nature about them, it's a sinful nature, it's under the judgment of God. Nothing good they can do makes them acceptable to God, but that person goes to a church service or somebody comes by their door and knocks on their door. They're invited to a tent meeting or they may be a young person. They go to camp or Bible time And they hear the gospel of Jesus Christ and they realize that though they may have some good characteristics, at their very nature they are sinful. And they realize that this judgment on their sin is separation from God for all eternity, ultimately in hell in the lake of fire. But they are taught from Scripture that Jesus Christ died on the cross. and paid that price for him, received that judgment for him. They bow their hearts before the Lord, humbly accept Jesus their Savior, and they are given a new nature. God forgives all their sin. The Spirit of God moves into them, and they are given a new nature. They are born again spiritually. Now that term born again, at least in years going by, used to get thrown around a lot and ridiculed and mocked a little bit, but that's a good Bible term. Jesus said, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. In other words, if a man is not saved, if the man has not been born again, or a woman, as far as that goes, has not been born again, they are still lost, they are still unsaved, they're outside the family and kingdom of God, and they're under the judgment of God. But when I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior I am born spiritually. God gives me spiritual life, eternal life. And now I have within my very being a whole new nature. That wants to please God, that wants to live for God, that wants to bring glory to God, that is grateful to God for all He's done. So now I have a new desire, a new nature in me I know it's true for me, and I'm sure for many of you it's true also. When I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, something in my heart and soul changed. Can I get a witness? It wasn't just some outward conformity to a law or some standards or convictions. It was a change in my heart. And now at the moment I trusted Christ and now I didn't understand it all, and I certainly was far from uh com uh perfection in this matter, but In my heart, suddenly I never cared about reading the Bible before, but now something down at heart, my heart and soul, I wanted to learn what this book had to tell me I wanted to go to church, be with other Christians. I wanted stuff that I knew was not pleasing the Lord. I wanted that out of my life. And there was something new in my heart, something new going on in my heart and soul, something different. And God had given me a new nature. Now here's where the conflict comes in. When a person gets saved, accepts Jesus their Savior, that new nature is established. We're born again spiritually, we're given spiritual life. But salvation does not eradicate the old nature. That old nature's still there. And now I have a new man, part of my makeup. I'm infused with this new nature. I'm infused with this new spiritual awareness. I'm infused with this new spiritual understanding and desire. But that old natural man is still there. That old sinful nature is still within me. And now I've got a conflict. And now I've got a struggle that goes on. Not an outward struggle, but a struggle in my very heart and soul. One part of me trying to live for self, live for this world, uh and and engage and indulge in things that are displeasing to God that are That my sinful nature longs for, and then I have another nature in me, another part of me, that longs to please God and longs to live for Him and longs to glorify Him and do what is right and true and good This battle goes on in the heart and soul of every believer. Paul expressed it here. Every part of the old sinful nature is still present. In the Christian's life. Notice he says in verse 24, a wretched man that I am. He's talking about this conflict going on. Who shall deliver me from the body of this death? He uses that word body. I think he's referring to the whole part of the old sinful nature still there. The whole aspect of that old man is still intact in place. And so, notice a few things. Notice come back to verse. Everybody doing all right? Amen. Everybody happy? Amen. This is good stuff, it really is. Smile. Everybody say it's Bible time. I gotta work this crowd, I'll tell you. Well look at verse fifteen. I really believe this will help us. I really do. Now notice the wording, and notice this is what I want to point out here. Notice the tense of the wording. For that which I Do. I allow not. Let me ask you this. Past, present, or future tense? Present tense. This is going on at the time of the writing. This isn't something from Paul's past he's referring to. This is something taking place at the time that he's writing this. For that which I do. I allow not. That what that for what I would, that I do not. But what I hate, that do I This is present tense. This is an ongoing battle for Paul. This isn't something like some folks like to suggest. Well, that was Paul before he got saved. That was Paul before his salvation. Now, once he's saved, you don't have that old nature. You don't have all that. That's all in the past. That's not the way I see it This is ongoing for the Apostle Paul. A man who is imprisoned for the gospel, a man who, by anybody's standards, is one of the greatest Christians that ever lived. And yet he says, I find myself doing things that I know are not right, I don't want to do. And I struggle with doing things that I know are right and I know are pleasing God, and I find I don't do them. This is an ongoing struggle And he's not and by the way, this passage is not addressing his salvation. That's a settled matter. If you're here this morning and you've never accepted Jesus Christ as Savior This message is not so much for you, but the message for you is you need to be saved. But for those of us that have already trusted Christ, those of us that have already Salvation before the Lord settled according to the Bible, uh by Bible salvation, this very much relates to us And we find this struggle, this battle going on. So my first thought is this: the reality of the Christian struggle with sin. You can deny it all you want. You're just fooling yourself. And preachers can get up and say that you was a possible I was reading about a preacher in some Bible college somewhere, and I don't know what the denomination was But uh some famous guy had gotten saved and was in the ministry so so quote unquote, and he got up and preached and he says, I haven't sinned in three years Tell you what, that guy has either fooled himself or he knows he's lying. And I think he knows he's lying This is very real. And we need to understand that as a Christian, I can still sin, I still have a battle with the old sinful nature, I still have a battle with the old uh uh uh old uh sinful desires. So number two, number one, we said consider the reality of the Christian struggle with sin. Number two, the regret of the Christian sin. The regret of the Christian over their sin. Again, look at verse 24. Now listen to the wording. You can just hear the pathos in this. You can just hear Paul's heart breaking. Oh, wretched man that I am. He doesn't say wretched man that I was. This is ongoing. Who shall deliver me from this body of death? Listen Paul acknowledges in the previous verses that there is a struggle with sin going on in his heart and soul. But he is quick to point out that he hates that struggle He despises the fact that there is a part of him that wants to do wrong. He can't stand that. That there is a part of me that struggles with doing right. There is a part of me, there is a nature within me. That when I want to do what is right, I don't do it. When I don't want to do what is wrong, I end up doing it. I hate that! I hate it! Oh wretched man that I am! That's the Apostle Paul speaking. He hates this struggle, that which I would not. Look at verse uh look at verse 18. This is the Apostle Paul speaking. For I know that in me, now he points out, in my flesh there dwelleth no good thing. In other words, a Christian understands, a genuine Christian understands, that there is nothing good about me sinning. There is nothing beneficial. There is nothing that good comes out of this. This is something I regret. This is something that is that I weep over. This is something that grieves me. Oh wretched man I am. Paul hates this aspect of his being. Preacher was preaching the gospel, and there was a smart Alec Young person. And in the message the preacher talked about the unsaved having such a weight of sin on them, and coming to Christ and being delivered from that weight of sin How many people know what a preacher is talking about when he talks about the weight of sin being fine? Anybody know? Man, that guilt and that shame, that g that weight of sin. Well this smart kid came up to the preacher afterward He said, preacher, you talked about the weight of sin and how heavy it is on the person. He goes, how much does that sin weigh? Ten pounds? Is it a hundred pounds? Five hundred pounds? He says, I don't feel any weight, and I do whatever I want. Preacher said to him, he said, let me ask you a question. He said, I have a corpse laying here on the floor. Just by illustration, he says, suppose we have a corpse laying here on the floor. I take a 500-pound weight and I lay it down on that corpse. How much weight does that corpse feel? And he said, well the corpse doesn't feel any. He's dead. He said, the reason you don't feel the weight of sin is you're spiritually dead. You're unsaved. You know what happens when a Christian sins? It grieves them. It's a wait. They regret it. Paul hated it. He despised it. A Christian struggles with sin, but a Christian finds no pleasure in sin. I don't want to think those thoughts. I hate that. I don't want that. I don't want that reaction to come out, this fleshly carnal, wicked reaction. I don't want it. I hate it. It's wrong. If a person can go on in sin and think ungodly thoughts and say wicked, ungodly things, and live an ungodly, wicked life. And it doesn't bother them, there's no regret, there's no remorse, there's no conviction, there's no grief over that. I say that person does not know Jesus Christ as Savior. Because the Spirit of God dwells within that new nature, and we grieve over that. We hate it. A ancient Christian leader, I don't want to have his name, but I came across a statement he made. Now, take it for what it's worth, but he made this statement. He said, if you place sin before me and hell beneath me, I would sooner plunge into hell than sin against my God and Savior. Isn't that something? I tell you what, I think he captures at least, maybe to an extreme degree, the feeling of every child of God. But I do not, I sin, I struggle with it, and it's there. And that which I would, I don't do, and that which I would not, I do, and I hate it. It grieves me It shames me. Number one, the reality of the Christian struggle with sin. Number two, the regret of a Christian struggle with sin. I've noticed number three in our passage the request. Of a Christian and his sin. Again, verse 24, a wretched man that I am. Now look at this next statement. Who shall what? Deliver me. Who shall deliver me? From the body of this death. Who shall deliver me? That was Paul's request I want to be made free from this struggle. I want to be made free from this old nature that drags me down and fights against the new nature. I want to be free from that The word deliver there simply means to be set free, to be rescued. Because who can rescue me from this struggle that goes on in my heart and soul? The request of the Christian. I like what Paul says in Philippians chapter 1 and verse 23. He says that this, for I am in a straight betwixt two. Having a desire to depart and be with Christ, listen to this, which is far better. Paul said, There is a part of me that desires so much to be with the Lord Jesus Christ. To be in a place and in a condition where I no longer have this struggle going on, where there's no longer this battle between right and wrong in my heart and so where there's no longer this warfare between the old nature and the new nature, and I can be delivered from this old nature, I can be free from this old sinful nature of mine, and every thought is for the glory of God, and every word is pure, and every action is holy and there's no more battle for right and wrong going on in my heart and soul in his only glory and goodness. So that's what I want. I think one of the greatest things, my mind, one of the greatest things about going to heaven, of course seeing Jesus, all of that, but there is an aspect where I can get up there and I no longer have to battle the old sinful nature What a glorious day that will be. Hebrews talks about the day of rest. He says, this is not your rest yet Not down here. We got battles going. We got a struggle going, spiritual struggles in our heart and soul. But there's a day when we'll be with the Lord, and that will be our rest, and there'll be no more battles. With our thoughts, our words, our actions, our habits, our reactions, all of that will be eradicated, all of that will be gone, and I'll be only a pure, holy, godly sin uh pure, holy, godly nature, no more a sinful nature. What a day that will be when my Jesus I see. A Christian wants to be delivered from sin. Somebody confronted Moody, I think it was Moody, and they said something to the effect about being saved and still sinning, and he said something, I believe it was Moody, said something to this effect. He says, yeah, we still sin, but we don't like it. But we don't like it. And we want to be free from it. And we want to have victory over it. A Christian wants to be free from the struggle with sin. I read about a hard, angry, bitter farmer. He was hateful. Hateful to his family, his wife and kids. He was hateful to his farmhands. He was hateful to his cattle. He'd abuse them and beat them just for no reason. In cuss filthy, filthy, hard, filthy language. Cuss God in the ground and the weather. It's mean. Lo and hold, one day he went to a revival meeting, and the old cus got saved. His life was changed dramatically. And he came back home and as he grew as a Christian, and now he's going to church. Now he's reading his Bible and he's kind to his wife and he's kind to his children. He loves his family. He's kind to his farmhands and treats them with respect. He's merciful to his cattle and his farm, and he doesn't cuss, his words are pure, and his attitude is pleasant. And people are amazed at the change that took place in this farmer's life. And one day he had a rough day. The machinery broke down and the weather wasn't cooperating, a couple of farmhands messed up. That old sinful nature raised its ugly head. The old farmer reverted back to the language he had used before he was saved. And he said some hard, filthy words. And he snapped angrily at his farmhands. And he came home and he cussed out his wife. As soon as he realized what he did, he broke down. The story goes, he ran into his bedroom sobbing, and he fell across the bed just sobbing and sobbing and sobbing. And his wife came in and she said, Sweetheart. And he said, I'm no different than I was before. I'm no different than I was before. I'm no different than I was before. She sat down beside him and took his hand. She said, Sweetheart, you are a completely different man. The man you were before would have never wept. Over the things you said and did today. The man you were before would have never cared about whether you were kind or not. You know what that farmer's wife understood? She understood the old sinful nature. That something was different about him. Something had changed in his life. But there was still an ugly nature there. An ugly nature there. Christians still struggle with sin. I wish it wasn't true. I wish I could say when you accept Jesus Christ as Savior, you're never going to have to deal with old sinful temptations. I wish I could tell you That once you accept Jesus as Savior, you're never going to be tempted to quit or or deny God or uh be unkind or say or think something ungod. I wish I could tell you we'd be free from all that, but it's not so Paul himself said the things I want to do, I don't, and the things I don't want to do, I do. It's very real, but we regret it, we regret it, we regret it. We want to be delivered, we long for the day. We can be free. Now notice, last of all, the Christians release from the struggle of sin. Verse 24 again, O wretched man that I am. Who shall deliver me from the body of this death? I thank God through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Though that battle is real, though the struggle is real, though the sinful temptations are there, and the old nature uh can and does raise its ugly head and come back and and haunt us and badger us I'm here to tell you we can have victory. We can have victory. Through Jesus Christ, not only are we delivered from the judgment of God on our sins, Before I was saved, I was under the wrath of God, I was under the judgment of God, I was doomed for hell. But when I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, that judgment has been removed. And in spite of the struggle and in spite of the failures, I no longer fear the judgment of God for my sin that has been removed once I'm saved. I no longer fear hell. You say, but preacher, I messed up after I got saved. You no longer fear hell. The judgment has been removed. When I accept Jesus as Savior, the judgment of God is removed, and the dominion of sin over my life can be controlled. Jesus Christ can deliver me from the dominion of sin. Here's what I'm trying to say. And I believe this is what's taking place with Paul. I find no indication that Paul committed fornication I find no indication that Paul used foul, wicked, perverse language. Is it just me, or is language in America becoming unbelievably filthy? Man, on t-shirts, the most wicked, perverse words are just everywhere you go. I was fishing the other a couple weeks ago and I thought I was all alone. And all this language, there's some people picnicking in the and just this unbelievable language coming out. I don't see anywhere where Paul was struggling with that. I would like to think That he had victory over that. But the struggle was real, and this is what I think we're going to find take place. As I grow as a Christian, as I study the Word of God and God works in my heart, and I start getting victory over different areas in my life and different sins and Get them behind me and I grow and I get stronger in my faith and I'm understanding who more what the Lord is and God's working in my life. Then things that really didn't bother me before Suddenly they bother me now. And little things that I could, spiritual instructions by God that I could neglect before and never give it a thought, now it really bothers me I neglect it. Let me illustrate. Now this is just me. Each of us have our own personal walk with God. But when I got saved, the night I got saved those first few days, two things. One, I actually had hair I did really, it was true. I got pictures to prove it. And the hair I had was pretty long. I mean it was some of you ladies would have been jealous of my hair. And um, you know, the night I got saved, that first week, several weeks, I had long hair didn't bother me at all. Then they I got reading my Bible and I came across a verse that says it's a shame for a man to have long hair. Suddenly that bothered me. And you know what? I hate to say this, but that was a struggle for me to get my hair cut. I looked pretty good. In my bell bottoms and silk black shirt and my uh platform shoes. And I struggled and I thought, you know, it's not right for me to have this long hair. I'm not a girl And uh I struggled and finally I broke down and said, alright Lord, I got cut, I found out I looked better with short hair. And I liked it so much I cut it all off and I looked even better yet. But um But that never bothered me. And then I had all this rock and roll music. And uh that didn't bother me. But boy, the more I grew, the more I started listening to those words and that beat and how it affected and everything associated with it Suddenly there was a struggle. Am I going to obey God or not? Went back and forth, back and forth. Finally, I said, no, I don't want that. And as a person grows, We find these other aspects that old nature keeps bringing about. And you know what happens sometimes? Sometimes an old sin Maybe hadn't bothered us for years. That old sinful nature come up and say, oh, what about this? There's that struggle again. Anybody know, have any idea what I'm talking about? But as we get closer, Lord, we get more sensitive to this battle going on. And I think that's what's going on with Paul The closer you got, Lord, things, maybe things that you and I, we wouldn't even think anything of it. But boy, that tore Paul up. Tore him up. So oh wretched man that I am. I found there was a fellow and I mentioned him before down at Highland Park when I was there. That guy was at the altar every service. Every time the invitation, he's at the altar weeping, crying I got to know him a little bit. That guy was a great soul owner. He walked with God, one of the most godly people I ever met in my life. I believe he had just grown and grown and grown. Where even just a little wrong thought, a little crossword, just tore him up. If he failed the Lord in one little area or missed that or neglected that, it just tore him up. Say, God, I don't want to displease you. Oh wretched man that I am. Listen, if I'm saved And I have all these ungodly wicked things, and I'm doing things and situations that are displeasing to God, and it doesn't bother me. Something's not right. I'm not growing maybe. I'm not as close to the Lord as what I think I am The conflict is ongoing. It's lifelong. But Jesus Christ can give us victory. And as we look to Him and we get close to Him, we trust Him. He can give us victory over these different errors, but the battle is ongoing until we're called home to heaven, and that old nature is given away And what we need to do is focus and put our energies on getting close to the Lord and being faithful to God, trusting Him and obeying Him. And God gives us victory, though the battle is ongoing. Robert Robertson died in 1790. He got saved under the preaching of George Whitfield, my second favorite preacher in all of history. Spurgeon number one, Whitfield was an amazing man. Robert Robertson got saved on his ministry, and he was called called to the ministry. Got saved under George Whitfield. He was called to the ministry, but He had a tendency to wander from God. In the ministry And he kept having a tendency to get away from God and get involved and give in to the flesh and give in to that old sinful nature. He had this battle, and he seemed to always be losing the struggle One day he sat down and wrote a great hymn that you and I sang often. Come thou fount of every blessing. Tune my heart to sing thy praise. Listen to this one phrase. O to grace, how great a debtor! Daily I'm constrained to be Let thy goodness like a fetter bind my wandering soul to thee. Listen to this. Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart. Oh, take and seal it. Seal it for thy courts above. Robert Roberson hated the fact That he failed God. He hated the fact that there was a part of him that would want to do wrong and there was a nature that sometimes got the victory, and it's like And he will sought the Lord and he said, God, take me. I'm prone to water. I know that. Take my heart, seal it, bind me to you. And that's what you and I face. And we need to get close to God, and we need to do right, and we need to trust the Lord. Because every part of that old sinful nature that we were born with is still there. And if we let that nature have its way, it will destroy us. Or say, Lord, I look to you for deliverance. I hate it. Jesus, help me, direct me, give me wisdom. And get close to God. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray you'd give us victory. We have a big week this week. The devil's been fighting, there's no doubt about it. There's going to be a lot of boys and girls on their way to heaven, teenagers at the end of this week that are on their way to hell today. I pray you'd help every one of us as children of God to determine we're going to get closer to you, to yield ourselves, to trust you and obey you. And Lord, we long for victory over that old sinful nature. We long for the day. And we can rest from this struggle. I wonder, with our heads bowed and eyes closed, say, preacher, that old flesh has been beating me up pretty bad. An old sinful nature has been beating me up pretty good spiritually. And you say, Preacher, I want to be free from that. I want to have victory. I want to go forward and get some of this behind me. And like Paul, I'm looking to Christ to deliver me. From some of these areas where the flesh is so strong. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. That old flesh just seems to get the best of me. God bless you, hands all around. Now, if we were honest, every one of us would recognize that If they're honest, every one of them would say, preacher, yeah, that old nature's there. I deal with it every day. Now the question is: do we care? Do we really want to have victory? Do we want to be closer to the Lord? God will help us. God will help us if we'll trust Him and obey Him. Is there someone here this morning to say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that I'm saved the Bible way. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I don't want to go anymore. I want to have this matter settled. Any at all like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, I need to be saved. Father, bless our invitation. We all understand what this battle is. I pray you'd help us to trust you and yield our will to yours and let you have your way. So this old flesh can be kept on a short leash and our hearts can be bound to you. Help us I pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together