Samuel, if you don't mind. First Samuel. And I'm going to try to be um kind of short. I'm like it's s seven twenty-four. My goal's gonna be to be done around eight o'clock or so, because we're gonna have another little break And then Brother Kurt's going to come preach for us. And so if you can just stick with me about 30 minutes or so again, I want to say thank you to each one of you that came out here. And also, I'm re I just I I kind of want to brag on our teams for just a minute. I'm real proud of you guys. That was awesome. That song was awesome. Good job. Good job. So and in a little bit we'll be hearing from Heritage. They're going to sing So maybe they need more candy? Sing more no less less is that how that works? I forgot to give the sound guy candy That's do you want candy? You good? Look, he was getting up. He's ready Look at that. Look at that That's awesome. Yes. Yeah. Brother Danny, we are coming back from y'all's youth conference. By the way, Brother Danny has a youth conference every year in August. Yes, um, and it's fantastic. We've gone five years in a row, I think. Um we're coming back from your youth conference and we stop at the gas station. Jacob goes around that's Jacob. Hi say hi Jacob. Hi Jacob. He goes around the the van asking everybody What do you like? What do you want? What do you and he's coming out with bagfuls of stuff, not for himself, but for other people. And so I'm like, dude, you didn't have to do that, but I want a slim gym and I want a bang energy drink, you know. So that that's just that's just Jacobs. So anyway. Uh first Samuel um if you will chapter eight and if you could stand again please Here's my plan. I'm going to read just a few verses real quick, and then I'm going to give you a little bit of a background, give you a little bit of the story of what's going on here And then we'll dig into more of the chapter. But I'm going to start reading here in 1 Samuel chapter 8. And then start reading in verse 4. I'll give you just another second in case anyone's still lagging behind. Really, it was just sucking you the drink of water. If anyone figured that out. So 1 Samuel chapter 8, verse 4. Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together And came to Samuel under Rama and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, which by the way, I think that's kind of disrespectful. And thy sons walk not in thy ways. Now make us a king to judge us like all the nations. But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And again, I just think that's interesting. He wasn't displeased that they called him old, he was displeased That they said, Give us a king to judge the other nations. And Samuel prayed unto the Lord, and the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people and all that they say unto thee. For they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me. That I should not reign over them. That's God saying that. They haven't rejected you, they rejected me. God Because they don't want me over them. So let's pray, and then we'll get into the message this evening. Lord again, we thank you for this conference. We thank you for this day that you've given us. Lord, I ask that you would uh be with this next message. I thank you already for what you've done in the previous message. Lord, I pray you would bless this now. Lord, I ask that you would just take completely over Hide me behind you, Lord, fill me with your spirit. And Lord, if there's anything that I'm about to say that that's wrong or goes against your word, I pray that you would keep me from saying it. Likewise, Lord, if there's something that you would have said that I might not have written down here in my notes, I ask that you bring it to my mind, Lord. I pray our hearts would be open, our minds would be open, you'd bring conviction where it's needed, and I ask that you would bless this message, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. So we're gonna go into a little bit of of of background. Um if you've been in church any length of time, you hear about Israel. In fact, they're kind of like all over the Bible Um God chose the nation of Israel. Let's go back to the beginning. Abraham, God called Abraham to go to the land which he would show him, and Abraham uh picked up what faith went Had some hiccups there along the way, but he did what God told him to do. Abraham in his old old age had a son, Isaac. Isaac and then had Jacob and then go forward a little bit more. Jacob had a bunch of sons and then there was Joseph Um and Joseph, if you remember, was sold by his older brothers into Egypt. And so Jac uh it was Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. Joseph, he was sold. Then there was a famine that hit the land. And this this I mean it was a big family, but it was not a nation yet. They didn't want to go hungry, so they went down into Egypt, and then they found Joseph down there. So Joseph persuaded them to move to Goshen to be safe from the famine, if you remember that story So anyway, they go down to uh Egypt and specifically the city of Goshen, and while they're there, again they came there because they were starving and they had to get food, they had to go somewhere, so they came to Goshen And while they were there, they just they multiplied. The family grew and grew and grew and grew and they were like this huge bunch of people, and so Pharaoh's getting kind of nervous and he says, you know what else make slaves out of you. That sounds convenient So he put them into slavery. And Bible called the hard bondage and put taskmasters over them. Not a fun situation for uh the Israelites at this time. Again, they were just a massive, massive people And so we fast forward a little bit more. They're in bondage for uh several hundred years. Um and then after that, uh along comes Moses. God sends Moses um who was born um and then hid in the ark and the bull rushes and uh so that Pharaoh wouldn't kill him because Pharaoh was killing all the baby boys and it was an awful mess. But uh God saved Moses and then Moses went off to the desert, came back And fast forward through a lot. I know. Moses he came back and led the people out of Egypt. There was the ten plagues, the frogs, the lice, all that really nasty stuff, bloody water. I mean and then the the worst one was the the firstborn died So then he led them out of Egypt. Pharaoh said, Don't go, don't go, don't go. They said, No, we're gonna go. In fact, this there's the signs, and then they finally go. Pharaoh decides, you know what, I take it back Um I want to go get you. They're going to bring him back. They go through then they they meet him down at the Red Sea. They see Pharaoh's army coming. Red Sea splits, so they go through, and then it collapses over Pharaoh's army and they all die. And so then they go to Mount Sinai And then at Mount Sinai is where they get the Ten Commandments. You guys remember that story? Is this all sounding fresh? So they get the Ten Commandments, and then the law is established there, and they're like a nation. They become a nation. Then because of disobedience they wander around for forty years in the wilderness and then they get to Canaan and they're a nation in their own land now and they c have to take their land, they conquer their land And God uses them to judge the Canaanites and all that kind of stuff. So they're a people established as a nation. Originally they went down to Goshen because they needed food, they needed prosperity, they needed a place to live So they went down to Goshen, but because of oppression, they had to go against that and leave and then come back to where they came from. And then uh and so then they're in in Israel there for a long time with no king. Now, this was not a lawless time. God had a governmental structure, if you will. And actually, if you go back to when they were still in the desert wandering around, uh Moses takes advice from his father-in-law, which by the way is a very good thing. He took advice from his father-in-law and his and he set uh officers over uh over what were the numbers fifties or something. They set officers over uh different amounts of people. So there was a structure, there was a system there And then you fast forward that Joshua has to take land, then and there's the book of Judges. Got a little ugly sometimes, but there was still a structure, and God had judges over them. There was definitely some wars and some s and some internal struggle struggles. There's even a civil war in the mix there. But they were it was a working nation and it worked Because it God was their authority. God was over them. And so then you fast forward some 300 years to Samuel. And if you remember the story of Samuel, his mom was praying for her a son, praying for her son, and she was in the temple, she was praying for a son, and she was mouthing her lips. And have you ever done that? You're you're not you're not praying out loud, but you're like making the words with your mouth And so the prophet Eli thought like she was drunk or something, and she's like, No, I'm just praying for this child. Anyway, God granted her request and she got a son, Samuel. He grew up actually working with Eli in the temple and he becomes a priest. And so the whole nation knows and respects him to a point. Now we get to this point here. So From Abraham all through Egypt, all through the wilderness, all through Joshua, judges, all that hundreds of years time frame They have a, it's not lawlessness, it was not anarchy, but their governmental system was God was their head, not a king. So now we get to this point is in 1 Samuel chapter 8, which again I think it's kind of disrespectful the way they came to Samuel and said, hey, you're old now. Just because someone's old doesn't mean they're dumb, by the way, and I'm being serious. Just because someone's old doesn't mean they're out of touch or don't know what they're doing. Um I'm going to move on from that, but but take that. Take that. So they go to Samuel and they say this in verse number uh five. Said unto him, Behold, thou art old, thy sons walk not in thy ways. Now make a king to judge us, like all the nations. Make a king to judge us like all the nations. And verse 6, but this thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the Lord. The Lord said unto him, Samuel, hearken unto voice of the people and all that they say unto thee, for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me. God's system wasn't good enough for them anymore. And it wasn't like they wanted a new system. They wanted the system of the other nations. So they looked at their situation, said, ah, we don't like this old guy, we want this new stuff. We don't want Samuels to lead us. We want a king like those other nations. I'm going to give point out just five things here about the nation of Israel, and then after I do that, I'm going to try to bring it home and apply it, okay? So the first thing I notice about this whole situation here is there is a request that was made. What was the request? Give us a king. There was a request that was made, and the request was we want a king. We don't want this structure where God is over us. And we have judges and priests and prophets and and things like that. And then again, like I said, um all the way back, even while they were wandering around, there was a structure there. They didn't want God's structure anymore. They wanted a king. And if you look at this, it's it even says why they wanted a king. It says in verse five. Uh make a king to judge us like all the nations. They wanted to be like the other nations. They thought they were cool, maybe. I don't know. They thought, man, those those man those Canaanites and their kings or and man they really got I don't know. But they wanted to be like the other nations, which by the way, when you look at someone who's popular and you want to be like them Why? Like I don't get it. Anyway. And then verse 6, they give us a king to judge us. You know what? You know why they wanted a king? One, because they want to be like everyone else, but two, they did not want God to judge them. They did not want God to judge them. You know, if if you quote a Bible verse, people will say, Oh, you're judging me Well, they're not rejecting you, they're rejecting God. They don't want God to judge them. That's where Israel was. They wanted to be like the other nations, the lifestyle of the other nations, the government of the other nations, kings, monarchs, which by the way, that doesn't always work out that great as we're going to see. So first off, they made a request. And they wanted the king to fight their battles for him. That was the other reason. Look at verse twenty. Jump ahead to verse twenty. It says that we may also be like the nations See how they keep saying that over and over again. That we may also be like the other nations, like all the nations. And that our king may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles. They did not want to fight their own battles. Now, oh this let me just step aside here for a second. If a man doesn't want to fight his own battles, I think maybe he's weak. Just throw that out there. But they say, you know what? We don't want to fight our own battles. Let's have a king do our work for us. Let the government take care of it. Let's have the king take care of us. I don't want to go to war, we'll get someone else to do it for us. I don't want to do anything hard, I'll get the government to do it for me. I'll get the king to do it for me. That's what's going on. So Um so secondly, first request is made, two, a warning was given. Samuel said, All right. But this is what's going to happen. Now look with me real quick. Get your Bibles back out there if you don't have them out. But look at verse number 11. And he said, This will be the manner of king that shall reign over you. And he gives a bullet list. He will take your sons. And appoint them for himself, for his chariots, to be his horsemen, and some shall run before his chariots. That doesn't sound like a very safe job. And he will appoint him captains over thousands and captains over fifties, and will set them to ear his ground and to reap his harvest and to Make instruments of war and instruments of chariots. This kind of sounds like forced labor, kind of, doesn't it? Verse 13, and he will take your daughters to be confectionaries, and to be cooks, and to be bakers And he will take your fields and your vineyards and your olive yards. Even the isn't an olive yard or an olive yard? It's an olive yard. It's an olive yard. Even the Best of them and give them to his service He'll take your kids, take your sons, take your daughters, make them go do dangerous things, put them into slave labor even, or indentured service of something, I don't know. But he took them from you, and he took your property and your stuff and gave them to his servants. Sounds like this king thing's gonna be good. Okay Verse 16, and he will take your men's servants. Okay, so if you have any employees, no, not anymore. He will take your men's servants, you'll take your maidservants, and your goodliest young men, and your asses, and put them to his work. He will take the tenth of your sheep. He will and ye shall be his servants. He says it flat out, you will be his servants. If you choose To say we don't want God to rule us, we want a king to rule us. What you're saying is we don't want to be God's servant, we want to be a man's servant. That's what you're saying. And that's what's going to happen. Um verse 18, and ye shall cry out in that day because of your king, which ye shall have chosen you, and the Lord will not hear you in that day. And even after that warning we see in verse 19, nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel. And he said, Nay But we will have a king over us. So first off, um a request was made. Second, a warning was given, and in the warning he said, Well he'll take your sons. Put them in dangerous jobs. Um he'll make them do his personal work, make them fight his wars, he'll take your daughters, put them into labor, and he will take your property, take your money, he will tax you, he will take your employees, he will take your property, your livelihood, and you'll cry out to help. And I won't hear you. God won't hear you. Because you already made the choice. That's what he's saying. Understanding what he's saying, okay? Um So number one, request was made. Number two, warning was given. Number three, a vote was cast. It was a vote to reject God. And he makes that very clear in verse 7. They have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me. That I should not reign over them. You know, Samuel might have even felt it's kind of implied there that he's like, what did I do wrong? Did I do something wrong? You know, am I not leading the people right? Like what's going on? God says, no, no, no. They're not rejecting you. They're not saying no to you. They're saying no to God. They're saying no to me. That's what God's saying. And so, even after this warning, the vote was cast to reject God. And God gave them what they asked for. Y'all remember Saul, right? At first when he um um when he first comes on the scene there he's like hiding behind the stuff and he's like, you know, does he scared or whatever, he's timid, I don't know what the reason was, but then Later on he got kind of a big head, got kind of prideful. He's like, You know what? I'm king. I might as well be priest too and then he gets into doing that kind of stuff and he does a sacrifice when he's not supposed to. And later on, like towards the end, actually like right right towards the end of his life before he dies, he goes and sees a witch, like to try to get like some info from her because he's not getting it from God anymore. So that really didn't work out as well as they thought maybe. I don't know. But the vote was cast and God gave them what they asked for. Now, pause, rewind. I'm going to tell another country's history and see if you see the similarities It's our history. And I'm going to give you some actual history here for a minute. I don't know who goes to what kind of schools or whatnot, but I'm going to give you some history here for a minute. When we were over in Europe, not me, I I I've actually never been to Europe, but you know when we were over in Europe, there was persecution. I don't know if you know this, but we were like being killed. Like uh we I mean Christians, Baptists specifically, the Christians. Really being killed. So, because we didn't want to be killed and we don't want our kids to be killed, like New World, let's go. Let's go over there So we go to the New World and there's prosperity. And so then once we're there, and we start multiplying. And as we start multiplying, the king of England's like, oh, hmm. I'm going to start to uh put some heavy taxes on you. I'm going to start to uh tyrannize you and that's what he did. And so we're like, yeah, this isn't gonna work. We we tried and tried and tried and tried and fast forward America. So we got our independence. And that's awesome. And God is all over it. If you haven't yet, I encourage you to go out into the foyer there and just read some of the statements from some of our founding fathers. And the theme of the conference is Faith of Our Fathers. So anyway, we became a nation. And actually, I'm going to read you a quote here. And I don't think it's a stretch to say this is the greatest nation ever. I think it is. I mean you look at our military, it's bigger than anyone else's. And there's everything about me, I'm a little biased, I get it, but I kind of like our country and I think it's awesome. So, um in the early years of our country, early, early 1800s, there was a a a French guy, French dude, because they had their revolution over there and it was awful. Like they're like, oh America did it, maybe we can do it. It didn't work out the same way. And a lot of people died. It was messy. It's awful. So a French guy comes over here and he's like, does that sound weird I say French guy? Every time I say it, someone sneakers French guy, this French dude. So hey this guy came over here And try to figure out where our success comes from. You might have heard of him before. His name is Alexis de Tocqueville, very French name. He says, this is a quote from him. He came over here to try to figure out why we were so great. And this is this is what he says. This is documented. This is what this dude said. He said, I sought for the greatness and genius of America in her commodious harbors. In her ample rivers and it was not there. In her fertile fields and boundless prairies and it was not there. In her rich mines and in her vast world commerce, and it was not there. Which by the way, did we have all those? Oh yeah. America's awesome But that's not why we're great. And he recognized that. I okay, time out. I think capitalism is like the awesomest thing ever. But that is not where we got our greatness from. Free enterprise is great, but that's not where our greatness comes from. It's a byproduct of where our greatness comes from. Military, pfft, don't mess with it, it's awesome. But that's not where we got our greatness from. That's a byproduct of where we got our greatness from. His statement continues: Not until I went into the churches of America. And heard her pulpits aflame with righteousness. Did I understand the secret of her genius and power? He goes on to say, America is great because she is good, and if America ever ceases to be good, America will cease to be great. See he recognized something. What makes us an awesome country and what had the from the very start Is that we fear God. The Bible says in Proverbs, righteousness exalteth the nation. But sin is a reproach to any people. What made this country the greatest place ever Is is not our government structure, which by the way it's based off the Bible, and we'll see that in a minute, but it's the fact that righteousness came from the pulpits. That's what he said. And we promoted right living. That's what righteousness means, right living. And if you're saved, you've obtained the righteousness of Christ. Two different things there, but you understand what I'm saying. So We look at our history and we can kind of see how it mirrors Israel's a little bit exactly the same. I understand that. But we came here seeking prosperity. We multiplied oppression. We did the right thing, by the way. Formed our own nation. Now fast forward two hundred and forty-six years. It's kind of a 1 Samuel 8 kind of moment. Now I'm looking around, I know there's most of you are not going to be voting next month. I know some will be. Hey, yeah, some will be. And if you are, good. Do it. But we're at a 1 Samuel 8 kind of moment. And we have been, I guess, now for I don't know. I I still think I'm I'm young, but I don't know anymore, Evan. Is thirty one young? Let me let me ask someone else. Brother Kurt is thirty-one young. Thank you. Okay. Um we're kinda uh we've been here for for a while since I was in school anyway, and there's been this struggle here back and forth between what we think is Just like two economic systems. But that's not where the struggle is. People think, oh, it's Democrats and Republicans always fighting each other. Well the yeah they do, but that's the symptom of the problem. That's not the struggle that's going on. And I want to remind you about something. The Bible says, as we quoted earlier, we wrestle not against flesh and blood. The people aren't the bad guys. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against spiritual wicked uh principalities and powers and spiritual wickedness in high places. Okay. Um so anyway, fast forward some 246 years and we're in the same kind of spot. And we we have a decision to make. Are we going to embrace the system of the world? Are we going to embrace the system of the other nations? I mean that literally and figuratively. Or are we going to continue to do what our fathers did? And let God be our leader. See what makes our country so great is that God was our leader. Again, I encourage you to go back there and read some of those quotes. But our country was founded by God-fearing people. You can't get around that unless you lie. Which they have no other ammunition, so they'll just lie. So our our country was founded on people that believed the Bible and feared God. And our system, our government system, the way we have three branches of government and all that, they tried to mirror that from the Bible. And that's documented. You can look into that. But that's what made the country great is we were not that we were better or smart. In fact our military then wasn't that great. We didn't really have great stuff. We didn't even not everyone even had a weapon or shoes. But we won. Why? Because we had God as our lead. And so we're at this point in our society now where we're there's this struggle between what the the surface appears to be, you know, oh, this form of government and this form of government. Really it's Are we for God or against God? I was talking to someone recently and they asked me not to get political. It was it was it wasn't in front of people, it was just in a discussion. They said don't get political. I'm like, it's not political, it's biblical There shouldn't be anything political about, you know, like killing kids or something like that. You know, I'm just saying. That's not a political issue. That's a Bible issue. That's a political issue. Murder is not up to the government, that's up to God. He makes the rules there. So we're at this struggle. And let me let me just continue. A request is being made. There is a request being made, and you'll see this movement to go towards what we call socialism. Or some people call democratic socialism. Really, it's just communism looking pretty. That's all that is. And they'll say, oh well this is better because of this. And then they'll look to the other nations and say, Oh, they have free health care, they have free college, which now we're just about there, and they have all these other things, and oh that would be so great But to reject the system that God gave us is not just to reject a form of government or a certain style of living. It's a vote against God. I find this interesting. I'm way off my notes now, but that's okay. I find this interesting. Whenever you go and watch just watch some political debate or something, the issues aren't usually economical. They're usually social. So don't tell me it's not A spiritual battle. It is. So when you have two people and they're debating They're not saying, oh, should you increase the tax by this percent or whatever? They're saying, how do you feel about transgender theory or whatever? What does that have to do with economy? I'm telling you, to vote for that type of government is you you're not voting for that, you're voting against God. And so why am I saying this? Like I said, I know most of you probably aren't going to be voting next month, and if you can, you should. But the point is this: you can make a huge difference. Like big time. Because the Bible does not say voting exalts a nation. The Bible says righteousness exalts a nation. Righteousness. Living right, living pure, living clean, having your mind framed by the Bible, having your mind framed by God's word. Righteousness exalts a nation So you can do as much more so for your country to stay with the type of system that God gave us. And have that vote to re not to reject God, but to accept God and let God be the one you serve, which by the way, you're going to be serving someone. So it might as well be God. Don't let oh I'm my own person. I can do what you want to do, whatever I want to do. Okay, just like the other million people that said that and doing whatever the world wants them to do. Okay. You're gonna be serving somebody. And so to reject God and to embrace this lifestyle of, oh, I can be whoever I want to be, we all just need to love everybody, and by the way, we do need to love people, but we don't need to love like the way they are, and kind of stuff, you know what I'm saying But we oh I can just be whoever I want to be. If I decide I want to be uh if I decide I want to be a cat, you have to accept me. What in the world? That has nothing to do with economics or or foreign policy, but it has everything to do with rejecting God. So don't let people fool you into thinking that this is just some political thing. It's not. It's what are you going to do? with God's authority over your life. Are you going to accept it and embrace it and say, yes, Lord, I'll serve you? Which by the way, he told us a little while ago He'll give you everything you need there. Or are you gonna say, all right, I reject God, I'll accept the world's form of living, the world's form of government The world system of whatever their version of equality is. Are you going to accept that and embrace that? Here's what will happen. Remember the warning? Do you remember the warning that he gave? There's people now giving us a warning. And I'm going to give you a warning. If you accept that anti-God socialistic philosophy, the anti-God communistic philosophy Maybe it's because you don't want to work. Maybe it's because you want the government to take care of you. Maybe it's because you just uh I don't know. You just don't like God. That's the whole point. You don't like God, so you'll accept anything else So if that happens, and we as a nation embrace the king like the other nations, here's what will happen Oh, it's the same thing. We'll end up being servants. Taxes go up. That happens. Lose property, go to wars that we really don't need to be fighting, stuff like that. Um it'll take people. We can go down the Bill of Rights here, actually. We'll lose our First Amendment, which we've kind of seen already. You know, Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting The free exercise thereof? We kind of saw that, didn't we? So are you okay with losing that? Lose some someone earlier talking about second second amendment. Yeah, I don't want to lose that. I like that. We can keep on going. Um go right down the list. Uh the Fourth Amendment. Uh freedom from the government searching your private property. I feel like we've seen that happen too. Huh. It's almost like if we embrace that Worldly philosophy, as far as government, as far as social issues as well. But really, it's all spiritual issues. But if we embrace that and reject God's standard of righteousness Then we're gonna lose a whole lot. And by the way, we are kind of losing some So, let me fast forward a little bit here. A vote will be cast. Yeah, literally, next month people are going to vote, and they're going to vote for this party or that party or whatever. But really, it's a vote for God or not. It's a vote for God or not. You're gonna pull the lever? People don't pull levers anymore, do they? You're gonna pull the you're gonna put the put the c thing the card in the whatever, touch the screen, whatever. Are you gonna vote for I don't know. People do it all kinds of different ways. We put up we fill out a little card and they it actually the last election they gave me a choice. They said, do you want touch screen or paper ballot? I'm like paper Yeah, I don't know. It's just like I trust it better, I guess. But anyway. But it's hard to trust any of them anymore. That's a different subject. What was I talking about, Chloe? Yeah, you don't even know either. That's fine. Um yeah, a vote will be cast. Now, literally, yes, but also you do every day. When you vote, when you choose to say, no, I don't want God, I want a king. Like the world. I want the world system. Or you can say, no, I see what that brings. I want God's system. By the way, that's kind of like really it It's not like you can come up with your own system and say, oh, this one's gonna work better. And that's really two options, either you go with God or you don't. And there's really only two consequences. You go with God and He like blesses you and your prosper you you know you're prosperous and all that kind of stuff, or you go with the world and It's just a mess. So which one are you gonna choose? I'm not saying who you're gonna vote for next month because like most of you aren't. Well I hope you you do, but yeah. Like most of you aren't But y y you still have to make kind of a choice here. Because right now you're really forming the philosophy for the rest of your life. Like this is how it is. So are you going to embrace what you learn in your Bible and in church or what you learn on like TikTok or something? You know what I'm saying? Cause if you embrace what you learn on TikTok, you're gonna learn to like hate America and swear a lot and then by the way, those people are miserable and you'll be miserable Or you'll embrace what you know you learn from church and your pastor and learn what you from the Bible. And like you said earlier, God will give you everything you need to be in his will. Life's great. I mean to me it's kind of a clear choice. But even after that warning was given from Samuel They still chose the system that ruined them. And if you look at everything that Samuel said would happen, it happened. It happened. So, I'm fast-forwarding here, some. Sorry about that. But God will give you what you ask for. He will. Um this is what I mean by that. I don't mean oh god million dollars for goods. No, but this is what I mean Israel said we want a king. God said okay. But they got the consequences with it Hezekiah said, I'd like to live longer. God said, okay. But later on, there were some negative consequences that came with that. Um Josiah prayed and and and God spared the country for his generation, all that, got what he wanted. You know, if you say, no, I don't want God, I want the world, you'll get it. I promise you. If you commit your life to making money, you'll make money. You will. Unless like something major happens, but probably you will, okay? If you commit your life to becoming a famous TikTok star, you probably will. But you'll get all of the baggage that goes with it. We want a king, okay? You can have it. But, you know, you'll go to war and you'll lose your kids and you'll lose your property and you'll lose your money, but okay. Here's the thing. You know why people choose that system over God? They say it. Because they don't want God to judge them. So if you say no to that and you continue to go down this road of the world system You'll get it. And you'll get all the baggage and anxiety and prescription medicines and all that kind of stuff that goes with it. But really, it's because you didn't want God. So I I cut a lot out, but that's okay. My my closing question t tonight is this Do you want God's system? I'm telling you, God's system's pretty sweet. Um let me just tell you a little bit about God's system. God intended for one man to marry one woman and for life. I'm having fun. I don't I don't have to walk through Walmart. I haven't been to Walmart in a long time. I don't have to walk through the grocery store holding hands with my wife And see that person back there that I you know when I was in the world system and go, oh honey, we need to go this way. You follow me? I don't need to be, I don't have to worry about going through wherever with my wife or going out to eat with my wife and seeing that person that I used to snap with, and then they come up to me. And then I have to try to explain that away in front of both of them. I don't have to worry about that. It's kind of nice. You know what I have to worry about? Is she making hamburger or is it steak? I don't know. I don't know. That's my worries. Which by the way, oh, she makes these great hamburgers. She puts she puts crumble blue cheese in them and then smoothes in the fries and puts bacon and cheese. Oh, it's good. Anyway. The God's system is great. God's system is for you, as a young and anyone at any age, to honor your parents. And the result's pretty good. That it may be well with thee. May live long on the earth. I'll tell you this, when I don't honor my parents, it doesn't go well with me. It's weird how that works. You know, when when mom and dad says do something, I'm like, no. And then, you know, I get consequences with that. It doesn't work out too well. It really doesn't. Anyway, so God's system works. And if you say no to that system, like the whole like guy marries girl, and like waits until they're married, kind of thing, if God's system If you follow that, it works pretty good. If you reject that and say, well, I'm independent and I can be who I want to be, you have at it. And the doctors will love it because they'll be making money off the prescriptions they sell you for your anxiety and your depression and your suicidal tendencies because you can't go anywhere without people looking at you and making comments about you and you're some big star. Not. Not really. You're just like the other hundred thousand big stars out there that are miserable. I'm just pleading with you. Please, don't reject God's way of doing things, whether it's the government system. Reject his way of doing things, do things socialistically, whether it's in the home, whether it's whatever. You follow God's system. So wrapping up. What can we do? Well, you can be a voice for God. And this is what I mean by that. I said it's righteousness to exalts the nation, that's what Proverbs said. You can save your country, literally, by promoting righteousness, by promoting right living, and by standing against the nastiness. You can do that. Next, you can um tell others about Christ. You know why um our nation is going downhill? Is because people don't know Jesus. They don't. How can you expect someone to vote the right way if they're not saved. Like it doesn't work. So how can you expect a culture to move in a biblical direction if the culture does not know the Bible? It doesn't work. So you, what you can do is promote the righteousness. And lastly, is pray, of course. Actually, that should have been first. Pray. You know, if if you care about our nation, if you care about your youth group, your church, you'll pray for it. Righteousness will promote it, yes, but you need to pray. God even said if my people, which call by my name, will humble themselves, pray, seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways. That I will hear from heaven, forgive their sin and heal their land. Have you prayed for your country? We complain about our country a lot. Oh, as you see what they're doing, oh there's They voted this in, they voted that in, they just shoved it through, didn't even tell anyone about it. It makes me mad too, but have you prayed about it? So and the most important thing is this if you're not saved The best thing you can do for America is get saved. Because a saved people, a righteous people. We'll be a blessed people. The reason we were great is because we were blessed. So we look at Israel's history. They had that first Samuel 8 moment where they rejected God, went with the way of the world. We kind of have that moment right now. Are we going to reject God and go with the way of the world? Or are we going to embrace God and His system and His way of doing things? Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one look around for just a moment. Are you praying for your country? Are you praying for your family? Are you f praying for your youth group? If you haven't been, it might just be because you're not that concerned about it and that's a problem. Maybe God's dealing with you and you need to start praying. Earnestly praying for you in the country. You know, um there were several times at the beginning stages of our nation when we were still at war with England. Or Congress, and you can document this, this happened frequently. Congress would call on a national prayer and fasting day, or several days, and that would change battles And that changed the way the war was going. I think that can change the way we're going now. I think that can change the problems you got at home. Are you praying? Are you witnessing? Telling others about him. And are you standing for righteousness? Or are you just so far submersed in the ways of the world that you don't even care? I told you, if you want that way, if you want that system, you'll get it. But you'll get all the baggage that goes with it. As you stand to your feet, I don't know how God's dealing with you. Um again, maybe you're not saved. I again I plead with you, please talk to someone about that. Find your youth pastor, find a youth worker, find someone standing in the back, they'll help you You're not saved, that is the priority. But for everyone else, if God's dealing with you in any of these aspects, when she starts playing the piano, I urge you do business with God. And for nothing else, For the sake of our country, please. The altar's open