If you would turn to Ecclesiastes, chapter number five. I'll get set up here. I will say that the last several weeks the uh little jokes I give at the beginning of the sermons have been especially good. I thought uh the reason I say that is Mary Gravely is probably listening in right now, they're open PA. And she has constantly challenged me to who has the better jokes, and hands down mine are way better than hers. And so I just wanted her to hear that While we're finding our place. Ecclesiastes chapter 5. I want to begin reading in verse number 4. Last week we looked at the first three verses. We actually read this whole section, but we zeroed in the in the First three verses. Tonight I want to look at uh from verse number four on down through verse number seven, Ecclesiastes chapter five. The Bible says, when thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it, for he hath no pleasure in fools. Pay which that which thou hast vowed. Better it is that thou shouldest not vow than that thou shouldest vow and not pay. Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin, neither say thou before the angel that it uh that it was an error. Wherefore should God be angry at thy voice and destroy the work of thy hands? For in a multitude of dreams, in many words, there are also diverse vanities. But fear thou God Solomon, of course, is the penman of this, God being the author. He is preaching a sermon. We noticed in the beginning of the book. This is actually the transcription of a sermon he preached in Jerusalem. He begins the first four or five chapters, uh first four chapters, I should say, uh giving his descent into darkness is what I'm calling it He has pushed God out of his life. He is living his life under the sun, as if there was no God. Just whatever's under the sun is always living for. His conclusion was it's vanity and vexation of spirit. It was empty, meaningless, and brought frustration to his life, trying to live life without God, trying to live life ignoring God and his word and his instructions Now chapter 5 begins a new part of the sermon as it's transcribed for us under the inspiration of God. And he is giving advice out of things he has learned and observed. In this passage, he is addressing this matter of making vows. And so we're going to speak tonight, God's view of vows. So let's pray together. Father, I ask in the moments remaining that you would use your word to speak to our hearts. Help me, Lord, to be to the point I ask, Lord, that I would be filled with your spirit. You would speak through me and challenge us. And Lord, I ask that my word would be good. Lord, I pray that all of us as Christians, our word would be good. And we would stand behind our words, our vows, our promises. So hear us and help us, we pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Verses 1 through 3, we pointed out last week. Solomon is advising us on how to go to church And he addressed that in the first three verses. Now he's talking about making vows, particularly in the church house, particularly among the people of God. We live in a day of very shallow commitments. Would you agree with that? We live in a day of shallow commitments. There was a day when people would say about a person, they would say, that guy is as good as his word. Anybody ever hear that? Anybody know what does that mean? We say someone's as good as their word. You can count on him. What it means is this, is when that guy says something he's going to do something, he's going to do it. His word is good. He keeps his vows. He keeps his promises He keeps his word. Uh used to be you would just uh make a deal over a handshake. What do we have to do now? Now you have lengthy legal contracts, you have to sign all this and And there's lawsuits going on and all of that, all because we live in such a day where a promise is really nothing more than a casual, I hope so. Bible is talking here about vows. Vowels. The idea of sticking with what we say we're going to do. to do and carry that through. Uh sticking with a vow anymore in our day and age is almost unheard of, regardless of how sacred that vow may be. Regardless of how significant it may be, we live in a day and age where they're almost meaningless. I believe when we consider making vows, and we're going to notice this here in a minute, When considering making vows, we need to be very, very careful, and we need to be very, very thoughtful and very prayerful. Before we make vows, before we make a promise. God takes our words very seriously. And God takes our vows very, very seriously. I think we need to be very careful Because we need to be very, very careful about the things we say and the promises we make. Now I try not to use this type of language But I have people on occasion will say something like this, I swear to God I'm going to do this. Anybody ever hear that statement? I swear to God, I'm going to do this. We need to be very, very careful about using that type of language We need to be very, very careful. God takes our words very seriously, and God takes our vows very seriously. And you know why God takes our words and our vows seriously? Because He takes His words. very seriously. And God takes his vows very, very seriously. Now God is not against vows at all. Um Uh uh He does not require vowels on our part, he doesn't require some sort of promise on our part uh for him to accept us. Salvation is by free grace. For salvation we simply recognize ourselves as sinners. We put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. He saves us So I don't have to make some promises. Lord says, you know, I'll save you if you promise to do this, that, and the other. It's not salvation at all. So God doesn't necessarily require vows on our parts, particularly in the matter of salvation, but He's not against them All through Scripture, you find some great men of God, great people of faith, making a vow. We won't take time to turn all them, but Jacob made a very significant vow In Genesis chapter 28, verse 22, concerning his tithing. He made a vow to tithe to God. Now, tithing in my mind is a commandment God has given to his people, but Jacob made a vow. Daniel in chapter 1 and verse number 8, we're very familiar with the statement, Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the king's meat. What was that? That was a vow on David's part, or Daniel's part. He said, I vow I am not going to defile myself. Very, very significant vow. I thought this was interesting while I was preparing this. If you would keep your place here and turn with me to Jonah. A little book in Jonah, back towards the end of the New Testament. Amos, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, right in there towards the end of the Old Testament. Jonah, and chapter number two. Now I thought this was very interesting. I hadn't thought of it before, but we know the story of Jonah. God instructed him to go to Nineveh. And give a very specific, very condensed, brief message to Nineveh. And Jonah went the exact opposite direction. He was a disobedient prophet. And God intervened, and we know the story, sent a storm out there, and uh drew lots on the boat to figure out whose fault the storm was. There was obviously obviously something supernatural about this storm, it wasn't something normal God was doing something, so they drew lights. Jonah's light comes up. He's obviously the guilty one. He acknowledges he comes clean. And uh what do they do to Jonah? They throw him overboard. Let's get this thing out of here. As soon as they do, the storm comes and storms over, and uh Jonah gets swallowed by a whale. Now Jonah chapter 2 is Jonah in the whale. Now notice carefully some of his statements. I thought this was very interesting. Verse 1, chapter 2 of Jonah. Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord his God out of the fish's belly. Imagine that. Prayer meat and then a fish gut. And said, I cry by reason of my affliction unto the Lord, and he heard me. Out of the belly of hell cried I, and thou heardest my voice. For thou hast cast me into the deep, in the midst of the seas, and the floods compassed me about, all thy villas and thy waves passed over me Then I said, I am cast out of thy sight, yet will I look again toward thy holy temple. Jonah's getting things right with God. Then I said, verse 5, the waters compassed me about, even unto the soul, the depth closed around about, the weeds were wrapped around my head. Can you picture this? Inside a fish's stomach The wings wrapped around my head, I went down to the bottom of the mountains, the earth with her bars was about me forever. Thou yet hast thou brought up my life from corruption, O Lord my God When my soul faded within me, I remembered the Lord, and my prayer came unto thee in thy holy temple. They that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy. So he's really just praying his heart out in a fish's belly. Then look at verse nine. But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving, I will pay that That I have what? Vowed. He says, I made a vow. Alright, God, you dealt with me. I'm going to carry it through. So, my point I'm trying to make is this: God is not opposed to vows. Making a vow, making a promise. I had someone say to me years ago, preacher, I don't make any promises. That's not true. You can't function in life without making vows, without making promises. I challenge somebody, a couple of young people are looking for jobs through the winter. I challenge them. You go to an employer And you come in there and say, all right, we're going to work from 8 to 5 every day. We'll give you so many dollars an hour. These are the breaks. And you need to be here Monday through Friday, 8 to 5. And say to that employer, I don't make any promises How many people think that young person's gonna get a job? They're not gonna get nobody's gonna hire them. How about uh how about you go to an employer and say, alright, I'll work these hours uh X number of dollars an hour and they say, Listen, I'm not promising you what we're gonna pay you anything. I'll make any promises. You wouldn't work for someone like that. So vows, God's not against vows. We need them in function. Try and go to the wedding the the marriage altar and uh do you promise uh I'm not promising this woman nothing There's not a woman in the world would marry a guy like that with that attitude. People uh vows are a necessary part of life. So God is not against vows. God is not opposed to it. They're very important. In fact, God Make some significant vows himself. We sing a song, Standing on the Promises of Christ my King. What are we saying? We're standing on God's what? Promises. His vows to us. God makes all kinds of vows to us. For instance, 1 Peter 1 verse 4. We don't turn to Adidas. But he says there that he has given us exceedingly great and precious promises. Vowels Matthew 6, 33, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. That's a promise of God. That's God giving us his word. That's God making a vow to us. Matthew 11, 28, come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. That's a promise of God. Isaiah 40, verse 31. They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. What is that? God making a vow. Romans 10, 13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. A vow of God. 1 John 1. 9, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Another tremendous vow, promise from God. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6, trust in the Lord with all thy heart. Lead not unto thy understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall what? Direct thy path. What a great promise of God. A great vow. So God is not opposed to vows. They're necessary to function in society. God makes tremendous vows to us. Now here's my question. What is God's view on vows? How does he see it? He gives us some thoughts here. I'll try and go through them very quickly. Number one, our vows must not be hasty. When I make a vow, Make a promise. I must not be hasty about that. Look at verse 2. Come back here if you would to Ecclesiastes and look with me if you would verse number 2. We've already touched on this a little bit But I think it's in the context, he says, Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thine heart be hasty to utter anything before God. Come down to verse number four. When thou vowest a vow to God, defer not to pay it. For he hath no pledger in fools. Pay that which thou hast vowed I get the idea here that God's view on vows is that we ought not to be hasty when we run in to make a vow. I've found that hasty vows tend to get us in a lot of trouble I wonder how many of us could testify to the fact that at some point we without thinking, we just promised something, we made some sort of vow, then later on we thought it through and thought, ooh, that probably wasn't a good thing to promise. Can I get a witness? A hasty vow. Rushing in headlong into a promise or a vow. I found that hasty vows often bring heartache. Now there's an interstate, there's actually a fascinating event recorded in Scripture. And uh wait more We we might not get through the message. I might have to cut it short, but I do want us to look at this passage simply because it is so fascinating. And it's found in Judges chapter number eleven Here we have the tragic record of a fellow that made a hasty vow and it cost him dearly. Dearly. Judges chapter 11, and I would like for us to begin in verse number 30. And I'll try and fill you in on the context. This is a time of chaos in the nation of Israel. There was no king, and every man was pretty much doing that which was right in his own eyes. In that chaos and the uh consequences of this chaotic society that Israel had become God would raise up judges. Those judges would provide some leadership for a period of time and under their leadership things kind of came together and they'd get things right and God would bless and the judge would pass off the scene and they'd fall back into chaos again. And it was a vicious cycle. Judges chapter 11 records one of these judges who was a tremendous military leader. He was born of uh very uh difficult circumstances and and uh immorality and whatnot was uh was he was born into that But nevertheless, he developed into a very strong leader, a very strong military leader. But I get the impression he was not very mature spiritually Now we see that sometimes in our nation there'll be maybe somebody a strong leader, strong military leader, but they have very little, very uh very little spiritual maturity about them, understanding of spiritual things. I think that was the case with this fellow Jephthah. And so he's called upon to lead Israel to go to war against their enemies. They're about to be destroyed. They need someone to lead them. And Jephthah takes the leadership. Now look with me if you would In verse number 30, he makes a very, very foolish, hasty vow in his immaturity. Verse 30 says, And Jephthah vowed of vow unto the Lord. Alright, that's our subject. And said, If thou wilt without fail deliver the children of Ammon into my hands, Lord, if you'll give us victory, is basically what he's saying. Then it shall be, look at this, that whatsoever cometh forth of the doors of my house to meet me when I return in peace from the children of Ammon. Shall surely be the Lord's. Now look at this last statement. And I will offer it up for a burnt offering. Did you get the vow? Did you find out what you hear what he's saying? Lord, if you give me victory over the Ammonites and I come back in peace, I promise you, God, I vow to you that the very first thing that comes out my front door, I will offer it up to you as a burnt sacrifice. Now, in that day and age they would have animals and different things would often be in the front door, would inc also include the the um the the Not the the outside area, the courtyard is what I'm trying to say. And that would include the farmyard. So it could be any number of things would come out that front door. How many people would agree with me he probably didn't think it through and remember that he also has family members living in that house And so he very foolishly and very hastily, before he goes to war, they call him to be the leader, very foolishly and very hastily says, Lord, you give me victory. Whatever comes out that door I offer as a burnt sacrifice. How many people would agree with me he was probably assuming it would be a sheep or a goat or something like that? Come with me woo if you would uh down to verse number 34 And Jephthah came to Mizbah to his house. This is after the victory. God gave him the victory. And behold, his daughter. Came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances. And she was his only child. Besides her, he had neither son nor daughter. Look at this. And it came to pass when he saw her that he rent his clothes and said, Alas, my daughter, thou hast brought me very low. Thou art one of them that trouble me, for I have opened my mouth unto the Lord. Look at this, and I cannot go back. And she said unto my father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto the Lord, do to me according to that which proceeded out of thy mouth. For as much as the Lord hath taken vengeance for thee of thine enemies, even of the children of Amnet. You come down to verse number 39. It came to pass at the end of two months as she returned unto her father. Look at this, who did with her according to his vow. which he had vowed. Now there's a little discussion among Bible scholars whether he really carried out that vow and offered her as a burnt sacrifice But to me looking at it, it's he made the vow and it says he did with her according to that vow. A hasty vow brought incredible heartache. To Jeptha's life. And what I'm suggesting you, what I believe is being taught in Ecclesiastes, is we need to be very, very, very, very careful about the promises we make. We need to be very, very careful about any vow we make. We need to be, take our time, think it through, be sure this is God's will. Be sure this is in accord with the Word of God. Now, I do have one question. I'm just going to throw it out concerning this instance here. I'm not certain that God Requires of us to fulfill sinful vows. It was obviously sinful for him to offer his daughter up as a burnt sacrifice. That would be horrendous. The Bible has clear instructions about that type of behavior. God condemns it. My Uneducated, ignorant impression is that he carried out the vow. Now again, scholars debate that and People smarter than I debate that, whether he did something instead. But my question, I ask myself on this, does God require me to fulfill a vow that is sinful? And my ill illustration I use for that, what if you have somebody that's raised up, say in a Catholic church, and they g and they make a vow, as a young parent, they make a vow I promise you, God, I will raise my children up in the Catholic religion. And then they get saved. And they realize the scriptures, the Catholic Church in teaching and the scriptures are contrary one to the other. Are they obligated to keep that vow that they made earlier to raise their children up in a church that teaches doctrine contrary to Scripture? I think not. I think God would say, no, that was a sinful vow, that was an ignorant vow, that you and they're not obligated to it. So was Gepta obligated to carry out this vow? People smart and I are going to have to debate that. But my point I'm trying to make At this point, is this we ought to be very, very careful, very, very cautious in the vows we make. And the promises we make, we need to think them through because God takes them very, very seriously. And so here you have this tragic story of Jephthah. I want to suggest to you, hasty vows are not always sinful, but they are often very foolish. I was reading about Martin Luther, the great leader of the Reformation. Of course, we would take issue with a number of doctrinal issues and polity issues. But the there's no doubt the man had a profound impact on the world for Scripture and salvation. Martin Luther as a young man was going through, as I understand the history of it, he was going through uh woods, uh forests And a horrendous storm came up, a lightning storm, electric storm came up, lightning was striking all around him, and absolutely terrified, he fell underneath a log. And he said, God, if you spare me from this storm, I will give my life to be a monk in the Catholic Church God spared him from the storm. He ended up going to the monastery. In the monastery, he began studying scripture. And in his studies of scripture, he realized that salvation is by grace alone, not through the church. And he confronted the church and of course the Great Reformation, the 95 Theses, and he had a profound impact. So there was a case where it was a very hasty vow made. You didn't really think that through, I don't think. But nevertheless, God in his providence brought out something great out of it. John Newton. A horrendous man, sailor, slave trader. In the midst of a storm he made a promise to God, God if you spare me this storm, I'll give my life to live for you. And God spared him. John Newton Newton kept his vow and trusted Christ and became a great influence for the cause of Christ So I'm not saying that every hasty vowel turns out bad, but I'm saying this most of the time, a very hasty vow, one that's not thought through that we rush into, most of the time They bring heartache. Most of the time, they turn out bad. And so we need to be very, very careful about that. Um Some hasty vows that people make that we must carry out, we must keep. There's no escape. I think sometimes people will very hastily, and I'm going to try and be practical here a little bit, sometimes people will in a h in haste will take out a loan. And in the moment without thinking it through, in a moment without thinking about what this is going to require me in the future, you know, when we take a loan out, we are making a vow. You give me this money now, and I promise to you I will pay it back with interest in the future. And I'm telling you, these little credit cards are little vowel cards. They really are. And we can, without thinking and very hastily, get ourselves into a heap of trouble and get ourselves in a deep hole. Because we don't think it through. What is this going to cost me? Can I get a witness? So God's caution in this matter of making vows is we need to be very, very careful. We need to be very, very cautious. Think this through. Jepsah did not do that. Um how about in the matter of marriage? A lot of times, folks will rush into a marriage. They don't even hardly know the person. Meet them and marry them, and that doesn't always turn out bad, and I'm not suggesting it does. But I'm saying this, there's a lot of people had a long, difficult life, had a lot of heartache in life Because they didn't seek the Lord's direction, they didn't wait on God. They didn't follow God's plan. They just hastily made a promise. Oh yeah, I'll marry you, I'll be loyal to you, till death to us part, and don't even know the person. Have no assurance that this is God's will. Then they live the rest of their life. Heartache and pain, misery Now God can take our foolish vows, he can turn them around, and all things can and will work together for good if we'll trust God and love him. But I'm saying this, and I think we all know this is to be true. There have been hasty vows made at a marriage altar that the popes really should have stopped thought that through a little bit. And my caution and my challenge to the young people is, don't you dare rush into marriage. You seek God. You wait on God. You do it God's way. Follow God's plan. And it can be the most wonderful thing in life. Or you can be foolish and hasty about it and struggle through life. You follow what I'm trying to say? God cautions us, don't be rash with your mouth. Don't be hasty to make a vow. I want to throw this in, even faith promise, missions giving. How many folks have ever heard me caution? You pray about this. You seek the Lord. You get m God's mind on this. You make sure you know what God wants you to do on that thing. And so God's view on vows, number one, we ought to uh we ought to avoid hasty vows. Hasty vows. Now, I want to caution. Making a vow very hastily does not justify violating the vow. Oh, I made this promise, I took this vow, I went into this you you this would never work. You know this, this would never work. You run down to the bank Call the credit card up. Hey listen, I wasn't thinking. You know, there's just stuff going on. It looks so good. I didn't think it through. Can I, you know, let's just forget that thing altogether. How many think the bank would say, sure, don't worry about it. It'll be fine. I think it's what happened It's what people try to do in marriage. Listen. I I'm I still believe the Bible. I think it's pretty clear. Marriages till death do you part. Now are the instances where God allows us divorce? Sure. There's a couple instances. The Bible talks about that I'm telling you, there's vows. God takes them very, very seriously is what I'm trying to say. God holds us to those vows very seriously. We need to think this thing through. We need to be careful. I'm telling you, the devil has messed up a lot of people's testimony by getting them to make hasty vows. Well a lot of heartache, a lot of a lot of difficulty. I'm not trying to be unkind, I'm not trying to open up old wounds or anything like that, but I am trying to say this. We need to stop and wait on God and seek God's will and make sure He's in this. I've said this 10,000 times. I have never regretted waiting on God. Never regretted waiting on God. I sure have a heap of instances where I could testify where I got I just jumped into it. I just took things in my own hands and thought I had And got ahead of God, and boy, I regretted that. Can I get a witness? Anybody anybody witness to that? So let's not be hasty. Now I'm gonna quit here. Two other thoughts and 67 subthoughts. I want to stop here. So what do we take away? We finish up the Lord's Day. We go into a new week. What do we take away from this thought? This is what I believe we should take away. Let's wait on God. Let's let the Lord lead us and direct us. Let's be wise. Let's be patient. Let's not be hasty in making vows. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Lord, this is challenging. I think of old Jephthah there. Boy, what a tough thing. And Lord, sometimes we get ourselves in pickles because we don't wait. We rush into stuff. And so, Lord, I ask that you would help us to be patient, help us to wait on you, trust you, and I pray that in all our ways we acknowledge you and you could direct us. I pray particularly for our young people. That you would give them wisdom in the coming week years as they make significant decisions that will affect them the rest of their lives, help them to seek you and wait on you. Help us to be an example. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder how many tonight would say, preacher, I need God to help me be patient. I need God to teach me to wait on him. Some of us maybe tend to be more impulsive than others. We need the Lord's grace to help us be patient, to wait on him, and not be hasty. In some of these matters. Is there any like that, preacher? That's my need. I need God to help me in that matter. God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. I always want to throw this out. Is there any here tonight? Say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I don't want to die and go to hell. Now that is one decision that's earnest. That should not be postponed. That should be made to trust Christ as Savior. Is there anyone here tonight say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I need that settled. I need that settled. Any like that at all? I'll pray for you. Father in heaven. We ask now you would help us to give us faith, give us wisdom in the decisions we make. Help us to wait on you and trust you, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand