Amen. All right, thank you, Pastor. Let's turn tonight please to Genesis chapter thirty-seven. And Genesis chapter thirty-seven will be there. In just a moment, good to of course have my wife Jackie's here with me tonight with our two girls, Jaira and JL, are back there. Two more girls are in the nursery, and that's why she's back there being a background Baptist, so she's awaiting Yeah. She's awaiting the call from the nurse. That's what she says. Anyway. Yeah. But I don't know how trustworthy she is, so Work on that later. Alright, you're Genesis thirty-seven. I'm going to read to you Psalm twenty-seven fourteen. Uh well We uh before uh before I pray here, and then we'll be in Genesis 37 and some chapters around there uh through the remainder of the evening here. Psalm 27 verse 14 says, Wait on the Lord, be of good courage And he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. Our Heavenly Father tonight as Gathered here for this midweek service. Thank you for all those who are who are here, who are being faithful to the midweek service of this church I pray that you would help us tonight to understand and recognize the importance and value of waiting upon the Lord. I pray you would give us the faith to embrace your plan for us as individuals. And we know at times that that's going to involve some waiting upon the Lord. Not all the time, but definitely certain things we're going to have to be patient and wait on you about. And I pray that this text tonight and this lesson that we learned from Joseph Would be something that would stick with us forever, really. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Alright, do you like to wait for anything? Probably not. Uh not many people do. I d I don't like to wait. Uh that's for sure. I think stoplights are basically designed to make me light and ruin all my plans, ruin all my timing Right? I tell this uh story to our church, they get a kick out of this. I grew up in a town that didn't have any stoplights Friendsville still doesn't have a stoplight and isn't that great. Some of you I don't know, but uh when we lived in Philadelphia that's all you saw and people think, you know, when you tell them you grew up in a town with no stoplight, they really think you're from uh the backwards how little they know how b you know backward we really are around here but but we like it right I don't it's uh my mic is on. So you'll have to yell at your sound man. I yell at my phone, yeah, so it's all right. Uh just like to wait. Uh remember waiting Long time ago you get in the the cashier lines at uh whether it's a supermarket or Walmart, something like that, and you're waiting behind somebody who's uh got a thousand items in their cards and they're writing the check and it takes them forever to write the check Now they've got the self-checkout. How many people like the self-checkout? Maybe it's because I'm a millennial, I love the self-checkout. It's not like I don't have to wait anymore. Self-checkouts, great thing. I love it. But the truth of the Christian life is God's going to drive us to waiting at times and we don't like it. Uh are you waiting on anything here tonight? Maybe uh salvation of a family member that you've been praying for for a long time? Maybe it's a spiritual change in another person that you know that they're trying to make. Maybe you're maybe you're waiting on a spiritual change in your own life, right? Uh I'm trying to develop some patience. And I might do that before I die, I don't know. Maybe some of you are are waiting for a a spouse. Maybe you're praying about that. Maybe you're waiting for a health issue to clear up. Tonight we want to look at the life of Joseph to help hopefully encourage us a little bit about waiting. I like to say this. Joseph is a hero of heroes. If you could somehow get a picture or a poster, young people, of Joseph, one of those six-foot-tall posters that you put in there, you've got to put Joseph up there. Or just draw one yourself. Alright. And just uh to remind you, he is uh more of a role model than a lot of role models we have uh today out there. But it's interesting, the seeds for waiting are sown very early in his life And I want to begin here in Genesis 37. I want to read the first two verses, and we'll go through some more of this text tonight, the story of Joseph. And Jacob dwelt In the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan. And these are the generations of Jacob. Joseph being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren. And the lad was with the sons of Bilhah and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives. And Joseph brought unto his father their evil report. So already you have Joseph here as a young man with a tender conscience. about what is right and what is wrong. Verses 3 through 5. Now Israel, that's Jacob, loved Joseph more than all his children because he was the son of his old age. And he made him a coat of many collars And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. So Joseph, at this time, you know, we're very early in the Old Testament. He probably doesn't have any written scripture at this time. They have a little bit or something like that. God then uh spoke to people in that time in different ways. One of them was dreams or visions or something like that very early on in the Old Testament. And so he appears to him in this dream, and Joseph recognizing this as being divine revelation from God Now none of us have to go home tonight and wait for a dream to get God to speak to us through your dreams. He's not going to do that, by the way. So if you think he is, just he's not. And And don't worry about that. But here this is very significant that he does. Verse six through eleven. And he said unto him, Then here I pray you this dream which I have dreamed. For behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright, and behold, your sheaf stood round about and made obeisance to my sheaf. And his brethren said unto him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams and for his words. And he dreamed yet another dream. And told it his brethren and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more, and behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me. And he told it to his father and to his brethren, and his mother rebuked him, or his father rebuked him and said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth? And his brethren envied him, but his father observed the saying. I want to point out something to you. It's very significant. Joseph Got a dream, two dreams that basically meant the exact same thing. But he got two of them. That might not mean anything to you and I tonight. You've got the two dreams that are somewhat similar. But you're going to see how significant this is later. And I'm going to have to skip ahead to chapter 41. I'll read the verse. Chapter 41, verse 32. And uh we'll we'll get back here to Joseph and his problems, but when you come to Genesis 41, 32, uh Joseph is, you know, most of you know the story, I'm taking that for granted. He's pulled out of prison to interpret A dream for Pharaoh. Right? 4132 says, for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice. It is because the thing is established by God and God will shortly bring it to pass. Joseph's got a double dream. Pharaoh's going to get a double dream later. Joseph is interpreting the double dream to Phala, and he's telling him, because this dream is doubled, God is surely going to bring this to pass. Got a question for you. Has Joseph's double dream came to pass at the time of Genesis 41:32? No. It's been a lot of years since the double dream. And none of it has been fulfilled yet. And Joseph is still trusting God. He's still waiting on God that that dream is going to be fulfilled. The message title tonight is very simple. It's Waiting on God. Waiting on God. Many of you are very familiar with Isaiah 40, verse 31. But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Lamentations 3, 25 through 26, some more great verses on waiting. Little book Lamentations, it says, the Lord is good. Unto them that wait for him, to the soul that seeketh him. Do you believe that tonight? That God is good unto the person who will wait upon him, especially waiting upon his promises. He's good to that person. Verse 26, that it is good that a man should both cope and quietly wait for the salvation of the Lord. Now I'm not very good at waiting. I'm definitely not very good at quietly waiting But quietly waiting here, and it's good that somebody would do that. Many times we're forced to wait, it's beyond our ability to get around it. Sometimes we get impatient, though, and force a bad situation. Because we won't wait upon the Lord. Many a Christian young person will not wait for God's choice and marriage because they're in a hurry. And God's not working on their timetable yet. And they'll force a desperate situation Because of a refusal to wait upon God. So back to Joseph, so the promise is clear. Joseph understands what the promise is. Kind of just Basically, that there's coming a time when his family is going to be bowing down in front of him. We'll just put it in a nutshell. That's basically what it is. There's some other things involved. Somehow, Joseph is going to be put in this place of blessing, but Joseph is made to wait on this, and I want you to see a little bit tonight. We're not going to be going through the whole text about how he's made to wait. He lands in Egypt as a slave after his brothers solemn into slavery to the Midianites. He's seemingly, they dragged all the way down to Egypt. His family's still back up there in Israel, up in Canaan Seemingly to him, he will never see them again. I mean, how are they going to come in contact with one another? Humanly speaking, how's that ever going to happen? The future doesn't look very bright for Joseph, and it definitely doesn't look very bright for his dreams to be fulfilled, which God gave him. I don't know what you'd be doing, but I'd be like really doubting these dreams at this point. I'd be doubting about everything. Is that really from God? God must not amend that. That's wrong. I've been banking my life upon this. I've been believing this. But he didn't respond that way. Most of us foolishly make projections about the future based upon the present circumstances of life If Joseph was making projections about the future based upon his present situation in life, they probably wouldn't be very good for projections, but he wasn't. For example, I I could say something like this. Well, I've I went hunting ten times and got nothing I'm going to have to go at least ten more times till I can actually get anything, when really I can kill one the next hunt. I've knocked on the past ten doors, nobody's been interested in the gospel, no one's been interested. I'm going to have to knock at least ten more doors till somebody's interested Well, the next door could be the one. I've applied for ten jobs, I'm going to have to wait twenty jobs to apply until something happens. And that's what we do. At least that's what I do, maybe I'm the only one. Some people, well, I've tithed for ten weeks. God hasn't done anything. I guess it's going to be ten more weeks of tithing until maybe something will happen And we make errors in our projections. Now skip forward now to Genesis 39. And verse number one. Alright, his brothers have have treated him very badly. And uh as I mentioned earlier, he's sold into slavery. They want to kill him, but Reuben steps in and saves the day, in a sense About the only noble thing Reuben ever did. And uh then he's down here with Potiphar, and that's where we are. Genesis 39, verse 1. And Joseph was brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard and Egyptian. Bought him of the hands of the Ishmaelites which had brought him down hither. Alright, now I wonder if Joseph's making any sense of this at this time. Where are you at tonight in your life of faith? If this had happened to you, how would you have reacted? I I'm sad to say, I think I know how I would have reacted. I don't want to tell you, it's not good. You're a slave, you're seemingly at the bottom of the barrel. Because of your faith in God, it seems like God's a liar. It seems like faith is foolish. Look at verse 2. And the Lord was with Joseph. And he was a prosperous man, and he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian. He might be prosperous, but he's still a slave. He's a prosperous slave here. Verse 3. And his master saw that the Lord was with him. That's a message for another time. And that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand. And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him, and he made him overseer over his house, and all that he had put into his hand. And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that the Lord Blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake, and the blessing of the Lord is upon all that he had in the house and in the field. Now remember, the dreams included his family. They included his family bowing down to him, and they might as well be on another planet right now compared to Egypt The rest of the chapter, I'm not going to cover it. He faces this unbelievable temptation with Potiphar's wife. He comes through that pure and clean. And what happens to him for doing right again? Now he gets thrown in prison. He loses his prosperous position, which he has under Potiphar, and thinks he'd be going from bad to worse for this guy. Surely now he will give up on God. Surely this will be the point where he'll just throw in the town. No mom and dad, no brothers and sisters, no aunts and uncles, no support group, no shoulder to cry on, no church family. But God was with him. Very convicting question. Do you need anyone else but God tonight? I know lots of people who seem seemingly need a lot of other things to live for God. They need a lot of other people in their life around them to ever be able to stand for the Lord. And I am grateful and I'm sure you are for the believers that are around me in my life that help encourage me along the way. That's one of the great blessings of the church, by the way, is other believers to support you through difficult times. But do you need anybody else? So God gets his hopes up under Potiphar, and then all of a sudden his hopes are dashed once again. Is God mean? I mean if this was all you knew and you did not know the rest of the account and I was just telling you the story tonight of Joseph and you're hearing it for the first time. What would you be thinking? No, God is preparing for Joseph for something great down the road. God's making him wait. Because waiting creates maturity, and maturity leads to victory. Look in verse 20. We're going to skip ahead to verse 20, Genesis 39, 20. We skip through the situation with Potiphar's wife. It costs him getting cast into prison, losing his position. Verse twenty. And Joseph's master took him And put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound. I've highlighted that in my Bible. Where the king's prisoners were bound. Potiphar's not a king. But Joseph gets put in the prison where Pharaoh's prisoners are found. And he was there in the prison, but the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy. and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison, and the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison. And whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it. The keeper of the prison looked not to anything that was under his hand, because the Lord was with him, and that which he did, the Lord made it to prosper. Notice that what Joseph is getting again, he is getting an opportunity to oversee or be in a place of administration over other people. This is the second time now. It might not be the most grandiose place to be an administrator or to be ruling over other people, but that's what God is allowing him to do. And what is so clear about this story is that Joseph, everywhere he gets placed, whether a good place or a not so nice place, is faithful to the Lord all the time. It doesn't matter what whether it's a position of power or notice or wealth, no matter where he's going to be, as long as he's living and breathing, he is going to be faithful. God has an individual will for your life. He has a plan for getting you to that fulfillment of that calling. It's special. It's suited for your gifts. It's suited for your talents. But we're going to have to wait quiet quietly upon the Lord sometimes to see the fruition of his plan. We will be tested to see if we will quietly wait. There's not a Christian here tonight who's just going to be able to coast through. Not any of you young people tonight are just going to be able to make it through without ever having to wait upon God for many things. God is testing to see if you'll quietly wait. Will you stick with him when you're not feeling like it? Will you stick with him when you don't understand how everything is going? Are you being made to wait upon God today? How about a few classic examples in the Bible of people who did not wait? Sometimes that can help us. Remember Abraham and Sarah? Abraham, God gives Abraham this promise that from his seed, from his seed is going to come, really the Redeemer, really, but he is going to have a direct seed from his line That's going to carry on his name. Well, he and Sarah are getting older, they're not having any children, and uh he he forces a desperate situation by taking Hagar And God clearly doesn't ever command this, doesn't ever give this directive. But Abraham's getting tired of waiting. And we'll try it with Hagar. How about Samson? You read the story of Samson, you'll see that Samson wouldn't wait for anything. So he he finds some woman down there in Temnath that he's interested in. A very young man at this time, and he comes and he demands to his parents, go down there and get her for me. Can he just I can hear him saying that. Wow. Get her for me, for she pleaseth me well. Wow, that I guess that's a qualification for a wife if she pleases you well. He wouldn't wait at all. Saul is another classic example Here, Samuel said, I'm gonna come, I'm gonna be back here in seven days, don't do anything till seven days. So Saul almost waits till the end of the seven days. And gets antsy enforces a desperate situation. Now sometimes waiting is faster. I was uh with one of the members in our church. We were doing a little tree job. and uh suburban area of Connecticut one time. We were on our way back and we were driving through Hartford and the traffic was backed up as it oftentimes is coming through there for whatever reason. And this car comes passing, we're else, we're stopped, it's passing us on the right, on the shoulder, to try to get ahead somewhere. By the way, I did this the other day, but I didn't get pulled over Now I think about that. I should have got it. But anyway. Yeah, yeah. But anyway, so it's I don't know where it was going, if it was trying to weave back in or if it was just trying to get down to the offer. I was trying to get to the offer in. And so uh I thought, well, see if he makes it. Now we couldn't see as far ahead as he was, but when Mr. Stebbins and I finally got down there beside him, he got pulled over. And so He's still waiting. And we were moving right along. So sometimes waiting is faster, but with the Lord is definitely faster. Definitely faster. Joseph has two dreams. As far as we can tell This is the only communication that God ever gave him about this specific dream, about his family going to be bowing down before him, which meant at some point he was going to be rolling over them. He's carrying these dreams around with him in his mind. It's the revelation from God into him. Psalm 69:3 says, I'm weary of my crying. My throat is dried. Mine eyes fail while I wait, or my God. Psalmist is being very honest here about his emotional state. Inwardly he's torn apart. He's crying inwardly, he's about ready to faint, his eyes feel, but he is still waiting. There's no indication that the psalmist ever said, okay, now I'm going to quit. I'm not going to wait anymore. But he does recognize very Truthfully, that waiting is hard on the spirit. It's hard on the emotions. Dr. Bob Jones Sr. wrote a song many years ago. The kids sing this Our kids have sang this in a special church before. It's been great. Just do right till the stars fall. Just gonna do right. That's what Joseph did. Suppose your child for doing right till the stars fall. Joseph's got these promises, nothing's happening. Let's pick up here in Genesis 40, chapter, or verse 1. Is that what that clock's for back there when it gets to a certain number, then you just everything shuts down, you turn the lights off. And you clock like that. And it came to pass after these things that the butler of the king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt. And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers, against the chief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers, and he put them in ward and the house of the captain of the guard into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound. And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them, and they continued a season and ward, and they dreamed a dream, both of them, each man in his dream in one night. Each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the prison. And Joseph came in unto them in the morning and looked upon them, and behold, they were sad And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with them in the ward of his lord's house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly today And they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream. And there is no interpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, what a response this is. Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell me them, I prayed you. Look who's speaking. Someone whose dreams hadn't been fulfilled yet, not even close. And he's going to tell them the interpretation, and he's going to tell them that God is the one who interprets dreams. Could you get knocked around by God? Can you fall down seven times and get back up again, like Joseph does? Can you say to the Lord, Lord, I don't understand what's going on, but I know you make no mistakes and I'm not going to turn and give up on you Then he gives the interpretation of the dream, verse nine. And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph and said to him, In my dream, behold a vine was before me. And in the vine were three branches, and it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shot forth, and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes. And Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand. And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it. The three branches are three days. Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head and restore thee into thy place, and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand. After the former manner, when thou wast his butler. So this is a clear interpretation here that is positive, right? Now verse 14. But think on me. When it shall be well with thee, and show kindness, I pray thee unto me, and make mention of me and the Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house, for indeed I was stolen out of the land of the Hebrews. And here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon. Seemingly here, what's on Joseph's mind is: hey, this is how I'm going to get out. Because he could have just interpreted the dream for the butler and said, okay, no, this is what it is. But know in verse 14 he said, oh yeah, and by the way, when you get out, remember me so I can get out of here. Verse twenty-three Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgot him Verse one of chapter forty one. And it came to pass at the end of two notice the King James here full years. Emphasizing this. Two full years that Pharaoh dreamed, and behold, he stood by the river. I don't know about you, but if I would have interpreted the butler's dream, three days he gets out I'd be hoping, uh I get out. I'd be hoping, hey, this is how God's gonna work to get me out of here But he waits two four years. Don't you think God could have got him out after three days? Four days? Five days? A week? Two weeks? Could have got him out at any time. He wouldn't get him out at the right time. Verse two Chapter 41 Behold there came up out of the river seven well favored kine and fat flesh, and they fed in a meadow. And behold, seven other kine came up after them out of the river, ill-favoured and lean flesh, and stood by the other kine upon the brink of the river And the ill favored and lean flesh kind did eat up the seven well favored and fat kind, so Pharaoh awoke. And he slept and dreamed the second time. Here we go have our second dream, and behold seven ears of corn came up upon one stock, rank and good. And behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind sprang up after them. And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears. And Pharaoh awoke and behold It was a dream. And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled, and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt and all the wise men thereof. And Pharaoh told them his dream, but there was none that could interpret them. See, if Joseph is let out two years ago with the butler, He's not going to be around to interpret these dreams. But by still being in the prison, in the king's prison. Two years later, he's in the perfect place where God wanted him to be to do what God had made him to be. Verse 9. Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember my faults this day. It's about time. Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put me in ward in the captain of the guard's house, both me and the chief faker. And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he, we dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream, and there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew. Servant to the captain of the guard, and we told him, and he interpreted to us our dreams to each man according to his dream he did interpret. And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was me he restored unto mine office, and him he hanged. Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon. And he shaved himself and changed his raiment and came in unto Pharaoh, and Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream. There is none that can interpret it. I have heard say of thee that thou canst interpret a dream, understand a dream to interpret it And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me. God shall give Pharaoh an answer. of peace. This seems to be basically his blueprint for interpreting dreams when he talks to people. It's a righteous man. His thoughts don't easily stray away from his God. Some people just simply will not wait. They flounder all their lives as a Christian. Joseph's story is to correct that. Verse 32. We're skipping ahead here. Verse 32 Read this earlier, but it's good to read it again. And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice. It is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass. Now, I can spend a lot of time in this verse. I won't. He said, shortly bring it to pass. His two dreams certainly are not shortly coming to pass. But his faith is so strong that he is always looking at it as though it's something shortly coming to pass. It would be a good way to look at the second coming, I think, as we sang about tonight. How long has it been? Peter says that the Lord is not slack concerning his promises, some men count slackness, but his long-suffering. Not wishing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance when all the scoffers are saying, Where's the promise of his coming? Everything continues it has it been since the creation of the world until now. And that's the way man is looking at things. Verse 37 And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of all his servants And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as this, a man in whom the Spirit of God is? And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, For as much as God hath showed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise As thou art, and thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be rolled only in the throne. Why be greater than thou And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See I have set thee over all the land of Egypt, and Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and put it upon Joseph's hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck. Something else about waiting. And it comes to us in these verses. After a long wait, sometimes things can happen really fast. Notice how quickly Joseph is pulled out of the dirty prison and exalted to second in command of the entire nation of Egypt. In comparison to how long he had to wait for them. He's in prison with no prospects with a matter of days. He is now to the fruition of the dreams. God's in the business of the supernatural. Seems to love to do things for us that we cannot explain or that often make little sense in our eyes, but we've got to be waiting upon God God knows how to promote the righteous in due time. He knows how to promote those who will patiently wait. Let God be the one who promotes you. Just like the Lord would say unto the Pharisees, he said, Go down there and sit low. Sit in the sit in the worst seats Then, if the governor calls you up, then you'll have a place of exaltation. Don't strive after the chief seats in case somebody happens to demote you. It will be a greater blessing for all of us if we'll recognize his workings and sit back and say, God promoted me because of my faithfulness, not because of my conniving. How many people have tried to promote themselves in some way by their own conniving? I have. Didn't work very well. Thankfully. Psalm 25, verse 3 says, Yet let none that wait on thee be ashamed, let them be ashamed that transgress without cause. Don't be ashamed to wait upon God. There's no shame in it. The world will say there's a shame in it. If you tell the world I'm waiting on the Lord for something, they'll be like, stop, you're lazy. You just don't want it bad. You just don't want it bad enough. Heard that a lot. Just make it happen. Now I'm not I'm not all for slothfulness by any stress of imagination. But there needs to be some waiting on God's promises and not always trying to pull an Abraham or pull a Samson. This is what Joseph did. He waited righteous righteously. He waited faithfully. Spurgeon said this about waiting upon God. As everything Spurgeon writes, you've got to like hang on every word, but it's still good. That which too lightly comes may be too lightly prized. Perhaps our ungrateful spirits need tutoring to thankfulness by an education of waiting. We might not loudly sing if we did not deeply sigh. Wanting and waiting lead to panting and pleading, and these in due time lead to joying and rejoicing. Spurgeon recognized something that we all need to recognize. If it comes easy, it doesn't mean as much to us. It's not as rewarding. So finally tonight, let's hear it straight from the horse's mouth What did Joseph have to say about his waiting himself? You might think, I don't remember reading about what he said about his waiting. Well, it's here. What is Joseph's summation of his long ordeal for waiting upon the promises of God? And it comes in chapter 41 and verse 50. Now I know in our day and age in which we live, people don't put a whole lot of thought into the names of their children. But they used to. Unto Joseph were born two sons, before the years of famine came, which Azanath, the daughter of Potipharah, priest of Own, bare unto him. And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh. For God said he, said Joseph. Hath made me forget all my toil and all my father's house. And the name of the second called Ephraim. For God hath caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction. I particularly like the meaning of Manasseh. For God hath made me to forget all my toil. What he's saying is God had made him Look back at the extremely difficult circumstances of his waiting, and that it was a very light thing unto him. And then back to the point where he had forgotten it. If you wait upon the Lord, I believe he'll do the same. He'll make you forget all your toil in the waiting game. Heavenly Father tonight we There's so much from Joseph that is an encouragement and a blessing. But it did not come as easy for him. He had your word given to him at a young age. And he trusted it all his days and was given the great, great reward of seeing it accomplished in his life, as he patiently and faithfully waited upon your timing. And your plan for his life. And he was able to look back on it and say, and he named his firstborn son with the name that God hath made me forget. All my soil. May we recognize that will be true for all of your children who will patiently wait. In your name I pray. Amen.