Where David says, I waited patiently for the Lord. And then he goes on and says what God did as a result of him patiently waiting on God. And much of the first part is uh the first three verses really are here is his testimony of what God did in response to his patient waiting. So we're going to look at That one phrase, I waited patiently for the Lord. Let's pray together, and we'll pick up where we left off last week. Father in heaven, we thank you again for a good Lord's Day And as was already testified tonight, I I say amen, it's been a blessing. And we thank I thank you so much for this church And how you've blessed us and what you've done in our hearts as individuals. God, what you've done through our church all these many years. God, we've seen you do some wonderful things. Lord, we just, I think, Lord, I can speak on behalf of the entire church. We say, Father, we love you. We're grateful for your goodness and your love for us. Lord, in a few minutes, we're going to remember as a congregation, as a body, what you did for us on that cross when you gave your body and blood. Lord, I just pray you'd use maybe some thoughts here from this passage to prepare our hearts as we humble ourselves before you at the Lord's Supper, and then we go out to try and live for you this week. I ask that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, I yield my my will and present my body And pray you'd help me. And pray that you'd speak through me. And help us to learn, to wait patiently. Help us learn that, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now we know all scripture is given by inspiration of God, right? We understand that. Malik Independent Baptist Church, we believe the Bible is God's word. Every single word of it is exactly what God gave us. This book is without error. Without mistake, everything it says is absolutely true. We believe that with all our hearts. So, having said that, there are certain passages of Scripture that kind of stand out in our hearts and minds. How many people here, I'm just curious, how many folks tonight, you say, preacher, there's certain maybe it's a chapter, a verse, a certain book of the Bible, but you say, man, that thing just that I connect with that passage. in a unique way. Anybody? Anybody here at all? Certain passages. And sometimes we'll take a text or a verse and we'll say, that's my fat that's my life verse And we'll just kind of hold on to that. And I think that's a good thing. I think it's good to have a life verse. I've had mine have fluctuate a little bit over the years. I think I've had three that passages that I claimed as a life verse over the years. Through my college years, Matthew 6, when it was Mark 11, 22, Jesus answering said to them, Have faith in God. That one little statement helped me so much through my college years, ups and downs, trials, blessings, have faith in God. Have faith in God. And then now my dad wrote for 30 years or more, he'd write me a letter every every week of the world. And he'd finished that letter with Philippians 1. 6, being confidence, very thing. That he which hath begun a good work in you will perform and say the day of Christ Jesus. And I've claimed that now, and I'm holding on to that. But early in my Christian life, as I and I mentioned this last week, I came across Psalm chapter 40 And those first three verses, as a new believer being saved out of a life of sin, just I don't know how else to say it other than to say they connected with me. There was a heart connection with David in that situation. He says, I waited patiently for the Lord. And he inclined unto me and heard my cry And here's what really struck me. He brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings. He had put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it in fear and shall trust in the Lord. How many folks here you'd say, uh God did that for me when I got saved? Brought me out of a horrible pit, set, established my goings, gave me purpose in life, gave me some stability in my life. I had purpose now. I had direction for my life. And so this is a this is a tremendous passage of scripture. It's coming from the heart of David, a man who knew the ups and downs of life. He knew the whole spectrum, emotional spectrum of light, the spiritual. He knew what it was to be thoroughly right with God. He knew what it was to be absolutely far from God in sin. Last week we started, we looked at that statement. I patiently waited for the Lord, and we tried to give a definition of what he means by that I patiently waited, uh, or uh I uh uh I waited patiently, he says. And if you remember, we pointed out those two words, waited patiently, actually both come from the exact same word. And if we would go back, it would almost have this idea. I waited while I was waiting on the Lord. I waited patiently for the Lord. And if you remember, we pointed out that what I think David is saying here is this: He says, I waited on God, but I did it without getting frustrated. I waited without getting annoyed and aggravated. And I think we all know what it means to sometimes we're in a situation Where we don't have much choice. We have to wait, or maybe we choose to wait, but we don't like it. Can I get a witness? Anybody? We have to wait, and the longer we're waiting, the more annoyed we get. And we get aggravated, we get we start to fret, and uh and if we're not careful, we get so worked up we start taking things into our our own hand. And so David is saying here, he says, I got to the point in my life, I was in a situation where I learned to wait on God patiently. Without getting frustrated or aggravated with God. So that's the definition here. We noted in Hebrews 6, where uh it says that uh uh I think it was Abraham patiently endured, being patient, patient, patient. How many folks here you would say, preacher, I could use a little more patience in my life. Anybody here? How many people want more patience right now? Yeah I do. I want it now. So the definition, waiting patiently, it's waiting without getting aggravated, just however long it takes. I'm calm. I'm at peace, I'm not aggravated, I'm not all annoyed. So that leads me to my second point, and this is that's where we ended last week. My second point is this: the discipline of waiting patiently. Waiting patiently does not come naturally. In fact, I want to suggest to you that for your average person, patience does not come naturally. Am I right or wrong? Now some people, you know, for whatever reasons, they have a natural disposition where they tend to be a little more laid back and Sometimes they tend to be a little more patient, but generally I don't know any parents that had to teach their children how to be impatient. Alright, Bobby Sue. Here's how you get really aggravated if you don't get what you want right when you want it I don't know anybody that's ever taught that, right? Anybody here ever have to teach your children how to be impatient? No, our I don't know. Our boys from the moment they showed up, it was like they wanted what they wanted right away You know, middle of the night, screaming. And so we're patiently waiting, waiting patiently, does not come naturally. It's not some it's something we have to learn It's kind of like contentment. It's in the same category as contentment. And even the great Apostle Paul said, I have learned In all things, to be content. It didn't just come naturally. And so what I want to try and do tonight, I think I have I have five suggestions on how to develop The ability to wait patiently. How to develop that ability. Actually, the ability to Wait patiently on God or in any circumstance is a characteristic of mature faith Oh, it is an impatient Christian. Can I say this? An impatient Christian is really behaving in an immature way spiritually. Uh in impatience and irritability at not getting what I want when I want it, not something not happening on my time frame, and then getting uh fretting over that and getting irritated with that is really an indication of a weakness of my faith Now we hate to admit that because all of us deal with impatience, but really if you boil it down, it is a uh a characteristic of immaturity spiritual immaturity and uh and uh and weak faith and so uh how can I develop this? How can I learn to wait patiently like David did. Well, let me give you a few here, real quick. Number one, you might want to jot these down. I think they're helpful. They're all directly from Scripture Number one, I put this down. I must develop a strong trust in God. I must develop a strong trust in God. And by the way None of these are secrets. There's no secret to it. There's no, you know, it's not some great epiphany. Oh, I've found the secret to waiting patiently. No, it's all right here in Scripture. Number one, develop a strong trust in God. Come back to Psalms 37. Just a page or so back there in your Bible. Psalm 37. Again, this is David writing Under the inspiration of God, of course. But he's touching on this idea of waiting patiently. Look at verse number one of Psalm 37. He says, fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity, for they shall soon be cut down like the grass. And wither is the green herb. Now look what he s look what he suggests here. He says, don't fret. Let me ask you this question. Let's have group participation tonight. My voice is is uh failing me here a little bit, so let's I'll have you all talk instead of me. And uh but what does it mean to fret over something? Worry, what else? Huh? Complain? Fretting? Anybody else have something? Getting irritated, fretting over this, um uh what? Just anxious over, being anxious over something and uh uh getting irritated, uh restless Because of the evildoers? It means this is the definition I found. It means to get worked up over something. Anybody here ever wait in line at Walmart, get worked up? Anybody here get worked up because they got seventy-five uh checkout counters and there's one person there and the self-checkout is lined up back to the fishing department And that's Freddy. And he says, don't do that. Fredding is the opposite of patient waiting patiently Fretting. Now notice what he says we should do to avoid that. How to not how many people would like to go through your life and never fret again? Wouldn't that be wonderful? He says how to do it. Look what he says here. Verse 3: Trust in the Lord. Nothing profound, just a simple, basic Bible truth. Trust in the Lord. Do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land. Verily thou shalt be fed. God will take care of you. It's going to be alright. It's not your time frame, maybe. It's not the way you thought it should be done, but God, hey, I got news for you. God knows what He's doing. Trust him. Just trust him. He'll take care of you. It'll be alright. Look at verse 4. Delight thyself also in the Lord. Just trust them, delight in them. I've found it's easier to enjoy someone I trust than someone I don't trust. He says, You trust me. You let me take care of you. And you know what you're going to end up doing? You're going to end up delighting in me. You're going to love me. Delight thyself also in the Lord. Look at this. He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Just trust him. Verse 5. Commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in him. And he'll bring it to pass. You can wait patiently. You don't have to get worked up. You don't have to fret. You don't have to get irritated and all of that. You say, but I'm on a schedule. I've got places to go and people to see, things to do. He says, listen, you just trust me. You just trust me. Just put it in my hands. I'll take care of you. Commit thy way unto the Lord, verse 5. And uh trust also in him. He'll bring it to pass. Look at this. And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light and thy judgment as the noonday. You'll be right what you ought to be if you'll just trust him and put it in his hands. Don't get fret, don't get worked up. Look at verse 7. Rest in the Lord and what? What's it say? Come on, talk to me Wait patiently. Rest in the Lord. Just put yourself in his hands. Rest in the Lord. You say, but preacher, I'm under a schedule. Just rest in the Lord. Wait patiently for him. Look at this. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices. And then he goes on, cease from anger for don't get all worked up. Don't get all worked up. Look, he says again, verse 8, threat not thyself. Say, preacher, how do I learn to wait patiently? How can I have that? Well, learn to trust the Lord. I have to get to the point, listen, I have to get to the point in my Christian life where I'm confident that God knows what he's doing. That God is in control. That I can trust Him. He loves me. He cares about me. He will take care of me. Just trust them. Just trust them. You with me? Wait patiently. Wait patiently. I've got to learn to trust them. So how do I develop waiting patiently in the Lord? Just learn to trust God. He we learned this morning, he's all powerful, isn't he? It's nothing too hard for him. Oh, but I gotta do something here. Hold, hold, hold, hold. Hold your horses Uh, just wait patiently. God can do it. The more I get to know God and His Word, the easier it is to wait patiently on Him. The more I get to know about God. Can somebody tell me what Romans 10, 17 says? Romans 10, 17. We memorized this a couple years ago Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing By the word of God. You say, preacher, how do I learn? I want to be patient. I want to learn to wait patiently. Well, you gotta learn you gotta you gotta decide to trust God. Well, how do I have faith to trust God? Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by what? You probably know where I'm going with this. You want to develop trust in God, faith in God so I can wait patiently? Spend time in the Word of God. You know what I think? This is my opinion. I'm convinced of this. I am absolutely convinced of this. Every Christian ought to spend a little bit of time every day in the Word of God, letting God speak to my heart. Amen or not? And I'm going to keep on preaching that till everybody in church is spending time every day in the Word of God, letting speak. And then when everybody in the church is spending time every day in the Word of God, God speaking at your heart, I'm going to keep on saying that Because I'm never going to learn to wait patiently until I'm never going to develop that ability until I learn to trust God. And the best way to learn to trust God is know what he says. Let him speak to my heart through his word. Get alone with God. I think early morning is the best time. Get that book open. Let God speak to your heart. Pour your heart out to him. Trust him with your cares and your needs and your burdens, your desires. Don't be afraid to tell God what you would like to have, what you'd like for him to do. If it's not his will, I trust him. God, this is on my heart. This is a desire mine. This is a need I have. This is a situation. Pour it out to God. Learn to trust Him. And we'll be able to wait patiently for the Lord. A patient spirit is a clear evidence of a strong faith. I've said this 10,000 times. I have never regretted waiting on God. I've never regretted that. I've never regretted trusting God. Come over to Psalm 37 again, just or 27, just a few pages back there. Again, David speaking here. And verse number, if you would, notice with me, verse 13. Psalm 27, Psalm of David, verse 13. Look at this. I had fainted. Unless I had what? Believed, trusted, believed, put my faith in, I had fainted unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Now look what he says. Look, wait on the Lord. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait. I say on the Lord. David believed God's word. He believed that God what God said was so, and he learned to wait on the Lord and strengthen him. So number one, how do I learn to wait patiently, Lord? Number one, I've developed a strong trust in God. Number two, write this one down. Submit to the will of God. Submit to the will of God. We won't turn there for sake of time. I think most of us are familiar with Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Say it with me. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths What a passage. Submit my will to God's will. Lean not on my own. You say, but preacher, I got it has to be this way. I've got this thing all figured out. I know how this has to come down I know how this has to play out. I've got it all figured out. And God says, don't you lean on your own understanding. You trust in me with all your heart. You trust in me with all my heart. That means I submit my will, I submit my reasoning, I submit my reasoning out. I put it all in God's hands and I trust Him I put this down. It means submitting my plans to his plans. Submitting my expectations to his expectations. How about this one? Submitting my schedule To God's schedule. Anybody here ever plan things out? Oh, this what this week, this is the way it's going to happen. I'm going to do this, that, and the other. I got it all planned out. And there's nothing wrong with planning. That's fine in and of itself. As long is my plans are submitted to God's plans. Man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directs his steps. We can make all the plans we want, and that's fine. Again, nothing wrong with it, but I need to every day say, Lord, not my will, your will be done. God, I want you to lead me. You direct me. Anybody here ever planned something out and you had it all figured out and it didn't go the way you planned? And you look back and say, Praise God, it didn't go the way I planned. So I gotta submit my will to him. Number one, have strong faith in him, and submit my will to him. I think one of the most difficult things in the Christian life, or a difficult thing in the Christian life Is trusting God when I don't understand what's going on. Lord, I don't understand what you're doing. Lord, I don't understand why you're letting this happen. God, I don't understand these things. But Lord, I trust you and I just submit to your will, whatever you're doing. Anybody ever been there? And so we can learn to wait patiently, oh Lord. I think this is, Jesus said, take my yoke upon you. I think that's what he's talking about. Just submit to my will. Let me lead you and direct you. And you'll be able to wait patiently. As I submit to God's will, the Holy Spirit fills me. Just did a series on the fruit of the Holy Spirit As I submit to the will of God, as I walk in the Spirit is another way, a biblical way of saying it. I walk in the Spirit, in the will of God, yielded to God, dying to self, submitted to Him, the Holy Spirit fills me. And the Holy Spirit bears the fruit of the Spirit out of my life. Not something I'm working up, but the Holy Spirit does. And one, if you remember, one of the fruit of the Holy Spirit is long suffering. A type of patience, long suffering, waiting patiently. And the Holy Spirit enables me to do that. He produces that it's not someone, I am waiting patiently. No, no, no, no, no. I'm yielded to God, I'm submitted to his will, the Spirit of God fills me, puts peace in my heart And uh a love in my heart for those who I'm waiting on. And um and then long suffering and I I learned to wait patiently. Number one Develop a strong trust in God. Number two, submit my will to God. Number three, strengthen my prayer life I told you, none of this is real profound. It's basic Bible Christian living type stuff. But strengthen my prayer life. Turn with me, if you would, to Philippians chapter number four. Philippians 4. And notice with me verse 6 and 7. Again, a familiar passage of scripture. Nothing obscure, some unfamiliar passage. We've read this. Many of us have memorized this. But it's part of Developing the ability to wait patiently. Look at verse number six. Be careful. That word careful there has the idea of work uh worked up, anxious. Doesn't mean don't care about things. But it means to all be all uh on edge and I've got ulcers worrying about all this stuff. Be careful for what? Nothing. But in what? Everything by prayer and supplication, that's earnest prayer, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. Look at this. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding. He can't even comprehend it. Shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. You know what that peace of God is? That's the ability to wait patiently. Just to wait. Peace. There's peace there. Everybody's all worked up. I can't believe and God gives you just the peace in your heart. It rules in your heart. I'm not all worked up. I'm waiting patiently. Waiting patiently. So develop a strong prayer life. I've found that prayer changes my attitude about as often or maybe more than it changes my circumstances. I keep going back to Walmart because it tests my patience. You go back there and you start and you and you're in a hurry and there's uh And it's the and I say this all the time, it's the ten item line and they've got twelve items. And um and I just Lord You got a purpose, you have a reason. I just and God gives me peace. And everybody around is like, why aren't they hairy enough? And I'm just here. Jesus loves me. This I know I just have the peace of God in my heart. And God does that. And it's through prayer life, strength in my prayer life. Mature Christianity requires much prayer. Learn to pray. Learn to pray every day you ought to spend time in prayer, ought to get alone with God and pray. You ought to have a prayer list And ham on down and pray, pray for others, pray for the church, pray for the lost. You ought to have a lost a list of lost people. You ought to pray for uh church members, pray for our government leaders, we're told very specifically. But You ought to pray for yourself. You ought to pray and ask God. Help me have faith. God help me have a God. David prayed this: create in me a clean heart, O God. God, strengthen my faith. Help me to be strong in my faith. Pray. And that will help us develop the ability to wait patiently. Number four, stay focused on Jesus Christ. Stay focused on Jesus Christ. We came here in September of 1993, and some of y'all that were here remember, God put on my heart, I was out in Boulder, Colorado, living out there serving in Bible time. And I heard a preacher on the radio and he preached from Hebrews 12 where it said, Looking unto Jesus And I knew we were coming here. We had already candidated and the call was extended. I accepted it. We had several weeks in between there where we were getting ready to come out. And I heard that And God pressed on my heart, that is the motto for your ministry at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Looking unto Jesus. Looking unto Jesus. And for all these years, we don't say a lot about it all the time, but I'm telling you, after all these years, I've tried as pastor to lead this church. For us to keep our eyes on Jesus Christ. Keep our eyes. We see stuff going on in the government, in the world, we get all worked up, and I keep saying, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, let's keep our eyes on Christ. Amen. When things trouble, finances come up, we deal with this, we deal with that, we deal with a basement, dealing with fixing up a basement. Let's keep our eyes on Jesus. And it'll help us wait patiently. Keep our focus on the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen to what Isaiah said under the inspiration of God in chapter 26, verse 3. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace Whose mind is what? State on thee. Keep your focus, keep your attention, keep your mind on Christ. He's a King of kings and Lord of lords. He's the omnipotent one. And keep your eyes on him. Perfect peace is the absence of frustration. If I keep my mind on Christ Uh he'll keep me in perfect peace. It's the absence of frustration. How many people would like to go seven days from now until next Sunday without being frustrated over anything. Anyone here would like to have that? Sure. I'll tell you how. Keep your mind on Christ God will keep you in perfect peace. It means the absence of agitation. How many people would like to live at home for seven days and not be agitated one bit? Anybody here? Yeah, don't look at your spouse. Don't look at Christ. Amen. Keep your mind stayed on Him. It means the absence of frustration, the absence of agitation, the absence of worry. I wish I could tell you your pastor never worried. I struggle with that. I worry about stuff sometimes. I know. Hey preacher, the Bible says, be careful for that. I know But if I keep my mind on Christ, He gives perfect peace. I will keep him in perfect peace. It means I like this. That phrase perfect peace means the absence of impatience. Absence of impatience. Face focused on Christ. Let me give you the last one. Number five. If I want to develop the ability to wait patiently, Lord, just keep serving God faithfully. Just keep serving God faithfully. Um just keep on serving, just keep on serving. You say, you say, uh My Sunday school class, I'm not getting anywhere with these kids. I'm just wasting my time and uh I'm not getting anywhere in this class and Nobody's paying it. Nothing's happening. No lives are being changed. By the way, every Sunday school teacher ought to want to see their students' lives changed by the Word of God. If it's not happening, I want to pursue it. I want God to do something. I want God to do something in the lives of those who I'm teaching and preaching the Word of God to. His word will not return void. But you say, I don't see nothing happening. Oh, it's a waste of time. I'm saying to you, you just keep right on teaching. You keep right on praying for them. Sooner or later a little Malcolm's going to show up. You know? We'll see some we'll see God do something sooner or later. Just keep right at it. Just keep right at it. Just keep right at it. Don't you quit. Keep serving God faithfully. Keep loving people. Oh, people are so hateful anyway. You just keep on loving. Um uh you say, what do I do? Somebody, I got a family member that uh just is so hateful to me. I'm trying to live for God and they give me a hard time and Maybe there's a coworker and they're just impossible and they're so hateful. Or maybe there's a neighbor, somebody they're just and what a hey, when somebody is uh hateful to me, what it does, it gives me an opportunity. To be a disciple of Jesus Christ. Because Jesus said that we are to love those who hate us. We are to do good to those that despitefully use us and pray for them. And so when people are being hateful to us, people are being unkind, we're dealing with haters out there I can love them back. And in doing so, I'm following my Lord's instructions to love those who hate me. To be kind to those who are unkind. Just keep on loving. Just keep on loving. Just keep on loving. And God will give us the ability. Keep on giving. Just give to the Lord. Trust Him as God leads you. You just trust Him. Keep on witnessing. Keep on witnessing God will help us to wait patiently. I remember, many of you remember Sue Tegarden. People remember she's been with the Lord now. How long has that been now? Goodness. Ten years maybe? Not quite that long, maybe. Six, five, or six. Uh Chu was a blessing. She was so faithful, this church. And uh she uh she got up in years and she came Thursday night soul winning and she would come out visitation Thursday night, oh just faithful as can be Uh we go on mission trips. She wanted to go along on mission trips and she just got so elderly. I had a I had a uh I think I mentioned this recently, but I had to finally tell her Sue, listen, you can't she we were in Puerto Rico, she fell ended up in merchant room. We were worried about that. And so we were going to go back. She wanted to go and I said, So, you know, it's just it's not healthy for you. It's a little dangerous. She got very angry at me. And um but um she got over it. And um I loved her anyway. But uh Sue one time we were got back from visitation. She came to me and she was a little agitated. And she said, Pastor, she goes, I witness and witness, and I give out tracts, and I try so hard to win people to Christ. And she said, I never see anybody saved. What do you say? I said, Sue, don't you quit. You keep on giving tracks out, you keep on visiting, you keep on witnessing I said, maybe one of these days you'll see somebody saved. And then I said this, I said, Sue, I don't know. God knows, and I'm not a betting man, but if I was, I would dead That there are people coming to Christ that you don't know anything about, but it was because of your faithful witness that God used you to bring people to Christ that you never knew until you got to heaven. By the way, she knows now I wonder how many people come up and hugged her neck in heaven. Maybe some folks from Puerto Rico got a Romans booklet, How to Be Saved, because she handed it to them. And come up and hug on her neck. What I'm trying to say is this: you want to learn to be wait patiently, just keep on serving God. Keep on serving God. Learn to pray. Trust God. And let God develop that in you. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you'd help us develop this ability to wait patiently. To wait patiently Wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher, I need to just, I just need to develop a stronger faith in God. Just develop a stronger trust in the Lord. Just decide to trust Him. Is there anything like that? By the uplifted hand, I need to do that. God bless you. It's a lifelong endeavor. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I need to submit my will to God. It seems like I'm always bucking the will of God. And I just need to put down my arms and just surrender to the Lord and say, yes, Lord, not my will. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. I need to submit to the Lord. God bless you. Hands all around, I don't know how God may be leading you. How about this matter of uh strengthening the prayer life Any here say, Preacher, I need to pray more earnestly, more faithfully, more considerably. Any like that? Sure, we're just going down the list here. How about daily Bible reading, getting in the Bible, young and old, reading the Bible? Any like that, preacher, I need that. God bless you. Staying focused on Christ. I get all worked up, everything going on in the world, people, and I just need to keep my eyes on Jesus. And you like that And then just staying faithful, serving God faithfully, serving God faithfully, just go at it, go at it, go at it. Any there, preacher, I don't want to quit. I want to keep serving. God bless you. Let's pray together. Father, bless now as we have the invitation. Lord, as we prepare our hearts for the Lord's Supper, I ask your Holy Spirit. would um would uh just uh stir us and help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's plan