Verse number one, and I'm just going to read verse number one. As I said, it's beginning this new series. I've entitled the series Patience and Praise. And that's what I get from this chapter, and we'll s you'll s I think you'll see that as we work our way through in the coming months and and years. Um But uh notice verse number one. It says, I waited patiently, waited patiently for the Lord. And he inclined unto me and heard my cry. That first statement, he opens up with this statement, I waited patiently for the Lord. And so That's how I've entitled this introductory message, Waiting Patiently. So let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless as we begin our study here in this tremendous chapter in the Bible. I pray that you would speak to our hearts and not I ask, Lord, that the truths and the principles that these passages contain, that your Holy Spirit would draw them out and we could see them very clearly. And we would understand how they apply to our lives, and we would follow through and then live out the lessons that are taught here in our daily weekday life I pray this study would make a difference in our lives. That our faith would be stronger, our testimony would be more effective. Maybe our hearts We'd be more at peace. And God, I just ask you to use this. This wouldn't just be academic. God would be very practical and very spiritual in our lives. Our homes would be better. Our our workplace would be better. God our service would again would be more effective. So fill me with your spirit, I ask dear Lord, with all my heart. Pray that you would speak through me tonight. In Jesus' name, amen. I got saved, as you know, at the age of nineteen. Shortly after I got saved, I came across this Psalm chapter 40. Of course, uh the Bible, a lot of the Bible was new to me. I didn't No whole lot. I'd, you know, been Sunday school as a a small child, but I I didn't pay much attention. But as I s as I got saved, I began to take the Bible seriously. And I just devoured it. I don't know how else to describe it. And I came across Psalm chapter 40, and this chapter connected with me. As I read this, it was like uh I uh I was like I I understand what he's saying. I understand that It connects to my heart what he's saying here, particularly the first three chapters. It says, I waited patiently for the Lord. He inclined to me and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay He set my feet upon a rock and established my goings. He put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it in fear and shall trust in the Lord. I tell you, as I come across that, the first time I'm reading this passage as a believer, and it just struck a chord. And so for many years this became my favorite text Again, the first three verses particularly, but the chapter as a whole. And um I I of I've used it for a number of years as my text, my life text. Now I think it's good to have a life verse, life text. I've had various ones over the years. They've kind of changed a little bit every now and then. And For me, for many years. And um and as I said, as I read through this chapter, I'm studying it for this series in a little more in-depth, maybe, than just reading it. I come across, I see patience in here, and I see praise. And I'll tell you, those two attributes, those two characteristics of being patient And learning to praise God, those are two, in my mind, two of the greatest characteristics that a Christian can have. Learn to be patient and learn to praise God. And I think that's what this chapter is all about. Like most of the Psalms penned by David, authored by God of course, but penned by David Most of them are a mixture of despair and deliverance. This one's no exception. Look at verse number one and three. We just read it. Brought me out of a horrible pit, out of miry clay. He set my feet upon a rock. Put a new song, Despair and Deliberance. Look with me if you would at verse 13 He said, be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. Oh Lord, make haste to help me. He's in a fix. He's in a situation. Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it. Let them be driven backward and put to shame, that wish me evil. Let them be desolate. For the shame uh for reward of their shame that they say unto me, Aha, aha. He's in a fix here. Then look at verse 17. But I am poor and needy, yet the Lord thinketh upon me. Thou art my help and my what? Deliverer. Despair and deliverance. We see that in a lot of David's Psalms. He's sharing his heart, his experience. And then we also see praise and prayer He references prayer throughout here. He references praise. And so that's true of a lot of his Psalms. We saw that this morning in Psalm 61. We preach from there And again, if you look here at verse number one above the title there, again, very similar to this morning, there's little background information given on this psalm. We really don't know Anything about the background of the psalm, when it was, or what the immediate s circumstances were, what the details are that prompted him to pen this and God inspire it. We don't know a lot of that, but a couple things we do see says to the chief musician, if he's writing this psalm and giving it to the chief musician who would be the choir director or the song leader, Brother Austin or Brother Mark, somebody like that then if he's given it to the song leader, you would expect it would be what? Sung by the people And by the congregation. He's not giving it to an individual or a certain little group of people. It's for everybody. Like they say down south. It's for all y'all Everybody. And it's not a select. Some passages of scripture are for specific people. Can you think of any passage maybe that's directed to a specific person or group of people? I'm thinking of Timothy for the qualifications for pastor. That's directed to a very specific individual. The qualifications for deacon. Ephesians 6. 1. Children, obey your parents in the Lord. So that's directed to who? To children And uh so we see that, but this, this is for all y'all, is for everybody. Everybody Can benefit from this. Everybody can be exhorted, instructed, corrected, strengthened through this. It's for everybody. And so it's for all God's people. Again, it's penned by David I love the Psalm. You know, all scriptures given by inspiration of God, but there's something about the Psalms that David penned, that David wrote, seemed to really strike the heart. David was an amazing man, as I mentioned again this morning. You talk about a dramatic life. Good grief If you write a novel, if if if David's life was put in novel form, it would be a best-selling drama. If they made a movie and by the way, I don't believe the Bible was penned in a way that to be it's not designed to be have movies made out of it. I think it's given to us in such a way it's designed to be taught and preached. You follow with me? Not so much portrayed. And there's nothing necessarily wrong with that. But if you were going to make a movie out of the life of David, it would be a dramatic movie. You ought to take some time and just read his life, just read it. It's incredible. Um he's he's a military hero They're singing his praises. The women are singing his praises. He's handsome. He's strong. He's a military hero. But then he's a scoundrel. He's cheese stealing his top man's wife, and then he kills him, murders him, gets other guys in on it And so he's a military hero, and then yet he's a scoundrel. He displays incredible humility. At times, he humbles himself before Saul is trying to kill him. And at other times, he's so proud. And 70,000 people lose their lives because of the pride of David in numbering the people. Well you talk about drama. Um he displays tremendous integrity It says numerous times as he's in King Saul's court, he behaved himself wisely. He behaved himself wisely. Man of integrity. And yet He ends up a man of infidelity. He commits adultery with a woman. He takes multiple wives. And so David is uh David experienced the whole spectrum of life emotionally. You read portions of David where his emotions are just exuberant, and he's praising God with all his heart, and he's glorifying God. And then you come across the other end of that spectrum and he despairs even of life. Can't even when uh when his family's taken there, is it ziglag where his family's taken And uh they thought to stone him and he despairs of life. He he has both ends of the spectrum. There's not one of us where David could not relate to whatever we're going through at some point in life And this comes out in his Psalms. He speaks to our heart, of course, the Holy Spirit, through David's writings, spiritually. Uh he writes some of the most profound s portions of scripture there are. Of course, again, under the inspiration of God. But the heights of spirituality that David, he understood God. He knew God. He knew the heart of God. He was a man after God's own heart. What God loved, David loved. What God hated, David hated. He's a man after God's own heart. And yet, he's a hypocrite When he's putting on a show that he didn't do anything wrong for a year or two after Bathsheba. Remember, we studied that. What a man. And all this comes out in his writings as we study the chapters he wrote. Now here's Psalm 40 And uh I notice uh I've broken it down into three divisions here. Verses 1 through 5, we have a personal testimony from him. He said, I waited patiently Lord. He heard me, brought me up. He gives his testimony here. And uh apart from the Word of God The most powerful tool that you and I have in witnessing to others is our personal testimony. Now, this book is powerful. Amen or not? You give people the word of God and you never know what's going to happen. That's why I love giving out tracts. That's why I like this uh free Bibles things. Man, they're taking it and read it. And uh I think it was Dave gave a tract to a lady And she's walking down the sidewalk reading the gospel tract. Man, you don't know what God's what's happening in her heart and mind as she's taken in the Word of God But apart from the Word of God, the most powerful tool that you and I have to influence people, to touch their hearts, and see them come to Christ is to testify what God has done for us. That personal testimony. You see it all through Psalms or through Acts. The Apostle Paul gave his testimony over and over and over and over again. This is what God did for me. This is what God did for me We go out of here this week. Don't be afraid to share with people how God saved your soul and what he did and how he how he uh used his word to bring conviction And you understood Christ, you trusted Christ, and God forgave you and changed your life. And so we have David's personal testimony here. Powerful. And then I see in verses six through nine we have a clear prophecy of the Savior. Actually, that passage, verses 6 through 9, are quoted directly in the book of Hebrews, chapter 10, verses 5 through 9, and it's attributed to the Lord Jesus Christ. And how that Jesus offered himself up to the will of God to be a sacrifice for our sins, to die in our place, to pay the wages of our sins. And it's a prophetic portion of Scripture here, of the Lord Jesus Christ, of our Savior. And whether David comprehends all that this was prophesying or not. Uh perhaps he did, maybe he did, I don't know, but it's definitely a prophecy of the Lord Jesus Christ offering himself for a sacrifice I get criticized sometimes for preaching too much about the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ and the gospel. I'm here to tell you our message is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Whether it's Old Testament, New Testament, it's all through Scripture. It's the scarlet thread that runs through the Word of God. Jesus died for our sins, was buried, rose again. That's our message. And so I see it's here. And then verses ten through seventeen, I see this intense prayer for mercy. David praying for mercy. I tell you, the great characteristic in my mind about King David is not that he was sinless. Because he wasn't. Right or wrong. He was far from sinless. But the thing that stands out in my mind about David Is that he recovered from his sin so thoroughly. I tell you, when he messed up, he messed up. When he sinned, I'm telling you, he sinned. I'll tell you, when he repented and he made things right, he repented thoroughly. He confessed scripturally and he dealt with it the way it ought to be. Not one of us here, not one of us here is sinless. Somebody tries to tell you they're sinless, they're lying. Or they're delusional. Ask their spouse if they agree with that assessment. David was not sinless, but one thing he was. He was sincere and thorough in his repentance of his sin. Psalm 51, we've preached from that many, many times. What a powerful, powerful prayer of repentance and confession. And so we're not sinless, but thank God we are able we're able to repent, confess and repent and find forgiveness. A just man falleth seven times, but he doesn't stay down. What's he do? Rises up again. Rises up again. We see that in David's life. He rose up again. He rose up again, rose up again. And so, powerful chapter here, powerful chapter. And he begins with this statement: I waited patiently for the Lord. I waited patiently for the Lord. What does it mean to wait patiently for the Lord? The definition of waiting patiently for the Lord. Well, waiting patiently is just sitting around and sitting around idle. I'm just waiting patiently. I had a guy years ago who got saved to baptized him. He lived down here in Mountain Lake Park. He didn't have a job. He didn't have his driver's license or anything at the time. And um he said, Preacher, pray that I get a job. I I need a job. Pray I get a job And um I'd go by and visit him and find a job and he's laying on the couch watching uh three stooges and stuff on TV. And he goes, No, no job yet And um I said, Well, you know, go out. Are you going out or anything? No, I'm praying. God will give me a job. And um waiting, waiting patiently for God to give me a job And uh he got convicted about that. I said, go down to McDonald's and just sweep their full floor for free. Just do it. They'll hire you. Do a good job, they'll hire you on. Go do something for Pete's sake And uh that's not waiting patiently, just laying around the shack till the mail train comes back, you know. What does it mean to wait patiently? Well, the word wait means to anticipate something To look for or expect something. The idea of waiting in Scripture means I'm living my life for God, I'm going about living my life for God, serving God, but I'm anticipating God. Keeping his promises, answering my prayer, providing for me, fulfilling his promises. I'm going about my duties as a believer. I'm going about living my life as a child of God. In my mind, I'm anticipating God do for me what I've been praying and asking Him to do. You follow It's not sitting idly by. It's doing what God tells me to do while I'm waiting for that answer to my prayer, waiting for that need to be met. And I'm busy about the Lord's work. But I'm anticipating him doing something. Now it's interesting, he says here, I waited patiently. You wait patiently What does it mean to wait patiently? I got looking it up, and again, I'm not a great linguistic scholar, but I have some tools I can look up and see where these words come from And lo and behold, the word wait and the word patient come from the exact same word. You have a strong concordance, you look it up, it's the same number on both of them. It comes from the exact same word. But one is wait, and the other is patiently. Wait patiently. It has this kind of this idea as far as definition is concerned. It's kind of like I waited while I was waiting Did anybody here ever wait for something impatiently? Did you ever go to the doctor's office? Uh just wait right here. Okay. An hour goes by. If I was an hour late, they'd charge me. I sit here for an hour, I'm gonna charge him. Huh We're waiting, but it's not what? Not very patient. Some of y'all are there waiting for the preacher to get done. I know, I see. I can see you, you know that, right. So what does it mean to wait patiently? To wait patiently, David is saying this. He says, I was waiting on God. I'll try and elaborate here. He's saying something like this: I was waiting on God, and it was taking a long time, but I didn't let it aggravate me. I was patient while I was waiting. I was waiting, I'm waiting on God. I'm waiting on God. That's not waiting patiently. Waiting patiently is I'm waiting on God without getting annoyed. Right? Do you ever wait in the line at Walmart and you get annoyed? I always say this all the time, it's a ten-piece lane, she's got eleven. I'm annoyed. It it means I'm waiting on God, but without getting restless. I'm just at ease. I'm at peace while I'm waiting on God. And it's may taken a long time. I don't know about you. I've found that God very seldom works on my timeline. My mind, in my mind, my schedule is more like a microwave than a crock pot. Right? Anyone with me? You say yeah, your mind's fried is what you're talking about. Um no, a microwave is one minute. Bing! A crock pot, you're waiting what? Hours. God's timeline is more like a crockpot, mine's a microwave. And waiting patiently is God I'm just going to be at peace until you decide the right time is to answer this prayer, to meet this need, to move on on my behalf. You with me? David said, I waited. But I did it patiently, without getting annoyed, without being restless, without getting irritable. Anybody here get irritable when you get impatient? It's this it means to wait on God without taking things into my own hands. Now I'll we don't have time this I'm gonna quit here I'm not on you. I'm gonna quit here in a minute How many uh but I w I'd like to go back to Genesis, but we won't. I'm taking more time explaining why I'm not doing it than it would have taken just to do it in the first place. But Sarah, anybody remember Sarah? And God had promised they would have a child. And Sarah waited, but she didn't wait patiently. And she says, Abraham, listen, we got this maid here. What was her name? Hagar. You could have a child by her. Good night, I'm 90. You're 100. We got to do something. That's waiting, but it's not waiting what? And she took it in her own hands. And would you agree with me? Disaster. Disaster. Waiting patiently means I'm waiting on God, His timing, and I don't get annoyed, I don't get aggravated, I don't get irritated, frustrated, and find, oh, I've got to do something. I've learned this lesson. I have never regretted waiting on God. Sometimes I got a little impatient waiting on him. But I tell you, I've regretted a thousand times over taking things into my own hands. And David said, I've learned. I learned to wait on God and wait patiently. Don't get impatient and start taking things into your own hands. It means uh waiting uh without making rash, impulsive decisions. Waiting, waiting, waiting, and um, oh, for Pete's sake. And then just walk away from it. Here's what some Christians do. Don't do this. Alright? Don't do this. You're praying for something important. You know it's in line with the Word of God. You're praying and you're praying and praying for it. It's not contrary to Scripture. You know God's good with it. But it doesn't happen, and it doesn't happen, and it doesn't happen. Weeks go by and months go by and years go by and it seems like God, you're not even listening to me, God You pray and pray and pray, and finally you say, I'm done praying. I'm done And you quit. God's not answering my prayer. He's not going to walk away. I tell you, that's not waiting patiently. Don't ever do that. Here's my, and you've heard me say this a thousand times. Keep on praying And keep on praying and keep on praying, keep on praying. Say, I've witnessed to that guy, I've witnessed to her 7,000 times, I'm done, they're not listening, they're never going to get saved. Don't ever think that. Just wait patiently. Wait patiently. I'm going to end with this. Come over to Hebrews, would you? In chapter 6, and maybe this will encourage you. Hebrews chapter 6. And then Lord will in next week we're going to look at the discipline of waiting, how I develop this ability to wait Patiently. And then the dynamic. What happens when I learn to wait patiently? But we'll have to do that another message. But look at Hebrews chapter six and verse thirteen. This is why these series take seventeen years to get through. Hebrews chapter 6. Look with me if you would at verse 13. And he's speaking to Abraham. Now notice carefully the wording here. He says, For when God made promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he swore by himself, saying, Surely blessing. I will bless thee, and multiplying, I will multiply thee. That's a promise of God to Abraham Now look at verse 15. And so, look at this. After he had what? Patiently what? Endured. You know what it means? After he patiently waited, waited patiently, exactly what David is talking about. After he patiently endured, look what happened. He what? Obtained the promise. God came through. God came through. God came through. Come back up to verse 12. That ye be not slothful, but followers of them, follow this example, who through faith and patience Inherited the promise of God. Life is filled with ups and downs Life is filled with trials and joys. And what we need to learn to do, and we'll see this in the next message, what we need to learn to do is get a hold of God's word and just hold on to it. And just wait and wait and wait. Teach that class, work that bus route. Go witnessing, knock on doors, serve the Lord, love one another, bless those that curse, just keep doing right, keep doing right. But just wait patiently, wait patiently, wait patiently, and trust God to come through. Amen. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us to learn this one simple little thing. To wait, but to wait patiently. And to To keep our d demeanor and to walk in the Spirit, even when we're waiting on you, and have the fruit of the Spirit. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder how many like me, as I study this, and I'm God's dealing with my heart. I wonder how many like me would say, Preacher, pray with me. If God will help me to wait and to wait patiently. And just stay true. Stay in my place. Any like that, uplifted hand. I'm just going to keep waiting. I'm just going to wait. I'll keep doing my business. I'm going to serve the Lord. Keep on doing what I know what God wants to do. And I'm going to wait. I'm going to wait patiently. I'm going to keep my hands off. I'm not going to get aggravated, annoyed. I'm just going to wait on the Lord. God, please bless our invitation. Help us. Help this to become true in our lives. Help us to develop this. In Jesus name I pray. Let's stand together heads up