All right. There we go. Well for you. We've got another chalk drawing done and uh that'll make five and one more to go tomorrow night. And uh Uh how many have have seen my chalk drawings before this week? Let me see your hands. You've seen my chalk drawing before and you know it on Friday night, is it always the best one, usually or most usually it's the best one? Let me see your hands. Oh shut up, Jerry. Okay. Well then stay home tomorrow night and you're gonna miss a good one, all right? That's the way it is All right. Well uh I've had more comments on that on the one I did last night. Uh And I haven't figured out yet whether they're positive or negative. But anyway, if you'll take your Bible and turn to me to the book of 1 John. Chapter one. This has been a great week. I've enjoyed uh our stay out and t out and the uh s swanton area. All the quiet. I uh grouped my pastor and I said uh an email and And uh I was telling him about the meeting. He always wants me to to uh call in and let him know what's going on, you know. And so we I usually email him about the middle of the week and tell him basically how the how the the uh meeting is going and uh I said uh you're gonna have don't get mad now when I say that I said uh we're uh uh having a great meeting, good meeting, you know, people are coming to the altar and and at that point no one has been saved and and uh I said we're we're staying in a in a uh guest home and uh I said, no no Wi-Fi, no TB, no noise. And then I just put out on the end of it But it's really been great. We've enjoyed our stay out there and it's been a blessing just to just to get away from all the technology, I guess. And uh I thank the Lord for Brian and his family to allow us to stay out there. Alright. Now let's see. We're in first John chapter chapter one. And we're going to start reading uh let's start reading s uh in uh verse uh verse five This then is the message which we've heard of him and declare unto you that God is light and in him is no darkness at all. And if we say that we fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he's in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us. From all sin. Let's pray. Father, we pray now as we uh once again open your word, we pray that you'd Help us, enlighten us, teach us, and pray that you get the honor and the glory for it. Bless the chalk drawing, Lord, as we show it in a few moments. We trust, Lord, that uh if there's one here that has never trusted Christ as their Savior, they don't know what it means to have sins forgiven. They don't have the peace of God that passes all understanding and just Still walking in darkness, I pray that tonight be the night, that they they choose light instead of dark. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen and amen. In this uh in this verse of scripture, of course it's written to to believers. And uh it's dealing with uh this matter of fellowship and walking and and I notice it it talks about walking in the light, walking. In verse uh in verse 7, it says, but if we walk in the light as he's in the light. So I want us to just uh I want us to think a little bit about that. Because you know, if person here i if a person is not saved, he's not walking in the light. That's I mean that's what I get out of that. Jesus is the light of the world. That's what he's And then he said that when uh when he left, he said, When I go, he said, then you're gonna be the light of the world. And so we have a responsibility to shed light on this this dark world that we live in. We have uh uh back in the book of uh in 1st uh Corinthians, uh I'm sorry, it's in over in 2 Corinthians. It says, But if we but if our gospel be hid, is hid to them that are lost, in whom the God of this world has blinded the minds of them that believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ who is the image of God should shine into them. So we have we have two things here. We have the the uh the darkness of this world And it's ruled by the prince and the power of the air, the the god of this world who is Satan or the devil or Lucifer or Beelzebub or whatever name he chooses to use, since he uh since he's a criminal, he uses all these aliases and so uh you have to kind of pin him down. But the point is that the in in this world uh he's the king I know that God is sovereign. He had you know he's controlling everything and he's got Satan on a string. But at the same time, uh Satan has control of this world system And that's the reason we see wars and rumors of wars all over the place and uh we see murder and and and all manner of sin, everything that's named in the Bible that man has done that has offended God. It's it's You know, he's he's the bottom line on that thing. He's the one that has influenced it, he's the one that's motivated, and he's the one that keeps this whole world in a in darkness. That's why it's it's so hard for us to reach these these uh uh these countries that have not had the gospel They're in a darkness there. Their minds are blinded. They've been duped by the the super duper here. The guy that uh uh we all hate, the one that was represented in in the serpent last night in in the uh in the drawing. So we have have the lost who who are blind And the the question is, you know, what are we going to do about that? I mean, as a church, what do we what options do we have? The first option, or the first thing that we need to be doing, is to make sure that our life is what it ought to be. If we walk in the light as he's in the light. Then we have fellowship one with another and the blood of Jesus Christ cleansed us from all sin. The walking in the light in the part of the believer is a responsibility. I noticed uh over in in the book of Jude where we were preaching from last night. And I noticed uh that uh uh in uh the verses that uh uh from which I was preaching, it said this now unto him that is able to keep you from falling and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. The one who's able to keep you from falling. How does he do that? Well, if you're if you're walking along in the dark, it's uh it's very possible that you just stumble and fall around your face. And he's uh according to the scripture there he's able to keep you from falling. I notice that that the the I'm not big on the Greek words and all that stuff because I don't know much enough about it But I noticed that that the the Greek word used for falling in that is only used one time. And it has to do with the falling that has to do with the like stumbling. And he's able to keep us from falling or stumbling. I wonder why so many Christians are falling around. Why they're stumbling around today. Well one of the reasons is because they're not walking in the light. You see if you walk in the light, then uh all the obstacles are illuminated and you're able to walk around them. But if you're not walking in the light, then you have a problem. I remember That trip out in Colorado where we where my brother and I were uh elk hunting and we got uh you know time to go back home and back to the the tent. It wasn't me folks, I'm just standing here. All right, don't do that, you know. I remember uh I remember as we started back up the mountain and it by that time it had gotten dark and uh I remember uh We uh turned on our lights so that we could see. There was one point where I thought, let's turn the lights off. I want to see how dark it and man, I'm gonna tell you something. I thank God for light. I'm glad that we could we had a light to walk in because it was so dark you couldn't even see your I mean like this was nothing there. We need to we need to learn to walk in the light. Let me just give you uh perhaps a couple of thoughts along that line. And then I want to deal with the with the lost man who's walking around in darkness, who's been blinded by the great deceiver himself. Make sure that you make sure that you walk in the light. I can't tell you how many times I've I've stumbled. I've got scars on my shins right now from uh at night going back to to the bedroom and uh some place where it maybe was a motel. And uh you know how motels have these metal frames on the underneath the mattress Well those corners on there are just specially made to get you in the shins. And that's what happens to me, and I've got the scars to prove it. And it's just simply because there was a lack of light there You uh not just not just any light. Because in 1 John chapter 5, as we just read, uh this then is the message that God is light. We need to walk in his light. And his light is illuminated through the Word of God. That's what we have today to it's a lamp to our feet and light to our path. And so the Word of God is an important facet in this matter of not falling, not stumbling. If listen, I can speak from uh From experience, that when you leave the Word of God out of your life as a Christian, If you leave the Word of God out, that is a you you begin to neglect it. You you say, Well I don't have time today for my devotions. I don't have time today to to read the word of you. I don't have time to get into it. And so uh perhaps you just kind of throw a cookie in that that direction, you know. Maybe you read a verse or maybe you quote one in your mind and you go on and do your daily stuff You know, I've found that that those kind of days just don't seem to go right. Have you ever noticed that? It seems like when you start your morning with the Lord and And uh you allow him to uh to uh uh have some influence in the direction you're gonna go that day and the decisions you're gonna make that day. Things th things work out a whole lot better So it's important, first of all, that we walk in the light that He has available for us, which is the Word of God. He also has the Spirit of God that illuminates the scriptures and gives us some insight that we might uh might miss ordinarily. The best place to be in his light, Jesus said in in Rom in John chapter 8 and verse 12, it says, Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world, and he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. When I see the word followeth me, it takes me back to the verse that we we preached on earlier this week where it talks about denying self and and uh taking up the cross and following him. The best place To be in the light is when you're following the Lord Jesus Christ in your life. The first step is to make sure that you're you're in the light. How? You must be, first of all, you must be saved. You must be born again. Because if you're not, you c you're in this other category. You're been blinded by the God of this world that you can't see, you can't you you don't have the perception, you don't have the uh the ability to discern. Make sure you have light that's uh that's with you all the time. And that's of course that's the word of God. Thy word uh is a lamp to my feet and a light into my path. We need a light that's a available at all times. In Proverbs chapter 6 and verse 23 it says, For the commandment is a lamp And the law is light, and reproofs of instruction are the way of life. So the word of God is is That's our guideline. That's our light. That's what's going to illuminate our path. Next thing you need to do is to make sure that the that you are aware of the obstacles. I hate to admit it, but there's there's been times when I was actually stumbled and fell in the daylight. just because I was careless, I guess. But uh uh the point is that uh it uh the results are, you know, tears and bad sores and and cracked bones and all the rest that goes with it But the Word of God has given us the warning signs. And if we don't read the Word of God, we don't not gonna have those signs. We live in a world full of warnings and cautions and and uh uh watching for ice and ice on the bridge and all that that goes forth. Well that's what the Word of God does for us. It it makes uh gives us the warnings to help us to uh to make sure that we don't get uh things in our path that we can that we can see. Then we uh we need to be careful. Uh we we must make sure we have something close by the steadiest. You know, there's two things that steady us in this world. Now, when I'm out on the mountainside, walking around, whether it's here or out in Colorado, I like to have a walking stick It just helps to have something there that that whenever the the knee gives away or something turns your ankle or something that you can hang on to. There's two things in this world that the Christian has available to him that can give him stability. That helps keep him from stumbling and falling. And one of those things is prayer. If you neglect your prayer life, you're going to find that things are just not going to go well. And you're going to find it's going to be easier. A communication with God is made available to us for a purpose. It's through through the prayer life that we have that God imparts power to our life. And the second thing is this church. Now, you know, some people don't really they don't really take the church serious. But there's something about the church that God has has put within the church that makes it important that each one of us are involved in the body. Not just a uh you know some of you act like you're just a pair of dirty socks. You know, you take 'em off and throw 'em in and you Maybe you worship them at a revival and put 'em back on, but it's a not very long to and s but you're not you're not faithful to the body. I'm I'm preaching to everyone here that has been in every service this week. I understand that. Last night was the ones I should have got that with, right? But the truth of the matter is there's a there's always a we're always there's always a uh we're prone to sin, aren't we? We're prone to stray. We're prone to uh to get sort of lackadaisical in our service for God. So it it is important for us to uh to understand that the church has been placed here For a purpose. And I know the one purpose, the main purpose, to go into all the world, preach the gospel, but listen, it's here for support for each individual. I know back at our church, and I know you guys are going through similar things right here, but we're having a lot of a lot of older folks are starting to start to go and meet the Lord. And uh uh that's leaving spouses that are that are going through some really rough times now. You know There just something about when somebody comes up to a spouse that has just lost their spouse and and uh just puts their arm around and say, Yeah, I want you to know we love you. Is there anything we can do for you? We're praying for you And just spend time talking with them and encourage them. There's something about, you know, the church, that's what the church does. It encourages and builds and uh helps one another. We need to realize that the church is not something we just occasionally attend if it's convenient for us. But rather, uh, Hebrews chapter ten, verse twenty-five, every person in here knows that. We're not to forsake the assembling ourselves together as a manner of some is, but but s and so much more as we see the day approaching, and we can see how things are it sh starting to close in on the Christian today and the Christian church. This world and and uh everything that's going on in just seems to be there's pressure on the church And that that can do two things. It can scatter or it can drive us together. And from what I can get from the Word of God, that should pull us together. And and make us a a a more solidified prayer group, we can say. But we ought to love one another and encourage one another. It's it's it's the support that we need in this life in which we have here on this earth as a church. Looking at looking at at uh the loss for just a few moments here. Back in back in that uh Second Corinthians chapter four, where it says, In whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the the light of the glorious gospel, who is the image of God, should shine them. There's about three or four guys there or or or people in that uh in that verse of scripture. First of all is the lost Whose minds are blinded, the understanding is darkened, Satan, uh Satan's spirit is working in them Ephesians chapter two and verse two says, Wherein in times past ye walks according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the earth That now worketh in the children of disobedience. So the spirit of Satan is working within the children of disobedience. That's why they are the way they are. That's why they act the way they do. So Jesus told the dis told the Pharisees, he says, You are your father of the devil. That kind of lays it out to where where it's at. The unsaved are children of the devil. Don't like to hear that and it doesn't sound good. It makes you sometimes it makes people mad. But their understanding, if they understand what the Bible's teaching, there's only two kinds of people, and that's the saints and ain't So you're either a saint of God or you ain't, one or the other. You know, whichever way it goes, in the darkness, they're in darkness and they're dead in trespass and sin. The thing that the unsaved doesn't understand is that Satan is a deceiver, that he can transform himself into an angel of light, and he has ministers of righteousness. that uh uh put themselves out as as uh uh you know something you know uh righteous and and uh holy and and uh they should be listened to. You can turn on the radio or turn on the television today and and certain channels and you'll get all kinds of garbage on there That has to do with religion, religious people and religious things and and uh TV churches and so forth. And the unsaved pick those things up and they just accept them That's why some of our churches are empty because they're sitting home where they can sit and drink a beer and and watch a TV program at the same time get their spiritual filling for the day Satan has really done a good job in this thing of perverting. He perverts the Word of God. He perverts the the gospel message. It's tragic to I listened to uh um some advertising on the on the radio today and they were talking about the services and how they've got the uh you know uh the rock and roll music and they've got just just uh whatever appeals to the flesh they've got it to offer in this one church that I was listening to And I thought, well, there that's that's a that's a story. Satan has uh infiltrated and done his best to uh to destroy the light of the gospel that needs to shine in the heart of an unsaved person before they can be born into the family of God. They just don't, they understand unsaved don't understand, and some Christians understand. that uh there in in uh 2 Corinthians where it says, for such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into apostles of Christ. And no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed, as the ministers of righteousness, whose ends shall be according to their works We have people knocking on doors uh in just about every town now and overseas and around the world knocking on doors, uh telling people that there's no hell and and that Jesus really wasn't God and then there's another group that says that uh uh Satan was Jesus' brother and you c I mean you can you can see the perversion that uh uh that Satan has been working on for some time. The unsaved are walking in darkness and what they need is the gospel light. The only only way they can get it is if if it if This church and the churches like this. Let their light shine. I did the picture tonight as just simply a just a lighthouse. Nothing special about it, I guess. I think it's a free picture. Well I'll tell you the the thing about a lighthouse is is uh it's it's a picture of the church because it it sends out a light that warms the ships. not to come that way, or show them exactly the path in which to uh they can find safe harbor. Usually uh the seamen in in the old days would be able to line up two lights, two lighthouses and be able to follow those two lights. If you keep them lined up, it would take them right safely into the harbor. And that's exactly the what the ch church is supposed to be doing It's supposed to be sending out a light that guides the lost, that one who's astray out there and lost at sea. A light that's going to bring him right into the safe harbor of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I don't know where you're at today in in in this message, whether you're saved and you need to be walking in the light or just side sort of over in the shadows. I don't know whether you're lost and you need to trust Christ and and receive the gospel light that changes your life and and uh gives you a uh uh eternal life. But uh I know this. God is speaking to someone today because you can't preach the word of God without the word of God doing a uh uh a job or doing this work in the hearts of people. If we can have these lights out, I'll show this chalk drop to you. Oh, we want to do it.