If you would, verse nine. We we looked at this verse l last week. We actually preached two messages out of verse number nine. I just want to begin by reading verse nine. This is actually the middle of a very long sentence That Peter is writing here in the second chapter. But we'll pick it up in verse 9. He says, The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and I'm glad for that. Then he turns around the other side of the coin and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. And we looked at that last week, and he's referencing the great white throne judgment. That's referenced in Revelation chapter 20, and we looked at that. Now he picks up, he's going on, his thought continues into verse number 10. So he says, to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished, but chiefly them that walk after the flesh in the lust of uncleanness and despise government, presumptuous are they self-willed, they are not afraid to speak evil of dignities. And then verse 11, I just I'll read it now. We're going to touch just briefly on it in a little bit. Whereas angels, which are greater in power and might than mankind, they bring not railing accusations against them before the Lord. So I caught that phrase in verse ten, walking after the flesh. So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us and speak to our hearts tonight. Father, we thank we're so grateful for a good day today here in your house, and what a blessing to be around your people, this music, the songs this morning tonight Just bless my heart, the fellowship. And now with our Bibles open, we ask once again as we finish out this day This Lord's Day, and we go into a new week, I pray, Father, that you would just speak to our hearts and um and challenge and help us, Lord, that we would be prepared to be a witness for you this coming week. I pray you'd continue to bless our church. I pray you'd protect and strengthen us as a body of believers. And so Please fill me with your spirit tonight, Lord, as I yield myself to you. Pray you'd speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Peter's obviously very concerned about the spiritual well being of his audience, the people he's writing to. And he's especially concerned, as we've been noticing, about the false teachers that were creeping into their churches. Apostates is the term we use. They're coming into the church, they're coming in deliberately, and they're coming in very deceptively. And they're posing as Christians, they're posing as spiritual leaders, but they're introducing false teaching. And they're introducing corrupt thinking and living. And Peter's writing to them and he's and he's cautioning them, he's warning them, he's exposing them. And um because he loves God's people and he loves the church, he was concerned for him. Interesting, in the little book of Jude, just a few books back in your Bible, right before Revelation Jude is doing the exact same thing. And for those that are in our adult Sunday school class, we're working verse by verse, really, word by word, through that little book of Jude. He's saying almost verbatim the same thing Peter is. And to the point where it's pretty obvious that, at least it seems to me, they colluded together in what they were saying and what they were warning God's people about. Now, don't misunderstand, that doesn't undermine inspiration. God was leading them, God was moving them to do that But to me it looks like they almost quote each other verbatim because they were concerned about the spiritual well-being of the churches. That they would be healthy and strong in this false teaching, these lies of the devil would be kept out and not influence God's people. Now notice he says here in verse number 10, and this is what ties it back to verse 9. He says, ver uh verse 9, the uh verse 9, the last part he says about these unjust that are reserved unto the day of judgment to be punished. And then he uses that word chiefly. Chiefly though them that walk after the flesh. Now that word chiefly there has this idea to, it has the idea especially. The unjust are reserved until the day of judgment to be punished, chiefly or especially Those that walk after the flesh, or particularly those that walk after the flesh, on the top of the list of these unjust people who are reserved until the day of judgment, on the top of the list are these folks that walk after the flesh. The unjust are reserved to the day of judgment And these folks that he references, these heretics, these apostates, these folks that undercut God's people's faith in God, undercut the faith of God's people and deny the word of God. They are going to be especially judged. Now this is a whole nother subject, and we won't get on it, but I'll just mention this The Bible is very, very clear, especially when the Lord Jesus Christ was teaching, that there are degrees of judgment At the great white throne judgment and the ultimate consequences of that. And Jesus warned different cities that had been exposed to more truth than other cities had And he says your judgment is going to be greater because you had more information. You were given more truth about salvation and sin and God and heaven and hell. You had more you were exposed to more truth than even Sodom and Gomorrah was. And he makes the statement that uh that Sodom and that they will be judged more severely than Sodom and Gomorrah. And I think that's what Peter is kind of touching on here. All the unjust are going to face the great white throne judgment. Now, our desire is to keep as many, get as many people saved as we possibly can to keep them facing from facing that But all the unsaved are going to face that. And by the way, if you're under the sound of my voice, you're here tonight, you're under the sound of my voice, and you're not saved, I'm not playing. I'm telling you, the most important thing in your life is you need to get saved. If you die in that condition, the consequences are horrific and are irreversible. Then he says, these that walk after the flesh, he's going to describe them, he says, chiefly, they especially are going to face that judgment. So there are degrees of judgment at the great white throne judgment and throughout eternity. So let's look at this. Let's look at these folks that are particularly going to be judged at the Great White Throne judgment. Number one, my first point is this: he lists the characteristics of their behavior Verse 10, he says, chiefly them that walk after the flesh, and then he describes the characteristics of what it is to walk after the flesh. characteristics of their behavior. Notice, first of all, I put it this way, they are defiled by their lusts. Look what he says. Chiefly them that walk after the flesh, and now he's going to describe how how that plays out, what that looks like, in the lust of uncleanness. The lust of uncleanness. Now, what is lust? Lust, as it's used in Scripture, is a strong desire Or a strong craving for something. It's usually associated with something very negative or something forbidden. And that's the way we think of the term lust. We think of desiring or craving something that God forbids, something that's outside the perimeter of God's will. We desire that, we crave that. That's what we think of lust. However, lust is used in the Bible. Most of the time it's a negative connotation, like I just described, but sometimes it's a positive thing. And we don't have time to go into that, but I'll just mention this. Galatians chapter 5 says that the Holy Spirit lusts Now let me ask you a question. Would the Holy Spirit of God crave or desire something outside the will of God? No, obviously not, under no circumstances. The Holy Spirit doesn't desire or crave something that God forbids. What the Holy Spirit desires, what the Holy Spirit craves, what the Holy Spirit lusts for is to be able to control your life and my life, to fill us and empower us and bear the fruit of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit strongly desires to fill and control and empower the life of every believer. Again, this is a whole nother subject, but I believe strongly that every Christian ought to have high, high, high. And your priority is to seek the filling of the Holy Spirit. How many people believe the preacher ought to be filled with the Holy Spirit? Oh yeah, absolutely. My hands raised. I doubt there's very few prayers, maybe one or two other prayers that I pray more Than asking God to fill me with His Spirit. I want that as much, if not more, than just about anything. I want the filling and power of the Holy Spirit upon my life, my ministry. But it is not limited to the pastor. Every Sunday school teacher ought to seek and desire and be filled and powered by the Holy Spirit just as much as the pastor is. I'm going to start using this more Amen. Choir members ought to seek the filling and power of the Holy Spirit, singing. Filled with the Spirit and the Holy Spirit putting a song in their heart and praise to God. So lust As it's used in Scripture is not always a negative desire, a forbidden craving. There are some cases where it's used Where it is a very positive thing. For instance, as I just used, the Holy Spirit lusting to have us and fill us and control us. Peter is not using it in a positive context here. It's very negative. In fact, look how he says it. He says, in the lust In the lust of uncleanness. Now, that word uncleanness is a pretty strong word where it comes from. It means total defilement. It means moral and spiritual pollution, dirty They lust for moral dirt, moral pollution. They they walking in the flesh is described as defiled by their lust. It's like they're walking and living and pursuing and desiring spiritual pollution. It's the idea. We lived in Boulder, Colorado. I know we had some folks lived out there. It was just north, kind of northwest of Denver a little bit, kind of up snuggled up against the mountains And every uh winter in Denver they they don't use salt, at least I don't know what they do now, but back then they didn't use salt. In the winter with snow on the roads, they would put sand down And it would they would just put sand everywhere and half time they didn't even mow I don't think you mow the field the the the roads. They plowed the roads. They didn't even plow the roads. They just put the sand down Well, in the spring, when all the snow's gone, everything's dried up, that sand turns to dust. And they had they called it the brown cloud would hang over Denver. And you could see it. We'd drive down to Denver. There'd be this huge Brown cloud. Pollution. And walking after the flesh, he says, these fellas, these apostates coming in, they desired spiritual pollution, their life. Was morally and spiritually polluted. They rejected Bible doctrine. They rejected clear Bible teaching. They were not ignorant of it. They rejected it. And that produced ungodly living. And you mark it down. Every time any time you find someone or an organization or a body uh a church body that rejects the word of God, it won't be long till there's moral depravity in their lives. When a society or a person or a home pushes the Bible out, deliberately pushes the Bible out, moral pollution comes in in its place. Look at our society. Would you agree with me? There was a day when American society was pretty saturated with the Word of God. Amen or not? The schools, they prayed. I remember third grade, Mrs. Stewart, she would open every morning. She read scripture. We had prayer. It was just what you did. Saved, unsaved, everybody. Read scripture and prayed. Our government leaders, whether they were believers or not, they at least advanced and supported the Christian faith to some extent. Would you agree with me? We've been pushing Scripture out of our society. Right or wrong? Tell me, what has come in behind it? Moral pollution, moral depravity. What's true on the level of society is true in a local church, is true in a home, is true in an individual life. Psalm 119, 11 says, Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against God. The word of God is a barrier, is a firewall to help us Keep moral pollution out of our lives. These guys rejected the word of God. They they denied it He said, we completely reject the teaching of Scripture. We don't want to be a part of our life. And they're bringing that into the church. And he says they lust, the defilement of their lust. Um, we need to listen, Mount L Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we better keep preaching the Bible. We don't, that garbage out in the world, it's going to come flooding in. I'm telling you, mom and dad, you better saturate your home with the word of God. I mean sing it, memorize it, read it, pray it, put it on your walls. That's scriptural. Put scripture verses on your walls. Remember, my grandparents, they had Bible verses all over the house. So these guys, they were defiled by their lusts. Number two, look what it says. Chiefly, them that walk after the flesh, and he describes it, in the lust of uncleanness. And despise government. Despise government. The word despise means to think lowly of or to have contempt for. I mean they despised government. Now the word government here is interesting. The word we get our word this word government here as it's used in this verse. is very interesting. It has this idea. It's kind of a generic reference to, it actually we get our word dominion. From what the word this comes from. Or authority. To have authority over someone or something. To have dominion over it. It does not necessarily refer to political government. As the word is used here, there is government in the whole. God has ordained authority in the home. Are you with me? And by the way, it's not the toddler. Huh? It's not the kids, it's not the teenagers. God has ordained authority in the home, mom and dad, and dad's the head, he's the one that has to answer for what goes on in the home. So the term government here that these apostates despise Is authority, even whether it's political or in the home, by the way, there is authority in the church I'm not saying this because I'm the pastor, but the pastor is given the responsibility by God to oversee the church, to govern the church under the authority of Christ, under the direction of Christ. And so these guys despise this dominion, this authority that is given, whether it's parental authority or whether it's governmental authority, they despised it. Now, government is God's idea. I didn't think I'd get a whole lot of amens on that, but it's true. We have to be very, very careful that we don't despise government. I hate the government. You better be careful. That's almost like saying, I hate the church. I hate the home. Government is God's design. It's good and right in its place. Now, government is often abused. And those in the authority often overstep their bounds. We're seeing that on every hand. But nevertheless, the concept of government, the role of government, is Bible-based. It has a place, it has a role. And these apostates, these guys coming in the church, they hated any type of authority. In Matthew chapter 21, verse 23, the Pharisees, and this happened several times throughout Jesus' ministry, they approached Jesus and they would ask him this question. They would say, by what authority doest thou these things? And they kept asking him over and over, what authority do you have? What authority do you have? Uh I'll tell you what authority he had. He's the Son of God. But the Pharisees, like these apostates, these false teachers, had a problem with authority. Those Pharisees say, Don't you tell us what to do? We're Pharisees. Listen, God has every right in the world to tell us what to do. He's God for Pete's sake. And these these apostates uh uh despised government, despised authority and the Pharisees like them had a had a problem with authority. Now, they didn't have a problem when they were in authority. They were okay with that. But they were a problem with anybody having authority over them. Listen, government is good and right in its place. I understand it's abused and it's being abused and they're overstepping the bound bounds here in our country, there's no doubt about it, and around the world. It's happening all over. And Antichrist is going to step in and he's going to be a governmental leader, and he's going to pervert that thing. And by the way, do churches not overstep their bounds? The authority in the church? Has there ever been pastors have authority, overstepped their bounds? Sure. I can tell you cases where they overstep. The pastor, I'll give you a little my thinking here a little bit. The pastor has no authority in your home. I can't come in your home tell you take authority there. That's daddy's job. I don't have authority out in government. The authority that I have as pastor is delegated to me. It's very limited, and it's very clearly defined in Scripture. And it's to oversee the church. The operation, the direction, the function of the church. That's the pastor's authority. And these guys hated it. They hated all of it. They despised authority. Dr. Brother Charles Holmescher, the founder and rector of Bible Time, just had it, he's been with the Lord many years. I had the tremendous privilege of about fifteen years or so to work side by side with him. I was on staff there, worked as the evangelist, traveled back and forth. Those that were here when I came, remember every May I'd fly out there help train. I I got to know Brother Holmes very, very well. He used to make this statement to the children, to the boosters, the kids. He would say, young people, if you Will not obey your parents, you're not going to obey God. If you have a problem obeying your daddy, then you're going to have a problem obeying God, because daddy is a delegated authority by God. And children ought to obey their parents in the Lord. Say, where'd you come up with that, the Bible? God's given the mother, the wife, God's given the wife specific responsibilities, very clearly laid out. God's given the husband specific responsibilities, very clearly laid out, and God has given the children specific responsibilities. Very simple, very uh not elaborate, not very complicated. It's just do what mom and daddy tell you to do. And he says, you'll live longer. Generally, you'll live longer. You'll have a better life. You'll be a happier person. Obey your parents. I found that children that obey their parents are happier than the kids that don't obey their parents. And I found that the parents that obey God are a whole lot happier than the parents that don't obey God So these guys despise authority. Look here next. It says they despise government. Presumptuous are they. Presumptuous. That's the only time that word is used in the New Testament. Presumptuous. It's used one other time back in Psalm 19. In the Old Testament. To be presumptuous, listen to this. It means to fearlessly disrespect the concern of others. To without fear disrespect what other people are concerned about. To fearlessly disrespect biblical standards. Bible teaching presumptuously. In other words, I reject, I fearlessly reject that Bible teaching. That's presumptuous. That's as it's used here. It's tied in with courage to do wrong. Psalm 119, verse 13, David prayed. Lord, keep me from presumptuous sins to sin with arrogance To sin with the assumption that somehow I am exempt from its consequences, to presume on the patience and mercy and grace of God. I had a situation I was trying back years when I was in Bible college situation on I was trying to determine the will of God about diff diff different decisions, a couple decisions I had to make And I did what, tried to do what the Bible teaches, I sought counsel. I said, here's the situation. I'm not sure. I'm not sure what the will of God is. I don't think it's God's will for me to go this way, but I'm not sure And I got pretty fairly good counsel from some. I found this out. Let me I found out that if you if God is leading you to do something, it doesn't matter how great the counsel is, if that counsel is against what God's leading you to do, you better do what God says. But you ought to seek counsel. I said all that to say this. I was seeking this and I said, I'm not sh I don't think this is God's will for me to go this way. And he made this statement. He says, well just do it anyway and then confess it as sin later. God will forgive you. That's a little presumptuous, isn't it? Presumptuous, presumptuous. That's what these guys were. God says that. Don't care. Just going to do what I want. Arrogantly. Sinning against God, presumptuous are they. David said, David prayed, Lord, don't let me get in that condition Or don't let don't let keep me back from presumptuous sin. It's interesting the verse before he says, keep me from secret faults Those are the sins that come up in our heart and our mind that nobody knows about. Secret. They're unknown. They're unrevealed. I know them and I have these secret faults. He says uh he goes uh keep me from them. And then the secret faults will lead to presumptuous sins. They don't say, all right, I know I'm not supposed to, I know God says don't do this, and I know it's it's not good And but nobody knows I'm going to go ahead and do it anyway. I know God forbids this. I know God instructs. I know what God instructs about this. But I'm going to do it anyway. That's the way these guy birds were. And they're bringing that thinking into the church, and they're bringing that mentality and that lifestyle into the church. Oh, you know what God says? Ah, that's old-fashioned. Do it anyway. Presumptuous are they. Now notice what else he says. Self-willed. So I put it this way: they defiled by their lusts Moral, spiritual pollution. They despise government. They disregard respect. That's where I got the presumptuous from And then they're driven by themselves. They are self-willed. They are dominated by their own desires. What I want governs my actions. My will determines my behavior. Self-willed. No concern for how their actions affect or hurt others. They live only to please themselves. I find it interesting that apostates, false teachers that bring in this mentality, they're never concerned about the well-being of the church they're infecting. They're never concerned about the spiritual health of the body of believers that they're trying to alter the teachings of They're trying to undermine the faith of God's people. They never care about whether it's good for the people or not. It's just what I want. My will. My way. If it hurts the church, it's no concern of mine. That undermines somebody's faith, no concern of mine. Self-willed, self-willed. Um they live only to please themselves. Proverbs twenty-one, twenty-four says, describes them this way, proud and haughty scorners. They'll just cut down what the Bible says. They'll just undermine people's faith. And they don't care because it's all about them. It's all about what they want. And then he says they degrade dignitaries. Look at this. They're presumptuous, are they? Self-willed. They are not afraid to speak evil of dignities. The word speak evil there is translated 13 times in our Bible to blaspheme, to critically find fault. Of dignities. You say, what are dignities? I find this interesting. I looked the word up, how it's translated other places in the Bible, how it's used other places in the Bible. By the way, the Bible is its own best dictionary. You want to know what a word means? Look how it's used in the Bible. Look how it's translated other places in the Bible. The Bible is its own best dictionary. And that word dignities, there, we think of our understanding of it, it actually 157 times. That word dignities is translated glory. They speak evil of glory. They speak evil of things that are glorious. Are dignified in the eyes of God. In other words, what he's saying here is they speak evil of sacred things. They have no problem, no fear, no hesitation whatsoever to speak evil, to blaspheme. Things that are sacred in the eyes of God. I don't hesitate. That's what these apostates who are walking in the flesh This is what it produces. This is what comes out of their life. Speak evil or blaspheme holy things. Things that are respectable in the eyes of God, things that are honorable, people that are honorable. They have no problem speaking evil of God's name. We live in a world where God's name is blasphemed on an hourly basis. You can't hardly go anywhere. I was watching some little news clips about the events with President Trump last night, and you couldn't har you couldn't hardly I couldn't hardly watch two, three clips And it was just absolute speaking evil of things that that are glorious. God's name. And I mean, uh you say, yeah, those liberals. No, I'm talking about conservatives using God's name in a blasphemous way. Say, are you conservative? I'm a Christian first and foremost. Speaking evil of things that are glorious and honorable God's name. We ought to be very, very careful how we use God's name Now I I the world using God's name, all right, I can I I don't like it, it's wrong, but I I I you know it happens. But when God's name starts being used lightly and irreverently And blasphemously in the body of Christ, something's wrong. If anybody honors the name of God, it ought to be God's people. Careful how we use his name, how we refer to him, to him, and about him. He is God. His name is holy. These guys. And speak evil, they'll use God's name in awful ways. God's word, you know the Bible says God has magnified his word above his own name. The blood atonement, the cross, mock the cross, speak evil Blasphemously about our Lord and Savior's sacrificial atonement and shedding the blood for our sins, and speak blasphemy of it. Make fun of it Speak evil and blasphemy of God's people, godly Christians. Say awful things about faithful godly Christians. That's what these guys are. They're walking after the flesh. They lean on their own understanding. They live according to their own desires, their own will. Notice verse 11 he says, Whereas angels Which are greater in power and might bring not railing accusations. He's saying the angels who are greater than us, they don't do that You find you study your Bible, every time you have an angel referring to God or about God, it's always with the utmost reverence. Now, not the fallen angels. Not even angels dare to speak as these men do. They degrade dignity. So that's the characteristics of a person walking after the flesh. Now what's the my second thought is this, uh the cause for their behavior. Why are why why do they uh uh d why are they defiled by their f uh their lusts? Why do they despise government? Why do they disregard uh respect. Why are they driven by self? Why do they degrade these dignitaries? Because they are walking in the flesh. That's the cause for it. Look at verse 10, the first part. But chiefly them that walk after the flesh. The word walk has the idea of a lifestyle, behavior, something I'm pursuing. The flesh, he's not talking about our muscles, the flesh. The meat and bones on us. He's talking about our nature, the very core of what we are The Bible teaches us that the flesh, when the Bible refers to the flesh, it's talking about our depraved, sinful nature. And we all have it. We're born with it. And these birds, these apostates, these false teachers coming in the church, Peter is warning them strongly against them. And they walk, they live for, they pursue the desires of the fallen nature. That's what dominates them, that's what controls them. There's no room for Christ in their life. They've rejected God's word. And the flesh, their fallen nature, is what controls their thinking, their speaking, their behavior, their decisions. The flesh, the flesh. Come with me, and I'll end with these two passages. Come with me if you would to Matthew chapter number seven. Matthew seven. And the Pharisees were always concerned about what they put in their body that everything had to be kosher and cleaned And Jesus said, listen, what you put in your body isn't so much the problem that makes you a sinner. It's what comes out of your heart. Look what he says there in verse 21 of Matthew chapter 7. That is not the passage I want. Ah. For out of the abundance uh the heart. Let's try Mark. Man, I hate it when this happens. Chester, you always find a passage I want. It's where he says they came to him about wash eating with unwashed hands. And I'm just going to have to paraphrase, this is the only time I use another version. This is the Dennis Leatherman version. But he says this to him. He says, It's not that which goes into the body that defiles a man and goes out the drought. He said, It's that which comes out of the heart. For out of the heart reference Matthew twelve seven nineteen okay. Seven nineteen? Now I'm really confused. Matthew twelve. No, that's not what I want. There we go. I wrote Matthew, it's Mart. All right, I get one mulligan, right? Here we go. Mark seven twenty-one. Are you there? I just lost my momentum here. All right. Verse 21. For from within, we're talking about the flesh. Let me back up here and get us back on track again. We're talking about the flesh. He says they walk after the flesh. They pursue their lifestyle is dominated by this old sinful nature. What we refer to as the heart. Look what Jesus said. He says, for from within, out of the heart, the flesh, the sinful nature of man, proceed evil thoughts. Adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness Wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, and evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness, all these evil things come from within. And defile the man. These apostates have pushed the Word of God. They've rejected the Word of God. They say, no, we reject that. And the only thing left is their own sinful nature. And that thing takes over and it produces what Peter just described. Well, we just went down that list that Peter describes, and it comes from our heart. One more. Got the right one. Galatians chapter number five. This is a little bit clearer reference to the flesh. Galatians chapter five. And every Christian, if you're a growing Christian, you ought to be very, very familiar with the second half of Galatians chapter 5. That is a vitally important passage. All of it's important, but that's vitally important, I believe. For the Christian. Look at verse 16. This I say then, walk in the Spirit. It's not what these guys were doing. And ye shall not fulfill the lusts of the what? Flesh. That's what they are doing. They've rejected Christ. They're not saved. And all they have is they're walking in the flesh. Now come down to verse 19. Here he describes it. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, moral, spiritual, filth, pollution, lasciviousness, which is basically lawlessness, anything goes. Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, that's fussing and fighting, emulations, that's envy, fierce envy of what others have. Wrath, strife, seditions, that's d divisions and fussing, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, reveling, such like, which I tell you before, I also told you in time past that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. These guys are unsaved. They've rejected the word of God. They rejected the teaching of Scripture. And now they're walking and pursuing the desires of the flesh. They're controlled by the flesh. Peter says: do not let them in and influence that body of believers. Jude puts it this way: you contend to keep them out. Listen, we ought not to fuss, but there are some things we ought to fuss about. We ought to fuss about people messing with the Word of God and bringing in false teachings as contrary to Scripture. Amen or not. That's something we ought to fuss about. That's something we ought to fight about. Say no, we're not doing that. No, we're not doing that. I think people use this term and I think sometimes they mean well. So I I you know I don't want to the overly harshness. But sometimes people will make this statement. They'll say, just follow your heart. Anybody ever hear that? Now again, I think sometimes they mean well and there it sounds, you know, very Sentimental or whatever. Just follow your heart. Sounds very innocent. Very listen, the last thing in the world we need to do is follow our heart. Our heart is corrupt. We just saw what Jesus said. We just saw what the lust of the flesh is. There is nothing good. Paul said, in me, that is my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing. He that trusteth in his own heart is a fool, Solomon says. That's exactly what these guys are doing And they're bringing that thinking, they're bringing that mentality, that lifestyle that that mentality produces, they're bringing it in the church, bringing it in the church. And Peter says, stop it. Put a firewall up. Preach the word of God. Teach the word of God. Live the Word of God. Keep that out. Amen? Father in heaven, help us. To fill our hearts and minds, our homes, our churches with the Word of God. I pray the Holy Spirit of God would use the Word of God to help us die to self and Mortify the deeds of the flesh, be filled with the Spirit, and live under the power and blessings of God. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many of the people say, Preacher, I need more of the Word of God in my life? I need more of the Word of God in my life. Sure. That never ends. How about, let's bring it, let's bring another. How many families would say we need to get the Word of God in our home more than what it is? We need to fill and flood our home with the Word of God. How about any like that? Sure, we do. I'm telling you, we have to. And how about the church? Let's just make this a Bible preaching station. Everything we do is Bible-based and Bible saturated. I believe that'll help us. Father, bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name.