And verse number sixteen. And last Sunday night and in tonight's message, what I'm trying to do is lay some groundwork. I think I've just mentioned said this. So that we can maybe better understand verse 22 and 23. So but notice verse 16. This I say then, walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. And these are contrary one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things that ye would But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the wall. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these: adultery, fornication, uncleanness. Lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath strife, seditions, heresies, envies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, reveling, and the such like. My, what a list He says, of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. But The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith. Meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. And what a list that is The fruit of the Spirit. Now I want us to come back to verse number 16 for our text tonight. Last week we introduced the Holy Spirit. We just looked at some facts about the Holy Spirit. in our lives as believers. Now tonight, he says, this I say then walk in the Spirit. I want to preach on walking in the Spirit And try and understand what he's telling us here, what that means. So let's pray together. Father in heaven, uh, we have our Bibles open again here another Sunday night. And Lord, we believe with our hearts that this book in our hands is the very Word of God. Lord, we believe you've given this to us through the inspiration, through the process of inspiration. and have preserved it for us here to our day. And so I ask that your Holy Spirit, the author of this book, these words, Would fill me tonight. I yield my body to you, my will. Take me and fill me. And your Holy Spirit would speak through me to help us understand what you mean. By walking in the Spirit. Open our hearts, open our minds. Help me, Lord, guide my preaching that it would make sense and would be helpful. So please bless now and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. You studied chapter 5 here and actually other portions of Scripture, even in Romans, he talks along these same lines a bit. But there's basically, I think, two approaches to living the Christian life. There's two approaches to salvation. One is, I trust on what I do That's the religions of the world base their hope of eternal life, their acceptance by God. They base it on what they do. You have to do this, you have to be baptized, you have to be confirmed, you have to do these things for Allah. You have to make this sacrifice, you have to la-da-da-da-da You do something. The other approach to salvation is the biblical approach. I can't do nothing. Jesus did it all. And I simply come relying upon what He has done for me. So that's two approaches to salvation. You boil it down, that's the only two. Either works or grace. There's no really no other option Then to live the Christian life, once we trust Christ as Savior, I think there's two approaches to this. One is, I put it down this way, and I'll explain what I mean by this, but One way to live the Christian life, in other words, what I mean by that, to be uh considered a good Christian in the eyes of God. God would consider me what He wants me to be. That He would say, Well done. One approach is what I'm calling outward conformity. In other words, conforming to a list of do's and don'ts. I have a list of rules that this is what a Christian does and a Christian does not do. If I'm going to be a good Christian, if God's going to be pleased with me, then I check off the list. I do this, I do that, I did this, I do this, I do this, I don't do this, I don't do this And I have this list of do's and don'ts, this list of rules. And if I keep them, then God will say, oh, that's a good Christian. God's pleased with me if I do this and don't do that. That is, I believe, a form of legalism. Now legalism is I have to keep the law to be saved. I do this, I don't do that, God will accept me, and God will uh give grant me eternal life and accept me into his presence. uh uh for eternity. If I do this, I don't do this. That's works, that's legalism. But I think there's a form of legalism in the Christian life, not for my salvation But for God's pleasure, for God to be pleased with my life. If I do these things and I don't do these things, then God is pleased with me. If I keep these rules, And then God is pleased with me. It's an outward conformity to an expectation. Romans chapter 12, he says, be not conformed to this world. He says, don't take on the form, the appearance, just the form of this world. And I think it's possible as Christians, we simply take on a form of Christianity. In other words, I wear the right clothes. I'm a man, I dress like a man. I'm a lady, I dress like a lady. I've got my King James Bible. I've got the right haircut. I really don't worry about that too much. But um You follow what I'm saying? I do this, I don't do that, I've got all these little, I've got all my little ducks in a row. And now God is pleased with me, and I'm a good Christian. God will say, Well done. It's a form of legalism. I'm depending on something I'm doing To please God, something I do. It's my will. It's what I'm working up. Outward conformity Um a lot of our uh neighbors who believe and teach and preach that you have to live it or you'll lose it. How many people know what I'm talking about when I say that? You have to live it or you're going to lose it. And their whole idea is this, and I've run into this a lot over the years, particularly here in this area for whatever reason. And the old idea is this, you've got to do you're saved, alright, you're saved, great. Now you've got to do this and you don't do that, you've got to do this and you don't do that, Then you'll lose your salvation. Now we don't we know we can't lose our salvation, amen or not. But sometimes we have that same attitude, that same approach to spirituality. As long as I outwardly conform to these Christian rules, and as long as I outwardly conform to these do's and these don'ts, well then I'm a good Christian. So that's one approach. And Paul addresses that, and we I'm taking longer on this than I initially intended to, but that's one approach. Another approach, which I believe is a more biblical approach to being a good Christian. God being pleased with me is what I'm calling inward crucifixion. If outward conformity, I just do all this stuff, and then God's pleased with me. Inward crucifixion has the idea of removing my will completely and replacing it with the will of God. Take your Bible. Let me try and explain what I mean here. Come back in Galatians, still in the book of Galatians, come back to chapter 2. And I've referenced this verse a lot. It has been a powerful verse in my Christian life. Galatians chapter 2. Anybody want to guess what verse I'm going to? 20. So some of you are familiar with this. This is a powerful statement on In the Bible. Galatians 2, just a page back from where we are, he says this, Paul testifying. He says, I am what? I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I. It's not me living this Christian life, it's not me working this up and doing this and not doing that. Christ in me But Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the what? Faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Jesus loved me. He gave himself for me. So because that's true I put myself aside and Christ in me lives this life through me. Do you see the difference I'm trying to paint here tonight? One is an outward conformity. I just do this, don't do this, do this. The other is a life, and I and I allow Christ to live his life through me. It's not me keeping rules, but it's Christ living in me in the person of the Holy Spirit. And that life of Christ being lived in my life And I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but if you look in back in chapter 5, verse 22, this fruit of the Spirit, you know what those are? Those are characteristics of Jesus Christ. And it's the fruit that the Holy Spirit bears in my life. Not me keeping a list, but it's Christ in me, living his life through me. Now, caution. That does not mean there's no lists. It doesn't mean there's no rules But our rules, the law that we operate under now as believers, Christ in us, is the law of love. And I'll tell you, love is stronger than fear. You with me? Boy, if I don't do this and I don't do that, and if I do this and I do that, boy, uh boy, that God will be upset with me. If I don't do the do's and I do the don'ts, oh uh uh uh No no no, that's fear. Christ in me, who loved me and gave himself for me, I want to do the do's and I want to don't do the don'ts, not because I'm afraid But because I love God for what He's done for me and the life of Christ living through me. Everybody following me? Doesn't mean that and by the way, that that teaching, that concept gets abused in some circles in Christianity. Well, it's just Christ in you, go live it up No, that's not what it is at all. It means, it doesn't mean there's no rules. God, the Bible obviously tells us there are things we should do and things we should do. The Bible obviously tells us there are places we should go, there are places we should not go, there are things we should say, there are things we should not say But it's not a list of rules. It's a life of Christ living through me. I don't know if I'm communicating this the way I understand it. It means my life, my behavior, the values that I have in my life, things that are value that are important to me, my priorities in life. come from Christ within me, a life within me. It is possible, see if I can get you on board with this It is possible to keep a rules, keep a list of do's and a list of don'ts. It's possible to do all that and not be Christ-like. Right or wrong? I can have great theological knowledge. And brother, I can refute I I maybe I could refute the Mormons and I could refute theologically the Jehovah's Witness and the Catholics and you just name it, brother, I can win every theological argument in the world. and yet still not be Christlike. I may dress right, carry my Bible, have my wing-tipped shoes, my hair Slate back, a man, I'm a man, she's a woman, and uh got all that straight, and still not be Christ-like. I might have the right position, but have the wrong disposition. And not be Christ-like. But when the life of Christ is being lived through me, The outward will line up with the Word of God. The outward will line up with the will of God. But it's not me doing something, it's Christ living through me. You boil it down, it's really a supernatural life. I've said this all since I since I realized this from Scripture, the Christian life It's not something I work up. It's a supernatural life. It's Christ in me living through me. Would you agree with me? Paul was a tremendous Christian. And what a model and what a testimony, what an example for you and I to follow the life of Paul. Now he was not perfect. We understand that. He said uh uh he said at one point, he said, I am the chief of sinners. I think he said that to Timothy. The chief of sinners. I don't know about you, but I've I've disputed Paul. I said, Paul, I think I got you beat. On that one. He said another place, I'm the least of the apostles. So he understood. He was far from perfect. In Philippians, he said, I'm not attained. Revelation Romans chapter 7, he said, The things I would do, I don't do. The things I don't want to do, I end up doing. Can I get a witness? So he was far from sinless. That's not what we're talking about. But Paul understood the Christian life was not something he worked up. It was something, it was Christ in him living the life through him. And so that's what Paul is talking about here, and that's what sets the stage, that understanding, is what sets the stage for the Holy Spirit in me to bear this fruit, to bear this fruit. It's possible to keep God's rules and not be Christ-like at all. It's possible to keep God's rule and not be a good Christian. We get pharisaical about it. I do this, I do that, I'm a good Christian, I do this and I do that. And I've found we get that attitude, we get that thinking in our head It leads to thinking I'm better than others. Well I do this and I don't do that. They do. I'm a good Christian. They're not Now that may or may not be the case in the eyes of God, but that's no concern of mine. My concern is that Christ lives his life through me. It's possible to keep God's rule and not be Christ-like. However, it is impossible to be Christ-like and violate God's instructions. You follow what I'm saying? I can do the do's and don't do the don'ts and not be a good Christian. However, if it's Christ living his life through me, the do's will be in place and the don'ts will be where they should be But it's Christ, it's Christ, it's Christ. He is all in all. We get to heaven The judgment seat of Christ. And every one of us that know Jesus Christ the Savior, mark this down. Every one of us that know Jesus Christ the Savior, we will stand. Amen for amens from little babies. I love it. Every one of us will stand before Christ at the judgment seat of Christ. That ought to never be far from the forefront of our mind. And when we stand before the judgment seat of Christ, and if by God's grace The Lord Jesus Christ says to me or says to you, Well done, my good and faithful servant. And he rewards us with some crowns. And we say, I did it. I kept enough do's and I avoided enough don'ts and I got a crown. Is that what we're going to do? No, what are we going to do? We're going to take those crowns. We're going to cast them at the feet of Jesus. You know why? Because we're going to fully comprehend it wasn't me that did it. It was Christ who did it through me. And that's what Paul's saying. Walk in the Spirit. Not the wall doing this and doing that. And so the Christian life, as God intends it, is a supernatural life. Now come back to Genesis 5 or Genesis. Galatians chapter 5 here And Paul, again, under the inspiration of God, God through Paul is telling us the importance of the Holy Spirit in living the Christian life, how vital he is, how necessary The Holy Spirit is for us to live the Christian life. Notice seven times in verses 16 through 25 he refers to the Spirit. Look at verse 16. He says, This I say then, this is our text to get us started. Walk in the Spirit. You shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Look at verse 18. But if ye be led of the Spirit, you're not under the law. Verse 22, which will eventually be the subject we're preaching on through the summer. But the fruit of the Spirit, not the fruit of me, the fruit of the Spirit Look at verse 25. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. He says, walk in the Spirit, verse 16, you shall not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. I think we addressed this last week a little bit. But he tells us very clearly here, and we know from experience, if any of us any of us have been saved, any like any of us that are saved and have been paying attention. We're very much aware of the fact there are two forces trying to affect and control our lives. Right? Anybody know? The spirit and the flesh. There are two forces at work there. The flesh, verse 17: the flesh lusts against the spirit. The spirit against the flesh. And notice he says these two are contrary to one another. I have this, and when he's talking about the flesh, he's not talking about my physical blood and vessels and muscles and bones, not the not the physical bodies talking about my sinful nature And we see that in uh if you look there in verse number uh 19 and 20, he he talks about um idolatry, he talks about hatred, strife. Those aren't physical things, those are spiritual, emotional, mental type stuff, attitudes. So he's not talking about the flesh being the physical flesh. He's talking about my sinful nature, what I am naturally And they're contrary. The word contrary means opposites. Whatever is important to the flesh is not important to the Holy Spirit to the Spirit. Whatever is of high priority to the spirit is of zero priority to the flesh. They're contrary, their opposites, their adversaries. They oppose each other. There is no cooperation between my flesh And the spirit that dwells within me. No cooperation. They're contrary. They're adversaries. They're opposed. Opposites. And they're both vying to control the way I think, to control how I talk, my behavior, what I do, where I go, how I look. Flesh and spirit. It's there. And we know it. We know the Bible teaches it. We see it here. And we know it from experience. The key to conquering the flesh is to walk in the Spirit. Say, preacher, I'm tired of the flesh dragging me down. I want my life to please God. I want God to be pleased with me. I want my heart pure. I want my mind clean. I want my heart. I want to have the love of God. I want to be strong in the Lord. I want to have faith. And the flesh keeps pulling me down and pulling me down and I'm constantly frustrated. Well, the key to conquering the flesh, according to this passage, is to walk in the Spirit. Look again at verse 16. I say then, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall what? Not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. How many people get frustrated with yourself, your old flesh? Anybody here? I'm on a daily basis for me. The key is walking in the Spirit. Walking in the Spirit. Now that was the that was 80% of my message. I want to give you three point bullet points here, real quick. Number one. The decision to walk in the flesh. Notice he says, this I say then, walk, or to walk in the spirit, I should say, this I say then, walk in the spirit. It's a decision I make. I decide. It's voluntary. Being in the flesh, that works of the flesh there, you see them, that is my default position. How many people know what I mean by default position? Anybody here? What I mean by that is this. If I don't do anything, that's just what's naturally going to happen. I'm going to be selfish, it's going to be about me, I'm going to have an attitude, I'm going to be proud All the characteristics and the works of the flesh, that's the fault. If I don't step in and intervene, if I don't make some sort of decision, that's the kind of Christian I'm going to be. If I don't take action, if I don't act on it, if I don't follow the Scripture's teaching here on this and just let things go, that's what I'm going to be. And so I had to make a decision to walk in the spirit. I must decide Walking in the Spirit, the fruit of the Spirit, which again I'm getting ahead of myself here, which is the result of walking in the Spirit, it doesn't just happen. Say, well, it's God does it all. God does it all. Yes, but I've got to decide whether I'm going to let Him do it or not. Walking in the Spirit doesn't just happen. I must decide. I have to want it. I must humble myself before God and say, no, not me, not my flesh, Christ. Not I, but Christ. I have to decide, I have to want the Holy Spirit. I have to walk, uh want to walk in the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 18. He says, but if Ye be led of the Spirit. Verse 25, if we will live in the Spirit, let us walk in the Spirit. It's voluntary. God doesn't make me walk in the Spirit. God doesn't make me be a spiritual Christian. He provides that opportunity for me. He lays it out there. Here's what you can have in your Christian life. This is what you can be as a Christian. I've given you the resource. The Holy Spirit of God dwells within you. Everything you need to be what you ought to be is there in you Now you've got to decide. And if I don't decide, if I don't do anything, then the flesh just takes over. That's the default A person can't make you and me walk in the spirit. I can't make my wife walk in the spirit. She can't make me walk in the spirit. I can't, as a pastor, make our church walk in the Spirit. The church can't make the pastor walk in the Holy Spirit. We have to decide individually for ourselves. I pretty much, I guess what this means is I pretty much decide what kind of Christian I want to be. And I found that for the most part we are what we want to be. Now we we never attain and we long for something better, but If I'm a carnal Christian, it's not because I can't be a spiritual Christian. If I'm operating under the flesh and all the characteristics of the flesh control me or or part of me, what I am, uh are are true in my life, all the flesh. Uh it's not because I have to be that way. I can walk in the Spirit. I can have the fruit of the Spirit in my life. But I've got it to want it. If I don't care, it's not going to happen. I pretty much decide whether I want to be a carnal Christian in the flesh or if I want to be a spiritual Christian. Controlled, empowered, led by the Spirit of God. So number one, there's a decision. Number two, walking in the Spirit is a daily endeavor. Everybody with me? Everybody alright? The word walk, and we touch on this often, the Christian life is described as a walk. When you walk, we've done this before many times, but when you walk, what do you do? Put one step in front of the other. When I stop putting one step foot in front of the other, I stop what? I stop walking. I'm standing. I'm making no progress. The Bible says God tells us, walk in the Spirit. One step in front of the other. In other words, I do it over and over, I make that decision over and over and over and over. I said daily decision, it's really a lot of times a moment-by-moment decision. Is it going to be the flesh or the spirit? It's a lifetime of relying on the Holy Spirit. It's a lifestyle. Of living in submission to God and the life of Christ being lived for me. And moment by moment, day by day, moment by moment, I say, not I, but Christ. Christ, I want you to live through me. Christ, I want your spirit to indwell me and fill me. Walking in the Spirit and being filled with the Spirit are almost identical. Perhaps one and the same. And I'm walking in the Spirit, and the Spirit is bearing this fruit in my life. It's bearing this fruit in my life. Not something, it's not a list I'm doing check, alright, alright I got a checklist off here. Love, alright, I got a love Joy, alright, I'm happy. Peace, I'm at peace. No, no, no, it's not that at all. So I decide I don't want to be controlled by the flesh. It's a battle going on. I decide, I volunteer decide, I want I want to walk in the Spirit. And so I Submit myself to Lord. I let that Spirit fill me. I yield to Him. And over and over and over I just continually, step by step, keep myself, heart, and mind yielding. Anyway, some of y'all know exactly what I'm talking about. I know I I know you do. How many here have ever we had a revival meeting or maybe God moved in a special bit way on a Sunday or on a service? And man, God stirred your heart and And uh you seek the Lord, you make some things right, you get up, and man, you just have the presence of God. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You just have that presence of God there in your life, and that fruit, the peace, there's peace there. And uh you just love everybody, and um, you know, you've got the the fruit of the Holy Spirit is in your life. And you get home and somebody cut you off or something, or the deer ate all your plants on your front porch. And immediately you lose it. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And I get back in the flesh That's contrary, contrary. That's what Paul's talking about in seven of chapter seven of Romans, huh? I don't want to do this, I end up doing it, I don't wanna And so I have to moment by moment I get home and every one of my plants are going. This is personal testimony here. And every one of my plants are going, no stinking deer. And the fruit is gone. And so I gotta decide, all right, Lord, I just yield to you. We'll eat it later we'll eat that beer later in the year. In 1 Corinthians, and again we don't want to we don't have time to turn there, but maybe jot this down. 1 Corinthians 15, 31, Paul said this. Now he's talking about some other issues, but he makes this statement He says, I die daily. You know what he's saying? I die to the flesh. Mortify the flesh. I put it down. I make a conscious decision every day. I am not going to allow the flesh. I'm going to yield to the Spirit of God. I want to walk in the Spirit. I want to be filled with the Spirit. Not some list of do's and don'ts, but the Spirit of God lived through me The life of Christ lived through me. He says, I die daily. I think that's the key to Paul's extraordinary Christian life. He was able to maintain a submission to the Spirit of God, a mortification of the flesh The deeds of the flesh. Look at chapter 5 here, and look at verse 24. We're in 25. Look at verse 24. He said, They that are Christ have, look at this, crucified the flesh. With the affections and the lusts. That's a decision I made. Walking in the Spirit is an absolute necessity. If my life is going to please God, I'm going to hear God, if I'm going to hear Jesus say, Well done, Dennis I've got to walk in the Spirit. I've got to walk in the Spirit. And let me bring this home and say, all right, preacher, what does that mean? That to me tells me that that daily morning, daily time with the Lord is so vitally important. Where I get alone with God, and His Word is open, and I let God speak to my heart. God teach me and instruct me. Challenge me and encourage me. I get his promises. I see his warnings. And then I yield myself and I pour my heart out to God and I worship him and I praise him. I confess my sin and I make my request. And I think in that daily time where I spend a little bit of time with the Lord, and as much time as you can really, but I spend a little time with the Lord, and in that time I make this decision. Not my will, but thy will be done. And I'm yielding to the Spirit, and I'm denying the flesh. And it's not a matter of bringing my will in line with God's will. It's not that at all. Because eventually God's will and my will are going to contradict. What it is, it's an elimination of my will, and it's only his will. My will's removed from the equation. Not my will. It's removed. It's out of there. God, your will. And then maintain that attitude, that submission throughout the day, walking, keeping that there. You with me? Tell you, my great prayer for our church has been for pretty much from the beginning of the year. I mean earnestly, for our church is that every single member would establish the habit Of spending some time every day with the Lord Jesus Christ in his presence with an open Bible and an open heart. Pouring my heart out to God. And I'm telling you, we can testify. God answers prayer. God responds to that. And we can be filled with the Spirit, and we can walk in the Spirit. And then, that brings my third and final point. The delivery of spiritual fruit. When I do that, then the Holy Spirit bears that fruit The works of the flesh come naturally. I don't have to make any effort, I don't have to make any decision. Those works of the flesh are going to be there. And they're characteristic, what he says, that's characteristic of unsaved people. So that's the way the unsaved are. People that are not inheriting Kingdom Heaven, that's the way they live. And you and I have those same characteristics latent within us. And again, if I don't do anything, if I make no decision, I don't act on it, they are just going to be naturally be uh born in my life. Those words. So I got to decide. And when I make that decision, I yield my will to God, and He fills me with His Spirit, then He delivers this fruit. It's produced by the Holy Spirit as I yield myself to Him, His control. And we're going to talk about, I'm probably going to talk about this a lot during the series, but man, this just stirs my heart. The fruit of the Spirit is not something that I've got to somehow get inside me. See see if I can get you to understand what I'm saying. The love. Boy, I somehow need to get love in my heart. I need the Holy Spirit to put joy in my heart and peace. I need the Holy Spirit to put some long-suffering in my heart and gentleness. I need him to bring this into my light. That's not what he's saying All these, all this fruit here that's listed, this fruit is already in us. It's the fruit of the Spirit. How many people you're saved? You know it. Say amen. How many of those of us that are saved know that the Holy Spirit dwells within us? This is the fruit of the Spirit. It's there. All this fruit, this Christian life that's described by the fruit, these characteristics, they're in every single one of us. They're already there. What I have to do is get myself in a condition, in a position where the Holy Spirit can bear it. When I'm walking in the flesh and I'm not yielded to the Spirit and I've got my uh and it's me, then that latent Fruit, that potential fruit that's already in me, it isn't born, it doesn't germinate, it doesn't it isn't bear it doesn't bear that fruit But as I walk in the Spirit, yield the Spirit, then the Holy Spirit, and next thing I know, I look, and man, I'm a whole lot more patient than I used to be. A whole lot more loving. My heart's pure, my mind's cleaner, and my words are kinder. Because the Holy Spirit's bearing that. Are you with me? And so we're going to look at the fruit in the coming couple months, but it doesn't i uh if we don't understand this, Then we'll never see the fruit. And so we have to enter this with the idea, dude, all right, I need to mortify the flesh, crucify the flesh and the lust thereof. And let the Spirit fill me and walk in the Spirit. Father, I ask you to take these thoughts and help us that we wouldn't just be some external conformity to a list of do's and don'ts But Lord, we could experience the life of Christ being lived through us in a very real way and to the point where it becomes evident to other people because of this fruit that's being born in our lives. Lord, I believe that it will empower our witness. I think our soul wouldn't be much more effective And so I pray you'd help us to want that. I ask your Holy Spirit, who dwells within us, to put a hunger in our hearts. To walk in the Spirit and deny the flesh and be yielded and filled with you. And we want your life lived through us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, that's where I'm at? That's the desire of my heart for Christ to live his life through me. That this fruit that the Holy Spirit has dwelling in me could be born in my life. Any like that uplifted hand? I can't imagine a Christian not wanting that. Just can't imagine. Let's ask the Lord. Let's ask him to stir us. Let's ask him, don't let me be until this is true in my life. Keep provoking me, keep convicting me, keep prodding me. So I get to the end of myself, and it's Christ in me, and not I. Father, bless your invitation, I ask in Jesus' name.