I think our church does pretty good on this, but it's something you gotta keep working at and stay at. And so we're going through, and what I'm doing is just looking at different situations or conditions, maybe I should say, that people could be And then how to deal with that. We've already looked at those that uh spent a little bit of time. How do we deal with folks that are defeated, that have uh gotten out of fellowship with the Lord, are struggling in some area, they're not having victory in their life. and um how to deal with them. And then we talk about those whom we disagree. Maybe take a different view on something than we do or whatnot. And then tonight is we're going to look at walking with the weak. I think it's a little strong up here, Dave, on these monitors, I guess. Just a little strong to me, anyway. Alright, Luke or Romans chapter 14. Look at verse number. . I'm going to read down through verse 8, beginning of verse 1. Him that is weak in the faith, receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations. For one believeth that he may eat all things, another who is weak eateth herbs Let not that proves you vegetarians are weak. You know what vegetarian is? It's an Indian word for bad hunter. Verse 2. For one believeth that he may eat all things, another who is weak eateth herbs. Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not. And let not him which eateth not judge him that eateth, for God hath received it. Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? To his own master he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be holding up, for God is able to make him stand. Speaking about the weak man. One man esteemeth one day above another, another man esteemeth every day alike. But every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. He that regardeth the day, regardeth it to the Lord. He that regardeth not the day, to the Lord, he doth not regard it. He that eateth, he that eateth, eateth To the Lord. Pre give us on thanks He that eateth not, to the Lord he eateth not, and giveth God thanks. For none of us liveth unto himself, and no man dieth to himself. For whether we live, we live unto the Lord, and whether we die, we die unto the Lord. Whether we live therefore or die, we are the Lord's. Now I read a little extended portion. We're going to look at verse 1 there. But he's talking about folks who There were some folks in the context here that felt it was wrong to eat meat that was offered to idols. Some others felt like certain days were more special or sacred than other days, and some folks considered them all the same. Paul is saying here that some of these folks were weak. They didn't understand the scriptures, and therefore we're to treat them a certain way. And verse 1 tells us, him that is weak in the faith. Receive ye, but not to doubtful disputation. So I entitled the message, Walking with the Weak. Getting along with folks that are weak. And let's have a word of prayer and then we'll look at the message. Father, bless now our study. Fill me, I plead, Lord, with your Holy Spirit. Speak through me. Teach us, Lord, and help us to be strong in our faith and in our understanding of your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. I think we all understand that all believers are at varying degrees of spiritual strength. No nobody is at uh uh very few folks would be considered at the same level. We're at all different sites. Your average church, if it's the right kind of church is going to have some folks that are very weak in the faith, and I'll explain that in a little bit. You're going to have some folks that are very strong in the faith. Then you're going to have folks in between there. So, my first statement is this. All believers are at varying degrees of spiritual strength. My second statement, to get us lay the groundwork here, is All believers, I believe, all believers fluctuate in their spiritual strength. Sometimes a Christian is stronger in their faith than they are at other times. They tend to fluctuate. You can see that in the life of Abraham. At some times, Abraham's exercising tremendous faith, very strong in his faith in God. At other times, he's telling his wife to lie. Right? He's running off to Egypt because there's famine in the land. Yet another time he's offering his son up as a sacrifice because he's confident God will raise him up. If he does kill him. And so our faith fluctuates throughout time as we grow in the Lord. I put this statement down. The length of my spiritual life does not necessarily correspond to the strength of my spiritual life. You catch what I'm saying? Just because a person's been saved a long time doesn't mean that their faith is very strong. And it is possible for a very young believer to have very strong faith. And so, when we're looking at this matter of faith, walking with the weak, the Bible gives us some instructions. How do we deal with someone that maybe was stronger in their faith a couple years ago than they are now? How do you deal with someone who just got saved and they're not strong in their faith at all? Um the Bible tells us. Let me give you a few points here. Number one First thing we need to do is consider their condition. Here's somebody that is struggling with some things that you and I would say are very clear in Scripture I really don't want to go off on this rabbit trail too far, but to illustrate it, Paul was, and in Corinthians he deals with it also, but there were some folks that if there was uh the pagans would offer a goat or something to a false god, a pagan god. Then, after they were done the sacrifice, they'd take the meat and they'd sell it out of the market. There were some Christians who felt like it was wrong to eat that meat that's being sold on the market that was offered to Dionysius or some god. So uh they wouldn't eat it. And they would say stuff like, hey, oh, I'm gonna, I'm not, I'll just eat vegetables before I ever touch meat that's been offered to a god. And they felt very strong about that. But Paul said that they were weak in their faith. He said, there's nothing wrong with you. That God doesn't even exist. There's nothing wrong with eating that meat. There's no significance to it whatsoever. And so the idea is this: the stronger one, the one that had a stronger grasp of Scripture Would not would had no problem eating the meat. The weaker one would struggle with that. And then same thing with holy days. So If there's someone in the church that they're struggling with something, and maybe you or I have been around long enough, we studied the scriptures, maybe you've been in Bible Institute And uh you know what the Bible teaches about that subject, and you say, you know, that's really not a difficult thing. The answer is very obvious. How do I interact with that person? How do I do it? Do I look down on them Well, the first thing I do is I consider their condition. Look at verse 4, chapter 14, verse 1 with me. The first thing we consider is these people are saved. We're talking about saved people. Him that is weak in the faith. Alright? Here is somebody. They're in the faith. It's a saved person. Now here's a real danger sometimes for a Christian. But here's a real danger sometimes with Christians. And maybe we're all guilty of this at some point. And that is this, expecting a new Christian to be at the same point in their Christian life where I am. And then if they're not as strong a Christian as I am, then we think, well, they're probably not even saved. I don't see how a saved person could do that. You know? And so we have to be very careful. Just because they may not understand some principles of Scripture or even some clear teaching of Scripture, doesn't mean they're not saved. I heard a preacher say, and I don't agree with this, so this is an extreme, I'm using the absurd to illustrate this, but I heard a preacher say one time, he says, I don't see how in the world a woman can be saved and wear pants. That has absolutely nothing to do with salvation. Um now you know my position Years ago, I determined with all my heart I had a conviction I'm not going to wear dresses. That is my conviction. I've said that a hundred times over the years and you laugh every time I say that. And my wife has a conviction she's not going to wear pants. And so that's our position. But to make a statement like that is exactly what Paul is saying you should not do. They're in the faith. They might not see it. They may not understand it. They might not be as smart as you are. Oh, I'm being facetious. But uh that doesn't mean they're not saved. So consider the fact to be true about God. Their weakness was in their lack of understanding about scriptural teaching. Is everybody with me? Oh, looking at me like you're frozen. It's not that they didn't believe the Bible, it's they didn't understand it. It's not that they didn't have faith in what God said. They just didn't fully grasp or understand all that God had said. And thus they struggled with meat that was offered to idols, and even though those idols are nothing, thus they struggled with special days Not that they didn't believe God, not that they didn't trust God very strongly. It's just that they didn't understand Scripture. So, number one, we consider their condition and we consider the fact that they are in the faith, they're saved people. Second thing we need to consider about them, and this gets a little redundant here, but it's that they are strengthless. The word weak there means this: powerless. To be feeble, to be without strength. He that is weak in the faith. So they are very feeble Concerning the things that the Bible teaches we are to understand and believe. Follow what I'm saying? They're very weak in that. They don't have much power in understanding what God's Word teaches us. This is interesting. This is a definition. In fact, it's in Strong's Concordance. It means that it also has this definition: being without provision. Being very needy or very poor. He that is weak in the faith, in other words, he is very, he is, let me put it this way, he has poverty concerning the faith. Now how how what's that mean? It means they really don't know a whole lot about what the Bible teaches. If you would, take your Bible, and it's right here in Romans, come back to chapter 4. And we have an illustration of the opposite of what he's talking about here. Romans chapter 4 And look with me at verse 19. Romans 4. 19. Speaking of Abraham, we referenced them a little bit ago. Says, let's look at verse 18. Who against hope believed in hope. Now that would be strong faith, right? Everything looked hopeless, but yet he still had hope in God. That he might become the father of many nations according to that which was spoken, so shall thy seed be. Now look at verse 19. And being not weak in faith He considered not his own body now dead when he was about a hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. He staggered not at the promise of God. But uh through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God. Now here you have someone that's not weak in the faith, but they're strong in their faith. And notice in verse number 20, he staggered not at the what? Promise of God, which would come from where? Where do we get the promises of God from? The Word of God. In other words, Abraham was able to be strong in the faith because he knew what God had promised. He knew what God's word was. When he went up and offered Isaac as a sacrifice, he wasn't up there ignorant that God had promised that through him, the sea through Isaac The seed of Abraham of uh of Israel would be um uh would be reproduced and uh uh there'd be a great nation through Isaac. He knew that promise He was strong in the faith because he knew it and understood what God said. Therefore, he could offer his son up. Hebrews tells us, believing that God would raise him up, because he knew what God had promised. So these weak people that we're talking about, Revelation or Romans 14, 1, are people who don't understand scriptures. They don't have a grasp of it. They're afraid of things that they really don't need to be afraid of. They stumble over things they really don't need to stumble over. They have a hard time doing things that the Bible says we should do because they really don't understand what God means behind it. You follow what I'm saying? They're strengthless. They're saved, no doubt about it But they're not strong. They're weak in the faith. They're without knowledge and understanding of the teachings of Scripture. They have no resources for growth because of that ignorance They had no defense against the world, the flesh, and the devil because of that weakness concerning understanding the faith. Ephesians chapter 6 talks about be strong in the Lord and the power of his might. And then what does it say to do? Put on the what? Whole armor of God. And then he goes through and lifts breastplate of righteousness, the loins girded about with truth, the word of God. And everything applies to understanding the scriptural principles And so the idea is this, I'm going to be strong against the enemy if I understand scripture. I know how to use it. I know how to plize the light And so these weaken the faith uh are folks who are strengthless concerning the principles of scripture. I got thinking about this. What is the f if somebody signs up to join the military, whatever branch, except the Air Force, you don't have to do it anything there. But um uh nobody here anybody here in the Air Force? Chuck, were you in the Air Force? Good. Um I don't want to get beat up by somebody who's in the Air Force. But uh I what's the first thing you do? Sign up. Oh yeah, I'd like to be an air I'd like to be a pilot for the Navy. Oh sure, just sign here. You'll be whatever you want. Yeah, right. Sign up. Where do they send you off to? Huh? Boot camp! Right? The nice resort, boot camp. Uh what is the purpose? What is the This is the way I understand it. What is the primary purpose of boot camp? Okay, it's to that that ties into what I'm saying. But what's the primary purpose? Get him in shape. With that guy into shape, both physically, but also in his thinking. You've got to get him out of the independent mentality. He's got to become part of the machine. Right? And so that's what God is saying. These people are if you have a soldier that's not in shape physically, he doesn't understand the concept of military and working as an army together, an army of One. He doesn't understand that concept. He's out there doing his own thing. He's overweight. No Snyder marks there. And um is he going to be a strong soldier? No. He's not going to be strong. So that's the concept. I'm trying to paint a picture here of what we mean by the work the weak Christian. Are they sincere? Absolutely. Do they believe the Bible? Sure they do. They're saved, but they just don't have a strong grasp of it. Can I suggest to you our country is filled with churches like that? Hey, I hate to say this, but I'm afraid we've got pulpits That have men standing behind it that are what the Bible would define as weak in the faith. By people who are very sincere, people who believe the Bible, people who are no doubt, perhaps even saved, but they're weak in the faith. So that's the condition that we're dealing with. Number two, what is our conduct? How do we deal with this person? Come back to Romans 14. Tells us very clearly. It's not difficult. Him that is weak in the faith, kick out of the church. Is that what it says? No. Him that is weak in the faith, look down your nose at him. No. Him that's weak in the faith, gossip about him. All right? I think that's what Kathy and Joy were doing over there right before church. I'm not sure. No, really What are we supposed to do? The Bible says we're to receive them. Now here's a question. What does it mean to receive someone? I got my trusty books out and looking stuff up, I found this. It means to take as a companion One place it was used to describe take into one's home. And here's one, this is in Strong's again, and I thought this was interesting. to grant access to your heart. Here's someone, it's very sincere. They have a testimony of salvation. What they understand of the Bible, they absolutely believe it. The Bible says, I'm to receive that one. I'm to take them as a companion. I'm to open my heart up to them. I'm to receive them. To put it mildly, this is telling us we are to treat them kindly as a friend and a brother or sister in Christ. I mean, that's just a surface definition. My understanding of that word receive, and I'll give you some scripture for it, it's good when I back up my thinking with scripture, right? Here is my understanding of that word receive. I think it's more than just being kind to them. I think it's more than just treating them as a friend or a brother. I believe the word receive here, the teaching of this is to not just overlook their weakness, but to help them grow and become strong To try and do what I can to get them where they are stronger. It's more than just saying, well, he's just weak in the faith. What a guy. It's more yeah. It's more than just that. Uh receiving, to me the idea is To take them in under my wing. Open my heart to them. Bring them under my wing. And try and do what I can in a gracious, Christ-like way. Remember Galatians 5, Spirit and Flesh gracious, spirit-filled way, and try and help them grow and become stronger and understand the scriptural teaching on these issues. Now let me give you some scripture. Take your Bible, turn back to Acts Chapter number 18. Now some people, if they don't understand your position on something, some folks, if someone doesn't understand their position on something, they just shoot them. You know? They just cut their head off. Well, that's not the Bible way. Look at Acts chapter 18. And look with me, we'll start reading in verse 24. A certain Jew named Apollos, born in Alexandria. Now look at this the scripture of this guy. An elegant man, eloquent man. He could very good speaker. And he was what? Mighty in the scriptures, good or bad thing? That's great. Um this man was instructed in the way of the Lord, being fervent in spirit And he spake and taught diligently the things of the Lord. Question, is this guy saved? Sure, well I've got a little ahead of myself there, but yeah, he's saved. There's no doubt about that. Does he believe the Bible? Sure he does. Is he sincere? And he's more than sincere. He's diligent. He's out there preaching what he knows to be true. Now look what happens. The last part of verse 25. Knowing only the baptism of John. Aha, you know what that tells me? He was weak in the faith. He didn't have all the information. He was in poverty concerning the teachings of the Bible, of God's Word, concerning the rest of Jesus' ministry. Now what he knew, he believed. What he understood, he was declaring it, and he was living it. But he was weak in the faith Now read on. And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue, whom when Aquila and Priscilla had heard, they took him and chopped his head off. No, it doesn't say that. They took him and said, You idiot, keep your mouth shut. No. They took him and kicked him out of the church. Doesn't say that, doesn't Mary? They took him unto them. What does that sound like? Receiving them. Putting their arm around, take them under wing, opening their heart to them. They're taking him in, and look at this, expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly. You know what they're doing? They're strengthening him in the faith. Now we have to be careful, and I tell you, I'm I can get in this way of thinking too. It's very easy to happen. We have folks come through, make a profession of faith, sometimes they get baptized, you never see them again. Huh? I'm constantly evaluating that. And you know, I'll be honest with you, I think, you know, there's a lot of reasons behind that, but I think one is I and we need to work harder at taking them in under our wings. We need more diligent about that. We're thinking, all right, they're saved and baptized. Why aren't they like me? Because they're Weak in the faith. Now I wanted to work into the message. There's just no way we'd have time because I don't know if I can get this all done. But what are the causes of being weak in the faith? I think some of them are because there's so much false teaching out there People are taught, I believe there's people who are saved, genuinely born again, that are taught you can lose your salvation and go around scared to death that they don't know whether they don't know whether they have their salvation or not, not because they're not safe, but because they're taught you can't know it. And they're weak in the faith. Um hey, you may take issue with me on that, that's all right, it's a free country, you can be wrong if you want I think there are people out there that are saved. I think they sincerely love the Lord, but they don't understand the issue of God preserving his word. And they're using other versions. Not because necessarily they've rejected the word of God, they've just been taught wrong. They got saved under church, perhaps, that said, you know, anything goes, whatever. That's what they said. So we are to receive them. Now before you get hair-lipped here, uh I'll I'm gonna deal with that a little bit. So we are to receive them. Number one, what's our conduct? Receive them. Take them in under the wing Let's read on here. And when he was disposed, verse 27, to pass the Achai, the brethren wrote, exhorting the disciples to what? See, there it is. Take this guy in. He was weak in the faith. We think we've helped him. We've tried to expound him. We'll teach him a little more what the Bible says. You guys receive him. Who when he was come helped them much which had believed through grace. Now look at the result, verse 28. For he, Apollos, mightily convinced the Jews And that publicly, showing the scripture, wow, he went from weak in the faith to strong in the faith. And you know why? Because a couple, Aquila and Priscilla, received him expounded to him, invested some time and effort in him, shared with them their heart and the scriptures, and he becomes an effective servant of God. That is a beautiful picture of what Romans chapter 14, verse 1 is all about. Number one, receive them. Go with me to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Here we're to do something else for the week. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 14. 1 Thessalonians 5, 14. Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly. Okay? The word unruly means to live outside the teachings of Scripture. To live outside the lines. I think that's literally what it means. You know, you color outside the lines. That's living outside the lines. Warn them. Comfort the feeble-minded, support the what? Weak. Not only to receive them, we're to support them. We're to lift them up, encourage them. The idea is this: someone who is so feeble they can't hardly walk, and you come by and you lift them up and just carry them along Sometimes people are scared, they're struggling, they're defeated because they don't know what the scriptures teach. They don't know the promises of God to claim them. So what are we supposed to do? Supposed to come by and support him. How do you support someone in that condition? Tell them what the Bible says Oh, I just don't, I know I'm saved. I know I trusted Christ. I had this when I was in Bible time. So many times with the evangelists would come in the first week, they're scared to death, they messed up. Sometimes they would finish school You know, you can get pretty backslidden in a Bible college. They would finish school, they would go home then they for a week or so, then they come to Bible time. They go home and they do something stupid. They get home, back with their old friends, get carnal for just, you know, you can get carnal pretty quick. They get carnal, boom, they do some sh stupid stuff. Then they show up at Bible time and they're going to travel for a whole summer, preach every day to thousands of people. They're scared to death. They think I lost my salvation. I was never saying And so they come in, one of the f and the they'll pre-this is when I was out there, then they would come to me and say, I don't know if I'm saved or not Well the first things I'd ask them is, what makes you I'd check their testimony of profession of faith. They give it testimony. Yeah, I know I trusted Christ. I know I did, but I don't know if I'm saved or not. My very first thing I would ask him is, why are you doubting it? What are you basing your doubts on? Well, I just don't know how someone that's really saved could do something like that. Well, what does the Bible say? Is the Bible say not doing that is what saves you or keeps you safe? And so you have to have a basis. So you support them. You get them to look over and lean on scriptures. You know, sometimes A person doesn't know the scriptures has to lean on you until they know the scriptures. I like what Dr. Lee Robertson said years ago. He said, listen, you need to get your convictions And he says, if you don't have your own convictions, borrow mine until you get some. You know what he's saying? He says, listen, just I'll support you. Well, I just don't see it. Why don't you just trust this is what the Bible says and go on until you can get it settled yourself? Follow what I'm saying Support him. Third thing we're supposed to do, our conduct to those weak in the faith. Number one, receive them. Number two, support them. Come back to Romans chapter 15. Everybody still hanging in there with me? A couple. Romans 15, look at verse 1. Then we which are strong Ought to what? Bear the infirmities of the weak. Not to please ourselves Not to make me look good. I'm to bear their infirmities. This is the idea. Carry the load they can't. It's almost this idea. Now, don't take this just in a capsule of itself. You've got to take it with the other things we're told to do. But it's almost this idea. You've got to put up with it You gotta put up with it. Um I traveled when I was twenty years old. Right after I got saved, the church went on a bike trip. And uh we uh We went a bicycle trip and we went from Philadelphia up to Central PA across New York just below New York City down New Jersey across. It was nine hundred some miles in six days I guarantee you Pat has never done that. Have you? Ha ha! I got something on him. Uh anyway, I was only 20 years old then. But anyways. The principle was this, you only ride as fast as what? The slowest rider. It's like, man, you know us guys that are in shape. Us us guys that are are in shape. I mean that we're in shape. Man, we're just riding wheelies, you know, come on man, let's go. And uh but you had to bear the infirmities of the week. You know what? We don't leave people behind. All right? You know, sometimes you think, man, so and so, they're not a very good testimony on our church. You know what? We bear the infirmities of the week. Sometimes this may come as a shock to you. Sometimes church members do stupid things. Can I get a witness? I mean not you personally. No one here tonight does that. I mean other people do. You know what the church does? You bear the infirmities. Sometimes people just aren't as strong, sometimes aren't as mature. Sometimes people are defeated. We talked about that before. You know what? We do everything we can to help them and do all that. But you just have to sometimes put up with it. Dr. Lee Robertson said, Highland Park Baptist Church, 10,000 members He said ten percent of the people do ninety percent of the work. Why is that? And every church I've been in, that's that's a good percentage. Why is that? You know what you gotta do? You say, well, bless God, we're gonna run the other ninety off. Guess what will happen? Then you'll have one out of ten to do it. The percentage isn't gonna change So you know what you do? You bear the infirmities. That means the 10% have to do what? More work. The issue isn't why do I have to do everything? That's not the question. The question is, we've got to get this job done. Whether it's just me or whether it's everybody. It has to, we've got to reach the world with the gospel. I can't just sit back and say, I'm not going to do it because those weak in the faith aren't doing it. I've got to step up, bear the infirmities. Alright, they're not going to do it. Bless God, I've just got to do more. You follow me? And so he says we have to bear the infirmities of the week. Now, quickly, and I'll end with this, I promise, there's only 17 points under this third one. Consider some cautions, some things we have to be careful about. Now come back to chapter 14 with chapter 14 again And he gives us a caution in verse 1. Him that is weak in the faith, receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations. In other words, some things I got to caution about, number one, don't get in arguments with them about the issue. Don't argue with them. That word doubtful disputations talks about debating. Trying to give my opinion about it. Listen, you know, you know, there's no such thing as Diana, the false god. That meat is it's nothing spiritual about it. You can eat that T-bone steak. Doesn't matter who it was dedicated to. It's meaningless Just enjoy it. Yeah, but you know, I just feel bad. I don't think you ought to be doing it. Well, you're just stupid. Why don't you? Why don't you Don't get in doubtful disputations. Don't get in an argument about it. Just respect that position. Alright, uh, you know, it took me a long time to grow as a Christian to honor some things, let's give them some time. Um I get some, I get these articles by way of email from a fellow, and he has some good stuff, and I use it periodically on different things. But I disagree with him in a lot of stuff. And one of them is this, and I got one just recently, and he says that there, now if you challenge them, he'd probably deny it, but what he taught in his article was this There are no issues that are non-fundamental. Everything is fundamental to the faith. In other words, there are no secondary issues. Nothing, everything, it has to be everything or nothing. Now that sounds good, and that's good hard preaching, but that's not the Bible. Paul said there are some secondary issues. For instance, whether you eat meat offered to idols or not. Whether you celebrate a special day or not, those are secondary issues. They're not fundamentals to the faith And so people can have differing positions. People can be, and I don't mean this in a negative way, I just mean in a very literal way, ignorant of certain Bible teachings on some issues that do not affect whether they're a good Christian or not. Now, a person cannot be ignorant about the fact that Jesus died on the cross, was buried, and rose again, and be a Christian That's fundamental, right? But is it possible for a person to be saved, love the Lord, be sincere, and not understand baptism by immersion? Maybe they were taught that that's not something different and they've not been taught in that? Is that possible? Sure. The mode of baptism is not a fundamental. Now, is it important? Yes. So, what are we going to do? No one can come to this church that hasn't been baptized by immersion. No, you come on in. I'm going to receive them. And you know what we're going to preach on? Baptism by immersion. We're going to try and strengthen the faith like Apollos. And so, uh, I'm not going to argue with him about it, I'm not going to get a fight about him. Occasionally, I believe, to me it is so clear the Bible teaches pre-law, during law, and after the law that God's people should tithe. To me it's as clear as day. Do you know what I have on not regularly, but not what's something that's happens but it's not very, very regular? Periodically. Why don't you come up with a sermon if you know all the answers? Um I have periodically people will challenge me on that. And I've taken this position. Hey, I respect your position on that. Hey, that's all right. I'm not going to argue with it. Now if they want to sit down and say, Preacher, I don't understand this, can you teach this to me? I'll say, come on. I'm ready. Especially if they're very wealthy. Act that they're still in the faith. And you know this is true. I see you at Walmart, fellas, you have a dress on. I'm not going to argue about it. Now I may argue about it a little bit. Don't argue over it. A second thing, now this is where it takes a little maturity. Not only is there no arguments, we need to be careful in our association. Though we are clearly taught to receive the weak, there are some limits to our association. And I really well I don't I don't have time. I wish we had more time. 1 Corinthians 8 verse 8 through 9. Would you turn here real quickly with me? Just bear with me. Go over to 1 Corinthians 8, verse 8 through 9. I have to be careful with associations. There's two things I have to limit in my associations with a weak person. Look at 1 Corinthians 8. Look at verse 8. Again, here's the subject of the meat offered to idols. But meat commendeth us not to God, for neither if we eat are we the better, neither if we eat not are we the worse. But look at this verse 9. Are you there, 1 Corinthians 8? But take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours, let me say this, lest by any means your understanding of the scripture concerning this mean. That you're free to eat it. This strength of yours, and understand it, this meat is nothing. Become a what? Stumbling block to them that are what? Weak. Ah. He's saying, listen, you understand the scriptural principles. You understand there's no God that this means this is ridiculous. But just because you understand it doesn't mean you can just go out and do whatever and cause the weak one to stumble In other words, here is my limitation, be careful in my associations. I have to curb my behavior. So that I don't offend the other one. Look down at verse number 12. For when you sin so against the brethren and wound their weak conscience, You sin against Christ. Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend, I will eat what? Bless God, there ain't nothing wrong with it. I'm going to do it anyway. He says, no, that's the wrong attitude. You've got to curb your own behavior. If you're with a weak Christian, a weak believer, they don't understand all the principles of Scripture, then you just back off And you just do all you can to work with them. Don't do anything that would cause them to stumble. Second of all, under this limiting my association, I have to curb their involvement. Now I really can't go to all these scriptures. 1 Timothy 3, verse 1 through 13. It's the entire chapter, basically, except for a few verses at the end of the chapter, is giving the qualifications for pastor and deacon. The very fact that there are qualifications tells me there has to be a level of strength in the faith. You agree with me? In fact, it says very clearly about the pastor, he is not to be a novice. In other words, he's not to be somebody new to the faith that doesn't understand scripture, doesn't understand the principle of scripture, lest he be lifted up with pride. So there are some restrictions that are placed on a person who is weak in the faith if they don't understand these things. If they don't know what the Bible teaches, they don't have a grasp of it, we do not want to put them into leadership positions. Thus, if a person is nominated physician, they get a paper and we ask them to agree to what I consider the basics of living a Christian life. Because we do not want somebody weak in the faith making the key decisions that influence the direction a church goes. You follow with me? We don't want someone weak in the faith that doesn't understand scripture teaching the Bible. Not because we're better than not because we judge them. No, we receive them, we take them in. But there has to be some limitations. There's some restrictions. I get it. That hasn't happened for a long time. I think we kind of have a reputation of community. But uh for years there, it would be every now and then, periodically. People would show up and they'd say, Pastor Leatherman, I have no idea who they are. They're just total strangers. Pastor Leatherman, God told me this morning that I'm to sing this song at your church today. I said, well, we are this is what I wanted to say. Well, when God tells me that you're supposed to sing the song, then we'll do it. I didn't say that. I'm more tactful than that. I said, well man, we've already got our song schedule scheduled for today, all right. We got everything in place we can't do that today People show up. Doc told me I'm supposed to preach here today. We're not just going to let anybody come up here and sing and preach. Right? It needs to be a level of spiritual strength in the faith. And then thirdly, under this Consider some cautions. Not get in an argument with them. Two, be very careful. I need to back off my behavior so I don't offend them. I need to not put them in key positions. And then number three, weakness is different than rebellion. Weakness is different than apostasy. There's a difference between somebody that does not understand the Bible teaching on a subject and somebody who rejects the Bible teaching on a subject. And that's a whole nother set of behavior. If that person is weak in the faith, receive them, support them, bear their infirmities. If that person is apostate to the faith, Dad, let me just give you the scriptures. 2 Thessalonians 3. 6, 2 Thessalonians 3. 14, 1 Corinthians 5. 11, Romans 16, verse 17. Talking about believers, it says, separate from them. Do not eat with them. Mark them. They have rejected the truth. They have made a conscious decision to deny what the Bible teaches, and you back off from them. And you have no association with them. Does not say be unkind to them, does not say slap them. Does not say chop their heads off. It just says do not associate with them. Separate from them. Just keep a distance. Hey, how you doing? Alright, fine. How you doing, man? You know, we're praying for you. It's all the further it goes. I'm going to receive them. Hey boy, you're my best buddy. You reject principles of scripture. You reject the preservation of scripture? Oh, you're my buddy, that's fine. We'll bear that in front of you. No, no, no. You don't if you don't accept what the Bible teaches about that, then you know we can't be buddies. I love you. Maybe you're saved, fine, but I can't. You follow what I'm saying? So, walking with the weak. Takes a little maturity. Takes a little spiritual insight there. Never are we to ever be unkind to anybody But we are to work with folks. Take them as far as we can go. Sometimes folks come here to church. They don't know much about the Bible. They get saved. They grow. They find something. They can't swallow it. They reject it and they move on. That happens. Sometimes folks, for whatever, don't have the character, the self-discipline, to get in the scriptures and learn what it teaches, and they do they just wander off. But we do everything we can Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. Now notice the wording here is very interesting, very important, I should say