2 Corinthians 5, verse 7. What I'd like for us to do this morning is to read this verse together in unison, if you would. Just a little verse here And we may make this a memory verse later on in this year, one of our months memory verse. How many people would like to have a nice little short memory verse? Yeah, let's read it together. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 7. Ready all together. For we walk by faith, not by sight. I want to speak this morning on walking by faith Let's pray and ask the Lord to challenge us in this matter. Father in heaven, we thank you that we can come into your presence and let a request be made known to you. Lord, my request this morning is that you would meet here with us in a very manifest way, Lord, that we would sense the fact that you are here. And I pray that you would speak our hearts and challenge us. Lord, I have no doubt I'm speaking to some folks that really could use some encouragement today. And uh some of us need to be challenged in our walk with you, and maybe we've gotten a little slack. Uh maybe we've gotten a little um uh lazy in our daily Christian life and our and our uh maintaining our spiritual well-being. So, Lord, we ask you to challenge us and convict us, Lord. Perhaps some of us have allowed sin in our lives, and we're trying to hide it, or we're trying to uh uh work around it or live with it I pray you bring great conviction about that that we could come clean with you. And Lord, some of us need direction. Some need, as I said, encouragement. Lord, you know our hearts And I'm asking you, Father, to use your word and that your Holy Spirit would speak through me to each of our lives, wherever we're at spiritually, and help us to step forward and and to leave here stronger spiritually than we were when we came in. I yield my will to you. I present my body And I pray with all my heart that you fill me and speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's interesting study if you'll go through particularly the gospels, and pay attention to the things that Jesus praised people for. And he did that a number of times. He would c comment on somebody, he'd commend somebody, or he'd praise someone. for various different things. But there's one that rises, there's one thing Jesus praised people for above everything else. And if you'll study the gospels carefully, you'll see it very, very clearly, and that is this: Jesus would praise people for living by faith, for exercising faith in Him. And as I study the Bible, I find that I believe one of the main requirements God asks of his disciples. Let me stop here. How many folks here you're saved, you know it? Say amen. How many of us would consider ourselves to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ? Not just a believer, but we're seeking to live for him, follow him, follow his teachings. The one thing the Lord required of his disciples, I believe, as much as anything else, was to have faith in him, to trust him, to live our lives by faith He said in Mark 11, 22, I claimed that verse back in Bible college and I just had overwhelming financial needs and the schedule was just so overwhelming working and full-time school and ministry. And one verse stood out to me, the Lord spoke to my heart, and I've claimed it all these years. Mark 11, 22, very simple verse. He says this, have faith in God. Have faith in God. And that's the one thing the Lord is looking for from you and I and from His disciples is that we would have faith in God, that we would Walk in faith, as the phrase here in our text this morning. Now, what does it mean to walk in faith? What does it mean to have faith in God? Simply means this: just to trust Him You know what it means to trust somebody? Everybody here understands what it means to trust somebody. You can trust me. We all do it all the time. We have people we trust. We entrust the bank with our finances. We and trust our boss at work that he's going to have a paycheck for us. We trust people for various things. And what the Lord wants you to do, and the Lord wants me to do, is he wants us to simply trust him. Just have faith in him, trust him. And by that it means that we trust him and do what he instructs us to do. I don't know if you've ever said something like this to your children. You tell them, you know, they need to do something, and they'll say, Well, why do I need to do that? You say something like this. You just need to just trust me. This is what you need to do. That's what the Lord says to us Just trust me. You just need to trust me. And that means we follow his instructions. It means that we claim his promises. All right, how many times? I don't know how you are, and I hate to admit this, and you'll probably be very disappointed in me, but I tend to worry about stuff sometimes. And things happen or something's going on or uh the guy wire on a radio tower gets pulled out. Just everyday stuff. And um it tends to I tend to worry And boy, how the Lord deals with my heart, and the Lord challenges me to listen, you just trust me, claim my promises. Just rest on my promises. God has given us a Bible full of promises. And he wants us to trust him. He wants us to have faith in him. Follow his instructions. What he tells us to do, hey, just trust him and do it. What he promises us, he gives us these great promises. Hey, just rest on them. Trust them. He gives us warnings over and over and over in the Bible. God warns us about things They'll say, don't do this. Stay away from that. Be careful about this. And he gives us warnings there. Why? Is he just trying to restrict us? Does he just want us on a lockdown? No, no, no. He cares about us. And he wants what's best for us. So he warns us and he gives us restrictions. And so what I need to do is just have faith in him, just trust him. And say, alright, God says stay away from that. Alright, I'm going to trust him. I'm going to stay away from that And so, over and over and over, all through Scripture, particularly the New Testament, we find the Lord praising those who have faith in Him and trust Him. It's interesting. Those who exercised faith in him and trusted him and had faith, he praised them highly. Keep your place here. I want to illustrate a couple of these. If you would, come back to the book of Matthew, first book of the New Testament. Matthew chapter 8, there's an interesting event here in the life of our Lord. And there was a centurion. He was a soldier. He was head over platoon or whatever. I don't know how they uh had it broken down, but he was a header he was a uh a leader in the military. In verse number five of Matthew chapter eight, look at this event here, and this is fascinating to me And when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto him a centurion, this soldier, this leader, this captain or whatever. Beseeching him, he came to Jesus beseeching him, saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home, sick of the palsy, grievously tormented And Jesus saith unto him, I will come and heal him. Now look how this centurion responds. The centurion answered and said, Lord, look at this, I am not worthy that thou shouldest come under my roof. But speak the word only. Look at this. And my servant shall be healed. Wow. And he explains his reasoning, he explains his thinking. For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this man, go and he goeth. And to another, come and he cometh. And to my servant, do this, and he doeth it. When Jesus heard it, he did what? He marveled and said to them that followed, he turned around to the people following him, and he says, Verily I say unto you, look at this. I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. And I say unto you, many shall come from the east and west, sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom. And then he goes on and explains. But here the Lord stops. Here's a centurion And he tells the Lord, listen, you don't even need to come to my house. You can just speak the word. My servant will be made well. And the Lord stops everything And he draws attention to this man that had faith. God praises, God's highest praise, Jesus' highest praise in the Gospels was for those who would simply trust him. Simply have faith in him that he was able to do what he says he will do. On the other side of that coin, if you'll study the gospels carefully, the Lord sharpest rebukes were towards disciples who who lacked faith, who struggled with their faith. If you would notice here in Matthew chapter 8 Verse 23, he says, And when he was entering to a ship, his disciples followed him. And behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves, but he was asleep. And disciples came to him and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us, we perish. Now think about this for a minute. These are hardened sailors. These guys, most of these guys have been made their living out on the sea fishing. This wasn't just something new to them. They'd been through many a storm, but there was something about this storm that scared these guys, and notice what they say, Lord, we perish. They said, we're going to die This is beyond our ability to deal with. Lord, we perish. And he saith unto them, Jesus, Why are ye fearful, O ye of what? Little faith. I don't know about you. But uh, you know, out on the sea in that ship in the storm, these guys and Jesus says, Oh, yeah of little faith Then he goes on, rebukes the wind and the sea, and it calms down. And over and over and over through the Gospels, we could go ahead and another text here, Luke 9, verse 4. We won't turn there But there he rebuked his disciples. They were unable to heal. This father had a son that was possessed of a devil, and the disciples were unable to heal him. And listen, he rebuked them for not having faith. In this situation, listen to the terms he used in rebuking them. He said, Oh, this faithless and perverse generation. I get the sense that Jesus Christ was frustrated with his disciples in that they would not exercise faith. Now in every one of these situations, these are circumstances that are extraordinary These are circumstances that every one of us would have no doubt struggled having faith and trusting the Lord in that, and yet he rebukes them sharply in some instances. I study my Bible and I find that God expects from me as a Christian. He expects me to trust Him. He expects me to have faith in Him I can't find anywhere in the Bible where Jesus rebuked his disciples because they weren't wealthy enough. I can't find anywhere, he says, he rebukes them for not having enough money. I can't find anywhere in the Bible where he rebuked his disciples because they didn't have a high enough education. Never does that. I can't find anywhere in the Bible where he rebukes his disciples because they weren't talented enough or they didn't have enough gifts or abilities. He doesn't rebuke them for any of that. He never rebukes them because they're not popular enough. It's interesting, all the things that this world values so much: wealth and education and popularity and abilities. Jesus Christ wasn't concerned about that and his disciples. The one thing he was concerned about was that they would have faith. That they would have faith. Listen, don't ever think, listen, don't ever think. Don't let the devil convince you that you can't be A good Christian because you're not educated enough, or you don't have enough money, or you're not popular enough, or you don't have enough natural abilities, that has nothing to do with living a successful, victorious Christian life But what does is having faith in God, trusting God. The interesting thing is even a child can have faith in God. In fact, Jesus tells us we are to emulate the faith of a child as we get older. Faith It's what God looks for uh uh in our lives. It's what he's exec expecting from us. It's not wealth. He never praises his disciples for us, he never rebukes them for not having enough money He never rebukes them because they're not educated enough. He never rebukes them because they don't have any natural abilities or skills or talents. He never rebukes them because they're not popular enough. But he does rebuke them sharply. You need to trust me. You need to have faith in me. That's where his rebuke comes in sharply. If we had time, it would be a great study. I think Pastor Matt just preached through it with the young people in Revelation, the seven churches of Revelation in chapter two and three. And it's interesting, Jesus went through these seven churches and he kind of gave a critique. He kind of gave a review of them. And some of them he rebuked, some of them he praised. But not one time, if you'll study that carefully, not one time does he rebuke them because they don't have a big enough budget. Not one time does he rebuke them because they don't aren't popular enough or they don't have enough education. But one thing he does rebuke them for not trusting him and following his instructions. The most important thing for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, the most important thing in my life, in your life as a Christian, is that we learn. To trust God. Just follow what he says, trust him, and do what he tells us to do in that book. And stay away from what he tells us to stay away from And claim the promises he gives to us. That's the most important thing we can learn in our lives. It's the most important thing we as a church can do. Faith, in our text here, 2 Corinthians, if you would come back there, he makes this. Simple little statement, for we walk by faith, not by sight. But I think what he's giving us here in these few words, this little verse He's given us a foundation. Now follow my thinking here. Hear what I'm saying here. He's giving us a foundational principle for living the Christian life. A foundational principle for living the Christian life. If something's foundational, what do you do? You have a foundation down, then what do you do? You build on it And if we can get this one principle down, if I can get a hold of this one concept, in my heart and mind, I can build a life, I can build a home, I can build a ministry. That brings glory to God and has an impact in this world. I believe 2 Corinthians 5, verse 7, is a foundational principle for the Christian life. Here it is: for we walk by faith. And not by sight. Walking by faith and not by sight. I've got three I made three observations from this Verse here, and I want to that's my outline this morning. Number one, my first observation I make here is our progression through life. Now I'll explain what I mean by that. Our progression through life If you're progressing, what are you doing? You're moving forward. You're going ahead. We're progressing with this project. We got it started. We got everything in place. Now we're going forward with it. We're working on our building project out there and we're still working on uh details and stuff and um at some point we're gonna progress we're gonna start breaking ground and going forward So I think there is a progression through life. And I get that from the first word from the word here in this verse. It says, For we walk by faith. Now, what does it mean to walk? You say that's a stupid question. Everybody knows what it means to walk. To walk simply means to make progress. I'm progressing from point A to point B. The walking means to put one foot in front of the other and start covering ground. Progressing, going forward Now the interesting thing in the Bible will often use the term walk. Sometimes it just means to walk. But in this case and other times in the Bible, it's more than that. The word walk, as Paul uses it here, under the inspiration of God, as Paul used it, it means this, my lifestyle. How I live my life. As I'm going through my life, my walk, my another term we'll use was conversation. How I'm living my life, my behavior, my conduct As I go from my birth, as I go from the womb to the tomb, I make this progression through life. It's our behavior as we live our lives, our conduct as we live our lives. And particularly, he's addressing Christians here. He's writing this to a church. I found this. To live the Christian life, if I'm going to be able to live the Christian life, I need to first of all be a Christian. How many people they boy, that's profound, the preacher. Actually, it really is. Because one of the most frustrating things in the world for some people Is that they're trying to live the Christian life, but they're not really a Christian. Uh I read something recently, a little a little statement recently, they said this Uh folks, we have people in our churches that were raised in church but have never been in Christ. Huh? It's more than just being a church member. It's more than just being baptized. It's more than simply calling myself a Christian. If I'm going to live the Christian life, if I'm going to be able to do what this verse says and live, walk by faith, I need to, first of all, be a Christian. I need to be born into the family of God. I got saved back in 1979. And um man, God just changed my life. I've told it so many times. Man, it's just amazing. And here we are 42 years later, I'm still dumbfounded. What God did so instantly in my life. And um I just God changed me and changed my thinking. It was all the Lord doing all this. I wanted to be a witness. I wanted to tell other people about Christ, what happened to me. I didn't have any training and I didn't know anything and The church there wasn't real big on soul winning and visitation, and they announced visitation Thursday nights, and so I thought I'm going to go out to that thing and tell other people about Jesus. I went out, and lo and behold, I was the only person who showed up Church about five, six hundred people. I was the only one showed up. Pate preacher went there, nobody was there, right? Stood there and waited around, nobody showed up So I grabbed a bunch of gospel tracts out of the track rack and there were some apartments back behind the church. Big apartment complex And so I just went back there, just started knocking on doors, and I didn't know what I was saying or doing. I just said, hi, I'm Danny. And um Take gospel track. Said here uh I want to give you a gospel track. And so they I they went on and I remember one stands out in my mind. I'm now understand I've been saved maybe a couple months at the most I didn't I didn't know hardly anything. I was just excited about everything. And this lady answered the door and I gave her, left the gospel track, and uh I asked her this question. I didn't know. I just asked her. I said, Are you a Christian? I was just happy, bushy-tailed. You a Christian? And uh she goes, Yeah, I'm a Christian. I said, oh good. When'd you become a Christian? And boy, she got irritated. She goes, I was born a Christian. I'm born in America. I'm a Christian. I didn't know a whole lot, but I knew that's not how it works. And I said, no, you've got to accept Jesus as your Savior. You've got to be born again. And here's what I'm trying to say: is this you're going to be very, very frustrated In your spiritual life, if you're trying to live the Christian life, and you're not really a Christian, you need to know that you're saved. You say, preacher, will there be church people in hell? Yeah, it will. Oaks that went through the motions and hoped to talk But never knew Christ as Savior. Now the last thing in the world I would ever try and do is get a saved person to think they're lost. I would not want to do that. If a person saved, praise God, you're secure. Another thing I would never want to do is make a lost person think they're saved. That would be tragedy. And so living by faith. As the Bible tells us here, is going to be very, very difficult. It's going to be impossible. It's going to be very frustrating for a person that maybe Churchy and may call themselves a Christian and may consider themselves a Christian, but you've never come to the point where you recognize yourself as a sinner under the judgment of God And the only hope of escaping God's judgment and eternity in hell is coming and trusting Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. And you're born again into the family of God. You have new life, eternal life, a home in heaven. So as we progress through life, at some point, and the earlier the better, the sooner the better, at some point We need to know that we've accepted Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. We've been born again spiritually, born in the family of God. Or it's going to be an empty, frustrating life. An empty and frustrating life. You must be born again. Somebody says, uh somebody said, when's the best time for a person to get saved? Well, it would have been a long time ago. If you're here and you're not saved, the best time for you to get saved would have been a long time ago. The second best time to get saved is today. Now settle that thing. So we have this progression of life, for we walk, we go through life, we conduct ourselves as we go day by day goes by. Week by week goes by, month by month, year by year, decade by decade. And we approach the end of our life. We walk, we live this life, how we conduct ourselves. The just, he says here, for we walk by faith. Walk by faith. Now, the context of him saying this here, now this is interesting. I wish we had more time. Because this is a fascinating study. If you look, go back there and notice verse 1 through 5, he's talking about there's coming a day. When you and I as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we're going to get new bodies in heaven. Now, whether it's if we die before the rapture and we go to heaven or we get raptured out at the rapture, we'll have these bodies resurrected. But he's talking about folks who die before the rapture, and what kind of bodies we will have in heaven before these bodies are resurrected. It's a fascinating study. But the fact of the matter is, he's saying that you and I, as believers, are going to have new bodies. As I was studying this this week, I couldn't help but think of Brother Charlie Ross. He's been up in heaven, what, two weeks now? Three, going on three probably. And the new body that he has up there, Paul describes it a little bit here, these first five verses. He calls it a house, a new house, a new tabernacle we live in. You understand that these bodies, these aren't us. This is just what we live in until these bodies die. How many people understand that? Everybody understand that? We are a soul and we inhabit these bodies. And as a believer, if I die before the rapture, then he has a house prepared for me in heaven, a uh a body, a tabernacle. For me to dwell in. So the context here is the context of the statement is that as we go through this life, as we're passing through this life, ultimately we're heading to our eternal home, our home in heaven Where we'll have new bodies. Verse 6 and 8, he says that when we get there, we're going to be with Christ. We're going to see him. I mentioned this in a message not long ago. Maybe it's because I'm getting a little older, but the idea of seeing Jesus in person, physically in person, is stirs my heart To hear his voice, see his eyes, his complexion, to feel his hands, touch him, the God that created this world. He said, Well, be with him. We're passing through this life. We're progressing through this life to a heavenly home where we'll have new bodies and we're going to be with Christ. Then you get down to verse 10 and 11, and he says, we're going to face Accountability, the judgment seat of Christ. That's for you and I as a believer. Listen, the world's media is not going to tell you this. Our universities aren't going to teach this. But the fact of the matter is, every one of us are going to stand before a holy God and give an account of ourselves to that God. You say, Well, I'm saved. I'm a believer. I don't face judgment, not judgment for my sins, but I do face the judgment seat of Christ to give an account how I lived my life as a Christian. Look what he says there. Look with me at verse 10. For we must all, all Christians are going to be here. We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Now look at this. That every one of us may receive the things done in his body according to what he to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Notice how Paul responds to this thought that he's going to have to Stand at the judgment seat of Christ. Notice how he responds. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord I persuade men. Paul viewed the judgment seat of Christ not as a party or a picnic He says, Man, I tremble in my boots and thought that I'm going to stand before Jesus Christ as a Christian and give an account for how I live my life. Now it's not to decide whether we go to heaven or not, that's settled when we trust Christ. But it's concerning rewards of Jesus Christ for how we live for Him. So here's the point. In the right in the middle of this whole context that we are passing through this life, by the way, this life goes quickly. I got an old enough crowd here this morning that understands this life goes by quickly. And we don't know when it's going to end. I hate to say this and I don't dwell on it. I don't want to be morbid, but there's a very real possibility next Sunday this time some of us might not be here. You might be out in eternity. That's a very real possibility. And I'm not just talking about the elderly. I'm talking about all ages, all groups. How many times have I done a funeral for a teenager or a middle-age or a young couple or something over the years that one Sunday they're sitting in the pew, next Sunday they're in eternity So this walk, this progression through life goes very, very quickly. I just this morning I got up and looked in the mirror, I can't believe I'm 60. You know? It just where in the world did it go? And you don't we don't know where it's going to end, but we do know that it's going to end up with me in heaven. With a new body with Christ, and I'm going to give an account of how I live this life, how I walk this life, my conduct, my behavior through this life as a Christian Now that's the context here, progressing through this. The world says, life is short, live it up. Right? The old commercial years ago, old beer commercial was go for the gusto. I'm telling you, beer cup liquor is a liar. I can't I just see an ad uh on my computer, some ad or something comes up for liquor. I get mad, I delete it. It's the biggest line. There's not a, hey, there is not a family been made better because liquor was introduced to that family. Has not a life been made better? You know it's interesting. Sports and all that, and I'm not a big fan anymore of sports, but interesting. Boy they'll advertise beer, beer, beer, beer. But you know the guys playing the sports, they're not allowed to drink liquor when they're going to play Alright, because it's bad for them. Mess them up. And so uh go for the gusto You only have one life to live, man. Get that bucket list and get everything out of this life you can. That's the world's attitude. My Bible has a little different take on that. I got one life, it's going by fast. I better get ready for eternity. Who in the world, who in the world do you think would want Christians to be so distracted by this world we don't prepare for the next world? I'm telling you, it's of the devil. He wants us so caught up in getting everything going for the gusto, next thing we know, we're standing before God. Whoa. Anybody follow what I'm saying? So the progression through life. For we walk, we go through life, we conduct ourselves, we live ourselves, our lives, uh in such a way as we press through this. Our life here on earth is temporal. If you don't get anything else out of this, get this. Our life here on earth is temporal. We've been given a temporary assignment by God. Our life goes by quickly. We don't know when it will end, and we will be held accountable for how we lived our life in the end. Paul had great anticipation about being with Christ. Look with me, if you would, here at verse number two. He says, For in this we groan earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house, that's this heavenly body, this new body has for us, for our house which is from heaven. Look down verse number 8. We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from this body, from the body, and to be present with the Lord. Paul anticipated being with Jesus Christ. He had this longing, this groaning in his heart to be with the Lord in this new body. He was concerned about the judgment seat of Christ. So we have this, the Bible says, for we walk by faith, this progression through life, this walk through life Most Christians, most Christians live their lives like this life is all there is. Listen, I'm I I'm not trying to be unkind. I'm trying to be very honest. I'm wanting God to convict us. But I'm talking to some folks Who are living your Christian life as if this life is all there is. There's nothing beyond this. And you're making a serious, serious mistake. I have on my prayer list in Sunday school we're talking about how to pray. I have in my prayer list a number of people who profess to be saved, I trust they are, but they're living their lives as if this is all there is As if all there is, and I'm telling you, this is not all there is. There's a world beyond this. There's a heaven and a hell. Those of us who know Christ as Savior, that heaven's amazing place, and it's not to be taken lately. So the progression of life, for we walk, we go through life, we conduct ourselves through life. Now come back here and notice with me, for we walk by faith. That's my second thought, is this. First, the progression through life, where we walk by faith, and that's this: the principle of faith. The principle of faith. Now there's a little word here that we just read over and we don't give much thought to it, but I think it's very important. Notice he says, for we walk, what's that next two-letter word there? By faith. Word by means has the idea of by the means of, or this was one of the definitions, and this strikes home. Under the direction of. Faith. For I live my life, I go through my life, I conduct myself, I behave myself under the direction Governed by my faith in God and what He says. That's what dictates my conduct. That's what dictates my behavior. Is my faith, the principle of faith. The word faith means pretty much what we understand it to mean, to assurance, having assurance or confidence, conviction, reliance upon God's word So here I am. I get saved. I trust Christ the Savior. For me, it was May 7, 1979. I begin living this, I begin this walk. This this Christian life, I begin conducting myself and behaving myself as I progress through life. I'm going to end up in heaven with the Lord, a new body, I'm going to face the judgment seat of Christ. And what is governing the principle that should govern my life and my behavior is this assurance that what God says is so. Everybody follow? I don't know if I'm getting this across. I live my life in the confidence that God's word is so that God is wise, He knows what's best for me, that God loves me And I need to follow his instructions. I need to claim his promises. I need to heed his warnings as I go through my life. And let that dictate my life. This is the way I thought to illustrate it. When we lived in Denver, we used to go down occasionally to the symphony, the Denver Symphony, and we enjoyed it. Maybe once a year or so we'd go down and and uh and see the orchestra I just want you to know that I am a very dignified high pollutant person. We go to the symphony. And uh but I we really very much enjoyed it. We really did. I liked the fiddles they had off there on the side. Um I don't think they called them fiddles though. And we go down there and we'd get there early and um all the instruments would be out there and they'd be tuning up, getting ready. Anybody ever hear that? I mean it's chaos. A anybody you you know what I'm talking about And it's just all this noise and chaos and static. And you're sitting there thinking, boy, this is a waste of twenty-five bucks. And then the conductor comes out. The conductor comes out. The place goes silent. And he begins to lead that. And when he has them go up, boy, all those instruments in harmony lift their sounds, and they go soft. And then they hold it out, and then they cut it off. And it's beautiful, beautiful music. Why? Because each instrument is operating by the conductor's instructions. You follow what I'm saying? And what Paul is saying here is we live by faith. We operate under the direction of God's word. But God tells us He loves us. He's wiser than we are. And He promises us things and He warns us of things and He instructs us to make sure we do this and don't do that and follow this. And we trust him. We have faith in him. And when that principle of faith dictates my actions and controls my behavior, I tell you, it's a beautiful life. I see some Christians living their lives. I see some Christians living their lives, and it's chaos. And you don't and you and you don't even see any influence of the Word of God in their life at all. They're just saying and doing whatever comes to their mind and whatever happens to be the whim at that moment. What he's saying is, you and I as Christians, we're just passing through this life. It's going fast The next thing you know, we're going to be in the presence of Christ. We're going to give an account of ourselves, and it's all over, and we can't go back and redo it I need to make sure I'm living my life by the principles of faith, what God says, trusting him, following his instructions. The greatest lesson I can learn in life is to trust God and follow His directions. If I can learn that We teach it to our young people, the children's church down King's Kids, and Wednesday night masterclubs. We're trying to teach them the principle of faith in God's Word. Faith in God You know what I found out? I need it as much as those kids do. I'm not attained, I'm not reached, I still need to learn to live by this principle of trusting God. That's why it's important, I believe, and I know I probably overdo this, but I believe it's important. Every day we get up, spend a little time in the Word of God, so I have some direction for that day, something God can give me And then live by faith, trust him what he says, follow it. So we have the progression through life. It just goes so fast. We don't know when it's going to end. And boom, now we're in eternity. We have this principle of faith, trusting God, following his directions. Here's the thing: you and I as believers, we don't live by the same principles the world does. We don't live by the values this world has. We have a principle of faith in God and His Word And that's what needs to dictate our actions. That's what needs to dictate our decisions on our behavior. This whole world is doomed. This whole world is under the judgment of God. This whole world is in spiritual darkness. We need to learn to live by faith if we can learn that one thing. Faith in God. Follow his directions. We get through this life and get the judgment seat of Christ and bring glory to Christ. I don't know about you. It's almost a dream to think, to hear Jesus Christ say, well done. A good and faithful servant. I'd rather have the praise of Christ than the applause of this world any day. Any day. You gotta learn to live by faith. Live by faith. That's why I don't I don't watch the news much. They're telling me how it is. They're telling me this, that, and the other. I tell you, I want to read my Bible. I want God to tell me how it is. I want God to show me how to live and how to respond. So, number one, the progression of life Through life. Number two, the principle of faith. And let me give you last of all, real quickly, the precaution of sight. Now look here what he says. For we walk by faith, by that faith principle, believing God, doing what he says, following his instructions. And then he throws this in, and not by sight He's giving us a little precaution out there. Listen, don't you go by how things appear. That phrase, not by sight, means this: not by how things appear, not from my perspective. The most natural thing in the world for you and I to do is to respond to things by how they appear. Did you ever would you ever go somewhere and you thought you were following the right directions and after you got away you realized you were in the wrong? It appeared everything was right. Years ago, we um I took a couple guys, we were in Indianapolis, and I took a couple fellows in the church. Dr. Lee Robertson was preaching down in southern Indiana, about a two-hour drive or so uh south of Indianapolis, a little camp meeting down there, went down, heard Dr. Lee Robertson. I was so excited that he was my pastor for years and I went to the school there And I had a bunch of guys and the whole time I'm saying, Yeah, that's my pastor. They were saying, Shut up, I'm trying to hear him preach. And uh but we just had a blast And by the time we got out of there, it was late. We were talking old friends and stuff. And we had a two-hour drive back to Indianapolis. It was a weeknight. And um I hate to admit it, but I was the one driving And we hopped in the car and we got out in the interstate and we just got hammered down heading to Indianapolis and we're driving and uh I don't know we went for a while, driving maybe an hour or so And we came up and there was a big thing. Welcome to Kentucky. Huh? Everything looked right. Everything, by all appearances, from my perspective, we were heading northwest up to Indianapolis. We were actually heading southeast. I was going the wrong way And he's saying, don't do that. Now we didn't have it back then. Um they just started leaving ho Horse and buggies back then actually. We just started driving cars. Back then we didn't have GPS. Now I don't even pay any attention what it looks like just a turn right. Okay You don't even know where you're going. You don't even know where you're at. You just follow what that thing says. But you know, that's a good illustration of God's word. God says, do this. Yeah, but it looks like I ought to do. No, no, no. Not by sight. You trust me. I'll tell you how to get there. I'll tell you what to do. I'll tell you the best reaction. That person's being hateful to you. That person's being mean. They're not being nice to you. By sight, by my perspective, I ought to be mean back to them. They cuss me out, I'll cuss them out even more. They knock a tooth out, I'll knock two out of them. Right? That's the way I see things. But God says don't operate by sight, by your perspective, the way it looks like to you. You have faith in me. So if they knock your tooth out, if they're mean to you, you'd be nice to them. They curse you, you bless them. They revile you and speak evil of you. You pray for them and do good to them. That's by faith. Sight says, well, from my perspective, this is no no no no no, no, no, no. We walk by faith, we trust God, what He says, we follow His instructions. We heed his warnings. We claim his promises. Not by the way it looks to me, not the my perspective. The Bible's full of examples of this, of people who operated by sight rather than by faith. Anybody the disciple named Thomas? What do we call him? We call him what? Doubting Thomas. I think it's got a bum rap. I don't think he was that bad. But after the resurrection of Christ, the disciples came to Thomas. By the way, Jesus met with them of a Sunday night. They were all assembled together on a Sunday night. They had Sunday night church. All the disciples were there. Jesus showed up. Thomas stayed home and watched Sunday night boxing. He didn't go to church Sunday night. Did you hear? He didn't go to church Sunday night. Jesus showed up. And later the disciples found Thomas. Thomas, where were you Sunday night? Jesus was there. He goes, yeah, right, he's dead. I said, no, no, no, no. He rose really. Yeah, I heard all the stories. I saw him bury him. But Thomas, we're telling you, Jesus was there physically. And what did he say? Except I see the prince in his hands, and thrust my hands in that and see the pierce side, I will not believe. You know what he's saying? He's saying what people say all the time. Seeing is believing. I'll believe it when I see it. That tends to be my my the way I am. I tend to be skeptical. Oh, I'll believe it when I see it. That's living by sight. That's walking by sight. Bible says, no, don't do that. Walk by faith. Thomas, now praise the Lord. He saw the Lord, and the Lord was gracious. And by the way, it's interesting, after Thomas said, My Lord and my God, you are alive You are who you claim to be. And he became one of the most zealous disciples that Christ had. But it's interesting, Jesus said to him afterward, I'm putting this in my own words a bit here. But he said, Blessed are Thomas who saw me, but blessed are those who believe, though they have not seen me. Faith. Faith. Thomas walked by sight. Um Peter and the disciples were out on the ship and In the midst of the sea, they're crossing over at night, and a storm comes up, and they see Jesus walking on the water. Anyone remember that? Familiar with that? They see Jesus walking on the water. And Peter, bless his heart. He said, look, they thought he was a ghost at first. They thought it was a spirit. Oh no, a ghost! And the Lord said, Be of good cheer, it is I Peter says, Oh yeah, if it's you, bid me come out there and walk on the water to you. Lord says, Come on. Now here's the thing: He did it. I I love the picture of this in my mind. I mean, we're in a storm, you know, this thing's going up and down. He's putting his arm over this leg over the side of that ship and it goes down and he's hanging on the side, puts his feet down on the water, and he's walking on that water and as a wave comes and he runs up one side of the wave and down the other. I mean do you ever see the little kids cartoon drawings of it? It's just like glass. He's walking along. That ain't how it was, I'm telling you. They're in a storm And he's doing great because he's walking by faith. He heard what Jesus said, and he's confident, his trust is in Jesus that he can walk on the water. But then he started looking around. And his faith, he switched from his faith controlling him to his sight dictating his actions. The Bible said he saw the wind and the waves. And he began to what? He starts going down. I don't know about you. I don't know how this played out. This is the way I picture it. I mean he's walking on this water. There's waves all over. He's trying to keep going. And then he gets looking around And I don't know if I'm s uh if I'm standing on water and I start to sink, I don't think it goes slowly. You know, I don't think it was doot doot oh no, I'm starting to go down. I think it was like whoom You ever try and set a rock on water? Now I don't know how this played out, but he however it played out, he had enough time to say, Lord help me. Lord got him. They brought him to ship. So the illustration there is this. Walking by faith or walking by sight. Now I'm not suggesting go out and try and walk on water. Bible doesn't tell us to do that. But I am saying this, what the Bible does tell us to do, how about we do that? And just trust God. You say, but from my perspective, this doesn't look right. From my perspective, I ought to respond this way. I ought to be doing this. I shouldn't be doing that But we don't operate by sight. We don't walk by sight. We walk by faith. I'm telling you, fear has gripped this world like I can't even I would never have imagined how fear has gripped this world. Now I'm not suggesting we shouldn't be careful. Safety is a horse is prepared for battle, but remember, safety is of the Lord We trust God. We follow His instructions and we claim His promises. We heed His warnings. Peter and Thomas. Here's somebody that walked by faith. How about Noah? Do you realize it didn't start raining until after the Ark was built? For a hundred some years he's building this ark. They never saw rain. They know what a flood was. None of that But he believed God, he trusted God, and it affected his walk, his behavior, his conduct So the principle of faith and the precaution of sight. Solomon, we studied Ecclesiastes. Solomon lived his life under the sun. Disregarded God and his word and disregarded faith in God and just lived his life under the sun. And he made a disaster of his life, destroyed it. Read Ecclesiastes, we studied it. So if we can learn this one thing, if we can learn to live by faith, to trust God, follow his instructions. Do what he says to do, regardless of how it appears, regardless of what the world says, regardless of what my own reasoning, understanding. What's Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 say, trust in the Lord with all thy heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. Don't walk by sight. Say, oh, this looks terrible. What does Romans 8. 28 say? All things work together for good. So am I going to oper am I going to respond the way it appears, or am I going to respond the way God says? How am I going to walk? How am I going to conduct myself? When I was for three years I was lived in Boulder, Colorado and worked at Neighborhood Bible Time. And of course, you know one thing about Bible Time is they have lots and lots of ribbons. Anybody have any Bible time ribbons here? Any anybody? Three people, okay. See me. I go, yeah, I was gonna ask, anybody have any in your Bible? Yeah, there we go, a bunch of them around. I've got a whole my Bible's full of them. For three years I was on staff out there in Boulder, Colorado, and one of my responsibilities was to print the ribbons. Now you need to understand, we went through about 300,000 ribbons a year back in the day. So I'm printing 300,000 ribbons. You say, oh, how hard can that be? You just push a button, they go through a machine. It was an old letter press. Anybody familiar with the letterpress? Has a little motor on it, and that thing goes shakum boom, shakum boom. It just sounds just like that. Shakum boom And it prints one ribbon at a time. And uh don't let me forget I put my glasses there. And that thing, and my responsibility was to print 300 plus thousand ribbons one at a time. And you put one in, and it chapoom, you pull it out, put another one in. And I'm telling you, you get that thing up and running, and you could crank the speed up, and after you do about two hundred and fifty thousand You kinda got a feel for it. And we're doing this ch doon, chajoon, chacho, chachoun, chun. And I mean I was a machine And I figured over the years and I helped print well when I was even when I pastored here I'd go out and help train and I'd end up printing ribbons while I was out there. It's my gift. I figure I printed over a million Bible time ribbons. I'm pretty confident I did. But here's the thing. In that letter press, it had a little frame. That you would take and whatever you want to imprint it on that ribbon, you would get these letters, these little, I guess they were lead letters, carved out, and you'd fit them in that frame And then you tighten it up, and then that would fit up on the pan of the letter press, and then an ink would roll over that when it comes down and it prints and it goes back up and the ink would roll over and it prints When you put those letters in that little block frame, you put them in backwards. You had to put them in backwards. And so when you look at that block, you look, that's chaos. This whole thing's a mistake, this is a wrong. Way it appeared by sight, you'd look at that block, and this is a mess. Somebody put them all in backwards. But when it would print, the impression was correct. Was it the correct way And I thought about walking by faith, not by sight. Sometimes we look at our world, we look at our lives, we look at our situation, and we think everything's backwards. Everything's a mess. What in the world? This doesn't even make sense. But if we'll just trust God and let Him Direct us as we go through life. When it's all said and done, we'll get to heaven, I think. We'll look back and say, oh, there's a perfectly clear plan and purpose. For everything there. But what we need to do is trust him. Follow his instructions. Claim his promises, heed his warnings, follow his instructions. We get to heaven, and maybe we'll hear the Lord say, well done. You live by faith. God's highest praise is for those who will trust Him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us learn this important life lesson. To live by faith, to live by faith, to trust you and obey you. I wonder, with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm a Christian. I've trusted Christ. I've got that settled. I have a new life. But you say, preacher, as you were preaching, God spoke to my heart. And there's some areas in my life as a Christian I need to learn to trust him. Now I don't know how God's Holy Spirit dealt with you, what issues or Personal things the Holy Spirit is working in your life about. I don't know. That's between you and God. But I'm saying is if he is, if he's addressing some areas of your life, I want to urge you, agree with him Trust him. Make those changes. Make those adjustments. Address those issues that the Spirit brings to mind as his word is preached and let him have his way. Go by sight. I wonder how many preachers say, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. But the Spirit of God's dealt with my heart today about some areas. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. God's Holy Spirit has dealt with my heart. about some areas. Any others? A lot of hands raised. How about it? Others? Yes, he did. I'm going to urge you, if that's the case, I would recommend find a place of old altar. Just say, Lord, you're right. Help me. Do business with God and make those adjustments between you and the Lord. Some folks haven't been in an altar in a long time. Maybe some never been to an old-fashioned altar. How about we start, just start now? Say, look, yes, Lord, I'm going to live by faith. I'm going to trust you. I'm going to follow your instructions. There's some here this morning say, Preacher, I know someone and they're not saved. They need Christ so bad. I'm burdened for them, and I would like for them to know my Savior You say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be a good witness to them. Be able to see them come to Christ. Is there any like that? I know someone. God bless you, hands all around. They need our witness. They need us to live by faith They need to hear the gospel. They need us to be a witness. One last question, or someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I like to think I'm a religious person, maybe, or I'm a decent person. But you say I've never trusted Christ. I don't know for sure a sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. You say, preacher, pray for me. I need the Lord in my life. Is there any like that? Rachel, pray for me. I need Christ. I need to settle this. No more doubts. No more Doubts, no uh uh I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Only Jesus can give you that assurance. Is there any like that? Any at all? Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen